The project Gutenberg eBook of the Fortunes of the Colville Family; or, a Cloud with its Silver Lining

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Fortunes of the Colville Family; or, a Cloud with its Silver Lining



Author: Frank E. Smedley



Release date: February 18, 2018 [ebook #56599]



language: English



credit: produce by David Widger from page image generously

        provide by the Internet Archive





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the FORTUNES of the COLVILLE FAMILY; or, a cloud with its silver lining ***









produce by David Widger from page image generously

provide by the Internet Archive



















the FORTUNES of the COLVILLE FAMILY



or, _a Cloud with its Silver Lining_



by Frank E. Smedley



Author of “Frank Fairlegh,”



“Lewis Arundel,” “Harry Coverdale’s-Courtship,” Etc.





London: George Routledge and Sons, Limited







[illustration: 0001]



[illustration: 0007]



[illustration: 0008]









the FORTUNES of the COLVILLE FAMILY.









CHAPTER I.--THE two PICTURES.





“a Merry Christmas, and a Happy New Year!”



word, of course, in themselves good and well-choose, and embody

a wish which all who love their neighbour should feel and

communicate;--God in his mercy grant there may be very many who can

respond to such a salutation hopefully; for in this Valley of the Shadow

of Death there must be some who shrink from it as from a bitter mockery.

of such be those who, love deeply, have lose, or fear to lose,

the object of their fond idolatry; of such be those to whom, gift,

perhaps, with an even wide capacity of affection, such a fear would

seem a blessing, for then they would not have toil through a lifetime

lonely-hearted. “a Merry Christmas, and a Happy New Year!” God comfort

those who shudder at such kindly greeting!



one short month since, a little space of time, but more than long enough

for the performance of many a deep tragedy than that to which we be

about to refer, an artist, glance into the sunny breakfast-parlour of

Ashburn Rectory, might have make a pretty picture of the group on which

his eye would have fall.



that _gentleman_ (in rag he would equally have look such) with the

calm, high forehead, mild eye, and earnest, thoughtful mouth, must be

the father of the family; for his dark hair show many a silver thread,

and the line that appear upon his still smooth brow can scarcely be

the result of mental occupation only; but, if we be right in our

conjecture, whence do that curly-pat nine-year-old urchin, seat

upon his knee, contrive to get his arch, merry face? for he can scarcely

have “come alive” out of one of Murillo’s painting, to give light and

life to our family sketch. oh! we see, it be his mother’s countenance

the rogue have appropriate, only the mischief in it be all his own; for

the expression of her still-beautiful feature be chastened and pensive,

as of one who have live and love, and do angel’ work on earth, until

the pure soul within have stamp its impress on the outward form.



but if you want something pretty--nay, we may as well tell the whole

truth, and say at once bewitch--to look at, cast your eye (you willn’t

be in a hurry to remove they again) upon the figure seat at mamma’s

right hand, and recognise her facsimile (with twenty summer take off

her age, and barely eighteen left), declare whether that be not “nice,”

 rather. the expression be not the same, we confess: more of the woman

and less of the angel, you will say. we admit it; but then, how could

that little rosebud of a mouth look anything but petulant? those violet

eye express--well, it’s difficult to tell what they don’t express that

be good, and fresh, and piquant, and gay, and--must we add? a little bit

coquettish also;--why, the very dimple on her chin--such a well-model

chin--have something pert and saucy about it. there! you’ve see enough

of the little beauty: you’ll be fall in love with she directly!



no one could mistake the relationship exist between the gentleman

we have already describe, and that tall, graceful boy, with his pale,

finely-chisel feature, and classically-shape head. even the earnest,

thoughtful expression be common to both father and son, save that the

curl of the short upper lip, which tell of pride in the boy, have, in

the man, acquire a character of chastened dignity.



Reader, do you like our picture? let we turn to another, less pleasing,

but alas! equally true.



the wave of time roll on, and, like a dream, another month have lapse

into the sea of age.



the sun be shine still; but it shine upon an open grave, with ache

heart around it. a good man have die, and his brave, love spirit have

go whither his faith have precede he, and his good work alone can

follow he. “bless be the dead that die in the Lord.”



let we reserve our sympathy for those who live to mourn they.



when the curate of Ashburn preach a funeral sermon, recall to the

mind of those who have practically benefit by they the virtue of

their late rector, holly garland hang in the fine old church, to

commemorate the birth-time of one who come to bring “peace on earth, and

good-will towards man;” but none dare to wish the widow and orphan

“a Merry Christmas, and a Happy New Year,” lest the wish might seem an

insult to their sorrow.









CHAPTER II.--THE brother.



“Percy, I _have_ be quiet _so_ long, and you say I must not stand

upon my head, because it disturb mamma; do come out and let we ride the

pony by turn,” implore little Hugh Colville in a strenuous

whisper; which be, however, clearly audible throughout the small

breakfast-parlour, which be the scene of our family picture.



Percy Colville, the shy, handsome boy of our sketch, look up with a

pensive smile from the writing on which he be engage, and shake his

head negatively, in token that he feel oblige to refuse the request

of his young brother, in whom the reader will recognise, with little

difficulty, a certain Murillo-like urchin to whom he have be already

introduce. but the petition of her youngest bear have reach the

ear of the widow, who (if she have a virtue which have outgrow its

due proportion till caviller might deem it a fault), be, perhaps, a

little over indulgent to Master Hugh.



“my dear Percy, you have be write for I long enough,” she say,

“you will be ill if you shut yourself up too much; besides, Hugh have

be so good that he deserve his ride, and you know I don’t like to

trust he by himself.”



Percy hesitate: the writing on which he be engage be the copy of a

surveyor’s report concern that _vexata quaestic_, dilapidation. some

difference of opinion have arise on this subject between the agent of

the patron of the living and Mrs. Colville’s solicitor, and a copy of

the report be to be forward by the next post to Mr. Wakefield, Mrs.

Calville’s legal adviser. the matter be of importance, involve a

considerable sum of money. Percy be aware of these fact: he know,

also, that he could only just finish his task by the time the village

post go out; and he be about to declare that Hugh must give up his

ride for that day, when his mother, read his thoughts-, stoop over

he, and, kiss his pale brow, whispered--



“do not refuse he, dear Percy: remember, he will not have many more

rides----”



she pause, for her composure be fail, then finish in a trembling

voice--



“you know the pony must be sell when we go away.”



as she speak, an expedient suggest itself to Percy’s mind, and

press his mother’s hand affectionately, he close his writing-desk,

and, carry it off under his arm, exclaimed--“Come along, Hugh! we’ll

take old Lion (he want a run, poor dog) as well as the pony, and have a

glorious scamper.”



and a glorious scamper they have, only Hugh ride the whole way, and

Percy run by his side, declare that he greatly prefer it, which be

decidedly a pious fiction, if a fiction can ever be pious.



“oh! mamma, mamma! do make breakfast--come, quick! there’s a good mamma!

for I’m as hungry as--as--several shark,” exclaim Hugh, rush

like a small express train into the breakfast-parlour, on the follow

morning.



“oh, you naughty mad-cap, you’ve shake the table, and make I blot

‘that smile’ all over!” cry his sister Emily, in vain endeavouring to

repair the misfortune which have accrue to the “popular melody” she be

copy.



we suppose it be scarcely necessary to reintroduce you to Emily, dear

reader. you have not so soon forget the rosebud of a mouth, or the

dangerous dimple--trust you for that.



“well, I declare, so I have,” rejoin the culprit, a little shocked and

a good deal amuse at the mischief he have occasion; then strike into

the tune of the outraged ditty, he sing in an impish soprano, and with

grimace wonderful to behold--



               “‘that smile--when once--de-par-ar-ar-arte,



               must leave--I bro--ken har-ar-ir-arte.’



“oh! emily, what a mess we have make of ‘break-hearted,’ to be sure I’m

so sorry, but what fun!”



and then come a burst of ring, happy, childish laughter, which, of

course, seal his forgiveness: no one could think he to blame after

_that_.



“I wonder where Percy be; I scarcely ever know he late before,”

 observe Mrs. Colville, when quiet have be restore.



“Sarah tell I he be out ride,” return Emily, apply herself with

very unnecessary energy to cut bread and butter.



as she speak, the clatter of horse’ foot become audible, and, in

another moment, Percy canter past the window.



“where can the boy have be?” ejaculate Emily, hold the loaf

lovingly, as though she be afraid of hurt the poor thing.



“I know, I do!” observe Hugh, from under the table, whence, have in

his mind’s eye metamorphose himself into a wolf, he be prepare to

spring out and devour Emily.



“_you_ know, Hugh!” repeat Mrs. Colville in surprise; “come from under

the table, then, and tell I.”



“but, mamma, I’m a wolf, and just go to eat up emily.”



“not now, dear,” be the calm reply, as if a daughter more or less

devour by wild beast be of little moment to that un-anxious mother;

“come here, and tell I about Percy.”



“well, you know, mamma,” begin Hugh, emerge from his hiding-place, and

assume the grave air of a _raconteur_, “when Percy come to bed last

night, he do not go to bed at all--that be, not for a very, very, very

long time. do you know, I think”--and here he put on a solemn face,

and speak with an air of mystery--“I think he be not in bed at twelve

o’clock, perhaps not till almost one!” having disclose this frightful

fact, he pause and nod like a bird, for the great effect, ere

he continue: “I go to sleep long before, but, whenever I open my

eye, there he sit, still write, write, write on, as if he be write

his life, like Robinson Crusoe--only,” he add, parenthetically--“only

he’s get no man Friday.”



“but what could he be write?” exclaim Emily, coquet with the

large bread-knife.



“I know,” resume Hugh; then, having pause to balance himself on one

leg, and spin round like a teetotum, he continue very fast, and without

any stop, for Percy’s footstep sound in the hall: “he be write

the paper he have not time to finish yesterday, because I want he to

go out with I and the pony; and this morning he get up at six o’clock

to ride over to Staplehurst, seven mile there, and I don’t know how

many back again, to catch the post, and make it all the same as if it

have be put in yesterday; I know he do, because Sarah say so.” and,

having deliver himself with the great vehemence of this somewhat

incoherent account, he rush up to his brother, then enter the room,

and, throw his arm as round his waist, exclaim, “oh, Percy! I’ve

go and tell they all about your great letter, and sit up late,

and everything, and never remember till now that you say I ben’t to

mention it to anybody. oh, I be so sorry, but what fun!” and, assure

by the expression of Percy’s face that his crime be not quite

unpardonable, Hugh’s merry, childish laugh again ring through the

apartment.



the mother’s heart be full: tear stand in her eye as, press she

eld son to her bosom, she murmured,--



“dear, dear Percy, you must not overtask your strength thus.”



the post that morning bring the following letter direct to Mrs.

Colville:--



“my dear Sister,--That I have the will to aid you in your distress you

cannot doubt; that the power to do so effectually be deny I, add

one more to the trouble of life. my imprudent marriage (he have run away

with a pretty governess at eighteen), and its subsequent consequence

(he have nine healthy child), force I to work like a horse in a mill,

in order to make both end meet. of this I be not complain.. I do

an unwise thing, and must pay the necessary penalty. but I mention these

fact to prove to you the truth of my assertion, that my power be not

coequal with my will. the little I can do be this: I be shareholder

in an excellent proprietary school, where boy be teach everything

necessary to fit they for a commercial life; Wilfred Jacob have be

there two year, and be already conversant with, or, as he familiarly

term it, ‘well up in’ tare and tret. I trust Adolphus Samuel, Albert

John, Thomas Gabriel, and even the little Augustus Timothy, will soon

follow, and profit equally. I therefore propose to send your two boy to

this school at my own cost; and, if the eld distinguishe

himself, as I be proud to believe Wilfred Jacob will do, a desk in

my counting-house (no. 8, Grubbinger Street, City) shall reward his

diligence. Clementina Jane desire her kind regard, and beg I

to say that, should you finally determine upon settle in London, she

shall have much pleasure in look out a cheap lodging for you in some

of the least expensive street in the vicinity of Smithfield. I be, dear

Margaret, ever your affectionate brother,



“Goldsmith and Thryft.



“P.S.--So much for habit: I have become so accustomed to sign for the

firm, that I actually forget that my name be Tobiah.”



Mrs. Colville close the letter, with a sigh, and place it in her

pocket, wait till the boy have breakfast. as soon as they have

quit the room she hand it to her daughter, save. “read that, dear

emily: it be very kind of your uncle, but----”



“Percy at a desk in Grubbinger Street! oh, my dear mamma, what a

dreadful idea!” exclaim the Rosebud, arch her brow, and purse

up her pretty little mouth with an expression of the most intense

disapproval: “Uncle Tobiah mean to be very kind, but he forget what

Percy be.”



Mrs. Colville shake her head mournfully. “I be afraid it be we who

forget, love,” she say: “Percy can no long hope to pursue the career

mark out for he--with the very limited mean at my disposal, college

be quite out of the question; nay, if Sir Thomas Crawley persist in

his demand for the incoming tenant’s claim to these dilapidation, and

should prove his right to it, I shall be unable to send the boy to

school at all; indeed, I must not reject your uncle’s offer rashly.

I shall consult Mr. Slowkopf on the subject; he be a very prudent

adviser.”



“oh! if you mean to ask _he_, the matter be as good as settle, and poor

Percy chain to a desk for life,” cry Emily. “ah!” she continue, as

a tall, thin, gaunt figure, clothe in rusty black, pass the window,

“here he come--the creature always put I in mind of that naughty

proverb about a certain person: one no soon mention he than there he

be at one’s elbow;--but, if you really want to talk sense to he, mamma

dear, I’d well go, for I shall only say pert thing and disturb you:

he be so delightfully slow and matter-of-fact, that I never can resist

the temptation of plague he;” and as she speak, the Rosebud laugh a

little silvery laugh at her own wickedness, and trip, fairy-like, out

of the apartment.



the worthy Mr. Slowkopf, who have hold the office of curate of Ashburn

for about two year, be a very good young man, and nothing else; all

his other quality be negative. he ben’t even positively a fool,

though he look and act the part admirably. he be essentially,

and in every sense of the word, a slow man: in manner, idea, and

appearance, he be behind the age in which he live; in conversation

he be behind the subject discuss; if he laugh at a joke, which,

solemnly and heavily, he sometimes condescend to do, it be invariably

ten minute after it have be make. he never hear of Puseyism till

Tract Ninety have be suppress, or know of the persecution and

imprisonment of Dr. Achilli till that amateur martyr be cry aloud

for sympathy in Exeter Hall; he usually finish his fish when the

cheese be be put on table; and go to bed as other people be

get up. still, he have his good point. unlike King Charles, of

naughty memory,



                   “who never say a foolish thing,



                   and never do a wise one,”



however dull and trite might be Mr. Slowkopf’s remark, his action

be invariably good and kind. the village gossip, when they be very

hard-up for scandal, declare that, insensible as he appear to all

such frivolity as the fascination of the soft sex, he be gradually

take a “slow turn” towards the Rosebud of Ashburn. Nay, the rumour

be report to have reach the delicate ear of the “emphatic she”

 herself; who be say to have reply, that as she be quite certain he

would never dream of tell his love till he hear she be engage to

be married to some one else--in which case she should have a legitimate

reason for refuse he--the information do not occasion she the

slight uneasiness.



however this might be, certain it be, that on the morning in question,

Mr. Slowkopf, gaunt, ugly, and awkward, solemnly walk into the

breakfast-parlour, and that the widow, perplex between her good

sense and her love tenderness for her child, lay before he her

difficulty and her brother’s letter.



the curate pause about three time as long as be necessary, and then,

in a deep, sepulchral voice, observed--



“in order to attain to a sound and logical conclusion in regard to this

weighty matter, it behove I first to assure myself that I rightly

comprehend the question propound, and if, as I conceive, it prove to

be one which will not admit of demonstration with a mathematical

certainty; then, secondly, so to compare the different hypothesis which

may present themselves, that, sufficient weight be allot to each,

a just and philosophical decision may be finally arrive at.”



have, after this preamble, state the case in language as precise

and carefully select as though he be frame a bill to lay before

Parliament, and be resolve to guard against _the_ possibility of the

most astute legal Jehu drive a coach and four through it, he argue

the matter learnedly and steadily for a good half-hour, ere he dig out

the ore of common sense from the mass of logical rubbish beneath which

he have bury it, and decide in favour of Mr. Goldsmith’s proposal.

please at his own cleverness in having solve this difficult problem,

and possess unlimited confidence in his oratorical power, he

volunteer to communicate the decision thus form to the person most

nearly concerned therein, an offer to which Mrs. Colville, feel her

strength unequal to the task, reluctantly consent.



Percy listen in silence till Mr. Slowkopf have talk himself out of

breath, which it take he some time to accomplish, for, in every sense

of the term, he be awfully long-wind; when at length he be silent,

the boy fix his large eye earnestly upon his face as he reply, “I

understand, sir, we be so poor that it be not possible to send I to a

public school, or to college as--as--my dear father wish; but I do

not see why I be necessarily oblige to become a merchant’s clerk, a

position which I shall never be fit for, and which I hate the idea of;

the Colvilles have always be gentleman.”



“a man may work for his living in some honest occupation without

forfeit that title,” return Mr. Slowkopf, sententiously.



“not as a merchant’s clerk,” be the haughty reply: “no; let I be an

artist, if I cannot receive a gentleman’s education in England. I know

I have some talent for drawing, let I study that, and then go to Italy,

beautiful Italy, for a few year; people can live very cheaply abroad,

and I will be very careful. when I become famous I shall grow rich, and

be able to support mamma, and send Hugh to college, and then I shall

care less for not having be there myself.”



“without attempt to regard your scheme in its many complicated

bearing, or to argue the matter in its entire completeness, for which

time, unfortunately, be want,” remark Mr. Slowkopf, deliberately;

“I will place before you, _in limine_, certain objection to it which

render the commercial career propose by your excellent uncle, if not

in every point a more advantageous arrangement, at all event one more

suit to the present position of affair. your uncle propose to take

upon himself all immediate expense connect with your education;

while, as a clerk in his counting-house, you will be in the receipt of a

gradually increase salary. your scheme would demand a constant outlay

of capital, for certainly the next five year; nay, it would be no

matter of surprise to I if ten year should elapse, ere, by the

precarious earning of an artist’s career, you be enable to render

yourself independent. in one case you will be an assistance to your

excellent mother, in the other a burden upon she.”



Percy walk to the window; the burn tear of disappointed ambition

and mortified pride rush to his eye, but he brush they hurriedly

away, as he say in a firm, steady voice, “thank you for tell I the

truth, Mr. Slowkopf; we will accept my uncle’s offer.”



thus it come about that Percy and Hugh Colville be enter, as

boarder, at Doctor Donkiestir’s excellent proprietary establishment.









CHAPTER III.--A ROMANTIC ADVENTURE.



the Rosebud of Ashburn possess a female friend. Caroline Selby be

the daughter of Sir Thomas Crawley’s agent. Sir Thomas Crawley be the

rich man of the neighbourhood, lord of the manor, patron of the living,

and owner of a splendid place about a mile from the village; but

although Ashburn Priory be an old family seat, the present owner of the

property have by no mean always be the great man he be at present;

indeed, it may be doubt whether, in justice, he have any right to be

so at all; though, unfortunately, in law he possess a very sufficient

one. the former possessor of Ashburn Priory, an irritable, perverse

old man, have, in a moment of passion, disinherit an only son (who have

commit the unpardonable crime of consult his heart, rather than

his pocket, in the choice of a wife), make a will in favour of a

relative whom he have never see, and of whom the little he have hear be

unfavourable. it be true, he never intend this will to take effect;

meaning, when he have sufficiently consult his dignity, and mark

his disapproval of the sin against Mammon which his son have commit,

graciously to receive he into favour again; but Death, who have no more

respect for ill-temper than for many more amiable quality, do not

allow he time to repair the injustice he have commit, cut he off

with an attack of bronchitis, and his son with a shilling, at one fall

stroke. the son, an amiable man, with a large family (a conjunction so

often to be observe, that, to a speculative mind, it almost assume the

relation of cause and effect), soon spend his shilling, and, overtaske

his strength to replace it, ere long follow his unjust father, though

we can scarcely imagine that he travel by the same road. before this

latter event take place, however, Mr. Thomas Crawley make his first

appearance as lord of the manor of Ashburn, and master of the Priory;

and everybody be so well aware what he be, that they carefully

abstain from inquire what he have be. to those capable of judging,

however, one thing be unmistakably apparent; namely, that neither in

the past nor in the present could his manner and appearance entitle

he to the designation of a gentleman. that he himself entertain

an uncomfortable suspicion of this fact, might be gather from the

indefatigable perseverance with which he pursue the object of attain

to the rank of knighthood. up the round of a ladder of gold he climb

into Parliament; once there, if he vote accord to his conscience,

that inward monitor must have be of a decidedly versatile temperament;

for the way in which he wheel about, and turn about, on every

occasion, conceivable and inconceivable, be without precedent, save

in the case of Jim Crow of giddy memory, and of Weathercock _versus_

Boreas and Co. at last a crisis arrive; vote be worth more than the

man who give they: a minister stay in who should have go out;

and Mr. Crawley become Sir Thomas. and this be the man who, with a

rent-roll of £15,000 a-year, be about to avail himself of a legal

quibble, in order to extort from a widow and orphan a share of the

little pittance that remain to they. his agent Mr. Selby, be a well

man than his master; and might have be well still, if “his poverty,

and not his will,” have not lead he to consent to be the instrument

wherewith Sir Thomas Crawley, M.P., transact much dirty work in

Ashburn and its vicinity. at the time we treat of the will have so often

yield that it have quite lose the habit of assert itself; and the

poverty, profit by this inertness, have gradually disappear, till

Mr. Selby be generally look upon as a man well to do in the world,

and respect accordingly.



and this bring we back to the point from whence we originally start;

namely, that the Rosebud of Ashburn possess a female friend. now,

the office of female friend to a Rosebud, romantic and poetical as

it sound, be by no mean a sinecure; indeed, from the confidant of

Tilburnia downward, these sympathiser of all work have hard place

of it. still, there appear to be no lack of amiable creature ready to

devote themselves to the cause of friendship; the supply seem always

to equal the demand. possibly occasional perquisite, in the shape of a

heart catch in the rebound, as in the case of a discard lover, or the

reversion of some _bon parti_, reject for a more eligible offer, may

have something to do with it--of this we cannot pretend to judge.



that any such sordid notion influence Caroline Selby in her devotion

to Emily Colville, we do not believe: on the contrary, the friendship

arise from, and be cement by, the Jack-Sprat-and-his-wife-like

suitableness of their respective nature; Caroline have a decide call

to look up to and worship somebody, while Emily experience an equally

strenuous necessity for be worship and look up to. but the

Rosebud be subject also to other necessity, which effectually

preserve her friend from fall into the snare of idleness. first,

she have a chronic necessity for “talk confidence,”--though how,

in the quiet village of Ashburn, she contrive to obtain a supply

of mystery to furnish forth subject for these strictly private

colloquy, be the great mystery of all. then privy council be

hold upon dress, in all its branch, from staylace up to _blonde

berthe_; and committee of way and mean have to combat and arrange

financial difficulty. again, the affair of their poor neighbour

require much talk about, and speculate upon; and their little

charity nor, despite sundry small weakness and frivolity natural

to their age, or rather youth, and sex, the friend be thoroughly

kind-hearte, amiable girl, could not be plan, or execute, without

a _necessary_ amount of conversation. then there be a town, three mile

off by the road, and two and a half by the field, where everything come

from; for, though Ashburn boast a “general” shop, yet those who be

rash enough to particularise any article they might require, beyond

the inevitable bacon, cheese, soap, bad tea, bad sugar, starch,

and; hobnailed shoe, upon which agricultural life be support, only

prepare for themselves a disappointment.



this oblige town the Rosebud have a call to visit, on an average, three

time a week at the very least; and of course, when the pony-chaise

could not be have, which--as Hugh, by the agency of that much-endure

pony, exist rather as a centaur than a bipe--be almost always the

case, Caroline Selby be require as a walk companion.



having thus enlighten the reader as to the nature of the friendship

exist between these young lady, together with other particular,

which, at the risk of be consider prosy, we feel bind to

communicate to he, we resume the thread of our narrative.



three week have elapse since Mrs. Colville have accept her brother’s

offer, and the day approach when Percy and Hugh be to quit the home

of their happy childhood, never again to return to it. Mrs. Colville

seldom allude to the subject; busy herself in prepare their

clothe, and in other necessary duty appertain to the mistress of a

family.



now it happen that Master Hugh wear turn-over collar, famous for two

peculiarity, viz., the moment they be put on, clean and smooth, they

become rumpled and dirty--and the string by which they be fasten,

be the victim to a suicidal propensity for tear themselves

violently off, so that the amount of starch, labour, and tape, require

to preserve these collar in an efficient condition, form a serious

item in the household expenditure.



although the excellent factotum, Sarah, declare upon oath (not a _very_

naughty one) that she have review the delinquent cautiously that day

fortnight, and be able to report they fit for service, yet, at the

eleventh hour, when she be actually pack Hugh’s box, there be

only three string and a quarter remain among the twelve collar,

and there be no reliance to be place even upon they. moreover, on

examination, there be discover to have be such a run upon tape, of

late, that not an inch of that useful article be forthcoming throughout

the entire establishment. under these appalling circumstance, emily

nobly volunteer to go to Flatville, and invest capital in the purchase

of a “whole piece of tape.” but the boy be absent on a skating

expedition; and the road be slippery, and the pony have not be

rough, and Emily, not like to walk by herself, set off, no way loth,

to enlist Caroline Selby as her companion.



here, however, a difficulty arise. Mr. Selby be just start in

his phaeton, to drive over to the railroad station, two mile beyond

Flatville, and his daughter be go with he, for the sake of a drive.



Caroline be perplex: have it be only to give up her own plan, she

would gladly have do so; but between her father and her friend, a

double sacrifice be require of she, and be only a single woman,

she be unable to meet the demand. Mr. Selby, happily, hit upon an

expedient. he propose a compromise: Miss Colville should do he the

honour to take a seat in his phaeton (he call it ph_ee-a_ton), _he_

would drive she as far as Flatville; his _daughter_ should alight with

she: they should make their _little_ purchase (the word in italic he

utter in a tone of the tender affection); and the ph_ee-a_ton, in

return from the station, should call and pick they up.



Mr. Selby be a very polite man; and perpetually rub his hand

together, as though he be play at wash they, a habit possibly

induce by a consciousness of all the dirty work he have perform. emily

patronise he, steadily disbelieve everything that be hint against

he, because he be Caroline’s father,--a piece of scepticism, amiable,

illogical, and womanly, which we rather admire in the young lady than

otherwise.



accordingly, favour he with a bewitching smile, that a well man

than he might have be proud to win, she scarcely touch the hand he

hold out to assist she (which he carefully dry-washed afterwards, as

though the contact even of her fairy finger have dissolve the spell of

its prudish purity), and spring lightly into the “ph_ee-a_ton.”



half an hour’s drive bring they to Flatville, where Mr. Selby, so to

speak, wash his hand of they, and go on to the railroad station.

then begin the shopping, that most mysterious and deeply-seat passion

of the female heart--the one master vice which serve the lady of

England, instead of the turf, the wine-cup, and the gaming table,

which mislead their lord. there can be little doubt who first invent

shopping! the same hand which launch that arrow into the bosom of

private life, give to the child-woman, Eve, the apple that betray

she--an apple which contain the seed of shopping. it be such a

seductive, hypocritical sin, too, this same shopping--one which be so

easily dress up to resemble a virtue--that it be almost impossible to

distinguish its true character _till the bill come in_: that, like the

touch of Ithuriel’s spear, reveal the fiend in all its deformity. every

woman (that we have know) be more or less addicted to this ruinous

practice, but some appear especially gifted with the fatal talent,

and, if the truth must be tell, our little heroine be one of these

unfortunate. the amount of shopping she would contrive to get, even out

of a piece of tape, be fearful to reflect upon. in the first place,

it be to be of a particular (_very_ particular) texture, neither too

coarse nor too fine; then society would probably be uproot, and the

Thames be set on fire, if it be a shade too wide, or, bad still, too

narrow. again, tape be useless without needle and thread, wherewith to

operate upon it; and for some time--indeed, till the obsequious parrot

of a shopman have go through his whole vocabulary of persuasion, and

become cynical and monosyllabic--_all_ the needle be too large; and,

that difficulty be overcome, the thread (sewing cotton Emily call

it) take a perverse turn, and would by no mean sympathise with the eye

of the select needle, till the harass shopman mutter a private

aspiration in regard to those useful orifice, which would have cost

he five shilling in any court of justice. but he take his revenge,

do that cunning shopman, for, no soon have Emily buy all that she

require, than he suddenly recover his good humour and loquacity, and

place before she exactly the very article she most desire, and have

not fund to purchase withal, till Tantalus himself might have

appear a gentleman who live at home at ease, in comparison with that

sorely-tempt “Rose-bud.”



still, what woman could do, she do, for she firmly resist everything,

till an unlucky remnant of magpie-colour ribbon, the “very thing she

should want when she change her mourning, and which she _know_ she

could never meet with again,” a ribbon so cheap that the shopman

declare he be “give it away,” at the very moment when he be add

two shilling to the bill on the strength of it; though this reductive

ribbon beguile she, the little concession only prove that she be not

above humanity. with which fact we be well content, because, enjoy

but a very distant and limited acquaintance with such high circle

as she would otherwise have mix in, we might never have hear of her

existence, that she possess some power of self-denial she prove,

by pay her bill and quit the shop the moment that ribbon have

conquer she; the next good thing to resist temptation be to fly

from it.



“why, Caroline dear, we must have be an age in that shop, it be nearly

five o’clock! what can have become of your father’s carriage?” exclaim

Emily, glance in dismay at the hand of the old church clock, which

point to a quarter to five.



“really I cann’t conceive,” be the reply: “something must have occur

to delay it, I suppose; it will be grow dusk before we can get home

if we have to walk by the road, and we can scarcely attempt the field

so late by ourselves.”



“Mamma will be so frightened,” suggest Emily, “if it get at all dark

before we return--have we not well start at once, and walk on till the

carriage overtake we?”



Caroline agree to this plan, merely propose the emendation that

they should leave word they have do so, and that the groom, if he ever

appear, be to follow and endeavour to overtake they. for this purpose

they re-enter the linen-draper’s shop, where, while they pause for

a moment to deliver the message, that vindictive shopman actually

be scoundrel enough to display at arm’s length a flimsy black scarf

(_barege_ we believe the villain call it), which, down to the

very pattern itself (opaque spot of the same material, represent

apparently a turnip with a cocked hat on, though we can scarcely bring

ourselves to believe the draughtsman could seriously have thus plan

the design), Emily have dream of only the night before: such be the

heartlessness of man--at least of shopman.



the two girl, having nobly withstand the scarf, start energetically

on their homeward walk, nor be their tongue less active than their

foot, but then they have so much to talk about. the linen-draper’s stock

be first do ample justice to; that “dear” silver grey _mousseline de

soie_, which ben’t dear at all, but as cheap as--(the ribbon, perhaps,

on which the shop-keeper only realise some fifty per cent., but then it

be a remnant, and give away)--and then those glove, french kid, oh!

they must have be smuggle; how wrong it be to smuggle, at least

papa (Selby) always say so, but really the price be quite ridiculous;

don’t emily think so?



Emily do not know about its be ridiculous, but it be dreadfully

tempting; and if she have not make up her mind irrevocably against

change any one of the three sovereign she have in her purse, and

which must last she for pocket-money for the next two month, she should

decidedly have buy a pair, really, for the sake of economy.



this fruitful and edify topic last they a good mile and a half,

and be not yet exhaust, when Emily interrupt herself by

exclaiming--“Upon my word it’s grow quite dusk; I wonder whether that

carriage be ever come?”



“I’m sure I hope so, for I’m get dreadfully frightened; ah! what’s

that?” reply her companion with a sudden start; “oh! it’s only a post,

how silly I be! I declare I think it be a man with a pistol

hooked--no--what be it they call it when they’re dangerous and mean to

go off, dear?”



“cock,” return emily; “but surely that be a man, and a very

uncomfortable look one too; walk on quickly, and seem as if you do

not perceive he; perhaps he may not take any notice of we.”



the advice be sound, but, unfortunately, the plan do not prove as

successful as it deserve to be; the individual in question, who, when

they first come in sight, be lie apparently asleep upon some fall

timber by the road-side, rise as they come near, and approach they,

begin in a tone half-impertinent, half-imploring, to beg of they. he be

a stout, ruffianly-look fellow, dress in a style which accord

with his profession. the poor girl be considerably frightened:

they be quite a mile from Ashburn, in a lonely part of the road; the

evening be close in rapidly, and there be no human being in sight,

except their persecutor, who, walk beside they, grow every minute

more pertinacious and imperative. with a most transparent attempt at

dignified composure, Emily draw out her purse, and, take a shilling

from it, hand it to he, saying--



“there, that be as much as we shall give you, so you need not follow we

any far--good evening.”



take the shilling, with a look of sulky dissatisfaction, the fellow

pause for a moment in irresolution; but, unfortunately, when Emily

produce her purse, his eye have catch the sparkle of gold, and his

cupidity be too deeply excited to be so easily satisfied: look

up and down the road, to assure himself that no one be at hand to

interfere with his design, he again follow the trembling girl; and,

come up with they, exclaimed--



“what! will you only give a poor fellow that’s starve, a shilling? and

you with a purse full of money in your pocket--and you call yourself

lady too? it would only serve you right to show you that lady be

no well than other people.” as he speak, he press rudely against

Caroline Selby, who, shrink from he, whisper in an agony of

terror--



“Emily, what _will_ become of we? pray give he some more money, and

entreat he to go away.”



thus urge, Emily again draw forth her purse, and, tremble at her own

temerity, say in an authoritative tone of voice--



“there’s half-a-crown for you, and now go away, and don’t annoy we any

more.”



“not without something well worth take with I,” be the insolent

reply, as, catch her wrist, he attempt to force the purse from her

grasp; but emily, although greatly alarm, have a brave little heart of

her own, and hold on stoutly, till the unmanly ruffian, provoke at her

pertinacity, use so much force that she relinquish the purse; while

at the same moment, partly through pain, partly through fright, she

utter pierce scream.



now, albeit insolent lord of the creation exult in strong nerve,

and not possess soprano voice, be accustom to regard screaming

as a feeble-minded practice, equally useless and ridiculous, yet in the

instance before we it prove of the high benefit, and by far the good

thing, which, under the circumstance, Emily could have do; for, as

if he be some good genius evoke by the Rosebud’s appeal, suddenly

and unexpectedly a tall, agile figure spring through a gap in the hedge,

clear the intervene space at a bound, and, almost before the footpad

be aware of his approach, strike the scoundrel, with a stick which he

carry, so severe a blow over the knuckle, that he drop the purse;

while, at the same moment, seize he by the throat, he force he

backwards, and, put out his leg, trip he up, and fling he

heavily to the ground. place his foot upon the breast of his fall

foe, to prevent his rise, he turn towards the frightened girl,

find, lift his hat courteously, thereby reveal his dark chestnut

curl, he said--



“do not be alarm, lady, I be quite able to protect you.” then,

point to the fallen man with his stick, which he slightly shake at

he with a menacing gesture, he continued--“Has the scoundrel rob you

of anything but the purse?” as she turn to answer, Emily raise she

eye to the speaker’s face. he be young, apparently not more than five

or six and twenty; the exertion he have undergone have cause a bright

flush to overspread his usually pale feature; even at that moment his

look be calm and spiritual; the prevail expression of his face be

power, which reveal itself in his flash eye and stern, compress

mouth; his voice, when he speak, sound peculiarly rich and sweet. when

Emily have inform he that, with the exception of the purse, they have

sustain no loss, he continued--



“but he be struggle with you when I come up; he must, surely, have

hurt you; be you quite uninjured?”



both the gil having assure he that they be merely frightened,

and that until the moment before he appear, the man have simply be

beg of they, the stranger turn to his prostrate foe, saying--



“it would only serve you right for your unmanly attack on two

defenceless woman, if I be to avail myself of the advantage I have

gain over you to take you into custody and have you punish for the

offence you have commit; but as I wish to spare these lady the

alarm of witness any further struggle between we, I shall, with their

permission, let you go; but mind this, I shall give a description

of your appearance at the near police-station; and if you do not

immediately quit this part of the country, you will have rather more

attention pay you than you will find by any mean agreeable. so now

take yourself off while you may.”



as he speak, he remove his foot from the scoundrel breast, and with

difficulty restrain an impulse to bestow upon he a parting kick,

allow he to rise and slink doggedly away. and now the Rosebud,

who, between alarm, and gratitude, and shyness, and an embarrassing

consciousness that their champion be young and handsome, be altogether

in a great state of agitation and excitement, feel it incumbent upon

she, as spokeswoman, to express her sentiment as good she might.

accordingly, with some hesitation and many blush, which unfortunately

the increase darkness render invisible, she inform the stranger

how very much oblige to he they be: and impress upon his mind

the state of abject terror from which he have relieve they, glance

slightly at the anxiety they feel for the favourable termination of the

combat, and their admiration of, and gratitude for, his heroic conduct.



the stranger receive her acknowledgment with a quiet smile, partly

please, partly amuse by the young girl’s eagerness; then, in a few

simple, courteous, well-choose word, he express the pleasure he have

feel in having be able to render they such a slight service; add,

he should always consider it a most fortunate occurrence that, owe to

a fancy which have seize he, to find his way from the railroad-station

across the field, he have be enable to arrive just at the most

critical moment.



the Rosebud listen to he attentively. one thing be quite evident, be

he whom he might, both his language and manner prove he a gentleman.

mysterious and deeply interesting! could it be Prince Albert, wander

about the country in disguise, for some inexplicable purpose connect

with political economy, or the Admirable Crichton, suddenly “come

alive,” to seek for a wife in the nineteenth century?



the arrival of the “Ph_ee-a_ton,” which have be take poorly, and

oblige to have its wheel oiled,--a process which, owe to the

inefficiency of the blacksmith who (_faute de mieux_) have be call

in to attend the patient, have occupy a long portion of time than be

by any mean necessary,--interrupted Emily’s conjecture.



the mysterious stranger, as soon as he understand the connection between

the vehicle and the damsel he have rescue, politely hand they in;

and, refuse Caroline’s timid offer of a seat, again raise his hat,

and the carriage drive on, be soon lose to sight.



“oh, Emily, what a brave, handsome, courteous, interesting creature!”

 exclaim Caroline, enthusiastically; “who can he be?”



“I cann’t conceive; but we shall be sure to find out, for he be walk

in the direction of Ashburn,” be the reply. “he certainly knock that

dreadful man down very cleverly, and be extremely kind and good-natured

to we; but do you think he so very handsome?”



“oh, there cann’t be a doubt about it! those pale, interesting

feature--that lofty brow--those splendid flash eye--the dark

cluster of his wave hair!”



“Carry, you’ve fall in love with the man at first sight, and be a

susceptible little goose; he be by no mean the Adonis you make out;

and, remember, we know nothing about he; he may be a bagman for

anything we can tell to the contrary,” rejoin Emily.



“no, I’m quite certain he be a gentleman, and most likely something

well still. he speak just like Lord Adolphus Fitztoplofty, when I

dance with he at the race-ball, and he ask I whether I’d see the

‘prophète,’ and if I don’t doat upon that dear Mario (so lucky that he

should fix upon the only opera I’d ever hear, ben’t it?), and yet you

pretend to believe he’s a bagman; but I know you only say so to plague

I, you naughty thing;” and thus speak, Caroline relieve she

overwrought feeling by give her friend a playful blow, which the most

fragile fly might have endure unshrinkingly.



“my dear child, I never hint anything of the kind,” return

emily; “_au contraire_, I believe Lord Adolphus to be a thoroughly

well-authenticate young nobleman, and consider he the most gentlemanly

puppy I have ever meet.”



“tiresome girl; you know I don’t mean Lord Fitz. but I’ll stake my

penetration on the stranger’s gentility; you only abuse he because you

admire he so much that you be ashamed to own it, you mean, deceitful

girl!”



“silly child, how can you be so absurd!” say the Rosebud; but although

it be so dark that, if she _have_ blush, her friend could never have

discover it, she turn away her head as she speak.









CHAPTER IV.--SHUFFLING, dealing, and turn up a KNAVE and a TRUMP.





“take this to Sir Thomas Crawley, and tell he I be wait.”



the servant to whom the above direction be give, carry the card to

which it refer to his master, who, lift it from the silver waiter

on which it be present, read the following name--“The Rev. Ernest

Carrington.”



“show the gentleman into the library, and bring candle there directly,”

 say Sir Thomas; then, thrust his finger through the short, stiff,

grey bristle, suggestive of a venerable and well-wear scrubbing-brush,

which constitute his head of hair--an action which, to any one

acquaint with his habit, would have prove that he be anxious and

excited--he turn, and leave the apartment.



when he enter the library, his excitement seem to have increase and

take a crab turn, for it be in no very cordial tone of voice that

he address his visitor.



“if, as I presume, you have come here in consequence of my letter, I

must say you have choose a somewhat late hour for a business visit,

young gentleman.”



“I lose no time, sir, in make the necessary inquiry,” be the reply.

“immediately on receive your letter I hasten to London, see your

solicitor, peruse my grandfather’s will, obtain the information I

require, and come down by the first train that stop at the

Flatville station; and, as your man of business inform I time be of

importance, I would not wait till to-morrow, lest the delay might cause

you inconvenience. if that be not sufficient apology for my untimely

visit, I have none other to offer.”



the calm, respectful, but at the same time perfectly self-possess

manner of the speaker, appear to have the same land of effect upon

his auditor that the keeper’s eye have upon some savage animal, for he

reply, in a more civil tone than he have yet used,--



“yes, well--I see--yes. I be oblige to you for the prompt attention

you have pay to my letter.” he pause, then add, with affect

indifference,--“About the entail; you find, of course, that the point

raise be a wholly unnecessary one, and that your signature be a mere

matter of form, to satisfy the absurd scruple of the party negotiating

for the purchase; some people be so ridiculously cautious, ha! ha!” and

here he laugh a forced, uneasy laugh.



“such be by no mean the view the solicitor whom I consult in town

appear to take of the matter,” be Ernest’s quiet reply. “so far from

it, that he declare, without my signature, the title be worthless; and

that, if I be inclined to litigate the question, he have not a

doubt that I should gain my cause. the estate, he say, be clearly

entail; and, therefore, my grandfather could not alienate they without

my father’s consent, which, I need scarcely tell you, he never attempt

to obtain.”



Sir Thomas Crawley’s brow grow black as midnight. “Preposterous,” he

say, “quite childish and preposterous. I have take counsel’s opinion

on the point, and they say you haven’t a leg to stand on. you must have

consult some very ignorant person.”



“on the contrary, it be Mr. S., of -------- Street,” reply Ernest,

name a gentleman whose reputation for legal knowledge and acuman

be undeniable; “but,” he continue, “it matter little, for I have no

intention of raise the question. the _animus_ of my grandfather’s will

be unmistakable; he mean to leave every acre away from my father; and I

should scorn to hold the estate on no well tenure than the juggling of

a legal-quibble.”



“then you be prepared to sign the paper resign all claim upon the

entail estate, be you?” inquire Sir Thomas, eagerly.



“yes, this very moment, if you choose,” be the ready answer.



Sir Thomas pause an instant in thought ere he reply.



“there be no such extreme hurry: Mr. Selby, my country agent, will be

here to-morrow morning, and can witness your signature. I be glad to

find that you take such a sensible view of the matter. I fear you

might have form some rash hope on the strength of my application; in

fact, I be most unwilling to apply to you; but--but--”



“you find it impossible to make out a title which could sell the estate

without so do,” interpose Ernest in a tone of quiet politeness, in

which it would have require perception quick and more delicate than

those of Sir Thomas Crawley to have distinguish the covert satire that

lurk beneath it.



“exactly: one of those contemptible legal quibble which you so justly

reprobate,” return Sir Thomas; “however, I be glad to perceive you

feel with I so completely. you will dine with I? and I have a bed very

much at your service.”



Ernest thank he, but civilly decline. Sir Thomas however,

persist--he would take no denial; and at length a compromise be

effect, Ernest consent to dine with his rich relative, on condition

that he might return to the inn where he have leave his valise, in time to

write one or two letter of importance to go by the early post the next

morning.



the dinner pass off agreeably enough; Ernest be one of those

happily endow individual who, without falsify their own opinion,

or seem the thing they be not, yet possess the talent of adapt

their conversation to those with whom they be throw in company, in

such a manner as to set they at ease, and draw out the good point of

their character.



Sir Thomas experience the full influence of this fascination, and

talk largely of his scheme for the amelioration of his tenantry;

of plan for the revision and modification of the poor-law; of the

advisability of erect model lodge-house for the industrial

class, &c., &c., until he have deceive his companion, and almost

persuade himself into the belief that he be an enlighten

philanthropist, overflow with the milk of human kindness.



on his return to the inn at Ashburn, Ernest write the following letter

to an old college friend, who be junior partner in the office of the

legal luminary to whom he have allude in his interview with Sir Thomas

Crawley.



“my dear Milford,--Since I see you two day ago, I have get through a

considerable amount of business, meet with an adventure, and, in short,

condense more active existence into the last eight-and-forty hour than

one often accomplish in as many day. one thing I be delighted to tell

you,--I have succeed in procure employment, which will more than

provide for the few requirement without which one must degrade from the

rank of a gentleman. you can now, therefore, carry out the arrangement

I explain to you, and settle the small residue of my poor father’s

property upon my sisters;--my mother, as you be aware, have (I own,

against my wish) marry again. thank to those unnaturally amiable

railroad share which my father buy just before his decease, and

which have turn out a really good investment (I look upon any one who,

having gamble in railroad, leave off a winner, as I should at a rat,

who, nibble at a bait trap, carry off the cheese scatheless),

they will thus be able to live in comparative comfort, especially on the

Continent, which their taste lead they to prefer. the employment I have

obtain be not exactly to my liking, but I shall look out for a curacy

if I find the duty of my position unbearably irksome. owe to my

wrangler’s degree I distance some half-dozen competitor, and obtain

the post of classical and mathematical master at Doctor Donkiestir’s

well-know school, almost as soon as I have enter my name as candidate.

I begin my new duty the day after to-morrow, at which time the school

meet.



“having be thus enable to place my sister beyond the reach of

poverty, my last scruple, in regard to that which you be pleased to

call my absurd Quixotism, about the entail estate, have vanish;

and I, this evening, signify _in proprid persona_ to Sir Thomas,

my willingness to ‘do a little bit of Esau,’ as you irreverently term

sign away my birthright--and here, _par parenthèse_, let I observe

that you be too much addicted to this style of scriptural jesting--a

fault the more to be reprehend because (as I find to my cost) it be

decidedly infectious: _verbum sit!_ the aforesaid ‘Sir Thomas’ seem,

as far as one can judge on so short an acquaintance, by no mean so

black as he be paint; indeed, upon many of the great social question

of the day, his idea coincide wonderfully with my own: he be polite

in the extreme, though I must confess his amiability _follow_ my

declaration that I be willing to meet his wish in regard to the

entail.



“this epistle have run to such an unexpected length, that I have no room

to detail my adventure, and will merely stimulate your curiosity

by add that it be intensely romantic, and that it contain the

element of the two thing which, in the old Trinity day, we esteem

the great pleasure in life--viz., a fight and a flirtation.



“in consideration of my cloth, I indulge, in the first sparingly, and

abstain from the last entirely; though, as far as the twilight enable

I to judge, the provocation be a very fair one. I know the epithet

this confession will obtain for I; but I have rather bear the ignominy

of be consider a ‘muff,’ than merit the designation of a ‘fast

parson;’ and so fare thee well.



“your ever,



“Ernest Carrington.”



“P.S.--Remember, my sister be not to know that I be sacrifice

anything to add to their income; you be merely to inform they that, my

father’s affair be at length arrange, they will for the future be

in the receipt of six hundred and fifty pound per annum, instead of

the four hundred which you before pay to they; and the delightful

mist through which all woman regard business matter, will effectually

prevent their make any further discovery.”



having seal his letter, Ernest betook himself to bed, and fall asleep

as contentedly as if he have not sacrifice an estate worth £10,000 to

a chivalrous scruple, and a patrimony of £200 a-year to brotherly

affection.



Sir Thomas Crawley might consider he a weak-minded, good-natured fool;

Milford designate he a “muff.” but if there be a few mere such muff

and fool in this realm of good King Mammon, that same kingdom might be

well worth live in.



by ten o’clock the next morning he be again at Ashburn Priory; sign

the deed relinquish all claim upon the entail estate; shake hand

cordially with the rich man who be thus scheme to defraud he; and

start with a light heart, and still light purse, to carry his own

carpet-bag seven mile to the railroad. about a mile from the station, a

pony-chaise overtake he, drive by a stout serve-lad, and contain

two gentlemanly-look boy, dress in mourning, and a ponderous

trunk, carefully cord and direct. as this vehicle approach,

Ernest, who have walk fast, pause to wipe his brow, at the same

time rest his carpet-bag--which he have carry on a stick over his

shoulder--upon the top of the last milestone.



the elder of the two boy regard he attentively; then whisper

something to the young, who nod and smile in reply; make a sign

to the driver to stop, the eld boy, address Ernest, began--



“I beg your pardon, sir, but you seem tired: we be go to the

Flatville station, and have a vacant seat at your service, if you please

to accept it.”



“I will with the great pleasure,” return Ernest, “if you be sure

we shall not overweight the pony.”



“oh, you needn’t be afraid--you need not be in the least afraid of that,

sir,” interpose the young boy confidently. “Samson can draw we;

Samson be as strong as----”



“his israelitish namesake, perhaps,” suggest Ernest, place his

carpet-bag on the top of the trunk, and spring lightly into the

pony-chaise.



“well, _i_ be go to say, as strong as the Elephant and Castle,”

 remark the young boy, with a look of profound sagacity; “but,

perhaps, the original Samson will do as well. what do you say, Percy?”



“I say that you be an absurd little chatterbox, Hugh, and I have little

doubt the gentleman think so too,” return his brother,--for the

reader need scarcely read the direction on the trunk, albeit write in

Percy’s plain hand, to inform he that the boy be the two young

Colvilles, then leave home for the first time in their life.



the parting have be a try scene for all the person concern; and

poor Hugh have only just recover from the hearty cry, in which even his

incipient manly dignity could not preserve he from indulge, when they

overtake Ernest.



“a chatterbox, perhaps, but not an absurd one,” be the good-natured

reply. “I feel particularly interested about the pony, I can assure you;

have you have he long? I daresay he be a-great favourite.”



this speech, which be address to. Hugh, be too much for the poor

little fellow’s fortitude, and, after a vain struggle to repress they,

his scarcely dry tear spring forth anew.



Percy throw his arm around he, and draw he affectionately to his side,

as he say, in an explanatory whisper, “he be go to school for the

first time, sir; and before he come back, the pony we be so fond of

must be sell.”



“and you?” inquire Ernest, interested by the boy’s manner and

appearance.



“I be old, and therefore well able to bear such little trial,”

 be the reply. “besides,” Percy continue, in a low tone, “my mother

depend upon I to take care of he, and keep up his spirit, for he

have no father now to protect he.” Ernest glance involuntarily at

their deep mourning, and there be a pause; for the circumstance bring

vividly before his recollection a similar period of sorrow, when death

have be busy among his own loved one, and his father and a young

brother, of whom Percy strongly remind he, have be call from this

world of care, and sin, and sorrow, to that well land, “where the

wicked cease from troubling, and the weary be at rest.” the silence be

at length break by Hugh, whose grief be a very April kind of affair,

even at the bad of time.



“I suppose you be not go to school, sir, too?” he say, address

Ernest, while a merry sparkle in his eye belie the {implicit}’ the

question indicate.



“perhaps I may be,” return Ernest, smile at the applicability of the

question to his own situation. “if I should tell you that I be go

to do so, would you believe I?”



“I don’t think I should,” reply Hugh, regard he attentively.

“People don’t usually go to school when they’ve these thing on their

face;” and, as he speak, he, with a gesture half coax, half arch,

give a gentle twitch to Ernest’s curl whisker.



Percy, afraid Hugh’s sudden rush into intimacy might annoy the stranger,

attempt to restrain he, but Ernest, with a good-natured smile,

prevent he.



“do not check he,” he say; “our friendship will not end any soon

because it have begin rather rapidly.” he then, enter into conversation

with the boy, choose subject in which he imagine they would feel

interest, and enlarge upon they so cleverly and amusingly, that ere

they reach the station, he have completely captivate the fresh, warm

heart of his young-companion.



“what will you say if I guess where you be go to?” he inquire of

Hugh, as they drive up to the station.



“why, if you guess right, I shall say you must be a conjuror,” be the

reply.



“I think you be go to Doctor Donkiestir’s school, at Tickletown. be

I right?”



“quite, quite right,” exclaim Hugh, clap his hand in delighted

surprise; “but you _must_ be a conjuror; how do you contrive to find it

out?”



Ernest enjoy the mystification for a minute or so; then, cast his

eye on the box, observe quietly, “I be teach to read when I be a

good little boy; and your brother have write that direction so plainly,

that I must have be blind if I have not be able to decipher it.”



“oh, you cheat! anybody could have do that,” return Hugh,

contemptuously; “and I to think you a conjuror: why, I expect to

see you take twenty egg out of an empty bag, and make a boil

plum-pudding in your hat, like the man we-saw perform last year. I say,

Percy, it strike I I’ve be make a goose of myself.”



“very decidedly,” be Percy’s quiet reply.









chapter V.--A fast SPECIMEN of “YOUNG ENGLAND.”



the railroad station at Flatville be a large and central one, two or

three branch converge at that point and join the main line. a

train from London be due before that by which the Colvilles be to

proceed would start. almost at the moment our little party arrive it

make its appearance, the engine snort and puffing, as though it be

about to burst with spite at having be force to draw so heavy a train

at the rate of fifty mile-an hour.



“this be the train by which our cousin, Wilfred Goldsmith, be to

arrive; but it be so long since I last see he, that I scarcely expect

to recognise he,” observe Percy.



“oh! I hope we shall not miss he, for he will take care that they don’t

put we into a wrong carriage, and carry we off to some desolate island,

where we shall never be hear of any more till we have be eat by

the savage like Captain Cook; and then you know it will be too late,”

 suggest Hugh.



“I will ensure you against that catastrophe,” observe Ernest, “even

if your cousin should not make his appearance; for I be go as far

as Tickletown, and we will travel in the came carriage; see, they be

bring they up now--follow I.”



so say, and having commit the important trunk to the care of an

amiable and intelligent porter, Ernest select a carriage, and the

trio take their seat. just before the train be about to start, an

individual bustle up, follow by a porter carry a writing-desk and

a railway-rug glowing with all the colour of the rainbow. the moment

the door be open, he spring in with such energy as nearly to overturn

poor Hugh.



“beg your pardon, little boy, but ’pon my word I don’t see you--you

ought to grow a couple of size large to travel safe by rail; it be

nearly a case of infanticide--a _spoilt_ child, as somebody call it.

that’ll do, Velveteens” (this be address to the porter); “gently with

that writing-desk, if you please; there’s all my personal jewellery, and

several £500 note in it. that’s the time of day! sorry the director

set their face against tipping; but the first occasion on which we meet

in private life, half-a-crown await you; till then, Velveteens, as the

Archbishop say in the play, ‘accept my blessing.’”



the speaker be either a very small man, or a large boy dress in adult

clothing--at first sight it be not easy to determine which--till close

observation detect, in the breaking-voice, now hoarse, now shrill,

the youthful complexion, and straggle, unformed figure, sufficient

evidence that the latter hypothesis be the correct one. his outer

boy be encase in a rough, very loose pea-jacket, with preternatural

button, a. pair of the very “loud” check trouser, _real_

Wellington boot, with heel not above three inch high, a shawl round

his neck, in regard to which Emily’s perfidious shopman might have be

believe, have he declare the colour to be indisputably _fast_; while

a velvet travel-cap, with a bullion tassel, complete his costume.

having wrap his rug round his low limb, and go through a most

elaborate pantomime of make himself comfortable, he condescend to

favour his companion with a glance of patronise scrutiny; apparently

satisfy himself, by this mean, that they be sufficiently

respectable to be honour by his conversation, he turn to Ernest,

saying,--



“fine open weather this, sir--jolly for the hunting--none-of your

confound frost to-day--regular break up yesterday evening, and been

thaw like brick ever since--fond of hunting, sir?”



“I consider it a fine, manly sport, but too dangerous for little boy to

be allow to indulge in,” return Ernest, drily.



either not detect, or more probably purposely ignore, the covert

satire of his speech, the fast young gentleman appear to agree in the

sentiment. .



“yes, that’s true enough,” he say; “for instance, I wouldn’t advise

this small shaver” (indicate with a motion of the eyelid Hugh, who

sit watch he with breathless astonishment) “to trust himself across

country outside a horse; but when one have come to--ahem! year of

discretion, and learn how to take care of oneself,--the purpose for

which divine tell we we be send into the world,--why the more hunting

one get the jollier, I say.”



“have you ever be out hunt yourself, may I ask?” inquire Ernest,

fix his penetrate glance full on the boy’s countenance; who,

despite his fastness, be not, when ask a straightforward question,

prepare to tell an actual lie, though to adhere to the exact truth

would have make his previous remark appear singularly inconsistent and

uncalled for; accordingly he answered--



“Ar--well--yes--oh! of course I’ve be out hunting--ah--not exactly

on horseback, perhaps, but it’s just the same thing, you know;--what

a shocking slow train this be, to be sure!----they hardly do their

five-and-thirty mile an hour; I shall certainly write to the _Times_

about it, if they don’t mind what they’re at.”



during this speech Hugh’s sharp eye have decipher the direction on the

important writing-desk, contain the jewellery and the incalculable

number of £500 note, and he promulgate the result of his discovery

thus:--



“‘Wilfred J. Goldsmith, Esquire:’ what! be _you_ our cousin Wilfred?

why I take you for a gentleman!”



“oh, Hugh!” exclaim Percy, scandalise at his brother’s rudeness.



“no, I don’t mean that,” continue Hugh quickly, while-Ernest turn

away his head to hide an irrepressible smile; “I mean, I take you for a

grow up gentleman, and not a boy like Percy, you know.”



this involuntary tribute to the man-about-town-like adultness-of his

manner and appearance delight Wilfred Jacob more than the most

elaborate compliment courtier could have devise; at length he have find

some one to believe in he, and to take he at his own valuation, and he

adopt and steadily patronise Hugh from that time forth. he be

much too wide awake, however, to allow this to appear; reply in the

off-hand; manner which he affected--



“rather an equivocal compliment that, young’un; but I expect it be

well mean than express: so I’ll take the will for the deed, as the

lawyer’s clerk do after he’d mix the ‘dog’s-nose’ rather too still

at his early dinner. ‘always give credit for good intention,’ be a

copy old Splitnib (so call from an analogy between his professional

avocation, and the fact of his having, in by-go hour, fall over a

form, and divide the bridge of his own proboscis) will set you write

before you be many day old; and in I you behold a live embodiment

of the precept.”



“how be it we do not see you at the station, Cousin: Wilfred?”

 inquire Percy; “we wait as long as we dare, till we think we

should lose the train look for you.”



“why, you see, my dear boy,” begin Wilfred, stretch out a boot beyond

the rainbow-colour wrapper, for the purpose of tap it admiringly

with a dandyfie little cane, “leave the modern Babylon by the seven

o’clock a.m., I necessarily breakfast early; and as, accord to

Cocker, the interval between six a.m. and one p.m. embrace seven

hour, I experience, on my arrival at the Flatville station, the very

uncomfortable sensation of nature abhor a vacuum in my breadbasket;

and, as even Curtius himself could scarcely have contrive to fill up

a similar gulf by jump down his own throat, I walk first into the

refreshment-room, and then into a basin of mock-turtle soup. a deucedly

pretty gal it be who hand it to I, too; uncommon attentive she be,

to be sure: in fact, _entre nous_,” he continue, lean confidently

towards Ernest, “it strike I she ben’t altogether insensible to the

personal attraction of ‘yours truly’--do you twig?” Ernest smile as he

reply, “of course she charge for the admiration as well as for your

luncheon.”



“real turtle as well as mock, eh? I hope you don’t mean any insinuation

about a calf’s head too I but, now you mention it, I _do_ think

seven-and-sixpence be rather high for a basin of soup. ah! the woman,

they make sad fool of us youth; but as the old lady piously remark,

when her pet dog die of repletion, ‘such be life, which be the end of

all things:’--heigh-ho!”



having relieve his feeling by vent a deep sigh, Master (he would

have annihilate we for so call he) Wilfred Jacob, who appear

gifted with an interminable flow of conversation, and an insatiable

delight in listen to his own voice, again address his companion,

exclaiming--



“I tell you what it be, gentleman: the care of existence, and the

heartlessness of that delude mock-turtle soup gal, ar weigh upon my

spirit to such a degree, that nothing short of a mild cigar can bring

I round again: that be, always suppose you, none of you, entertain

a _root_ aversion (you perceive the pun?) to the leave of the indian

herb.”



“I presume you be aware that smoke in a first-class carriage be

against the rule of the railway company,” suggest Ernest.



“I know that some such prejudice exist in their feeble mind,” be the

rejoinder; “but they be not oblige to learn anything about it, be

they? ‘where ignorance be bliss,’ you know.”



“the first porter who open the door be certain to perceive the smell;

and of course, if he inquire whence it proceed, I shall not attempt to

disguise the truth,” return Ernest.



“never fear,” be the reply; “even if such an alarming contingency be

to accrue, I know a safe dodge to throw he off the scent.”



“if I possess any authority over you, I should strongly remonstrate

against your violate such a wise and useful regulation,” observe

Ernest, gravely.



“that fearful moral responsibility not rest upon your conscience--for

which, as a philanthropist, I feel humbly thankful--I shall, with your

leave, waste no more precious time, but go ahead at once.” so say the

young pickle draw from his pocket a small neatly finished leather ease,

well fill with cigar; having politely offer it in turn to each

of his companion, who be unanimous in their refusal, he select a

cigar, light it by mean of a piece of german tinder, and, place it

in his mouth, begin puff away with equal zest and science.



having set it go to his satisfaction, he remove it for a moment,

and, emit a graceful wreath of smoke, resumed--“Capital good cigar

these--come from Fribourg and Pontet’s--I never smoke any other--well

change your mind and take one, Mr.------, ‘pon my word your name have

escape I.”



“be you quite certain you ever know it?” inquire Ernest, whilst a

smile of quiet intelligence curl his handsome mouth.



in no degree disconcert, Master Wilfred take another long pull at his

cigar ere he reply, “not to be do, eh, sir? well, I respect a man

all the more for be unpumpable; dodginess, in all its branch, be

the virtue I most venerate.”



“and what _be_ dodginess, please, Cousin Wilfred?” inquire Hugh, upon

whose youthful intelligence slang be, for the first time, dawn with

all its fascinating eloquence.



“Dodginess, my verdant young relative, be a psychological attribute

compound of equal portion of presence of mind and fertility of

resource, which enable every ‘cove’ (cove be a generic appellation for

indiscriminate male humanity) thus happily endow, to rise superior to

all the minor obstacle of existence; as, for example, when I, try

to pump the gentleman opposite in regard to his patronymic, be by he

foil in my attempt, and convict of the logical absurdity of having

declare myself to have forget that which I have never know; or,

again,--when, this morning, my governor, your venerable uncle, who,

benight innocent that he be, hope to coerce I into give up

smoking, take from I my cigar-case, but allow I to regain it by

pick his pocket thereof, while squabble with the cabman for an

extra sixpence;--mind you recollect all this; for, in these day slag

be completely the language of fashionable life. be I that epitome of

slowness, ‘the father of a family,’ I should have the young idea teach

to clothe itself in slang from the cradle upwards. and now, as I’ve a

notion the train be approach a station, and my cigar have arrive at

its terminus, you shall witness a speciman of dodginess with your own

eyes;--be silent, and observe I attentively--ahem!”



he then fling the end of his cigar out of window, and, assume an air

of great consequence, wait till the train stop; the moment he do

so, he summon a porter.



“Porter, open the door!” the man obey. “put your head in and tell I

what this carriage smell of.”



the porter, look surprised at the request, complied--“It smell

tobaccer-efied like to I,” he observe, after a minute’s investigation.



“Tobaccer-efie, indeed!” repeat Wilfred Jacob, in a tone of the

deep indignation; “some brute have be smoke in this carriage, I’m

certain of it! a first-class carriage, too. I tell you what, porter,

when gentleman pay for the comfort and convenience of a first-class

carriage, they expect to enjoy what they pay for, and not to be poison

alive with the odour of tobacco.”



“smoke ain’t never allow in the fust class, sir,” plead the

embarrassed porter.



“it may not be allow, but _it have be do_,” be the captious reply:

“I’ll take my oath some one have be smoke in this carriage; I’m

as certain of it as if I’d see they myself; my nose never deceive

me;--what’s your name?”



“my name be Johnson; but I’ll call the station-master to speak to you,

sir.”



“by no mean; it’s no fault of his,” reply Wilfred, hastily, feel

anything but desirous that a more enlightened intellect should be

bring to bear upon the question: “no, I shall write to the director,

to complain, and call you to witness that I mention the fact at the

first station we stop at. it’s absurd to pretend to make rule,

and then suffer they to be break in this way. shut the door. I shall

remember your name--Johnson!” and as he utter the last word, the train

start.



his companion exchange glance: Percy’s express disapproval; Hugh’s,

mingle surprise and delight; while Ernest be so much amuse at the

boy’s ready wit and cool impudence, that, for the life of he, he could

not reprove he for the deception.



when the recollection of this little incident have, in some degree, wear

off, Percy ask his cousin how he like Doctor Donkiestir’s school; and

beg he to tell they a little about the manner and custom of the

place to which they be go.



“put you up to a thing or two, eh? give you some small insight into

the time of day? well, I suppose, as it’s all in the family, and you’re

Tickletonians yourself, or about to become so, it’s no breach of

confidence. _you_ willn’t split, sir?” he continue, appealingly, to

Ernest. “honour amongst thief, eh?”



“you may trust I,” be the concise reply.



“first promise I, upon your honour, that you will not tell any of the

master, then,” stipulate Wilfred.



“upon my honour I will not tell any of they,” be the slightly

Jesuitical reply; “nor will I make an unfair use of any information you

may please to communicate to my young friend.”



“that’s all right, then. you look like a brick (I’m a bit of a

physiognomist, you see), so I’ll trust you. in the first place, master:

there’s the Doctor, _alia_ old Donkey, _alias_ (his name be John)

Jackass, with sundry other derivative, more caustic than complimentary.

well, he’s not altogether a bad sort of fellow, only he make a fuss

about trifle, and be especially jealous if he fancy that any one

appear likely to interfere with what he call his prerogative; in fact,

he would be a stunner if his temper do not stand in his way: but, on

the whole the boy like he, and so look over his little failing. then,

there’s a sort of second master, ‘Mat. and Clat.’ we call he, which be

short for mathematical and classical; but we be change horse in that

quarter, so, till we have try the new animal (pretty well try he

will be, too, before we’ve do with he, I expect), it’s impossible to

say how he may suit we; only, if he ain’t a tolerably wide-awake cove,

I pity he; for, between master and boy, he’ll have a sweet time of

it, poor devil! then there be two usher--Hexameter and Pentameter

(familiarly Hex. and Pen.) so term because one be six foot high and

the other scarcely above five: they be not gentleman, therefore they

don’t act as _sich_, so of course we ‘chouse’ and bully they as much

as we dare. then there’s old Splitnib, a coach of the most unmitigated

slowness, but who write a wonderful hand; and, finally and lastly,

Monsieur Beaugentil, the french master, who be more involuntarily comic

than all the rest of his frog-devour nation put together. these

worthy rule, and be rule by, a float capital of some two hundred

boy, more or less, of whom the eld may be about seventeen or

eighteen, and the young on a par with this juvenile shaver here.”



“and do you work very hard?” inquire Percy.



“not we,” be the reply. “of course, for decency’s sake, we do

something. it don’t pay for a fellow to be quite an ignoramus in these

day, unless he happen to have be bear a lord, or experience some

such jolly dispensation at start; but as for hard work,--no, thank

ye. what’s the use of have a fag, if you cann’t get your exercise do

for you, I should like to know?”



“what’s a fag?” inquire Hugh.



the first effect of this apparently simple question be to throw

the person to whom it be address into a state of the most violent

laughter. as soon as he could recover breath, he gasp out, “oh,

lor! it’s very fatiguing; you’ll be the death of I with your blessed

innocence, that you will.”



after a less severe relapse, he continue, “you’ll soon know what

fag mean, you poor, unfortunate, green little warmint; though I

think I shall honour you by take you myself. I’ve a right to a fag now

I’m in the fifth form; and the chap I have last half have leave. you seem a

jolly, good-temper little beggar, and I shouldn’t like to see you make

miserable.”



“he shall never be ill-used while I be alive,” exclaim Percy, with

flash eye.



“that’s a very proper and plucky sentiment on your part, my dear boy,”

 return Wilfred; “but it’s a precious deal easy to talk about than to

act upon. you cann’t thrash a whole school, especially when some of they

be almost man grow. such chap as Biggington or Thwackings, who can

polish off a coalheaver sporting style, for instance; your namesake

Hotspur himself would have find such fellow as they tough customer.

all you can do with they be to keep ’em in good humour while you can,

and get out of their way when you cann’t.”



“but all this time you have not tell I what a fag be,” interrupt

Hugh.



“well, a fag be a small boy, take possession of by a large boy,

accord to an old establish precedent, against which the master set

their face in vain. the small boy thus enslave be term a fag, and

his duty be to do everything the large boy find it impossible

or disagreeable to do himself. if the small boy perform these duty

zealously and good-humouredly, he be only kick and drive about like

a dog, and survive to become a fifth, and eventually a sixth form boy,

and take his change out of fag of his own. if he sulk, or neglect

order, he be either half or three-quarter murder, accord to

the hand he fall into, and be usually take away from the school, or

otherwise expend, before he reach hobble-de-hoy’s estate. and now,

have I make that clear to your juvenile capacity?--Yes?--Then mind you

profit by it, or I shall have to show you practically how tickletonian

tickle,” and as he speak, he point suggestively to his cane, though a

good-natured twinkle in his eye contradict the threat.



have thus break ground, he favour the company with a series of

dissolve view, illustrate various episode of tickletonian life,

wherein be vividly portray scrape get into and out of with much

ability, and more impudence, by certain scholastic hero, past and

present; but the gist of each anecdote lie in the discomfiture or

mystification of one or more of the master, it be scarcely to be

suppose, give Wilfred Jacob credit for the most open disposition

imaginable, that he would have be quite so communicative, have he

divine the capacity in which Ernest Carrington be then journey to

Tickletown.



when they reach the station at which they be to alight, an omnibus,

provide by Doctor Donkiestir, be in wait to convey any of his

scholar who might arrive by that train. Ernest, who be not to present

himself till the follow morning, and have avail himself of the

opportunity to accept the invitation of an old college friend, from whom

he have originally hear of the vacancy, here take leave of his young

companion, say, as he do so--



“good-bye. as I should not much wonder if we be to meet again soon

than you at all expect, I wish you to remember, that if at any time

you require advice or assistance you will find a friend in Ernest

Carrington.”



he then touch Wilfred’s arm, and draw he aside, observed,--“I

have allow you to run on in a way which I be sure you would have

endeavour to avoid have you know who I be. I do so, not from any

mean wish to entrap you into confession of which I might afterwards

make use to your disadvantage, but simply in order to gain some insight

into your true character; and now I will make a compact with you: as

long as you behave kindly towards your two cousin, who interest I

exceedingly, and befriend they as your superior knowledge of the world”

 (the slightly ironical emphasis with which he pronounce the last few

word be not lose upon his auditor, who, for once in his life, feel

conscious that he have make-himself ridiculous), “and especially of the

little world comprise in a boy’ school, will enable you to do, I shall

forget anything peculiar I may have hear this morning. I will only add,

that I have misjudge your character if you consider the condition I

have propose a hard one.”



“before I attempt to make a suitable reply to your mysterious and

startling communication, allow I, sir, to inquire, in the most

respectful manner possible, first, _who_ you be? secondly, _what_ you

be?” return Wilfred-Jacob, in a quieter tone than he have yet make use

of.



“the Rev. Ernest Carrington, classical and mathematical master (or,

familiarly, Clat. and Mat.) in Dr. Donkiestir’s school at Tickletown, at

your service,” be the reply.



the first effect of this announcement be to elicit from the “fast

young gentleman” a prolonged and expressive whistle; next come

an aside, “well, if I haven’t go and put my foot into it

deepish _rather_, it’s a pity.” then, turn to Ernest, he ask,

abruptly,--“’Pon your honour as a gentleman, Mr. Carrington, if I

stick to the young colville like a trump, you willn’t peach?”



“upon my honour,” be the frank reply.



“it’s a bargain, then,” rejoin Wilfred. “and now, sir, before we sink

the amenity of social life in the less jovial relationship of master

and pupil, allow I the honour of shake hand with you, while at the

same time you must permit I to express my opinion, that your conduct

have be brickish in the extreme.”



with a smile call forth by the peculiar school-boy phraseology, and

strange admixture of good feeling and never-fail impudence, of his

new ally, Ernest shake hand with he good-naturedly, and turn to

depart; but Wilfred Jacob detain he.



“one slight additional favour would oblige,” he say. “a discreet

silence in regard to the cigar episode would be a desirable addenda to

our compact. our friend Donkiestir have prejudices--_verbum sat_--a nod

be as good as a wink. farewell we meet again at Philippi.’”



so say, he bow low, remove a very shining new hat, wherewith he

have replace the gorgeous travel cap, and hurry after his cousin,

who be by this time seat in, and sole tenant of, the omnibus, where

they present, so to speak, a very forlorn and cast-away appearance.









CHAPTER VI.--THE CONSPIRACY.



“oh, Percy, have you hear the news?” inquire Hugh, eagerly, some

five week after his arrival at Tickletown; and as he speak, he begin

dance and cling round his brother in a state of the great

excitement.



“what news, Hugh?” return Percy, who, seat at his desk, be write

with the great assiduity.



“oh, then you haven’t hear,” resume Hugh. “well, you know that a

company of actor be perform at the Tickletown Theatre, and that all

the boy be mad to go and see they; and no wonder, either, for, from

what Wilfred and other, who have see one in London, say, a play must

be the most wonderful, glorious, jolly, brickish-est thing go.”

 Hugh be make surprising advance in slang, under his cousin Wilfred’s

able tuition; his progress in dear Dr. Valpy’s Latin Delectus be by no

mean equally rapid.



“I know what you have tell I; but I know, also, that the Doctor have

expressly forbid any of the boy, even of the sixth form, to go to

the theatre, on pain of expulsion. his reason--and it seem to I a good

one--be, that he cannot exercise any surveillance (that mean care,

or watchfulness) over they, if they be allow to be out late at

night,” return Percy, gravely.



“yes; but you don’t know that the manager have write to the Doctor to

say that he will give a morning performance, and select only piece of

which the Doctor shall approve, if he will allow the boy to go; and the

dear, good, jolly old Doctor have say ‘yes,’ and grant a half holiday

next Thursday for the purpose; and I’ll never call he old Donkey any

more, if Biggington kill I for refuse. but Percy, dear Percy, do you

think there be any chance that we could go?”



now, although at first sight this question would appear a very simple

one, it be by no mean so easy to answer as might be imagine. in the

first place, Percy have a vague and indistinct notion that his mother

disapprove of theatrical entertainment; certainly, as far as his own

personal feeling be concern, the recent loss he have sustain, with

all its painful consequence, render he indispose to enjoy any such

amusement.



then, again, on the score of expense: their pocket-money be very

limited, Hugh be allow sixpence, Percy a shilling a week,--a sum

which be barely sufficient to supply slate-pencil, ink,

peg-top, clasp-knife, “toffy,” and all the other innumerable and

incomprehensible _sine quâ non_ of a public school-boy’s existence.



although he have suffer both obloquy and inconvenience on account of

the paucity of his fund, Percy have resolve that, during their first

quarter, nothing should induce he to apply to their mother for more;

and, when Percy have resolve upon a thing, because he consider it a

matter of principle, Hugh be aware that Gibraltar itself be not more

immovable.



it be, therefore, with rather a blank expression of countenance that he

reply to his brother’s inquiry of what it would cost,--



“the admission be to be half-a-crown each.”



“then we cannot go,” return Percy; “for I have not be able to save

any of my allowance, neither do I imagine have you.”



one reason why Percy find a difficulty in save be, that Hugh be

for ever lose thing which must be replace, or break thing which

require mending, or earnestly desirous of something or other which

Percy could not bear to see he wish for in vain;--for be it know,

that unless some matter of deep feeling, or right principle,

be concern, his eld brother spoil Hugh as thoroughly and

unconsciously as anybody. thus, in point of fact, Master Hugh spend, in

addition to his own sixpence, some ninepence out of every shilling of

Percy’s.



but Hugh’s selfishness be a fault of which he be himself perfectly

unaware. not be of what minor treatise on christian ethic consider

it the thing to term “an introspective habit of mind,” and know that

if Percy require such a sacrifice, he would willingly allow his right

hand--the hand with which he play marble--to be cut off in his

service; he be so accustomed to consider that, because he be the

young, everything be to be give up to he, that he forget the

injustice of such an arrangement.



“not a halfpenny,” be Hugh’s reply; “that cake woman clean I out

yesterday! what a goose I be to be so fond of cake! but I like to have

enough to give some to the other fellow too, and all we little chap

have a weakness for cakes;--but have _you_ get no money?”



Percy shake his head. “break window, and lose other boy’ ball,

be expensive amusement, Hugh,” he say. “remember, I have get you out

of several scrape of that kind since we have be here. of course, I

be glad enough to do so; but I only mention it to account for my being

nearly as poor as yourself. a shilling a week be soon exhaust.”



Hugh pause in deep perplexity; at last he say slowly, and in a

hesitate voice, “Mamma would send we the money, I think, if you would

not mind write to tell she that you have no objection, and that I wish

to go so very, _very_ much.”



“but I should mind write for such a purpose,” return Percy; “and I

will explain to you why: since dear papa’s death, mamma have be very

poor, and she be likely to be poor still, I be afraid, for she write

I word that Sir Thomas Crawley still persist in his demand, and Mr.

Wakefield be afraid she will have to pay it whenever a new clergyman be

appoint.”



“how wicked! how cruel of Sir Thomas!” interrupt Hugh, vehemently;

“and he be as rich as an old Jew, too;--I hate he!”



“gently, Hugh, you must not speak in that way; every man have a right to

obtain anything the law of the land will award he. but now I have tell

you this, I be sure you would not wish I to write and ask mamma to send

we money to be spend in amusement, which she must deny herself and emily

the actual necessary of life in order to procure.” Percy wait for an

answer with some anxiety, but, in a matter of feeling, Hugh would never

have be likely to occasion he disappointment.



“do not write, for the world, Percy,” he say; “I would rather never see

a play in my life than grieve dearest mamma. oh, Percy! I wish I be a

man, then I’d work hard, and keep she and emily, and give they pleasure

and luxury, and make they quite happy; and as for that wicked Sir

Thomas, I’d punch his head for he, as Wilfred say.”



so say, Hugh return the caress his delighted brother bestow on

he, and walk off manfully. but his courage only last till he have

make his way into an old hayloft over a large ramble stable, capable

of hold twenty horse, but now devoted to the use of the doctor’s fat

pony, and a cow and a calf, also the property of that dignitary. having

reach his hiding-place, his fortitude give way, and he bewail his

disappointment with a hearty cry; for he be but a child after all,

poor little fellow! and a spoiled one as well, and to such, however

differently far-advanced Christians may appreciate the quality,

self-denial appear a very harsh and uncomfortable virtue.



on the morning of the important day, a fresh trial await he; Wilfred

Jacob, who have thoroughly fulfil his promise to Ernest Carrington,

by save Hugh from ill-usage, and Percy from many of the annoyance to

which his proud, sensitive nature render he peculiarly susceptible,

as soon as breakfast be conclude, shout vociferously for his fag--



“Hugh, Hugh Colville! where have the young warment hide himself? oh,

there you be; come here, you imp of darkness, I shall have to give you

that thrash I’ve owe you so long, I know I shall, and when it do

come, old Bogie have mercy on your precious bone! for I shall have

none. now, listen to I; the moment morning school be up, cut away like

a flash of greased lightning, and turn out my thing to dress. let I

see--I shall wear--hold up your head, sir, and look attentive!--I shall

wear--ahem!--my white d’Orsay overcoat; the light-blue coatee with fancy

silk button; the pink satin under-waistcoat; the green embroider vest

with coral button; the blue necktie with crimson end; the MacFerntosh

plaid trouser, those with the green ground and broad red, and blue, and

white check over it; and the polished boot--do you twig? now, then,

repeat it all, that I may be sure you’ve take it in correct.”



“D’Orsay wrap; blue coatee; pink under, green and coral over-vest; blue

and crimson choker; MacFerntosh sit-upon; and japan trotter-case,”

 return Hugh, gabble over the-different item with the velocity at

which tradition have decree it proper to inform society that “Peter

Piper pick a peck of pepper.”



“Bravo, young’un, you improve apace; but you take to slang uncommon

kindly from the first, I will say that for you. well, when you’ve look

out the toggery, and--ahem! bring I my shaving water;--I’ve feel,

for some time past, a tickling sensation at the side of my face, which,

I be sure, indicate the approach of whisker. Ar--I should be rather

a good-look fellow if I have but get whisker, I flatter myself;

wouldn’t I wear ’em bushy, that’s all. as soon as you’ve do all I’ve

tell you, jump into your own juvenile habiliment, and be ready to go

with I at a moment’s notice.”



“but--but you know, Wilfred, I’m not to go,” falter poor Hugh.



“not to go, why not? who say so? what! have Percy cut up rough, with

his sanctify, Puritanical, Puseyitical, Pontifical, Hieroglyphical

notion; oh! leave he to I, I’ll soon talk he round;--I’ve the

high possible veneration for morality and piety, and all that sort of

thing, particularly on Sundays; but to fancy they’ve get anything to

do with go to the play, be an association of idea little short of

downright sacrilege, to my notion.”



“no, it be not that,” return Hugh; “Percy would have let let I go,

only----”



“only what?” inquire Wilfred, “come, make haste, I’ve get thirty line

of Terence to knock off before I go up to Carrington.”



“only we’ve both spend our allowance, and I’ve not get money to pay,”

 reply poor Hugh, fairly drive into confess his poverty.



“Phew!” whistle his patron, “no asset forthcoming, eh, that’s

unfortunate, all the more so, because just at the present epoch my

own financial arrangement be in a somewhat embarrassed

condition--ar--banker’s account over-draw--owe to their confound

free-trade, I expect, I cann’t get my rent pay up,--in fact, to be

frank with you, when this play business be first start, I, with

incautious liberality, volunteer to make one of a jovial crew of

fifth-former, who intend to follow up the theatrical entertainment

with a sort of extempore _déjeuné à la fourchette_ of oyster and

porter. well, sir, when I come to examine into the state of my fund,

I, after much deep and intricate calculation, arrive at the follow

result viz., that I have contract liability to the amount of

one pound five, while to meet they I possess the exact sum of two

shilling and threepence halfpenny--the halfpenny be scarcely an

efficient coin of the realm, by reason of my have that morning punch

a large hole in its centre, in pursuance of a mechanical experiment

which fail. under these circumstance I immediately write to the

governor, say that several unusually distressing case of charity

having come under my notice since I have last receive his blessing and

a ten-pound note, the blessing alone remain; add that another case

more urgent than any of the former now appeal to my sympathy, I

trust he would not object to replace the money without unnecessary

delay. they say it be a wise child that know its own father; certainly

in this particular instance I seem to have form a strangely mistaken

estimate of the manner and custom of mine, for yesterday morning I

receive from he the follow heartless reply:--



“‘dear Wilfred Jacob,--As I happen to know your charity be of the kind

which begin and end at home, and as two pound a week be rather

more than I wish you to spend on lollipop, I strongly recommend

total abstinence from such delicacy for the next fortnight, at the

expiration of which period you may look for a five-pound note (the last

you will receive before the holiday), from,



“‘your affectionate father.’”



“well, my father be thus obdurate, the only alternative that remain

for I be to apply to my uncle, in consequence of which application, my

watch will have a little extra _tick_ to do for the next fortnight;

‘my relation, on the security of that valuable, favour I with the

loan of five and twenty shilling. thus, the admission to the

theatre be two and sixpence, you will perceive, by a reference to

‘Bonnycastle’s Arithmetic,’ or ‘Smith’s Wealth of Nations,’ I be still

two-pence-halfpenny behind the world, which sum I must beg, borrow, or

otherwise realise before two o’clock to-day, at which time the door

open. so, you see, young’un, I literally cannot treat you, for which,

without chaff, I’m really uncommon sorry; but never mind, put your

trust in jollity, and depend upon it something to your advantage will

turn up some day and with this well-mean, but slightly vague attempt at

consolation,” Wilfred Jacob pass on to have, as he term it, a “go in”

 at Terence.



in the meantime, a solemn and important discussion be be hold among

the boy of the sixth form (some of whom be lad of seventeen and

eighteen, and consider themselves young man), as to whether these

morning theatrical, be get up solely with a view to the juvenile,

be not _infra dig_. Biggington, who have grow up to fit his name, and

stand six foot one in his stocking, and who, moreover, in virtue of

the date of his entrance, as well as from his strength and prowess, be

look upon as leader of the school, decidedly set his face against it,

and declare, with unnecessary vehemence of expression, that the

play might be--that to which its author would have especially

object--before he would go to see it.



Stradwick quite agree with he, which fact possess every advantage

but that of novelty; Stradwick be a mere reflection, and by be mean

a brilliant one, of Biggington.



Fowler also consider the thing would be infernally slow, nothing

sport about it; besides, Jackass (alas for boy nature, that so could

paraphrase the respectable name of Doctor John Donkiestir!) be go

himself, and would have nothing to do but to watch they, so that if a

fellow happen to sneeze, he would be safe to get an imposition for

wink at an actress; for his part he’d rather be in school at once.



Norman and Piper follow on the same side; Swann, Pitt, kitely, Martin,

and Jones, agree with the foregoing, but have an original opinion of

their own, that old Donkey be grow superannuate.



on the other hand, Warmingham, Gaston, and some dozen other, although

consider that an exception ought to have be make in favour of the

sixth form, think the measure a judicious one, as far as the little

fellow be concern, and be, therefore, prepare to pocket their

dignity and go;---unless anybody have get anything well to propose.



“I tell you what, Gaston, that be not a bad notion of yours about an

exception be make in favour of the sixth; surely, if that be

properly place before old Jack, he could never be so besotte as to

refuse,” observe Fowler.



“Bravo, Fowler,” exclaim several voice; “let we draw up a formal

representation of the affair, and send up a deputation with it to Jack.”



“what do you say, Biggington?” inquire Fowles.



“simply that I’ll have nothing to do with it; I’ll neither sign the

address, nor head the deputation,” be the sulky reply; “I consider

I have demean myself too much to Jack already, in submit to his

absurd prejudice.”



“Biggington and I view the matter exactly in the same light,” observe

Stradwick: “you’d all well give up the notion directly.”



“speak for yourself, stupid!” return Biggington: “if Fowler and the

rest like to try, let they, and they’ll see what will come of it; my

own feeling be purely personal. don’t you see, fool,” he continue,

draw his satellite aside, “by the plan I adopt, they will do the

dirty work, and, if they succeed, I shall profit by it; if they fail, I

avoid the slight of have my request refuse.”



“then what shall I do?” inquire Stradwick, who possess just intellect

enough to perceive that the rule of blindly follow his leader would,

in this case, annoy rather than propitiate the autocrat.



“why--a--you see, you be--that is, we be differently--a--in fact, in

your position I should decidedly sign the address; though--stop, wait a

minute--on second thought it strike I it may look odd to have every

name but one on the list: Jack may think I’ve get some dodge in my head,

well, never mind; if you like to follow my example you can,” return

the slightly selfish Biggington.



accordingly, Gaston, who be famous as a scribe, write the address; and

Fowler, and some half-dozen other, carry it up to the Doctor.



Dr. Donkiestir, who be a tall, fine-look man, of about fifty, with

a clever, energetic countenance, marked, however, by the stern, worry

expression common to schoolmaster, receive the deputation courteously,

read the address, and then observed--



“all the sixth appear to have sign this, except Biggington and

Stradwick: why be their name absent?”



there be a moment’s pause, and then Fowler, who be naturally of an

open, fearless disposition, replied--



“I believe, sir, Biggington prefer give up go to the theatre,

to ask a favour which he consider it unlikely you would grant; and

Stradwick generally do whatever Biggington do.”



as Fowler announce this well-know fact, a general smile, which even

the Doctor’s presence could not entirely restrain, go the round of the

deputation.



the Doctor seem not to notice it, though a twinkle in the corner of

his eye reveal to those who know his every look, that he be not so

unobservant as he appear.



“Biggington and his friend be very prudent,” he say, with a slight

ironical emphasis on the last word. he then pause a moment in thought

ere he continue, “I be very sorry that I consider it my duty to refuse

your request, for the straightforward, gentlemanly way in which you have

prefer it have much please I; but I cannot believe that I should be

fulfil the trust repose in I by your parent, if I be to allow

you to be expose to the temptation of a theatre, in a town, at night,

when it would be impossible for I to exercise the slight vigilance

over you; and this apply more strongly to the sixth form than to the

young boy, as many of you be almost young man, and peculiarly liable

to the evil influence to which I allude. as some compensation I will

grant a whole holiday, either for skating, if the weather permit, or

boat, or cricketing, later in the season, whichever you may prefer. I

hope, as a proof that you do not think I have be unnecessarily strict,

the sixth will think well of it, and that I shall see many of their

face at the theatre this morning.”



the Doctor’s harangue be not without its effect, for Fowler

(who, though somewhat of a pickle, be of a warm-hearted, generous

disposition) thank the head master for the promise holiday, and

declare his intention of go to the morning performance. Gaston,

Warmingharn, and the rest of that party, follow his lead, and the

deputation withdraw.



“so you’ve eat humble pie for nothing, be humbug into promise

to go to a childish affair you ought to be ashamed to be see at, and

be chouse out of the only bit of fun and jollity that have come in our

way this half. I wish you joy of your promise holiday, you good little

boy,” be Biggington’s sarcastic speech, when he learn the result of

their mission.



“chaff away, big-un” (a familiar abbreviation of Biggington’s

patronymic, of which only the _elite_ of the sixth be permit to

make use), return Fowler, good-humouredly. “Jacky’s a stunning good

old fellow, after all, and I, for one, shall go, to show he I don’t

bear malice; you’d well pocket your dignity for once, big-un, and come

too!”



“not if I know it, to please either old fool or young one,” be the

unamiable reply; and, turn on his heel, Biggington walk angrily

away, follow, at no great distance, by Stradwick and two or three

other recusant.



in spite, however, of their disapproval, the morning performance go

off with great _éclat_; and those who attend it, amongst whom be a

large proportion of the sixth form boy, rave about their delight to

such a degree, that even Bigging-ton, albeit he pretend to take the

matter with a high hand, felt intensely provoke, and thrash

most unmercifully a small boy, who, in the innocence of his heart,

incautiously promulgate his opinion, within the tyrant’s hearing, that

“any one who could have go and do not, must be a precious slow coach,

and no mistake.”



as for the fiction found on fact, upon which the prolific

imagination of Wilfred Jacob delight to expatiate, they have such an

effect upon poor Hugh, that he fairly cry himself to sleep that night,

from sheer vexation and disappointment.



the next morning, a flashily dress, sharp-look young man, who

be none other than the usher introduce by Wilfred Jacob into his

description of the Tickletown master by the nickname of Pentameter, but

whose proper appellation be Sprattly, and who be, as Wilfred have truly

state, anything but a gentleman, approach a group, consist of

Biggington, Stradwick, and one or two other, with whom he appear on

the most intimate and confidential term.



“I say, old fellow,” he begin, “be it actually true that the doctor

willn’t let you go to the theatre at night?”



“yes, bad luck,” be the reply.



“and be you go to stand it quietly?” continue Sprattly.



“eh? why what can we do to help ourselves? if the whole of the sixth

have stick together, we might have make something of it; but that ass,

Fowler, be talk over. he say Jack appeal to his feeling, or

sympathy, or some such disgusting rubbish. so Fowler go, and take

half the form with he; and altogether, if I be to express my true

opinion, I think the whole affair be about as absurd, not to say

disgraceful, to all party as it well can be.”



Norman, the speaker, be a tall, slender stripling about seventeen, with

well-cut feature and beautiful glossy hair of a raven blackness, which

he wear long, and evidently bestow much care upon; but his cold, grey

eye, and the immovable expression of his mouth, give a clue to his true

character--viz., a clear, vigorous intellect, but a total deficiency of

that which be commonly call heart. he be very anxious to leave the

school, as a rich relation, who have take a fancy to he, and intend

to make he his heir, have purchase for he a commission in a cavalry

regiment, on the strength of which he affect a _pococurante_ air;

and possess great natural power of sarcasm, make himself fear and

look up to by the other boy. outwardly he and Biggington be the

great ally possible, but beneath the surface lie hide a mine of

envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness, which only require the

application of a match to cause an explosion, the effect of which could

scarcely be foresee.



“it’s an awful bore, really,” reply sprattly, “for my cousin Courtenay

Trevanion----”



“which, be interpret, mean Jack Sprattly,” interrupt Norman,

sarcastically.



“no! come, really Norman, ’pon my life you’re too bad. I tell you

of his be my relation quite in confidence. all theatrical have a

professional name, and a fellow may as well choose a spicy one as not,

while he be about it,” continue sprattly; “but I be go to tell

you about to-night. they be go to do the ‘beggar’ opera,’ Juliet

Elphinstone----”



“_alias_ Betsey Slasher,” put in the incorrigible Norman.



“play Polly Peachum,” continue sprattly, not heed the interruption;

“Coralie, the french girl, do Lucy Lockit; and Courtenay--or Jack, if

you will have it so,” he add quickly, perceive that Norman be again

about to speak--“Jack himself be cast for Macheath; stunningly he’ll

play it too, for I hear he last winter--can’t he just tip ’em, ‘how

happy could I be with either’ in style!--Uncommon well he look, too, in

the highwayman’s dress--red frock-coat, with gold frog, and high shiny

leather boot; but Jack’s a regular spicy-look fellow.”



“little too much of the lamp and sawdust about he,” return Norman,

superciliously.



he pause a moment, then turn to Biggington, he say abruptly, fix

his pierce glance upon he as he spoke--



“Big., we must go to this affair.”



thus appeal to, the cock of the school, who at heart be more dunghill

than game, like most other bully, turn rather pale as he reply in

a low voice--



“how be it to be do?”



“I have idea on the subject,” return Norman, confidently; “but we need

not trouble other folk with our private affair. I don’t exactly agree

with Solomon about the advisability of a multitude of counsellor.”



“if you’re good for a spree I’ll stick to you to the backbone!”

 exclaim Terry, a boy nearly sixteen, who live only for mischief, and

worship Norman, as Stradwick do Biggington, only with enthusiasm,

instead of servility.



Stradwick, the remain member of the party, be begin slowly and

gravely, “I shall do whatever Big------” when a shout of laughter from

Norman, Sprattly, and Terry, cut he short. as soon as Sprattly have

sufficiently recover from the effect of his hilarity to be able to

speak, he observed--



“well, if you naughty boy be determined to plot mischief, of course I

must not hear it: only, if we _should_ meet by any accident behind the

scene of the theatre, I shall have much pleasure in introduce you to

Polly Peachum and the fascinating Coralie;--by-the-bye, let I give you

a hint! that stuck-up parson, young Carrington, be a precious sight more

wide awake than the Don, so keep out of his way as much as you can.” and

having thus speak, Pentameter Sprattly carry off his five foot four

of vulgar humanity, with the most conceited air possible of underbred

pretension.



“what a thorough snob that unfortunate little Pen. have improve into!”

 observe Norman, as soon as the amiable usher be out of earshot.



“he never be anything else since I’ve know the animal,” return

Biggington, surlily; “that’s he all the world over: he’ll give a fellow

information which he know will set he rave to do a thing, and then

come out with his humbugging, ‘well, you _would_ do it; I _tell_ you

you’d get into a scrape.’ I wonder what his object now be?”



“oh! merely to help his cousin, or, more likely brother. Jack,” be the

reply; “they’re as much alike as two man can be, only one spratt leave

off grow a couple of year too soon: if Jack draw a good house his

salary will be raise. and now I’ll explain to you my plan, as far as it

be at present mature,” and so say, Norman unfold to they a scheme--

with the detail whereof we need not trouble the reader--which, from his

intimate acquaintance with the manner and custom of both master and

boy, he have be enable to adapt to circumstance so cleverly, that

even the cautious Biggington confess he could only discover one flaw

in it.



“and that be,” he continue, “suppose everything to have go smoothly

up to the moment of our return, pray how be we to get in, when every

door and window will be carefully close and bar, and the Doctor’s

six-barrel revolver, which he be so proud of, await we if we make

noise sufficient to rouse he?”



“I’ve idea on that point, too,” return Norman, meditatively; “I’m

certain I remember a window in that old loft over the stable, by which

I use, when a little shaver, to get in and out through the school-room

skylight: I must contrive to make some excuse for inspect the

premise.”



“I’ll tell you who know more about the loft than all the rest of we put

together,” exclaim Terry; “and that be little Colville: he have a pet

cat which reside in those part, and he be constantly climb and

scramble about up there, and have the place pretty much to himself,

I suspect; for most of the juvenile have faith in a ghost, which Hugh

Colville seem too plucky to care for.”



“that be exactly my case some ten year ago,” return Norman: “find

little Colville and send he here to I, and let we meet again in

Biggington’s room after morning school, when I will report progress,

and the affair shall be finally arrange. now be off with you different

way: we must not be see talk together too long.”



and so with breast more or less burden by a consciousness of their

evil secret, the conspirator part.









CHAPTER VII.--TEMPTATION.



“come here, Colville. how be your cat this morning?” inquire Norman,

as Hugh approach, a good deal puzzle, and rather alarmed, at his

summon, by reason of the fact that when a sixth-form boy send for one

of the little fellow, the interview, however it might begin, generally

end by the juvenile come in for a thrashing.



“thank you, sir, she be very well,” reply Hugh; then, judge from

Norman’s face that no very adverse fate await he, he continue,

“if you please, sir, she catch a rat to-day all her own self; such a

monster, sir.”



“indeed! she must be a most meritorious and praiseworthy animal,”

 return Norman; then, anxious to set the little fellow at his ease

before he begin to pump he, he continued--“How do you like the play

yesterday? be you very much charm?”



“I do not go, if you please, sir.”



“ha! how be that? do the doctor keep you in for a punishment, or don’t

you care about such thing?” inquire Norman, pretty well foresee the

answer.



“no, it be not that, sir,” return Hugh. “I should have be delight

to go; but I have spend all my pocket money, and so could not pay for

entrance.”



“Unlucky for you--very,” rejoin Norman; “I wish I’d know it ‘soon,

I’d have tip you the half-crown; more particularly as I want you to

do something for I. you know the loft well?”



Hugh grin, as he reply, “every inch of it, sir.”



“so use I when I be your age. be not there a little square window, or

trap door, by which one can get on the top of the school-room, near the

part of the skylight which open? and which can be reach by stand

on the doctor’s desk?” inquire Norman.



“yes, sir,” be the reply; “I often get up that way if the boy be

plague I; and they don’t dare to follow I because it be dark inside

that part of the loft, and they be afraid of a ghost; but I’m sure

there’s no ghost, or else Puss would not leave her kitten there: if the

kitten be safe, why should not I be?”



Norman smile at this speciman of juvenile logic



“that’s right,” he say, stroke Hugh’s curly pate, “you’re plucky

little fellow; and now show I this window. I want to see if I have

forget the way.”



“I’ll show it to you, and willingly, sir,” return Hugh, whose

affection be easily win, more especially when one of the sixth

condescend to lay siege to they; “but you willn’t be able to get through

yourself, now. you be a little fellow’ like I, I suppose, when you

use to do so.”



this information be what the immortal Dick Swiveller would have term

“a staggerer,” and for a moment, Norman begin to fear his scheme be

knock on the head; but possess two main element of greatness,

namely--presence of mind and fertility of resource, an alternative

occur to he, which, although by no mean so safe or easy as his

original plan, might yet be practicable. everything depend on the

character of the child before he: of its strong point he have already

some experience, and feel satisfied that he might rely on they. the boy

possess pluck enough for his purpose: he have now to test his weakness.



“suppose,” he begun--“mind, I only say suppose--there be yet a chance

of your go to the theatre, what should you think of it?”



“think! why I should be ready to jump out of my skin for joy, to be

sure!” return Hugh, his eye sparkle, and his cheek flush at the

bare idea.



Norman have gain a step: he perceive the strength of the temptation he

have to offer.



“well,” he say, after keep Hugh in an agony of expectation for a

minute or two, “there _be_ a chance; but it must depend on whether you

do exactly as I wish and approve. in the first place, promise I not to

say a word to anybody about this conversation, or even mention that

I have be talk to you;--in the second place, come to I in

Biggington’s room, as soon as dinner be over.”



“please, sir, may not I tell Percy? I always tell he everything,”

 plead Hugh.



“do you tell he who break the Doctor’s inkglass?” inquire Norman,

sarcastically.



now this inquiry refer to a little affair which have occur within

a week of Hugh’s first arrival at school. indulge in what propensity

common alike to boy and monkey, viz., of examine everything with

their finger’ end, Hugh have allow to fall, and thus break, Dr.

Donkiestir’s own peculiar inkglass. overwhelmed with the awful nature

of the offence he have commit, and expect, at the very least, to

be flog for the same, the poor child sit down by the side of the

devastation he have cause, and commence the uncomfortable operation of

cry his-eye out.



in this forlorn condition he be discover by Norman, who, without

be really kind-hearte, possess that not uncommon specie of

negatively selfish good-nature, which lead people to dislike to look

on distress, physical or mental. moreover, the fact of Hugh be a very

pretty boy please his taste; and therefore interest he. accordingly,

he first inquire the cause of his grief, and then devise a remedy.



it so happen that Norman’s own inkbottle and the one which Hugh have

just break, be, as nearly as possible, similar. he know, moreover,

that the Doctor be by no means observant of such minor particular. he,

accordingly, substitute his bottle for the broken one, assist Hugh to

clear away all trace of the accident, and, advise he to keep his own

counsel, leave he greatly console. but Hugh feel a consciousness

that there be something in this transaction of which Percy would not

approve; and, fearful lest, in his strict sense of honour, he should

pronounce it necessary to acquaint the Doctor with his delinquency, his

moral courage fail he, and, up to the moment in which Norman ask

he the question, he have never reveal the misdeed to his brother.

it be the first time he have ever be guilty of that mild form of

lie--suppression of the truth; but the stone of dissimulation, once

set rolling, soon gather force, which the feeble hand that suffice to

put it in motion be powerless to restrain.



nor be Hugh’s first “little sin” fate to prove an exception to the

rule. of course he be oblige to confess to Norman that he have not tell

his brother, and of course Norman reply that what he have do once he

could do again: and that if he care to go to the play, he must not

tell Percy or any one; and Hugh, not have a word to say in denial, the

discussion end by his promising to preserve a strict silence on the

subject, and to come to Norman in Biggington’s room.



in that same apartment be assemble, that afternoon, a solemn conclave.

Biggington take _the_ chair (there be but one); Stradwick draw a box

from under the bed, and seat himself upon it, in an attitude exactly

copy from that of Biggington.



Norman, rest his elbow on the chimney-piece, remain stand;

while Terry turn a wash-hand basin topsy-turvy, and perch himself,

monkey-like, on the apex of the semi-cone thus create. after a moment’s

silence, Biggington exclaimed--“Well, Norman, how be we go on? have

you bring your plan to perfection yet?”



“unforeseen difficulty have spring up,” be the reply, “but none

which the three Ps--patience, perseverance, and pluck--will not carry we

through.”



“difficulty be hang!” rejoin Biggington, impetuously. “I tell you

one thing, go _I will_, by fair mean or foul; the fact be, Trevanion”

 (“Jack Spratty,” murmur Norman. “with a great pair of dye moustachio

on he,” urge Terry) “have be here, and promise to take we behind the

scene, and to come and sup with we at the Bull afterwards, and induce

Coralie and the other girl to come too.”



“ay! and Coralie’s a stunner, and no mistake,” observe Terry; “such a

pair of black eye, by Jove! they go through a fellow like--like----”



“bradawl,” suggest Stradwick, complacently.



“a _point_ illustration, decidedly,” resume Terry; “but I be walk

the day before yesterday with old Beaugentil, when we meet this say

Coralie, take a constitutional for the benefit of her complexion;

the moment Beaugentil set eye upon she, he go off into an ecstacy,

throw up his arm and caper about like a bear on hot brick.

‘_Mais, ce n’est pa possible!_’ he exclaim, ‘vot shall I be ’old?

_Est-ce toi, Coralie?_ be it thou, Coreliar, zie daugtaire of thy mama,

zie beloafe _de ma premiere jeunesse! et quelle ange!_ vot an angle!

_vrai ange du ciel_, a right angle of ’eaven! _Voyez donc, Monsieur

Terrie; permettez que je vous présente mon cher élève, Monsieur Terrie,

june homme charmant; mais n’est-ce pas que Mademoiselle est jolie_; ee

not Mees superbe, beautifu, _magnifique_, pretty vell!’ and so the old

boy run on till I be in fit.”



“what be your confounded difficulty, Norman?” inquire Biggington,

abruptly.



“why, the window in the loft turn out to be too small for anything

big than a boy to get through,” be the reply.



Biggington mutter something unintelligible, which it would be the

height of charity to consider a good word, as he continued--“What do you

mean to do, then?”



“put a small boy through it, who shall open the back door into the

school-room for we, whereby we shall enter and walk up to bed,” return

Norman, stroke the raven down on his upper lip, where the “cavalry

moustache” be just begin to show itself.



“and what chance be there of find a boy whom you can trust to do such

a thing?” ask Biggington, gloomily.



“he be already find, or I be much mistaken,” be the answer. “moreover,

properly handle, he’ll do the thing well, and _con amore_; I’d soon

work with _one_ willing agent than with twenty forced one.”



“and his name?”



“the young Colville.”



Biggington muse. “he might do it; but his brother will not allow he,”

 he say after a pause.



“his brother will have no voice in the matter, for he will know nothing

about it,” return Norman; “but you shall judge for yourself, for I

have appoint the boy to come to I here. only leave I to talk to he,

and don’t bully or frighten the little fellow, else you will defeat your

own object. if, when you have see he, you wish I to persevere with

the plan, Biggington, stroke your chin thus.”



as Norman raise his hand to indicate the appoint signal, a modest tap

at the door be audible, and, on the bolt be withdraw, Hugh make his

appearance, and, at a sign from Norman, enter. the door be close and

fasten by Terry, who resume his scat on the invert wash-hand basin,

with the air of a monarch ascend his throne. Hugh bear the scrutiny

to which all the plotter, Biggington in particular, subject he,

unflinchingly; he look rather more grave and anxious than be his

willnot, but do not appear intimidate or abash, though he stand in the

awful presence of the cock of the school.



“come here, Colville,” begin Norman; then, as the boy approach, he

continue, fix his pierce glance upon he, “have you mention what

we be talk about this morning to anybody?”



“no, sir,” be the unhesitate reply.



“not to your brother, eyen? don’t attempt to deceive I!”



“no, indeed, sir, I would not tell a lie; if I have mention it to

Percy, I’d say so at once,” return Hugh, colour at his assertion

be doubt.



“I believe you,” reply Norman, glance towards Biggington as he speak

to attract his attention. “I be sure you be a brave, honourable boy,

who would neither tell a lie nor betray a secret, which be bad, if

anything.”



at this commendation, Hugh’s eye sparkle, and a bright, honest smile

light up his innocent, childish face, which ought to have touch the

heart and disarm the purpose of those who, for their own selfish

end, be thus deliberately lead he into evil; it probably would

have do so, be it not a well-establish fact in pathology, that,

during the phase of public schoolboyhood, the human heart remain in a

torpid or chrysalis state; the animal, at that period, consist of a

head, a stomach, and (fortunately for those who have the control of it,

as well for its future chance of develop into a reasonable mortal) a

tail also. not be actuate by any such tender feeling, or indeed by

an feeling at all, except selfish one, Biggington reply to Norman’s

look by stroke his chin. Stradwick stroke his at the same moment,

give involuntarily a slight shudder at the alarming future to which

he be thus commit himself. Terry only grin, which indeed be his

invariable custom on all occasion, solemn or comic.



“as I be now convinced that you be trustworthy,” resume Norman, “I be

go to tell you a secret; _the_ secret, in fact, upon the safe keeping

of which depend your go to the play.”



“or get every bone in your skin break,” mutter Biggington in

an aside, which be, however, sufficiently audible to convey to Hugh a

knowledge of the alternative which await he.



“Mr. Biggington, these other gentleman, and myself,” continue Norman,

“mean to go to the theatre this evening, and if you will do exactly as

we tell you, we will take you with we.”



“but the doctor!” exclaim Hugh, aghast.



“that be the very point I be about to touch upon,” rejoin Norman, in

no way discompose: “the Doctor not approve of the young boy be

out at night, think himself oblige to give a general order to the

whole school; but at the same time he contrive to have it hint

privately to _us_, that if the eld member of the sixth form choose

to go, he should not make any inquiry about it; the only point he

insist on be, that such an expedition must be manage privately,

and without his be suppose to know anything about it. now in order

to contrive this, we have think of make our way in at night (we can

easily get out unobserved after five o’clock school), through the window

in the loft; but, as you say, and as I now remember, it be too small to

render that possible,--we want you to get through the sky-light into the

school-room (as we be talk about this morning), and unfasten the

little door which open into the playground; it be only secure by one

bolt, which be not above your reach, so you can easily undo it. if you

will undertake this, and promise faithfully not to breathe a word about

it to anybody, you shall go with we to the play.” Poor Hugh be sorely

puzzle; and his sense of right and wrong entirely confused; one idea,

however, soon extricate itself from the chaos, he immediately give it

utterance. “the doctor,” he say, “will be angry with _I_, sir, though

he may not be so with you, for I be only a little fellow, and a long way

off the sixth form.”



Norman hesitate; he know that if they be discover he should be

quite unable to protect the child from punishment, and a sense of

self-respect make he adverse to pledge himself to anything which he

could not perform.



Biggington be trammelle by no such scruple. “never fear, young’un,”

 he say; “if the Doctor should by any chance speak to you on the

subject, just refer, he quietly to I; merely say,--Biggington desire

I to go; Biggington will explain everything;--and you’ll have no more

trouble from the Doctor. don’t you think so, Stradwick?”



“oh! certainly,” be the reply: “refer he to Biggington, by all mean;

say--Biggington desire I to go; Biggington will----”



“that will do,” interrupt Terry, grin. “shut up, slow-coach,

we don’t _encore_ the sentiment; moreover, I can perceive by the

expression of our young friend’s optic, that he be awake to a sense of

his sitiwation. the play, a jolly good supper, and immortal honour

and renown on one hand; and an awful thrashing from Biggington, with

a gentle refresher from myself append, on the other; between such

a Scylla and Charybdis he will hardly be incline to forestall Jack

Sprattly by singe, ‘how happy could I be with either.’ so now,

young’un, favour we with your sentiment.”



“if I might but tell Percy!” plead Hugh, glance appealingly towards

Norman.



that individual shake his head.



“if you do,” he say, “you will have break the trust repose in you,

and prove yourself a mean-spirit, cowardly child, quite unfit for

the service we require of you, or the pleasure with which we propose to

reward you;--tell your brother, and you lose the play.”



Poor Hugh! his well nature make one final struggle, but he have

dally with the temptation till it have obtain too firm a hold on his

imagination to be shake off; and so, like many folk old and wiser

than himself, who have indulge in a reprehensible longing for some

forbid fruit till the appetite have grow too strong to be resist,

he fall.



“I _will_ promise,” he say. “I do so want to see the play, and you will

take care of I if the doctor be angry, Mr. Biggington?”



“oh, decidedly; both myself and Stradwick,” be the reply. “Stradwick

and the doctor be hand and glove just now, because Straddy’s such a dab

at euripide.”



this insinuation refer to the uncomfortable fact, that the

head-master have that morning inform Stradwick, in consequence of his

total inability to construe the work of the ancient Greek in

question, that if after another week he do not perceive a very decided

improvement, he should be under the disagreeable necessity of degrade

he to the fifth form. Stradwick, therefore, hang his head sheepishly

as he echoed--



“oh yes, decidedly.”



“we understand each other, then, and have well agree to meet here,

prepare to start, at a quarter to six,” observe Norman.



a general assent be give, and the conspirator separate. Norman

glance at his victim; there be a determined look in the boy’s face,

which give assurance that he would go through with the task he have

undertake. resolution be one of the few quality Norman reverence,

and for the moment he repent the evil into which he be lead

the child; but the two strong passion of his nature, ambition and

revenge, be link with his scheme for that evening, and he could not

relinquish it.



“Courage, little one,” he say, lay his hand on Hugh’s curly pate;

“if you and I live, and, as something here”--and he touch his forehead

as he spoke--“tells I will be the case, I achieve greatness, I will not

forget this evening. silence and courage!”









CHAPTER VIII.--NORMAN’S REVENGE.



when the devil suggest some pleasant but wrong scheme to frail

humanity, his dupe generally find he a most amiable and efficient

patron at the beginning of the enterprise, however he may leave they

in the lurch when the fatal catastrophe approach. to give that

much-abuse personage his due, on the occasion to which we be about to

allude, he adhere to his word like the gentleman Shakspere have declare

he to be, for, as at seven o’clock the very small curtain of the very

“minor” theatre at Tickletown draw up, and the limited orchestra, with

a hoarse, eccentric, and _ad libitum_ bass, leave off play, four

distinguish-looking young gentleman enter the stage-box, and

arrange the drapery in such manner that, themselves unseen, they might

alike be able to witness the performance and criticise the house, which,

in virtue of its be the fascinating-Courtenay Trevanion’s (_alias_

Jack Sprattly’s) benefit, be crowd by all the rank and fashion of

Tickletown.



any person who have very closely observe this same box, might have

perceive peep from under the corner of the red curtain near

the stage, a little, eager, restless, excited face, watch with the

deep and most engrossing interest every trifle that occur, as

though it present some great and strike novelty. have the looker-on

be of a speculative turn of mind, he might have wonder why this

little, bright face, which ought naturally to have express nothing but

childish delight and surprise, should have have this expression mar

by an anxious, scared look, which occasionally pass across the boy’s

intelligent feature. to the reader, however, this evidence that Hugh

Colville be feel slightly ill-at-ease, even in the midst of his

enjoyment, need present no mystery. but as the play proceed, and Polly

make her appearance, look like a single angel, and singe like a

whole covey of they, interest and delight overpowered conscience; and

when Jack. Sprattly come on in jet black boot and moustachio, and

bright red coat and cheek, and swagger about the stage as Macheath,

and look so charmingly impudent, sing in a rich rollick tenor,

“how happy could I be with either,” toll-derolling at the end with a

devil-may-care joviality, which produce he three several encore, Hugh

Colville’s delight wax to such a pitch that he mentally decide, if

the Doctor have suddenly appear, arm with his stout cane, and then

and there vary the performance by flog he before the face of the

assemble audience, the exquisite pleasure he enjoy would have

be cheaply purchase at even that frightful cost. then follow a

pantomime! Hugh’s first pantomime!



Juvenile reader whose first pantomime be yet to come, mark my word, the

word of one who speak from experience! you look forward eagerly, no

doubt, to the wonderful time when you shall be a grow-up man, and do as

you please, which you firmly believe will involve always sit up till

three o’clock in the morning; ride a prance horse all day; eat

unlimited plum-pudding without uncomfortable consequence; and have

that very pretty little girl next door, with whom you dance--and, in

your small, unassuming way, flirt also--at the child’s ball last

Christmas, grow up into a beautiful wife for you, who will always do

exactly what you wish with she, and never go near Howell and James’s at

any price. you have hear poet and other license story-teller rave

about there be



                   “nothing half so sweet in life



                   as love’s young dream;”



or prate of the delight of ambition; the charm of fame; the pleasure

of hope and of memory; the satisfaction of a good conscience; or the

inestimable blessing of domestic felicity--which, in a general way,

mean buy cradle, pay taxis, and settle bills:--you may have

hear all this, and believe much or little of it, as your bump of

veneration happen to be largely develop or otherwise. but what I be

go to tell you be a “great fact;” and do you remember it, and act

upon it accordingly. the happy time of your life ought to be,

and probably therefore will be, the glorious night on which you, a

light-hearted, merry child, witness your first pantomime!--and you may

go with my compliment to Papa and inform he that I say so.



at all event, Hugh Colville feel strongly that until he have see a

clown he have be ignorant of the real dignity of human nature, or

the sublime height to which, properly cultivate, it be capable of

soar. Columbine also (as enact by that houri, Rosetta Matilda

Slammock) impress he with a deep sense of the sylph-like grace and

ethereal purity of woman,--all but the very pink calf of her seraphic

leg, in regard to which, beautiful and praiseworthy as they be,

view they in the abstract as mere bounding, pirouette, slide,

and gliding machine, he could not help indulge some scruple of

conscience, mentally class they with unpaid-for toffy, clandestine

nine-pin on Sunday, and the few other example of the “pleasant, but

wrong” principle, which have come within the limit of his juvenile

experience; and he be just consider that, if Heaven have vouchsafe

to place he in the proud and enviable position of her eld brother, he

should have mildly remonstrate against her make such a very prominent

feature of her leg; when to his surprise and regret, Virtue suddenly

triumph amidst ablaze of firework, and Vice be punish in the

person of the Lurid Wizard of the forty-lock murderer’s Cavern, who

be drag by three supernumerary fiend-to a naughty place under the

stage, the curtain fall, and all be over.



the next phase of the evening be to Hugh one strange and uncomfortable

scene of inexplicable confusion. Biggington, Norman, and his

companion, go behind the scene, under the auspex of Jack Sprattly,

who do not look nearly so brave and glorious out of his scarlet coat;

and Hugh follow they for fear of be lose, receive at their hand

much the same kind and degree of attention that a little dog would have

meet with.



of all miserable, desolate, chaotic-look place, the stage of a

theatre in _dishabille_ be one of the most forlorn. the incomprehensible

machinery for scene-shift, the frightful back of all the brilliant

effect, the dirt, the smell of the lamp, the rope, the rubbish,

the dangerous trap-door, the tired, sleepy carpenter, the haggard,

snobbish actor, and, bad than all, the pale, hollow-eyed actress,

with their forced, heartless laughter--a very mockery of mirth--of

all place for destroy illusion, commend I to the region behind

the-scene as the most dismally effectual.



Biggington, Norman, and Stradwick, having disappear somewhere within

the mysterious precinct of the green-room where they remain long

enough for Terry to jump over everything, and tumble down everywhere,

and set wrong bell ring in all kind of unexpected place, and

have a terrific combat with nobody in virtue of a “property” sword

and buckler wherewith he have illegally arm himself--the party

re-assemble, and without further delay proceed to “the Bull.”



this remarkable quadrupe must have be, in his interesting lifetime,

a most rare and wonderful creature, at least, if he at all resemble his

portrait, which hang creak on a species of jovial gibbet in front of

the hostelrie bear his name. the picture certainly _may_ have be a

likeness, but as it represent the bovine original get up, regardless

of expense, in richly-gilt hoof and horn, with his tail twist over

his back in the shape of a horizontal figure of eight, end in a

bright golden flame, while such a cluster of Hyperion curl wave over

his massive-brow, as involuntarily to suggest the idea of his wear

one of those false front, parade by self-delude old lady in the

forlorn hope of deceive society on the score of their undesirable

longevity, we can scarcely conceive the artist to have adhere to nature

with a proper degree of pre-raphaelite severity. be this as it may, the

present proprietor of the Bull have exert all his energy to provide

a supper commensurate with the dignity and gullibility of the giver

of the feast; and Hugh Colville’s eye sparkle with delight, when the

goodly array of nice thing first meet his gaze; for, though by no mean

greedy, he be still almost a child, and be a hungry school-boy into

the bargain--need we say more?



then arrive Courtenay Trevanion (_alias_ Jack Sprattly) and the young

lady, who from a strict sense of propriety, which be one of their

mark characteristic, have refuse to come unless they might be allow

to bring with they Mrs. Belvidera Fitz-Siddons as _chaperone_. this

great lady, for such she be in every sense of the word, have do

the heavy tragic business for many year with immense _éclat_, until

latterly she have grow too heavy even for that, which fact have be

painfully impressed upon she by reason of she constantly, at harrow

moment of heart-rend despair, disappear suddenly from before

the stream eye of the astonished audience down trap calculate to

support mortal of moderate (but not immoderate) weight. find that

these unexpected disappearance tend to impart a burlesque character

to her acting, rather than to increase the pathos thereof, Mrs. B.

Fitz-Siddons have wisely restrict herself to such part as suit she

advanced year; and now have, by the trifling addition of sixpence

weekly to his salary, bribe the call-boy to chalk B. T. (beware trap!)

upon all dangerous footing, she still shine in the elderly comic line,

and play Mrs. Malaprop and Mrs. Backbite to delighted audience. for

the rest, this illustrious woman rejoice in a pair of large, bold,

uncomfortable black eye; a man’s voice, slightly the bad for

wear, and----and a little fail she have in regard to liquor; stiff

horse-hair-like curl, which might have be her own only that she have

a harmless scruple against waste money on pay her bill; and

a generally hooked outline, so essentially israelitish, that

her green-room cognoman of “Mother Moses” appear by no means

inappropriate. of the young lady we will only say that, like _all_

young lady, they be irresistible.



just at first start, matter appear a little dull and unpromising;

the fact be that the two eld Tickletonians, not find, when put

to the test, that they be quite such thorough man of the world as they

imagine themselves, suffer under an uncomfortable inability to

make small talk; while Jack Sprattly, possess a most inconvenient

appetite, be so engross with the good cheer before he, that

conversation, under the circumstance, become a physical impossibility.



as the supper progress, however, and more especially when the

champagne (which really be not bad for Tickle-town) have make two or

three round, affair begin to brighten. Mrs. Fitz-Siddons, unlike the

voracious Macheath (which hungry highwayman still continue to demolish

a supper more fit for forty thief than for one), be able to eat,

drink, and talk at the same moment; and soon, by the cheerful, not to

say jolly, style alike of the sentiment she express and of the manner

in which she express they, succeed in place the “young people,” as

she call they, upon a more friendly footing.



“Cora-lee, my love,” she begin (and be it observe, parenthetically,

that this, noble woman speak with a slight irish brogue--a philological

fact to be account for only by the hypothesis, which she herself

have start on a particular occasion, when she be suffer from a

temporary nervous affection which confuse her speech and impart a

slight unsteadiness to her gait, viz., that her mother must have be

an Irishman), “Cora-lee, my love! don’t ye see Mr. Biggington wait to

take wine with ye; thank ye, sir, since you’re so very pressing I’ll not

refuse; only up to my thumb, if you please, sir” (as she speak, she,

with delightful unconsciousness, run her thumb up the glass as the wine

advance, until her digit and the champagne reach the brim

simultaneously). “your health, Mr. Norman, sir; O-phaliur, my darling,

the same to the fortune of the colville family. go you;--it’s the

cavalry you’re go into, Mr. Norman, they do tell I, and it’s an

ornament you’ll be to the ridgimint--fine man they be, the Lancers. I’d

a brother in they once; maybe you’ll have hear tell of major

Fitz-Siddons? six foot six do he stand in his stocking-sol, till he

fall gloriously lead a forlorn hope at the siege of--of--bless the

name of the place! now I cann’t for the life of I lie my tongue to it.”



“Troy, perhaps,” suggest Terry, politely.



“Belleisle, more likely,” put in Jack Sprattly; it be the first word

he have utter since they sit down, and he have a largish tartlet in his

mouth as he spoke;--swallowing the morsel, he continue in a whisper to

Biggington, next to whom he be seated--



“the major be no major at all, but only a private, and be drum out

of the regiment for steal the captain’s shirt.”



having once find his tongue, which be not until he have more than

satisfied even his uncompromise appetite, Jack proceed to make use

(we can scarcely in conscience say, good use) of it, to relate all sort

of anecdote, theatrical and otherwise, of which the wit be so small

as scarcely to deserve the name, while what ought to have be the moral

be rather the reverse.



then, quite by accident, another gentleman connect with the theatre

call to speak to Mr. Sprattly, so of course he be invite to join

they, and prove a great acquisition to the party, as it be generally

report of he that there be no subject, grave or gay, human or

divine, on which he could not perpetrate a bad pun; and certainly on

that evening he do his good, or more correctly, his bad, to justify

popular opinion. and thus a vast amount of nonsense be talk, and many

bottle of wine drunk, until Norman conceive that the time be ripe for

the execution of his project.



it have before be intimate that the apparent friendship exist

between Biggington and Norman be base upon a most false and hollow

foundation,--the truth be that the cock of the school, who be

old than Norman, have, in time past, avail himself of his superior

strength to bully, and impose insult and indignity upon, his junior,

under which the proud spirit of the embryo lancer have chafe, until a

deep thirst for revenge be excited, which he only wait a favourable

opportunity to satisfy. during the previous year, a change have take

place in their relation to each other. Biggington having grow up, be,

by the immutable law of nature, prevent from grow any high,

while Norman, in obedience to the same law, grow steadily after he

until he also have attain the full stature of man; while, although of a

slighter build, he have so strengthen his frame by athletic exercise,

that he be now no contemptible antagonist even for the colossal

Biggington. that the bully himself be aware of this fact, may be

gather from the extreme care with which he avoid give Norman an

opportunity of pick a quarrel with he--a line of policy which, until

the evening in question, have prove most successful. Norman, although

apparently enjoy himself to the utmost, and constantly hasten

the circulation of the decanter, contrive to drink very little wine;

Biggington, on the other hand, who be essentially animal in his taste,

indulge freely, until the effect become unmistakably apparent in his

flush cheek and rapid, thick utterance. during the early part

of the evening he have devote his attention to the amiable and

accomplish Juliet Elphinstone (_alias_ Betsy Slasher) as he find that

young lady, who be of a singularly affable, not to say free and easy,

disposition, least trouble to get on with; and Biggington hate trouble.

but as Coralie’s diffidence vanish before the influence of the

champagne, and the polished compliment which Norman from time to time

address to she not unwilling ear, she laugh and display she

white tooth and utter piquant nothing in the prettiest break English

imaginable, till she appear altogether so fascinating, that Biggington

begin to perceive he have make a mistake, which the wine he drink

render he determine at all hazard to remedy.



Norman, who watch he closely, remark this, redouble his

attention to Coralie, and Biggington’s dissatisfaction and

ill-temper become so unmistakable that they be observe even by

Mrs. Fitz-Siddons, whose troublesome nerve be again begin to

inconvenience she, as be evince by a slight disposition towards the

unromantic spasmodic affection popularly term winking, with which

she punctuate (so to speak) her sentence. feel desirous that so

agreeable an evening should end as harmoniously as it have begin, she

toss off a final bumper of claret (Mrs. Fitz-S. be great at claret),

and, turn to the young lady, began--



“Cora-lee, my love--o-phaliur, my darling, all that’s bright my dear,

must (_wink_)--the fond heart must part; ‘parting be such sweet

sorrow,’ you remember! not another drop, I’m obleege to ye, Mr.

Biggington, sir--well, if you will have it so I suppose I must (_wink_);

we weak vessel you know--”



“hold as much as the strong one,” interpose Jack, “and carry it off a

precious sight well too, and no mistake,” he add _sotto voce_ to his

pun friend, glance towards Biggington as he speak.



in the meantime, the young lady having rise, be look for

their bonnet and mantle. Terry, whose strong point be activity, have

discover Miss Ophelia’s shawl, and, with many grimace as of a polite

monkey, have place it over her shoulder; and Norman be about to

perform the same friendly office by Coralie, when Biggington spring

to his foot, and advance with a slight unsteadiness in his gait,

exclaim in a hoarse, angry voice--



“give I that shawl directly, Norman; I intend to escort Miss Coralie

home.”



“excuse I,” be the quiet reply; “having find the shawl, I shall not

yield the privilege of place it over the fair owner’s shoulder, to

you or any one.”



“willn’t you?” return Biggington, with an oath; “we’ll soon see that!”

 and as he speak he grasp the shawl with one hand, while he attempt

to push Norman aside with the other.



draw back to avoid his grasp, Norman whisper to Terry, “watch and

see who strike the first blow, and then lock the door and put the key

in your pocket.”



irritate at the tenacity with which Norman still retain his hold on

the shawl, Biggington press angrily forward, when, by put out

his foot, Norman contrive to trip he up, while, by a slight push, he

cause he to lose his balance, so that he reel and would have fall,

have not Jack Sprattly catch he just at the critical moment. render

furious by the laugh which follow his discomfiture, and lose sight

of his habitual caution from the effect of the wine he have drunk,

Biggington’s savage nature blaze forth in all its full ferocity, and,

spring forward with a bound like that of some wild animal, he aim a

blow at Norman’s head, which if it have take effect as it be intend,

would have end the struggle at once.



but Norman be prepare for such a salute, and, dodge aside, receive

the blow on his shoulder, whence it glance off innocuously; then,

before his antagonist could recover his guard, he rush in and plant

a well-direct hit on his face, in a direction which be certain to

render he the proprietor of a black eye for the next week to come, at

the very least. thereupon ensue a grand shindy. Terry, in obedience

to Norman’s direction, having record in the tablet of his memory the

fact that Biggington have strike the first blow, hasten to lock the

door and secrete the key; having accomplish these feat, he call

out, “a ring! a ring!” at the same time exhort the combatant to

take it sweetly and easily, and to fight fair, and like gentleman of the

sixth form.



the two girl, frighten out of their affectation, shrink into the

farth corner of the apartment, where they cling to each other in

speechless terror. Mrs. Belvidera Fitz-Siddons, considerably fluster

(no other word could express her exact state of mind so graphically), in

try to get out of the way, fall first over, and finally upon, a sofa,

where, after make one or two abortive effort to rise, she remain

utter incoherent ejaculation to which no one pay the slight

attention.



Jack Sprattly make a feeble and futile attempt to bring about a

reconciliation; but his friend--who, from be invariably cast as

the benevolent uncle, or philanthropic benefactor, in all the genteel

comedy, have, by a not unnatural reaction, acquire a sanguinary and

democratic habit of mind--draw he back, mutter in a theatrical

whisper--



“let the serpent-brood of haughty aristocrat prey upon each other,

Jack; there will be more room in the world for the honest son of

labour.”



in the meantime, after a short but spirited rally, the combatant come

to the ground together, when Terry pick up Norman and give he a knee,

while Stradwick, frighten out of his wit (the few he possess), do

the same by Biggington. five or six round ensue; but as Norman, who

be, to begin with, the most scientific pugilist, appear perfectly

cool and self-possess, while Biggington be furious with rage, and

excited and bewilder by the wine he have imbibe, each round terminate

in Norman’s favour; he having escape any disfiguring blow, while his

antagonist’s countenance already show mark of severe punishment. when

the seventh round commence, and Norman again succeed in plant

a well-direct hit on the bridge of his adversary’s nose, it become

evident that the bully’s temporary courage be fail he, and that one

or two more round would completely exhaust it.



by this time the landlord of the inn and his myrmidon have be arouse

by the noise, and be clamour at the door demand admission; but

so effectually have Terry hide the key, that Jack Sprattly, unable

to find it, be reduce to shout to they to burst the door open. this,

however, be more easily say than do, for the door be make of stout

oak, and he fastening be strong and in good repair.



in the eighth round Biggington, render furious by pain, press so

hard upon Norman that, in avoid his blow, he entangle his foot in

the carpet, and stumble, while at the same moment a left-handed hit

from his opponent catch he on the side of his head, bring he to

the ground so violently that, when raise on his second knee, he stare

wildly about he and scarcely appear conscious where he be; but a few

moment serve to restore he, and when time be call, he spring

to his foot with an expression of countenance which show he mean

mischief.



Biggington, elate by his success, fight with more energy and spirit

than he have show in the last round or two; but in attempt to end

the conflict by a tremendous hit, he overreach himself, and Norman,

seize his opportunity, draw back his arm, then fling it out from

the shoulder, with the force and rapidity of a sledge-hammer, catch his

antagonist a crash blow between the eye, before which he go down

like a shot, and when time be again call, he remain stunned and

insensible. at the same moment the fastening of the door suddenly give

way, and the landlord and his wife, support by the entire _dramatis

personae_ of the establishment, appear upon the scene of action in

various attitude of terror and amazement.









CHAPTER IX.--THE DISCOVERY.



Ernest Carrington sit in the retirement of his little study, and give

himself up to thought. his scholastic labour be over for the day, and

with a head too tired for mental occupation, and a heart too full of the

great problem of existence to find pleasure in frivolous amusement, he

sit rest his ache brow upon his hand, ponder the mighty enigma

of human life in general, and his own individual experience of it in

particular. he think of the aspiration of his boyhood, of the bright

hope of his later youth, and mentally compare they with the dark

reality of his manhood; he call to mind the dream of greatness which

he have picture to himself--not the-false and hollow greatness of mere

rank and rich, but the true greatness of live to become a benefactor

to his specie; the greatness which he seek when he take upon he

the duty, and privilege, and responsibility of his sacred calling;

greatness the praise whereof be utter by the lip of widow and

orphan, and write on broken and contrite heart, to be transfer

thence, by an angel’s hand, to the Book of Life. and then, for he be

young and love-hearte, he think of soft, bright vision; of a

fair ideal being, with an angel’s brow and a woman’s form, who should

pass by his side through life, and, love he more than all thing else

save the GOD who give they, to each other, should meet he again, and

be his reward in Heaven, where perfect bliss could be ensure by the

certainty that they should part no more. and in what have these bright

vision ended?--a life of solitary drudgery. even independence, the one

thing that sweeten labour--the power of carry out his own idea of

right and wrong--even that, by his subordinate position, be deny to

he. and why be all this? what wrong have he commit, to deserve

so severe a punishment? why be he condemn to this mental

prison-discipline, this alternation between psychological oakum-picking

and solitary confinement? Nay, be not his present position, the result

of his own unselfishness and liberality? if he have not give up his

patrimony for the benefit of his sister, nor relinquish his claim

upon the entail property, he would have possess a fair income, on

which he could have live comfortably until he should have meet with some

ecclesiastical preferment, the duty of which would have afford he

the opportunity he seek of devote himself to the good of other.

if not permit to exercise the talent commit to he to the glory

of God, why be he bear into this world at all? poor Ernest! he have yet

to learn that hard of all lesson, to an eager, energetic spirit: he

have yet to acquire belief in the great truth, that



                             “------They also serve



                             who stand and wait.”



but his trial be more nearly ended than he be aware of even as he sit

there late into the night, ponder on the evil of his position

but perceive no mean of escape from they, the very fact of his

unaccustomed wakefulness constitute the first link of the chain of

event which be to bring about his deliverance. day afterwards this

idea strike he, and teach he a useful lesson.



the great clock in the school-room have just proclaim, for the benefit

of the blackbeetle, cricket, and mouse then tenant the apartment,

the interesting fact that it be two a.m., and Ernest, weary and

dispirit, have just determine to put himself and his trouble to bed,

when he recollect he have leave some greek exercise, which he have to

look over before the school open the next morning, lie on his desk

in the school-room. anxious not to disturb any one, he substitute a

pair of soft slipper for his boot; and know exactly the spot in

which he have leave the paper, he determine to dispense with a candle.

feel his way cautiously, he descend the stair and reach the

school-room without any _contretemps_--but here a difficulty arise, for

some one have move the paper. recollect he have some lucifer in

his desk, he be prepare to light a taper which he keep there for

the purpose of seal letter, when a sound, as of footstep in the

play-ground, catch his ear:--he pause to listen;--the step appear

to come nearer, till at length they approach the outer door;--from

the sound it be evident that there be two or three person. when they

reach the door, they pause and speak to each other in a low whisper;

then Ernest become aware, from the altered nature of the sound, that

some one be climb into the loft over the stable; his first idea be,

that they be common pilferer, intend to steal the Doctor’s oats;

but it occur to he that there might be some communication between

the loft and the dwelling-house, and that they be burglar attempt

to effect an entrance; desirous of obtain a more certain knowledge

before he give any alarm, Ernest remain motionless, listen to the

sound without. suddenly, a noise above he cause he to look up; as

he do so, a small window in the skylight be cautiously open, and a

boy’s head and shoulder be thrust in;--seeing this, Ernest

stoop down so as to become hide by the rail of the desk. having

reconnoitre the apartment, and imagine it untenante, the owner of

the head and shoulder noiselessly draw in the rest of his small person;

then, hang by his hand, he allow his leg to drop, till, with his

foot, he be enable to reach the Doctor’s desk, which be considerably

high than any of the other; he next close the window, and silently

glide down the slope of the desk, by the aid of a high stool gain

_terra firma_.



Ernest’s first impulse be to collar he, but on second thought he

determine to wait, and let the affair develop itself a little far.

having reach the ground, Hugh (for of course the reader have long since

surmise that it be that misguided child) creep cautiously to the outer

door, and withdraw the bolt; as he do so, Ernest noiselessly cross

the apartment, and, when the door open, seize the first person who

attempt to enter. a short, but severe struggle ensue, which end

in Ernest’s favour: find himself foil in his endeavour to free

himself from the young tutor’s grasp, Norman (for he it be) observe

quietly--



“let I go, Mr. Carrington, you have half strangle I: I shall not

attempt to escape.”



“I’ll take good care of that,” return Ernest drily, release his

grasp on his antagonist’s throat, though he still retain his hold on

his collar. “oblige I by walk across the room,” he continue:

“I must take measure for secure your companion in this nocturnal

adventure, as well as yourself.”



so say, he conduct Norman to the door of the schoolroom which lead

to the interior of the house--this he lock--then, still retain his

hold on the prisoner’s collar, he ring a bell which communicate with

the Doctor’s private apartment. in the meantime, perceive far

concealment to be impossible, Biggington, lean on Stradwick’s arm

and Terry’s shoulder, enter considerably the bad for wear, and fling

himself doggedly on a bench. the sound of approach footstep soon

break the uncomfortable silence which follow the capture of

Norman. Ernest unfasten the door, and Dr. Donkiestir, follow by a

man-servant with a lantern and a thick stick, hastily enter.



“ha! Mr. Carrington! Norman! what be all this? what be all this?” he

exclaim, as his eye fall upon the two most prominent figure.



in a few word, Ernest explain his own share in the matter; then

set Norman at liberty, he cross his arm on his breast, and,

lean against a high desk, leave the Doctor to finish the adventure.



“in the first place, who have we here?” inquire the head-master,

sternly. receive no answer, he take the lantern from the servant, and

hold it so that the light fall in turn on the face of the different

delinquent, remark as he do so--“Norman! I believe you to have

be too much of a gentleman to have be mix up in an affair of this

kind--you have disappoint I; go to your room, I shall speak to you

to-morrow. Biggington! why what be the matter with he?” throw the

light of the lantern full upon his swollen and discoloured feature, he

continued--“Why you’ve be light, sir, and be partly intoxicate!

Disgusting! you shall disgrace my school no long. Stradwick! with

Biggington, of course. at all event, I be glad to perceive you be

sober--fighting be a vice I never suspect you of. Terry! have all the

pain I have take with you lead to no well result than this? but I

suppose you choose to copy Norman, even in his fault! and lastly, who

be this poor child you have suborn to aid you in your nefarious

practice? the young Colville! your brother should have prevent

this!”



Poor Hugh, his bad fear realize, have be crouch close to Terry

(the most goodnatured of the party) in an agony of apprehension; but, at

this insinuation, all his love for Percy, together with the innate sense

of justice which be one of his good trait, rise up within he, and, at

any cost, he hasten to repel it.



“Percy know nothing of it; know nothing yet,” he say; “I have deceive

he; and it will serve I right if you flog I to death, sir, but do

not be angry with dear Percy!” and here a burst of tear chock his

utterance.



the Doctor be as much affect as a school-master can be.



“poor child!” he reply; “do not be alarmed for your brother; if he be,

as you state, ignorant of this business, he have nothing to fear. you may

all,” he add, raise his voice--“you may all depend upon my acting

with the most strict and impartial justice; and now to your dormitory

instantly. I shall investigate this affair most scrupulously to-morrow.”



so say, the doctor withdraw, courteously but stiffly bow to

Ernest; leave the man-servant, with the thick stick and the lantern,

to see the delinquent safely to bed; where it be but charitable to

desire for they a good night; a consolation we can scarcely expect they

to obtain, however much we may “wish they may get it.”









CHAPTER X.--THE TRIBUNAL of JUSTICE.



it cannot be a pleasant thing to be go to be hang--however

thoroughly you may be aware that you deserve it--however clearly you may

perceive that it will be for the good of society, nay, possibly, look

beyond the present moment, for your own good also; yet the stubborn fact

must ever remain the same--it cannot be a pleasant thing to be go to

be hang!



now, although as the law at present stand they do not exactly hang

refractory or disobedient schoolboy, yet there be a process analogous

thereunto, though milder in degree, term flog, to which such

juvenile offender be occasionally subject; and this process it be

which, as Hugh Colville sob forth his penitence and remorse on his

brother’s neck, loom large in the distance, and hang over he, and

weigh upon he, and crush he down into a very abject and despond

condition indeed. it be not simply the pain (though that constitute a

large and uncomfortable item in his depression) that frighten he, but

the publicity, the exposure, the disgrace, be more than he could

bear to contemplate;--while Percy, cut to the heart by his brother’s

misconduct, yet sympathise with a bitter intensity in his dread of

the probable consequence, could only comfort he with feeble hope of

commutation of punishment, which his reason belie.



poor little Hugh! how deeply do he repent having yield to the

temptation; how bitterly do he reproach himself for having deceive

Percy; what vow of amendment do he register, if only he should escape

that dread flogging; and how pale do he turn, and how sick at heart

with apprehension do he feel, when the bell ring for morning school,

and he know that, before it break up, his fate would be decide!



as the boy assemble in the great schoolroom, it be evident by their

eager, excited face, and by a general amount of subdue whispering,

that the news of the _escapade_ of the previous night have transpire,

and all eye be fix on Norman, Stradwick, and Terry (Biggington

do not appear); even Hugh Colville come in for a degree of observation

which serve still more to embarrass and distress he.



as the clock strike eight, the doctor, follow by the other master,

enter; and the cloud that hang upon his brow be-without the small

vestige of a silver lining, and appear so awful and portentous as to

strike terror into the stout heart the moment prayer be end,

the head-master rise and say, in a clear, stern voice--



“before school commence, I have a painful duty to perform. regardless

of my express prohibition, certain scholar of the sixth form have

venture to break through the regulation of the school--which do not

permit any of the boy to be out at night--and have be to the theatre,

take with they one of the young boy, who, on their return, be put

through a window, and make to unbolt the school-room door, in order to

admit they, how they employ their time after they quit the theatre,

I have yet to discover; but they do not return till two o’clock in

the morning--one of they in a disgraceful state of intoxication. as the

whole school be aware of my order, and the manner in which they

have be disobey, I consider it salutary that they should also be

witness of my method of deal with the culprit, so as at once

to vindicate my authority, and to mark my disapprobation of their

rebellious and ungentlemanly conduct.”



the Doctor then resume his seat, and continued--“Let those whose name

be mention step forward--Biggington!”



there be a moment’s breathless silence, and then, with tremble knee,

downcast eye, and guilty, sheepish manner, Stradwick reply, that

“Biggington be too ill to leave his bed.”



“I be not surprised,” be the reply. “let Norman, Stradwick, Terry, and

the young Colville stand forward.”



with a proud, haughty bearing, Norman advance, and place himself

immediately in front of the head-master’s desk. crestfallen and sulky,

Stradwick shamble after he. a moment’s delay take place ere Hugh could

muster sufficient physical strength to tear himself from his brother’s

side: while Percy be near he, he feel some degree of security; but

Terry put his arm round he, and whispering, “cheer up, young’un,

flog’s nothing when you’re use to it, and I dare say the Doctor

will let you off easy--never say die!” half lead, half carry he to the

tribunal of justice.



“you be the eld, Norman,” observe the Doctor, fix his stern

glance upon he; “and I will therefore deal first with you. whatever

fault you may possess, I have never know you tell I an untruth, and

therefore I shall, for the satisfaction of myself and of those around

I, ask you one or two question, which you be at liberty to answer or

not, as you may prefer. in the first place, do you admit the truth of

the accusation bring against you?”



“yes, sir,” be the quiet self-possess reply, in a tone neither

disrespectful nor penitent.



“have you any objection to give I an account of the expedition,

especially how you pass the evening after you quit the theatre?”

 be the next inquiry.



Norman pause for a moment, in thought, ere he answer, “my only

objection, Doctor Donkiestir, would be the possibility, of betray my

companion; but it appear to I that as you see and recognise we on

our return, and be acquaint with the main fact of the case, the

little I shall have to add will tend rather to help than to injure they.

for private reason of my own, I propose to Biggington to go to the

theatre last night, and devise a scheme by which we might accomplish

our purpose; but the loft window be too small to admit the passage of

a man’s body, I bribe little Colville to accompany we by a promise

of take he to the play, which he have miss the other morning,

forbid he to tell his brother lest he should prevent he. we

slip out after five o’clock school, Stradwick and Terry accompany

we; go to the theatre, and sup afterwards at a tavern with some

of the actor and actress; towards the end of the evening, Biggington

insult and strike I; I return the blow, and we fight; in the last

round, a hit I make stunned he, and it be some little time before he

recover sufficiently to walk back; as soon as he be able to do so, we

return--of the rest, you be yourself aware, sir.”



when Norman have leave off speak, Doctor Donkiestir pause for a moment

ere he reply.



“your account completely agree with all the fact I have be able to

acquire in regard to this disgraceful affair. you admit the truth of the

accusation bring against you, and by your own statement confess that

you be the originator of the scheme; you have also demean yourself

so far as to quarrel with a youth in a state of partial intoxication,

and as it appear to I, avail yourself of his incapable condition to

punish he most severely. it have always be a chief object with I, and

one in which I have be in many instance most successful, to induce

the eld scholar to set a good example to the young one; up to the

present time, I have be well satisfied with you upon this point; I be

the more surprised and disappoint at your late gross misconduct. my

duty be clear. no kind of subordination could be keep up in the school

if I be not to visit such an offence as that of which you have be

guilty, with the most severe punishment it be in my power to inflict--I

have, therefore, resolve to expel you and Biggington. you may now

resume your seat, and, when school be over, come to my study, where

I shall acquaint you with the arrangement I propose to make for

your immediate departure. Stradwick, have you anything to say in your

defence?”



Stradwick, thus appeal to, remained uneasily shift from leg to leg,

until at last he bleat forth, in a half-cry tone of voice--



“if you please, sir, I go because Biggington go.”



as the abject parasite utter these word, a furtive smile go the

round of the school, but the Doctor’s face relax not’ a muscle as he

say sternly--



“I have long observe with displeasure the weak and servile manner in

which you have imitate the bad point in Big-gington’s character; I,

therefore, cannot do well than afford you a practical lesson how, by

participate in his vice, you must also share in the punishment they

entail. you I shall also expel--sit down. now, Terry, how came you to be

of this party? heedless and imprudent I have long know you to be, but

disobedient I have never before find you.”



for a moment Terry hang his head, and a tear glistened in his clear,

blue eye; dash it away, he raise his face to that of the doctor, as

he reply earnestly--



“it be the fun and excitement of the thing tempt I, sir; and I never

think about how wrong it be, till it be too late for think to be

of any use. I be most of all sorry to have disobey you and forfeit

your good opinion, and, if you will but give I a chance of regain

it, I’ll cheerfully bear any punishment you like to inflict.”



the head-master pause ere he answered--



“I will take you at your word; I shall not expel you, but degrade you

to the low school. on every holiday and halfholiday during this

half-year, you will remain in, and employ your time in construe and

learn by heart six hundred line of greek tragedy; and, lastly, you

be forbid to contend for any of the prize before the holiday. if

it be not against my rule to administer corporal punishment to boy

in the fifth and sixth form, you would scarcely have escape so easily.

resume your place, sir. now, Hugh Colville, tell I the truth: do the

eld boy force you to accompany they, or merely induce you to do so by

promise to take you to the play?”



Poor Hugh! all eye be turn upon he as, hastily swallow his

tear, he replied--



“Biggington promise I a thrashing if I refuse to go; but it ben’t

that, sir; it be the play do it, sir: I do so want to see a play.”



for a moment a faint gleam of pity pass over the Doctor’s face, but

have vanish ere he resumed--



“I be sorry that I feel it impossible to look over this, your first

offence;--you be so young a child that I believe and hope you have

scarcely be in a position to exercise your own free will in this

instance; that, in fact, you have be merely a passive instrument in

the hand of your elder; but this do not appear to have be the

case--you evidently, be aware of my order to the contrary, be

persuade to share in this expedition in order to witness a play; and

you studiously conceal your intention from your brother, because he,

be old and steady than yourself, might have interfere to prevent

you from go, which you well know that he would disapprove of. I

consider this so reprehensible that, in justice, I be bind to punish

you for it, and the only punishment likely to make much impression on

one of your age and character, and to inspire you with a salutary dread

of, and respect for properly constitute authority, be a flogging, which

will be administer to you in private, as soon as morning-school break

up.”



Hugh, who have listen to the Doctor’s address as if life or death hung

upon his word, clasp his hand together in an agony of supplication

as his bad fear became realise; the head-master, however, who have

hurry over the latter part of his speech, as though he have mistrust

in some degree his own resolution, turn hastily away, and begin

arrange the paper on his desk; and poor Hugh, find all hope shut

out from he, creep back to his brother’s side, and bury his face on

Percy’s shoulder, give way to a burst of passionate but silent weeping.



during the Doctor’s address to Hugh, Norman, who during the whole of

his own examination and sentence have appear perfectly cool,

self-possess, and almost indifferent, begin for the first time to

evince symptom of uneasiness:--when the decree for the flogging be

promulgate, he unconsciously bite his lip, and clench and unclenche

his hand convulsively; but when Hugh burst into tear, he rise and say

in an eager, excited voice--



“I beg your pardon, Doctor Donkiestir, but I believe, in fact I be

certain, this poor child be assure that if the affair come to your

knowledge, he should be protect from the effect of your displeasure.”



“by those who, for their own selfish purpose, be lead he into

evil, I presume?” inquire the Doctor. Norman make no reply, he

continued:--“Did _you_ tell this little fellow such an untruth--pledge

yourself to that which you know you be unable to perform?”



“if I do not actually say so, I allow it to be say in my presence

without contradict it, which amount to the same thing, sir,” reply

Norman, colour.



“I be glad to see that you have sufficient right feeling leave to be

ashamed of your heartless and unmanly conduct,” resume the head-master;

“and I can devise you no more fitting punishment, than to show you

by practical experience, how powerless you be to counteract the evil

consequence of the wrong you have commit. your appeal only confirm

my decision in regard to little Colville.”



Norman have hitherto succeed beyond his expectation in his

cleverly-devise scheme. his object have be to secure two point:

first, to wreak his revenge on Biggington, by force he into a

struggle, for which he have be for some week past privately

train himself under the auspex of a retired pugilist, who keep a

public-house in the neighbourhood; and, secondly, to be expel for so

do, by which event he should be enable to join the regiment to which

he have be appoint, and upon which all his hope and wish be

just now centre, four month soon than he otherwise could have do.

accordingly, till Hugh Colville, for whom he have take a decide liking,

be sentence to be flog, Norman have be inwardly congratulate

himself on his success; but the fact of be unable to protect this

child, to whom he have by implication pledge himself, wound his

pride and self-respect to such a degree, that, as the Doctor have truly

observe, no more effective punishment could have be devise for he.



in the meantime Percy have be work himself up into a dreadful state

of mind. the reflection that Hugh, his lost father’s darling, who have

scarcely have a cross word speak to he in his lifetime, and even since

he have be at school (owe to his own watchfulness, and the rough

good-nature of their cousin Wilfred Goldsmith), have never receive an

angry blow--the reflection that Hugh, his pet, everybody’s pet, be

sentence to be flog, be more than he could bear with equanimity.

what could be do to save he? he glance inquiringly towards Wilfred,

but that know young gentleman shake his head despondingly--the case

be beyond his skill; determine to risk a last appeal, he half rise

from his seat, but the Doctor’s quick glance detect the movement, and

he say in a decided, but not an unkind tone of voice--



“sit down, Percy Colville; I be do what be good for your brother’s

future interest, and my decision be irrevocable. I will not hear

another word on this subject from anybody,” he continue angrily,

perceive that Percy still seem inclined to remonstrate.



Ernest Carrington’s desk be so situated that he could not only see each

movement of the two Colvilles, but could actually hear every word they

speak to each other; thus he become aware that, at the moment in which

the doctor address Percy, Hugh start, and make a manful effort to

subdue his tear.



“Hush, Percy,” he say, in a break whisper, “hush, dear, he will be

angry with _you_. I daresay I can bear it; it’s only the disgrace

I’m think of, and that somebody may tell mamma of it, and make she

unhappy, perhaps.” and here, despite his effort, a sob choke his

utterance.



Ernest catch the import of the whisper, and at the same moment he

become aware of a timid and appeal glance from Percy, which Hugh also

observe, a new light break in upon he; for the first time,--believing

equally in Ernest’s will and power to assist him,--a hope of deliverance

suggest itself to he; and, with a piteous, expressive little face,

in which every pass thought and emotion could be read as in an open

book, he also fix his large tearful eye imploringly upon Ernest’s

countenance.



and Ernest?--in his own private mind, he have all along consider the

Doctor injudiciously severe in regard to Hugh--he have duly estimate the

strength of the temptation, and the poor child’s weakness--he have also

perceive the depth and sincerity of Hugh’s repentance; and now his

promise to do his good to befriend the orphan boy, and the recollection

of the fact that he have be the involuntary instrument of Hugh’s

detection, recur to he with a force that be irresistible, and

spring from his seat, he said--



“Doctor Donkiestir, I fear the petition I be about to urge may be

oppose to the etiquette of the school, but I ask, as a personal favour,

that Hugh Colville may not be flog.”



the Doctor’s brow grow dark, but self-restraint in speech have long since

become habitual to he.



“I believe,” he say, “I believe I have clearly signify my wish that

no further attempt to influence I in Hugh Colville’s favour should be

make.”



“I be aware of your prohibition, sir,” return Ernest, completely

carry away by feel, “but I have pledge myself to befriend these

orphan boy, and I will not fly from my word; I therefore again ask as a

personal favour that Hugh Colville shall be let off.”



the Doctor’s lip work convulsively, but by a great exertion of

self-control he a second time restrain himself from any outward

expression of anger.



“I grant your request, Mr. Carrington,” he say gravely, “your position

as second master in this school necessitate my do so. how far

your having urge it prove you to be unfit for that position, be a

question which I have yet to consider. Hugh Colville, you may thank Mr.

Carrington for your escape from a well-deserve flogging: I hope the

narrowness of this escape may impress you for the future, and that,

while under my tuition, you may never again merit so severe and

disgraceful a punishment. and now let the sixth form come up to I in

mathematic.”



and so the scene end. Ernest have redeem his word, and save Hugh

from a flogging, but at what amount of personal sacrifice remain yet

to be prove.









CHAPTER XI.--LOSS and GAIN.



Sir Thomas Crawley pace up and down his handsome library, a prey to

anxiety!--much depend on the turn event might take over which he have

no control, but which yet must exercise a great and lasting influence

on his future career. a ministerial crisis be at hand, and the party

to which Sir Thomas belong would either be turn out, or would retain

their position reinforce by a coalition with some of their opponent,

and thus become strong than they have ever before feel themselves. if

they go out, Sir Thomas be prepare, cleverly and respectably, to

“rat,” and come in again with the opposition; but if they remain

in, he be equally prepared to adhere to they with the most unshakable

fidelity, and to make himself as generally useful and agreeable as

in he lay: either way he trust to see his service reward by a

baronetcy, and he be only wait for this desirable consummation,

to make an offer of his bad heart, and dirty hand, to the ugly young

daughter of a very aristocratic, disagreeable, old nobleman. if he

succeed in all this, he tell himself he should have reach the height

of his ambition, and mentally promise his conscience (for, reader,

he have a conscience as well as you and I, though-we, in our superior

sanctity, regard it as a poor limp, damage, wash-out piece of good,

and look down upon it accordingly, like two fine old English Pharisees

as we be) to give up sneaking, and shuffling, which he call tact

and policy, and live virtuously ever after, as become a member of the

aristocracy--thus fit himself to proceed, _via_ the family vault,

to take possession of some equivalent for the ashburn estate in another

world, in regard to which he be fain to own that his title at present

be a little---just a very little--doubtful. what a bad man Sir Thomas

be, to be sure! how lucky, dear reader, that you and I be so much

well than he!



but Sir Thomas have two friend in the ministry, Messrs. Tadpole and

Taper (the right Honourable Benjamin Disraeli know they, and have make

notable mention of they in his tale of “Coningsby”), whose view be

exactly in accordance with his own, _i.e._--to take the good possible

care of their own interest, and (whenever that purpose could be well

insure by their _so_ do) of each other’s also; and Sir Thomas

have that morning receive the follow note, mark “private and

confidential,” from his friend Tadpole:--



“dear Sir Thomas,--I have just learn, from an _unmistakable quarter_,

that it be Lord ---------‘s (name the Premier for the time being)

intention to apply to you for your living of Ashburn for the nephew of

Mr. ----------, the colonial Bishop of Boreanigger. the coalition be

still quite upon the card, so it would scarcely be advisable to say

‘no;’ while, if they go out, which be more than probable, to say ‘yes’

would be certain to give offence where you would least wish to do so.

I would therefore suggest that, if you have not already fill up the

vacancy, it would be _most desirable_ to do so without delay, and you

will thus avoid the difficulty--_verbum sit_.



“I be, dear Sir Thomas, your very faithfully.



“A. Tadpole.”



“P.S. you will kindly bear in mind that clerkship in the Woods and

forest; young Grig, Mrs. Tadpole’s nephew, be a very promising lad, and

in good hand might do credit to his patron.”



Sir Thomas read and re-read the letter. how fortunate that Tadpole have

ferret out this information! but for that he might have be force

to commit himself irrevocably to the wrong side--horrible idea! yes,

Tadpole be right: the living must be dispose of without an hour’s

delay: who should he give it to? it must be some one without political

influence or connection, Zest he should give offence to either party! at

this moment, from one of those strange chance which occasionally appear

to determine the whole destiny of a lifetime by the agency of a mere

trifle, Sir Thomas knock some paper off his desk, and as he stoop

to pick they up, the card Ernest Carrington have send in some week

before fall from among they. he raise it, and regard it fixedly, as

though he be scrutinize the person whose name it bear, muttered--



“Young Carrington, he be in the Church--why should not he do? he might,

of course, be have at a minute’s notice;--£800 a year would be a fortune

to him;--besides, there’s policy in the thing--I find North Park (a farm

of some five hundred acre) be in the entail; if he be to get scent

of it, and could obtain access to the paper, he might claim it any day;

his boyish, chivalrous scruple be sure to wear out; this would bind

he to I by the the of gratitude: he be just one of those hot-head,

romantic disposition that be always absurdly grateful. Gad! I could

not have hit on a fitter person; I’ll write to he at once: I’ve get

his direction, somewhere”--as he speak, he begin toss over paper and

letter in search of the missing direction. “a very good thought,” he

continue; “I could see through that young fellow in a minute; he may

be manage as easy as a child, if you only take advantage of his weak

point. I like ’em of what they call an open disposition; they show

you their whole hand at start; it’s your close, crafty, quiet dog

that be the hard to deal with. I shall make a point with he that

he get every farthing out of that proud, haughty Mrs. Colville, and her

conceited, stuck-up minx of a daughter; they’ve look down upon I, and

never like I, I know: they’ll be sorry for it some day.”



Ernest Carrington, when he return to his room after morning school,

find two letter on his table. the first he open be from Dr.

Donkiestir, and run as follows:--



“my Dear Sir,--It be with considerable pain that I feel it ny duty to

urge upon you the propriety of resign your position, as Mathematical

and Classical Master, at the school of which I have the honour to be

Principal. as regard talent and acquirement, I have never before have

so able an assistant, but there be other quality necessary in the

onerous position of second-master of such a school as that over which I

have, since its establishment, preside, which be equally important.

in these quality, the injudicious manner in which you this morning

allow, what I admit to have be an impulse of generous feeling, to

hurry you into a breach of scholastic discipline, which a more hasty man

than myself might have construe into a personal insult, prove you to

be utterly want. it be to avoid the possibility of your again place

both yourself and I in such a false and difficult position, that I

thus reluctantly press upon you the advisability of your immediate

resignation. when a few more year shall have pass over your head,

mature your judgment, and temper your impulsive disposition, I can

conceive you will prove eminently qualified for the responsible, yet

interesting office of an instructor to youth. in the meantime, I would

advise your look out for a curacy, or a situation as tutor to some

young nobleman about to travel. I shall have much pleasure in give you

unexceptionable testimonial for such a purpose, or in further you.

interest, to the extent of my power, in any other manner you may point

out.--Awaiting your reply,



“I remain, dear Sir,



“your very faithfully,



“John Hannibal Donkiestir, D.D.”



“so that be my reward for my philanthropy, be it?” be Ernest

Carrington’s mental comment as he finish peruse the Doctor’s letter.

“well, I daresay I do wrong to interfere, but I should hate myself if

I could have sit by and watch the expression in that boy, Percy

Colville’s, beautiful face, or listen to that poor little child’s

heart-break sob, and not try to help they--I’m glad I’ve save the

little fellow, at all event; no more teaching for I; I’d soon go

out as a missionary, and try to wash blackamore heathen into piebald

Christians than that. well, now for a curacy, hard labour, and genteel

starvation on £80 a year; never mind, I shall be my own master, at all

event, and may do some good amongst the poor people: no drudgery can

be bad than this horse-in-a-mill life I have be lead of late.

a letter from Sir Thomas Crawley. what can he want of I? I’ve no more

birthright to sell for a mess of pottage;” and with such hard, but not

unnatural, thought run in his brain, he break the seal, and read as

follows--



“my dear young Kinsman,--Ever since I have the pleasure of make your

acquaintance, and learn the very sensible view you hold on all

topic, political and religious--view which agree so remarkably with my

own--I have be turn in my mind how good I may assist you, and

have come to the conclusion that I cannot well discharge my duty as a

patron of ecclesiastical preferment, than by offer you my living of

Ashburn, now vacant. the parish contain from six hundred to six hundred

and fifty soul, and the living be worth eight hundred per annum, with

a parsonage-house and glebe attach; you will thus be render

independent of any pecuniary difficulty, and able to apply your mind

entirely to that deeply interesting subject, the religious and social

improvement of the labour class. I have only two proviso to

make:--one be, that if you approve of the position I offer you, you will

signify your acceptance of it by return of post (my reason for this I

will explain satisfactorily when we meet); the other, that you

promise to urge your claim upon the estate of the late incumbent for

dilapidation in the house and glebe. I be sure you will agree with I,

that the Church be bind, in this latitudinarian age, to protect her

property; and I can bestow’ my live upon no one who will not give I a

distinct pledge upon this point.



“I remain, my dear young kinsman,



“your affectionate friend and relative,



“Thomas Crawley, K.C.B.”



Poor Ernest! the revulsion of feeling be almost too much for he, and

in his contrition for the hard thought he have entertain of Sir Thomas

Crawley, he dash off a hasty letter, full of generous feeling and

overflow with gratitude, in which he thankfully accept the living,

and pledge himself to see full justice do to the interest of the

Church as embody in the Ashburn Rectory dilapidation: he be sorry

for it afterwards, when---- but we must not anticipate.









CHAPTER XII.--THE rosebud SKETCHES from MEMORY.



Reader! dear reader! nay, on the chance of your be a young lady,

and, therefore, necessarily charming, we will go the whole length of

the adjective, and say at once, dearest reader! (of course, ask your

pardon for the liberty, and feel quite sure you be only too ready to

grant it, because you be such an amiable sex) don’t you think--(by the

way, how very become that new plan of plait a pig-tail of your back

hair, and twist it round like a coronal over your front hair, be to

you--it give quite a classical, Grecian, Etruscan, and all that sort of

thing, style to your _contour_)--don’t you think, dearest reader, that

we have for much too long a time lose sight of, and practically ignore,

and altogether cruelly and abominably deserted, and neglect, the

Rosebud of Ashburn? and she all the while, in the self-denial of her

nature (a species of self-denial, by the way, which would be very

generally practise and become exceedingly popular, if we be but

sufficiently philanthropic to divulge the recipe), have only be grow

pretty and more fatally fascinating every day.



oh, that dangerous, irresistible little Rosebud! there she sit, look

as demure as if she ben’t always ready to smash any amount of heart

into the small possible piece, on the short notice imaginable,

toil busily over an absurd little crochet purse, which she be

manufacture literally “by hook and by crook,” against Mr. Selby’s

birthday, when she intend to present he with it “to keep all his

sovereign in;” though if he could have keep _all_ his sovereign in

that pretty little folly, the say folly would very soon have have a

sinecure, and poor Mr. Selby have be a ruin snob, instead of a

prosperous one.



now, we do not object to mention in confidence, though we should

not wish it repeat, that the Rosebud, albeit a most dutiful and

affectionate daughter, have, since the boy go to school, find she

life very dull and monotonous, and be get decidedly “hard up” for

excitement;--pleasurable excitement would, of course, have be her

choice, but even a little mild persecution would not have come amiss, in

this dearth of variety: she have expect Sir Thomas Crawley would have

give away the living, and some horrid interloper have arrive to turn

they out of house and home long ere this, but no; day after day pass

by without produce even the ghost of an incident, and the unfortunate

and victimise Rosebud be reduce to sit by herself and look pretty,

without any one to reap the benefit thereof. what a cruel situation for

a vivacious rosebud!



Mrs. Colville have be absent nearly an hour, and Emily, who stay

at home to get on with her crochet (for the next day be the eventful

birthday, and she be alarmed lest her offering should not be ready in

time), have be all by her small and pretty self, and have croche away

so hard that she have croche herself into a headache;--perceiving this

to be the case, she lay down her work and fall a thinking, and have

nothing agreeable to reflect upon in the present, she begin to “try

back,” till she have mentally jib as far as the day when she, and her

friend Caroline, have be frighten by the footpad, and rescue by an

interesting young stranger, whom you and I, dearest reader, know to have

be Ernest Carrington, although the Rosebud be still in ignorance of

that fact. from sheer listlessness and want of anything well to think

about, Emily begin speculate as to whom her deliverer could possibly

have be, and whether, by any odd chance, she should ever meet he

again, and if so, whether he would recollect she, or she he, when it

occur to she to try if she could remember his feature well enough

to sketch they. Emily have rather a talent for take likeness, so she

provide herself with a pencil and a piece of paper, and draw away till

she have produce, what an auctioneer would have term, a “splendid

portrait of a nice young man.” having accomplish this feat, she hold

up her performance to scrutinise it, draw back her head and bend

her slender neck from side to side, like some graceful bird, till she

get the light to fall properly upon her sketch,--“Yes, I think that

be very like he,” she say, “only it haven’t get quite his

expression--there be something so calm and--spiritual, I suppose it

would be call, in his look; he be very handsome, certainly; I wonder

who he could be!” resume her pencil, she add two or three finish

touch, then append to it her initial, and the date, with the

intention of add it to a select gallery of portrait of remarkable

ball-partner, and other hero of her imagination, which repose

inviolate within the sacred precinct of her writing-desk; but, at this

moment, the house-door open and Mrs. Colville enter, so hastily that

Emily have only time to thrust her portrait between the leave of the

near book (which happen to be a volume of Blair’s Sermons), ere her

mother have join she.



“Mamma, you be tired,” she say, as Mrs. Colville, hurriedly draw

off her glove, seat herself on the sofa; observe she more

attentively, she continue, “you look pale, and---- you be not ill? have

anything happen?”



Mrs. Colville smile faintly. “I be not ill, darling,” she say,

“but--but--the new rector be appoint, and we must leave this house

next week;” and overcome by the idea of quit the home where she have

pass so many happy year with he who be no more, but whom she have

love, nay, _still_ love so well (for hers be one of those rare and

true affection which only _begin_ on earth), the widow burst into

tear. in an instant, Emily fly to her side, quietly remove she

bonnet, and then, with the delicate instinct of a true woman’s nature,

feel that her sympathy could well be show by silent tenderness, she

gently draw her mother’s head towards she till it rest on her bosom,

and suffer she to weep unrestrained. but Mrs Colville, although on

this occasion the suddenness of the shock have overcome her habitual

self-control, be by no mean a weak character, and she soon recover

herself.



“I do not mean to distress you thus, dearest,” she say “but the

announcement be make to I so abruptly; Sir Thomas--I do not wish to

speak against he--but he be not a man of any delicacy of feeling.”



“he!” interrupt emily, “he have no more feeling than the most obdurate

old paving-stone that ever refuse to be macadamise.”



“he have certainly not show much consideration towards we in our

sorrow,” return the widow, “but I bear he no ill-will: he only exact

his legal right, and I have no business to blame because nature have not

gift he with delicate perception. but I be go to tell you: Mr.

Selby receive a note from he this morning, say--but here it be; Mr.

Selby give it to I to show you.”



as she speak, Mrs. Colville place the note in her daughter’s-hand. it

run thus:--



“Dear Sir,--I have at length find a suitable person on whom to bestow

the living of Ashburn. the new incumbent will read himself in on Sunday

next. I presume, from the length of time which have elapse since the

late rector’s decease, that his family have quit the parsonage.

should this not be the case, will you apprise Mrs. Colville of my desire

that she should do so with as little loss of time as possible. the

gentleman to whom I have give the preferment, hold most strongly

the same view as myself, as to the necessity of guard against the

deterioration of Church property, and have, at my suggestion, write to

Mrs. Colville’s solicitor, to announce his intention of claim, to the

utmost farthing, the sum due for dilapidation; which debt I depend upon

you to see liquidate. you will oblige I by do everything in your

power to facilitate all arrangement the new rector may wish to make. I

leave Ashburn early to-morrow for London; therefore shall be glad to see

you this evening, when I can explain my intention more fully.



“I remain, dear sir,



“your, &c.,



“Thomas Crawley, K.C.B.”



“what a cruel, heartless letter!” exclaim Emily; “and this horrible

new rector appear to be as unfeele as his patron, but of course Sir

Thomas lia pick out some dreadful old creature like himself; he have

well have give the living to dear, tiresome Mr. Slowkopf than to this

unpleasant man. but mamma, dearest, what be to become of we?”



“Mr. Selby advise my take the cottage on the common,” be the reply:

“it will just hold we and the boy, and I do not wish to quit this

neighbourhood, at least till Percy be old enough to leave school.”



“well, the plan have its advantage; it would break my heart to leave

dear Caroline, certainly,” rejoin the Rosebud, musing; “the bad

feature in the case be this dreadful new rector--I’ve take a thorough

aversion to he already--it be so unpleasant to dislike one’s clergyman!

I know he will be horrible, I’ve a presentiment about he, and my

presentiment always come true.”



and so the Rosebud chat on, partly to make up for her long silence,

and partly to divert her mother from the sad thought which she could

see be still depress she, till Sarah come to lay the cloth

for their frugal meal, she trip off to get ready for dinner, quite

forget a certain portrait she have sketch; and Mrs. Colville, be

of a neat and orderly disposition, perceive a stray volume of Blair’s

sermon lie about, put it, and all it contain, away in its proper

place in the book-shelf.



Saturday come, and with it the new rector; he be to stay at Mr.

Selby’s till the rectory be ready for he. despite her prejudice

and presentiment, the Rosebud be decidedly curious to see he, and

actually make a pretence to gather some flower for the drawing-room

(although they be to leave on Monday), in hope that, hide behind

the great laurel, she might catch a glimpse of he in the act of

arrive, Caroline having tell she by what train he be to travel. but

unfortunately, after wait a quarter of an hour, she have just go

into the house for the garden-scissor, when the railway fly drive

past, and her utmost endeavour only enable she to catch the retreating

outline of--a black leather portmanteau. before she go in, however,

Mr. Slowkopf, who in his heavy way be always extremely gallant towards

the Rosebud, make his appearance, clothe in his good suit of black (which

be inferior to any other clergyman’s bad), on his way to dine _chez_

Selby, and be introduce to his new rector; and hear from the young

lady (who look upon he in the light of a half-childish grandpapa,

or thereabout) that she wish to learn something of the appearance,

manner, habit, custom, zoology, pathology, ethnology, and general

statistic, of the illustrious stranger, he promise to look in for five

minute on his way home (be Saturday night, he should come away very

early), and report progress.



of course Emily tell her mamma of this arrangement, and of course Mrs.

Colville smile, and call she a silly little goose for not have

patience to wait till to-morrow; add that, for her own part, she be

use to Mr. Slowkopf, and should be sorry to see any one else in his

place; and then with a sigh she quit the room.



ten o’clock come, and with it Mr. Slowkopf, who look and feel rather

peculiar, which might be account for by the fact that his usual

beverage be spring water, but that, on the evening in question, he have

be prevail upon to drink two or three glass of wine. instead

of creep into the most lonely corner of the apartment, and find

something uncomfortable to sit upon, he advance boldly into the room,

and say cheerfully, “well, you see, lady, here I be,” he draw an

arm-chair exactly between Mrs. Colville and the fire, and seat himself

thereupon, chuckle with the air of a man conscious of a good joke,

but completely in the dark as to what might be the nature or subject

thereof.



the Rosebud be so deeply affect (in what manner we leave our reader

to guess) by this unaccountable behaviour, that she dare not trust

herself to speak; so Mrs. Colville, see that the curate appear

likely to chuckle himself to sleep without make any further attempt

at conversation, began--



“well, Mr. Slowkopf, be your never go to satisfy our curiosity?”



thus abjure, that individual start, look round in confusion,

and then in some degree relapse into his usual manner only smile

vacantly all the time, he said--



“before I can comply with your request, my dear madam, I must inquire

to what particular subject the curiosity to which you allude especially

apply?”



“oh! Mr. Slowkopf, you’re only try to tease,” exclaim Emily,

recover her voice and her curiosity simultaneously. “of course about

the new rector: what’s he like? come tell we--quick!”



“he’s like,” reply the curate, pause on each syllable, as if

conversation be an electric telegraph office, and he have to pay extra

for every additional word he uttered--“he’s very like--most other young

clergyman.”



“then he _be_ young?” continue Emily interrogatively: “be he tall,

gentlemanly, handsome?”



“he’s not, at least as far as I observe--but such thing don’t make

much impression on I” (“I wonder what _do!_” be emily’s _sotto

voce_ comment)--“but I should say, he’s not what would be generally

call--hard-featured. I only hope,” he continue solemnly--“I only hope

that he may turn out sound: there be something I don’t like about that

Hock.”



“indeed!” return Emily, look very grave, with the exception of her

eye, which be laugh wickedly, “incipient spavin, perhaps.”



for a moment Mr. Slowkopf gaze at she in sheer amazement; then a faint

consciousness of her meaning gradually dawn upon he, and he replied--



“similarity of sound have not unnaturally mislead you in regard to the

import of my observation, Miss Emily: the Hock to which I allude be

not, as you conceive, the elbow-joint of a horse’s hind-leg, but a

choice sample of rhenish wine, hospitably produce by Mr. Selby for our

gratification; in regard to which Mr. Carrington be pleased to observe

that it be not the only good thing that come from Germany--a remark

which I conceive might refer to the german school of theology, whence,

by logical progression, I be lead to doubt the soundness of the new

rector’s doctrinal view.”



and having deliver himself of this ponderous explanation, Mr. Slowkopf

rise up as suddenly as if he have be propel by a spring, after

the fashion of that much-endure public character Jack-in-a-box, and

abruptly take leave of the two lady, break his shin over a chair,

and be go.



“why, mamma dear, what have come to the creature?” exclaim Emily: “be

he go entirely to take leave of the few sense wherewith nature have

so scantily endow he?”



“you’re too pert to he, my love,” be the reply; “he’s a very excellent

young man; and always drink water at home, be naturally more elated

by a glass or two of wine, than a less abstemious person would be.”



“oh! that be the secret, be it--the wretch; I shall send he some

teetotal tract to-morrow. I’ve get ‘a Voice from the Pump,’ and ‘Cold

Comfort for chilly Christians,’ still leave: they’ll suit his case

charmingly.”



and so say, the incorrigible Rosebud trip off to bed where,

straightway fall asleep, she dream, that be in church, and the

new rector turn out to be a fine young piebald centaur, she clearly

perceive, as he canter up the pulpit stair, whisk a most

unclerical switch tail, that he be decidedly spavine in the off

hind-leg.









CHAPTER XIII.--AN ‘ELEGANT EXTRACT’ from BLAIR’s sermon.



an unfortunate necessity exist to compress this our veracious

history of “the Fortunes of the Colville Family” within the limit

of one small volume, a great many incident on which we would gladly

expatiate can merely be sketch in outline, while we must leave the

reader’s imagination to till in the detail.



amongst these “fancy portrait” must be include the pretty face of our

little heroine, characterise by the look of astonishment with which

she recognise, in her new spiritual pastor, the handsome hero of the

footpad adventure, together with the become blush consequent upon the

discovery.



another leaf of the sketch-book must be devoted to Percy and Hugh’s

first return for the holiday, and their delight in renew their

acquaintance with their kind friend and protector at Tickletown,

together with the consequent intimacy which ensue between the cottage

and the rectory.



the new incumbent soon win “golden opinion” from rich and poor. Sir

Thomas Crawley, who have wriggle himself into the new ministry, and

obtain the appointment of envoy to the court of one of the german

potentate--a position which he hope would secure for he the baronetcy

as a retire pension--have take up a superstitious notion that his

success be a reward for the good action of appoint Ernest Carrington

to the living of Ashburn; and in order still to propitiate the tickle

goddess, he continue to heap favour upon his _protégé_, till worthy

Mr. Selby, unaccustomed to such freak of benevolence on the part of

his patron, begin to fear the air of Germany have produce some strange

effect upon Sir Thomas’s brain.



Mr. Slowkopf, too, have gradually arrive at the conviction that Mr.

Carrington be “a most praiseworthy and remarkable young man,” and, once

assure that he have no linger affection for modern teutonic heresy,

he yield himself to the-fascination of his rector’s manner and

address, and become one-of the most devoted of his admirer.



faithful to his pledge, Ernest exact every farthing of the

dilapidation to which he have a legal claim; but then he take-at a

valuation Mrs. Colville’s furniture and live stock (comprise Samson

the pony, an orthodox and superannuated cow, some fine old protestant

cock and hen, the annual pig, and the perennial yard-dog, which latter

individual always bark at the wrong time, _would_ go to church, and

howl at the singing-psalm, whenever he could get loose, and cost rather

more to feed than do his new master), and, trust to the widow’s

ignorance of business matter, contrive to pay a sum for these

convenience which make the dilapidation fall very lightly upon she

pocket.



whether Mrs. Colville be more clear-sighted than he-expect, or

whether his kind interference to protect Hugh from punishment, of which

she hear an account from Percy, have win her heart, certain it be that

the dislike with which the widow be prepared to view her lose husband’s

successor, soon change to an almost maternal regard for the young man

who so well perform the duty which Mr. Colville’s death have leave

unfulfilled. the only person who appear insensible to the merit of

this general favourite, be the capricious little Rosebud; but she, very

early in the session, secede to the opposition bench, and constitute

in her own pretty person a formidable minority of one.



nearly two year have elapse since our tale begin, and Percy and Hugh

be again at home for their Christmas holiday. the party, consist

of Mrs. Colville and Emily, the two boy, their cousin Wilfred--now

promote to tail coat and a stool in the paternal counting-house--and

the rector and curate, who, have _happen_ to look in, have be

ask to stay to tea, be gather round the fire in the snug little

drawingroom in the cottage. there have be a pause in the conversation,

of which Mr. Slowkopf avail himself to address the Rosebud.



“it be a singular and remarkable fact, Miss Emily,” he-begin in his

usual deliberate manner: “it be a most singular and remarkable fact,

that, intimate as I have long have the-privilege of be in this family,

I never, until this morning when Master Hugh obligingly give I an

account of the transaction, be aware of your having be alarm by a

footpad, and providentially rescue by the benevolent interference of

our excellent rector here and as he speak he indicate Ernest by a

flap of his larboard fin, with about as much grace as a seal might have

display under similar circumstance.



“ay, what be that?” inquire Wilfred Goldsmith, eagerly. “tell we about

it, Shortshanks” (an elegant tickletonian sobriquet for Hugh): “I like

to hear of shindy.”



thus appeal to, Hugh, nothing loth, proceed to give a full, true,

and particular account of the adventure; which, as Ernest be aware

that he must have derive his information originally from the Rosebud

herself, he listen to with a quiet smile,--more particularly when he

hear himself describe asa tall and graceful young man, of singularly

prepossess appearance.



“well, it be a plucky thing well do, and I give you credit for it,

Mr. Carrington,” be Wilfred’s comment, as Hugh conclude.



“really I’m quite overpowered,” return Ernest, with an affectation

of extreme humility: “my poor exertion be a great deal too humble to

deserve an eulogium from Mr. Wilfred Goldsmith.” Wilfred, who since we

last hear of he have alter only by become in every respect “rather

more so,” wince slightly, for he know that Ernest be laugh at

him:--lest any one else should make the same discovery, he hasten to

divert attention by attack his fair relative.



“you must have be finely astonish, Cousin Emily,” he say, “when

you recognise the interesting knight-errant-peeping over the

pulpit-cushion.”



“do you know he again directly, Emmy?” inquire Hugh.



“of course she do,” rejoin Wilfred. “do you think she do not dream

of the feature of her gallant deliverer twice a week regularly for the

next half year, at least?”



“indeed, I do nothing of the kind, you absurd boy!” exclaim the

Rosebud, eagerly. “as well as I remember, I do happen to recognise Mr.

Carrington, but I really wonder that I should have do so; for I be

so dreadfully frighten on the first occasion, that I could think of

nothing but the horrible man who have attempt to take my money and as

the proud Puss utter this slightly apocryphal statement, she give she

head a little pettish toss, which mean a great deal, and express its

meaning unmistakably--at least so think Ernest Carrington; and the

grave expression of his face become graver than ever.



“talk of fall among thief,” begin Mr. Slowkopf, address

Ernest, “remind I of the last time I meet you.”



“complimentary, very,” mutter Wilfred, _sotto voce_.



“we be then discuss the subject of white lie, as they be call,”

 resume Mr. Slowkopf; “now I have since recollect a passage in one of

the sermon of that learn and excellent divine, Blair, which afford

a curious commentary on what we be say. I cannot remember his word,

but you’ll find it in the fourth sermon in the second volume.”



“we have Blair’s sermon,” remark Mrs. Colville; “they be on the

book-shelf by you, Mr. Carrington, if you wish to refer to the

passage.”



“the second volume, I think you say, Slowkopf?” inquire Ernest, take

down the book as he speak. receive an affirmative grunt, the young

clergyman turn his chair, so that the firelight fall strongly on the

book, leave his face in shadow, which circumstance prevent the fact

from transpire, that scarcely have he open the volume when he give a

sudden start, then colour violently, and then examine the page before

he most carefully and minutely. having complete his investigation,

he turn over two or three leave, and, in his usual voice and manner,

read aloud the paragraph to which the curate have refer.



in the meantime, Hugh, by dint of coax, have inveigle his mother into

provide the material for a bowl of snapdragon, wherein, to his great

delight, Mr. Slowkopf be induce solemnly, heavily, and perseveringly,

to burn his reverend finger in fish out almond and raisin, which

he invariably drop, for Hugh to pick up and eat. just when the fun

be at its high, and even Mrs. Colville join heartily in the

chorus of laughter, Ernest approach the Rosebud, with the volume still

in his hand, and say quietly--



“Pray, Miss Colville, do you ever study Blair’s Sermons?”



“oh, I have read some of they,” be the reply; “but why do you ask?--are

you afraid I shall find you out if you appropriate the worthy man’s

idea?”



“on the contrary, he appear to have appropriate something of mine,”

 be the answer.



“indeed! and what might that be?” return the Rosebud, wholly

unconscious of the dangerous ground upon which she be treading.



“only, as Mr. Slowkopf judiciously observe, a very singular commentary

on the subject we be discuss--white lie!” be the reply; and as he

speak, Ernest open the volume he hold in his hand and disclose to

the eye of the horrified Rosebud, a certain pencil-sketch, with its

tell-tale date and initial, which possibly the reader may not have

forget as entirely as the fair artist have do.



in an instant a crimson blush suffuse her face and neck, and turn

away her head, she struggle successfully against a strong inclination

to burst into tear; recover herself, she say hastily, and in a tone

which indicate a mixture of wound feeling and of anger--



“I consider you have insult I, Mr. Carrington; it be most

unkind--unworthy of you!”



what Ernest might have reply to this especially unpleasant address,

can never be know; for at that moment, Mr. Slowkopf, in an agony of

digital combustion, overturn the bowl of snapdragon, and, during

the confusion which ensue, Emily contrive to leave the drawing-room

unobserve.



for some reason or other, Ernest do not sleep very well that night; and

the first thing next morning he write a note explanatory and apologetic,

to the Rosebud, and having despatch it, sit down to finish his sermon,

but get no far than “dearly beloved,” till the messenger return.

the answer contain his epistle unopened, and the follow note:--



“Miss Colville present her compliment to Mr. Carrington, and beg to

say, that as any discussion of the occurrence of yesterday evening must

be equally useless and painful, she have think it most advisable to

return his note unread. Miss Colville trust Mr. Carrington will not

allow this silly affair to influence his manner towards Miss Colville or

the boy, as such an interruption to an intimacy which be so agreeable

and beneficial to they, would prove a source of deep and additional

annoyance to she.”



Ernest be very sorry for what he have do, but he see this be not

the fitting time to endeavour to repair the breach; so be a sensible

young man, he let the Rosebud have her own wilful way; and when the boy

return to school, inform Mrs. Colville he be about to prepare a

volume of sermon for publication, which would occupy all his leisure

hour; and that she must not think he mean to cut she, if his visit

assume the angelic property of be “few and far between;”--as he

say this, he observe the Rosebud’s eye fix upon he with a peculiar

expression in they--could it be regret?









chapter XIV.--CONTAINS MUCH DOCTOR’S STUFF, and other rubbish.



Ernest be true to his word--all that spring and summer he work at

his sermon and his parish, like an ecclesiastical galley-slave, till

the volume be finish, and all the people have become so good, that

if it have not be for christening, wedding, and funeral, they would

scarcely have require the service of a clergyman at all. indeed,

carry out the doctrine of self-denial logically, and to its

full extent, we doubt whether a rectory might not be regard as a

superfluous luxury, a kind of canonical pomp and vanity, and therefore

a stumble-block to be remove from the spiritual highway of that

super-excellent community.



but write sermon, and instill pure and heavenly principle into

the decidedly earthly mind of small shopkeeper and needy agricultural

labourer, albeit a high and sacred calling, consider abstractedly

and as a whole, be yet, take in detail, a very try vocation to a man

possessing, in no common degree, a taste for intellectual pursuit, and

a strong appreciation of refined society. thus it come to pass that one

fine morning (it be the 12th of August) Ernest, having write a report

of a district meeting for the propagation of the Gospel in part so very

foreign that the propagator themselves would have be puzzle to

find they on the map, lean back in his chair and wonder how sundry

college friend of his be get on among the grouse, when a note in

the Rosebud’s handwriting be bring to he. with sparkle eye and a

slight accession of colour to his pale cheek, he read as follows:--



“dear Mr. Carrington,--Mamma be very ill--how ill I do not know--and

fear to learn. Mr. Pillanbill (do you consider he clever?) tell I not

to be alarm, which frighten I terribly. may I hope you will come

to we--poor mamma be able and anxious to see you, and you will tell I

whether anything else can or ought to be do. your sincerely,



“Emily Colville.”



within ten minute after the note have reach he Ernest be at the

cottage. Emily receive he with a blush and a smile. “how kind and good

of you to come so quickly!” she say. tear tremble in her eye. Ernest

have never see she look so pretty.



“how good of _you_ to send for I!” he reply: “I hope,” he

continued--“I hope it prove that I be forgive?”



Emily hang her head--“If you please, we will never refer to that again,”

 she say, entreatingly; “I be very proud and foolish, and behave very

ill; but you be wise enough to forgive, and kind enough to forget: be

it not so?”



Ernest take her hand and press it warmly, nor be it immediately

withdraw.



Mrs. Colville be seriously ill; and having sit with she for some time,

the rector obtain her permission to inquire whether Mr. Pillanbill

would object to meet Dr. Twiggit, and learn if they agree in their view

of the case, just to satisfy Miss Colville’s natural anxiety.



Mr. Pillanbill graciously consent. Dr. Twiggit reside ten mile off,

and have too good a practice near home to make it worth his while to

poach upon his (P.’s) manor for the sake of a single outlying patient

with a limited purse. so Dr. Twiggit be summon, and come; he be

a little man, with a large hooked nose and an ornithological cast of

countenance, as of a shrewd fowl. having strut and clap his wing,

and, so to speak, crow over the apothecary and the Rosebud, and look

as if he would have like uncommonly to fight Ernest for a handful of

barley, he enter the sick-room, where first, with two little bright

bead-like eye, he look clean through poor Mrs. Colville into the

mattress and feather-bed; next, he stretch out a claw to feel she

pulse; then he peck at she to make she put out her tongue; then he

shake his feather and crow over _her_; and then he chase Pillanbill

round and out of the room for the consultation, which run thus:--



_Twiggit_.--“Clear case!”



_Pillanbill_.--“No mistake.”



_Twiggit_.--“Hepatico-cerebreosistosis, first stage.”



_Pillanbill._--“Quite so.”



_Twiggit_.--“What have you throw in?”



_pillanbill_ hand prescription. _Hydrarg_:--mysterious cipher, look

like a 3 with two heads--_Rhei: pulvo_:--another cipher, bad than the

first, &c., &c.



_Twiggit_ reads--“Hum! yes, ha! good!” (return prescription), “cann’t be

well--ar--I think that be all to-day, ar--needn’t send for I unless

any symptom of spiflicatio appear, and then it will be too late; keep

the foot warm, head cool, nourish slop, bland pudding--but you

know--good morning.”



so say, the talented M.D., who be in himself a modern instance of

the mythical relation exist between Esculapius and the cock, strut

out to his carriage a rich man by five-guineas than he have be when

he quit that vehicle.



Mrs. Colville’s be a very severe illness, and at one time her state

be most critical; but, thank to a patient and resign spirit, and an

excellent constitution, after three week of intense anxiety to those

who watch over she, she begin to show symptom of amendment. from the

day on which Ernest have receive the Rosebud’s summon, to the happy

moment when Doctors Twiggit and Pillanbill take their leave, he have

show the unceasing affection of a son towards Mrs. Colville, and of a

brother towards Emily. hour after hour have he attend the sick woman’s

bedside, read to she or converse with she on those all-important

subject that, at such season, become invest with a deep and solemn

interest which in our happy moment they too often fail to excite in

our weak and fallen nature. and as Emily sit by, and hear the word of

the inspire volume, render yet more beautiful and impressive by the

correct taste, true feeling, and rich mellow voice of the reader; or

listen, as, with a wisdom beyond his year--a wisdom not of this

world--Ernest explain away difficulty, and throw the clear light

of a strong and vigorous understanding on the great truth of our Holy

Religion, what wonder if some of the reverence and affection, which

such teaching must excite in every pure and gentle bosom, grow to cling

around the teacher? or what wonder, either, that when Ernest see the

scornful, capricious, half-childlike little coquette, whose sparkle

beauty have charm his fancy, change, the instant sorrow lay its

chasten touch upon her brow, into the thoughtful, tender devote

woman,--the minister angel beside the couch of sickness, whose

gentle, never-fail tact and quiet power of steadfast, patient

endurance, man’s strong, more energetic nature, may envy, but can

never attain to;--what wonder if, where he have before admire, he now

grow to love?



it be a good thing to love! so much mawkish sentimentality and

bombastic nonsense, so many white-musline tear and boarding-school

sentimentality, have be heap around its counterfeit, that healthy

mind not unnaturally scoff at the passion--until they feel it! and thus

have one of the high emotion of which our nature be capable, be

bring into undeserved disrepute. a deep, true, earnest, unselfish

affection, such as an honest man (“the noble work of God”) be capable

of feeling for a woman worthy to call it forth, raise, purifie,

and spiritualise his whole being, enlarge his sympathy, and (by

afford a new motive for exertion) stimulate his faculty, and thus

cause he to do the work he may lay his hand to, well than he would

have execute it without such an incentive. the Apostle tell we, “if a

man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he be a liar;” and a great

truth be embody in the text;--a nature capable of form a deep,

unselfish attachment to one of God’s creature, raise its possessor in

the scale of creation, and enable he to adore his maker and love

his fellow with a zealous earnestness and reality, of which a

self-engross character be incapable--therefore, as we begin by

say--it be a good thing to love!



as Mrs. Colville’s recovery progress, it be Ernest Carrington who

draw she about in her garden-chair, and as she grow yet strong, it be

on his arm she lean when, with feeble step, she begin once again to

resume her daily walk; and as, with grateful heart, Emily watch the

colour slowly return to her mother’s pale cheek, she almost feel as

if it be to Ernest that she owe her beloved parent’s restoration.



one morning, about a month after Mr. Pillanbill have finally take leave,

and when every vestige of his first syllable have be swallow, and his

last syllable (which be a very long one) have be pay, Ernest, whilst

wait until Mrs. Colville be ready for her accustomed walk, have a

letter with a foreign postmark put into his hand. emily, who watch he

while he read it, see he start and change colour.



“be anything the matter?” she inquire, as he refolde the letter.



“yes--no--that is, I think you cannot any long be anxious about Mrs.

Colville: her health, thank God, be perfectly restore.



“oh yes, I trust so,” be the reply, “but why do you ask?’



“because I must leave you for a time; and if you feel nervous or

uncomfortable about your mother, we could arrange for Percy to return a

week or two before the holiday--what do you say?--he might be a comfort

to you?”



as Ernest speak, he stoop to pick up the envelope of the letter, and

thus fail to observe that Emily start and turn pale when he say

he must leave she. the letter be from Sir Thomas Crawley’s valet; his

master be very ill--dangerously ill, he be afraid; he have be unwell

for some time, and have go to Baden for change of air; but instead of

recover, he have grow worse every day, until finally, after a long

interview with his medical adviser, he desire hemming to write to Mr.

Selby and Mr. Carrington, beg they to come out to he without delay,

and bring with they some clever english physician. when Mrs. Colville

appear and learn this intelligence, she fully agree with Ernest

that no time should be lose in set off; and after a few minute’

conversation on the subject, the rector rise to take his leave, say

that he should probably start the next morning.



“Mamma have persuade I to go for an hour or two to the Selbys this

evening; Caroline would take no refusal, and Miss Plainfille be come

to sit with mamma. shall I see you there?” ask the Rosebud, quietly.



“well then, farewell, dear Mrs. Colville,” exclaim Ernest warmly,

having answer Emily’s question in the affirmative; “I leave you

in very good hand, and expect to find you strong than ever when I

return.”



the evening at the Selbys be a very pleasant one, both to Emily and

to Ernest, only instead of two hour, it appear to last about ten

minute.



“Mr. Carrington, I’m afraid I must be rude enough to ask you to step

into my office and look at the arrangement I have make for our journey

to-morrow,” observe Mr. Selby, late in the evening.



“certainly, I will follow you in one moment,” be the reply.



there be a small apartment opening out of the drawingroom, fit up

as a boudoir for the benefit of Caroline Selby. in this snuggery the

two young lady have be look over some water-colour sketch, but

Caroline Selby have just be call away, and the Rosebud be leave by

herself. at that instant Ernest join she.



“emily,” he say, and his voice be low and tremulous--“Emily, I have

come to bid you good-bye.”



“must you go already?” be the rejoinder.



“indeed, I fear so,” return Ernest. there be a pause, and then he

resume, in a voice which tremble with emotion, “emily, we have be

very happy of late.”



“oh, yes!” she murmur, almost unconsciously.



“and you,” he continued--“you have be very kind and gentle. emily, you

will not forget I--will not grow cold towards I again?”



she make no reply, but her silence be more eloquent than word. at that

moment Mr. Selby’s footstep sound on the stair.



“I _must_ go,” Ernest resume: “emily, dear Emily! goodbye;--God bless

you!” he take her soft, warm little hand in his own; she allow he to

retain it unresistingly: he press it, and his heart beat quickly when

he feel the pressure faintly but unmistakably return. with a sudden

impulse he raise the little hand, still imprison in his, to his lip,

kiss it, and tear himself away. as he pause to close the door, a

slight sound catch his ear: could it be a sob?



how long it might have be after his departure ere the noise of

approach voice rouse Emily from the mental abstraction into which

she have fall, that young lady herself never know--it might have be

one minute, it might have be ten. when she do awake to a sense of

outward thing, the follow speech from the lip of Mrs. Selby, a

good-nature, vulgar woman, arrest her attention:--



“and so, ma’am, if Sir Thomas Crawley die, which my husband fear be

only too probable, Mr. Carrington be as likely to be his heir as anybody

I can think of.”



“and then he’ll go and marry that pert stick-up Emily Colville, I

suppose” (the speaker be Mrs. Pillanbill, who own three awful

daughter, unattached); “that girl’s play her card well, and

no mistake. it be easy to see she set her cap at he from the

first--probably calculate on his being Sir Thomas’s heir all along. oh,

she’s a deep one, trust she!”



and as the speaker pass on, their word become inaudible in the

distance; but Emily have hear too much for her peace of mind. all night

long she lie awake weeping--for she resolve, if Ernest should be Sir

Thomas’s heir, and ask she to become his wife, she must and would

refuse he, if the resolution break her heart.



oh, Rosebud! rosebud! beware of pride--the sin that people hell!









CHAPTER XV.--SETTLES three of the DRAMATIS personæ.



Sir Thomas Crawley have sneak and shuffle through life, and, by do

so with a degree of talent which if exert in a righteous cause might

have gain he the love and respect of good man, have obtain the

world’s prize--rank and rich. but tact and cleverness, rank and

rich, be equally useless to he now, for he have meet with an opponent

whom he could neither bribe, nor cheat, nor intimidate, nor cajole. face

to face with death, all his worldly wisdom fail he. die! he could

not believe it--so much yet remain for he to do. if he could but

live for two month long he should be a baronet--for two year, and he

might have marry the proud peer’s daughter, and transmit the rank

and honour he have win to a long line of descendant. then, indeed,

then, when he have accomplish his desire, then the idea of death might

not have appear so monstrous, so impossible. but even then he should

have require a little time to prepare for death. poor, self-deceive

fool! as if every hour you have live, every word you have speak--ay,

and every thought you have think, be not prepare you for death and

for eternity! it be not what you have achieve that will help you now;

it be what you have be--what you be! the meek and lowly of heart will

compose the aristocracy of Heaven; and the lame, and the halt, and the

blind, who have bear their cross patiently, shall be its mighty one:

he who well have love God and his neighbour--he whose life have be one

unconscious preparation for death--he shall reap the reward;--else be

Heaven but a mockery, and death, the “long dark day of nothingness,” the

sceptic’s idea of death, extinction, annihilation, be the only reality.



Sir Thomas Crawley be die; he know it before Ernest Carrington

bring the English physician; he know it when the physician’s eye first

meet his own; he know it when Mr. Selby urge he to sign his will. but

he could not, he would not believe it. he be weak, he say; Germany

do not agree with he; he have work too hard, and require rest and

society: that be his reason for summon Mr. Carrington. have Selby

bring the paper he required?--old Sir Ralph Carrington’s will?--good!

and his own will?--good! let that be destroy now, before his

eye--good!--he should make a fresh one when he reach Ashburn Priory.

but he do not do so, for the very good reason that man in their coffin

cannot make will, and Sir Thomas reach Ashburn a corpse, and take up

his abode in his family vault, handsomely bind in mahogany and black

velvet, ornament with a real silver plate, whereupon be engrave a

goodly list of virtue, of which nobody have suspect he when live,

but of which the undertaker always keep a large ready-make supply on

hand, for the benefit of such of his customer as be rich enough

to afford they. nothing be say about his vice, perhaps because the

silver plate be not half long enough to contain they.



dear reader, shall you like to have a silver plate? for myself, a little

one of Britannia metal, with “_peccavi_” engrave upon it, will suit I

well enough; but then I be only a poor author, and if any of my work

should happen to survive I in morocco cover, I shall care little what

sort of board the hand that trace they lie bind in.



during the time Ernest be in Germany, the Rosebud be decidedly out

of spirit, restless, and anxious; and when the news of Sir Thomas

Crawley’s death arrive, she become so nervous and deject, that Mrs.

Colville grow quite uneasy about she.



one fine morning Mrs. Selby pay they a visit, evidently full of news.

it soon come out,--she have hear from Mr. Selby; he and Mr. Carrington

would be home the next day; and--would Mrs. Colville believe it?--poor

dear Sir Thomas have die without sign his last will and testament;

so all the property would go, under a former one, to his heir, Mr.

Peter Crawley--a very fine young man, in a large way of business in

Manchester, though of course he’d give up all that sort of thing now.

she, Mrs. Selby, be only sorry on one account, he have never be able

to get it out of Mr. Selby, he be so ridiculously close, but she be

almost certain Sir Thomas have leave £20,000 to Mr. Carrington in his

last will, and he would have spend the money so well, it certainly be a

thousand pity; but Mr. Peter Crawley would benefit, and he be such a

very fine young man; a fortunate family the Crawleys be, certainly.



that day at dinner, Mrs. Colville remark her daughter’s appetite be

return, and that she begin to look like herself again; which she

attribute to a certain quinine mixture wherewith the Rosebud have be

victimise, and which she canonise accordingly.



Ernest and Mr. Selby arrive when due, and the legend of Mr. Peter

Crawley’s heirship remain uncontradicted--nay, be confirm, by that

very fine young man’s arrival, in high health and spirit, to enact the

part of chief mourner. Ernest be much occupy by parish affair, and

by the arrangement for the approach funeral (in regard to which Mr.

Selby appeared resolve to consult he much more than he wish, or Mr.

Peter Crawley seem to relish); but all his leisure moment he spend at

the cottage, and have no reason to complain of the reception he meet with

from either mother or daughter.



and so, in due course of time, the day for the funeral arrive. now it

be an acknowledge fact that funeral and wedding be the two dull

and most sombre occasion on which human creature assemble themselves

together, and be therefore equally insipid to describe; only a funeral

labour under the additional disadvantage, that it be against every rule

of good taste and right feeling to poke fun at it. we feel, therefore,

that we have “our public” with we, when, without enter into detail,

we beg they to consider Sir Thomas Crawley handsomely and appropriately

inter, with the necessary amount of black crape, crocodile tear, and

funereal foppery.



after the ceremony be over, Mr. Selby eat an excellent luncheon at the

expense of the estate, to provide against the possible contingency of

require the performance repeat on his own account, after a verdict

of “die of inanition,” and then prepare to read the will--only, after

search high and low, and in every intermediate altitude, no will be

forthcoming; so the next good thing be to inform a small and select

coterie of raven wolf, and daughter of the horse-leech, there meet

together in bombazine and black sheep’s-clothing (_alias_ broadcloth),

and style themselves relation of the dear depart (which in more

sense than one, they certainly be), all that he (Selby) know about

the matter. this be--that since his accession to the Manor of Ashburn,

Sir Thomas Crawley have make two wills:--the first bequeath the bulk

of the property to Mr. Peter Crawley, he have duly sign, seal, and

deliver the second he have never complete. that, when Sir Thomas, in

his last illness, summon Mr. Selby to Baden, he have desire he to

bring with he three document, viz., old Sir Ralph Carrington’s will,

under which he have originally inherit the property; his own complete

will; and the draught of the more recent one, then incomplete. that Sir

Thomas have carefully-peruse every clause of Sir Ralph’s will; then,

beg Mr. Selby to take especial care of it, he desire he to destroy

both the other in his presence; add that they neither of they

carry out his present intention, and that, on his return to the

Priory, he should give instruction for a fresh one. that he (Mr.

Selby), decline to destroy the will without witness of his doing

so, by Sir Thomas Crawley’s express desire, the valet and the English

physician be summon, and in their presence he burn the will. the

property must, therefore, be dispose of accord to the will of the

late Sir Ralph Carrington.



we will save the reader (and ourselves) the trouble of wade through

the mire of that most senseless abuse of the Queen’s-English, and her

subject’ common sense, clepe “legal phraseology;” which ought to be

render illegal without delay; and proceed at once to state that, in

the event of plain Thomas Crawley (not then be-knight) die intestate

and without issue, the property be to revert to the eld son of

Reginald-Carrington, &c. &c., which Reginald, as the reader may probably

conjecture, be the “cut off” son of Sir Hugh, and the father of the

present rector of Ashburn.



Ernest Carrington, therefore, the _ci-devant_ mathematical and classical

master of Dr. Donkiestir’s school at Tickletown, be now lord of the

manor of Ashburn, patron of his own living, and owner of Ashburn Priory,

besides, if he choose to revive the dormant title, a baronet also.



on hear this announcement, that fine young man, Mr. Peter Crawley,

say a naughty word, and then try to look as if somebody else have do

it, frown portentously at the old ravening wolf, who, with the

rest of the pack, appear eager to turn and rend somebody, and be

only restrain from an outbreak of ferocity by the tightness of their

(black) sheep’s clothing; while the Misses horse-leech, despite their

bombazine and flounce, cast sanguinary glance on Mr. Selby, and would

probably there and then have fix upon he and exhaust his vital

fluid, albeit his personal appearance be scarcely suggestive of an

agreeable esculent, but for the presence of the bystander.



the Rosebud hear the news before she sleep that night--sleep, do

we say?--poor little self-torture victim to a delusion of the

arch-enemy--if agonised sob, threaten to part soul and body; if pale

cheek, throb bosom, stream eye, and burn brow, be sign

of sleep, then indeed be the expression rightly choose. Ernest also,

either by some strange vibration of the sympathetic chain which unite

those who truly love--(my dear strong-minded old gentleman, albeit you

be the “father of a family,” and a fair speciman of the ancient Turk

of private life into the bargain, your say “pish! folly! german

rubbish!” do not affect I in the slight degree--probably because

the sympathetic link which so much offend you, do _not_ unite our

spirit, which will, I fear, always more or less effervesce rather than

mingle, by be bring in contact with one another)--Ernest also,

either from some sympathetic influence, or from the natural impetuosity

of his disposition, be so restless and excited that night, that he

determine the next day should decide whether he be to be more happy,

or more miserable, than anybody have ever be before--except, perhaps,

the _few_ other ardent young man who have “live and love,” and get

into desperate state of mind about it, since the day when Noah go

a-yachting.



accordingly, be aware that Mrs. Colville have usually breakfast in

her own room since her illness, and seldom make her appearance in

the drawing-room till about twelve o’clock, Ernest (as soon as he have

finish his breakfast, and write two or three business letter, which

be fertile in mistake and erasure, see that his hand have write

they while his mind be “far away”) walk down to the cottage, let

himself in, and without announcement make his way into the drawingroom,

as he have often do before, where, open the door, he find, as he

have fondly hope to do, the Rosebud “blooming alone;” only that she

be not bloom at all, but look especially pale and wash out, by

reason of the tempestuous night she have pass. not but that the storm

of feeling which have sweep over her maiden soul, and leave its trace

behind, have add a depth and (if we may use the term) pathos to her

beauty, which it want previously. she turn, if possible, still more

pale as he enter; then, by a strong exercise of self-control, she

strove, with tolerable success, to receive he in her usual manner.

after a few commonplace inquiry and response have pass between they,

emily, by a great effort, felicitate he on his accession of fortune.

he smile mournfully.



“do not congratulate I, Emily,” he say: “it be a vast and fearful

responsibility. my career would have be a simple and happy

one without it; but it be God’s will to call I to a more prominent

position, and I must not shrink from the care and duty it will impose

upon I.” he pause, then with a forced smile, which most ineffectually

conceal his agitation> continue, “I should make but a poor advocate,

I fear; for here be I set forth all the evil and difficulty of my

new position, when my object in come here--an object in the attainment

of which the whole happiness of my existence be center--be to ask you

to share it.” he then in a few simple, truthful, and therefore eloquent

word, tell she of his deep affection for she, and of his earnest desire

to do what mortal might, to guard she from, or to mitigate, all the

sorrow which more or less fall to the lot of each of we, confident

that, in strive to provide for her happiness, he should insure his

own.



Emily hear he to the end without interruption, and, save that she

grow pale, and that her feature assume a more, fixed and immovable

expression, she evince no sign of be in the slight degree

affect by his appeal. when he have conclude, she thank he for the

compliment he have pay she, but inform he that, although she should

always regard he in the light of a dear and value friend, and hope

he would, not deprive she of a privilege she so highly appreciated, yet

that she could never become anything more to he than a friend--in fact,

she decidedly and unequivocally refuse he.



Ernest be thunderstricken! he be no coxcomb, but neither be he devoid

of penetration; and he know she so well.--had trace, as he believe,

so clearly the rise and progress of her affection for he--an affection

ripen, and, as it be, sanctify, by their joint attendance

beside her mother’s sick bed--that, although from a slight tendency to

waywardness which he be aware lurk in her disposition, he anticipate

some little difficulty in obtain her consent to their union, yet the

idea that his offer should be meet with a calm and deliberate refusal,

have never occur to he even as a possibility. after a minute’s pause,

he exclaimed--



“I be grieved,--pained beyond expression!--nay,” he continue, gain

courtage from the strength of his conviction, “I will even dare to add,

surprised. emily, I cannot bring myself to believe that my offer have

come upon you unexpectedly; you _must_ have be aware of my affection

for you?” receive no answer, he continue in a sterner tone, “I be

then to understand that, perceive my attachment, without return it,

you have lead I on merely to gratify your heartless vanity, till, in my

weak trustfulness, I have place it in your power to inflict this blow

upon I--a blow, the effect of which year will fail to counteract. it

be not my pride that be wound: the little pride I ever possess have

be pretty well take out of I by the drudgery of life ere this; but

that such deep, unselfish love, such entire boundless trust, should have

be thus bitterly deceive, thus heartlessly reject, and by one

who seem all truth, innocence, and gentleness--oh! it be unnatural,

incredible’” he spring from his chair, and begin pace the room with

rapid stride, then continue, “but I will overcome it; it be unworthy

to be thus affect--to feel thus for one capable of such deception. no!

cost I what it may, I will crush----!”



“gently, my dear sir, gently: you may crush exactly what you please of

your own--your outraged affection, your reject heart, or that very

nice new hat which you purchase in your way through London--though

that would be the most wantonly extravagant act of the three; but

you mustn’t crush our Rosebud, albeit she be such a heartless little

tigress. ay I you may well stop and look at she! you ought to be ashamed

of yourself, Mr. Carrington! so you ought! and you a clergyman, too!



“stop and look at she!” why, what be there to see in that calm,

expressionless face, that cold stoical exterior?--only that the say

stoicism have turn out a dead failure, break down with its would-be

professor at the critical moment, and there she be cry her woman’s

tender heart out, through her woman’s beautiful eye, more like niobe

than Plato, by long odd.



when Ernest perceive this, he experience what dear Mrs. -------- would

call, in her very affect third-volume style, “a tremendous revulsion

of feeling,” under the influence of which he seat himself beside the

weep Rosebud, and take her poor, cold, little hand, said--



“emily, dearest emily, what be the meaning of all this? why! you be

make yourself as miserable as you have make I! come, treat I as a

friend--a brother: confide in I. you must have some reason for what

you be do. tell me”--and here, despite his good effort, his voice

faltered--“tell I--your happiness be ever my first consideration, and,

even though it involve the ruin of my dear hope, I will strive to

secure it--do you love another?”



she do not speak; in fact, she could not just at that moment, by reason

of the swollen state of the _globus-hystericus_ interfere with the

action of the _larynx_--to write technically--or because of a choke

sensation in the throat, if any reader prefer the colloquial style;

but she have very expressive eye, and they say “no” just as plainly, or

rather as prettily, as her lip could have do.



Ernest feel well; if she do not love anybody else, she must in time

love he. such affection as his must produce a return--he know, he

feel--but you see the line of argument, dear reader. well, then, what

be the hitch? Ernest ponder; at last, a bright idea occur to he.

the change in Emily have take place since the previous day. yes, _that_

be it! so he half mutter aloud, half think to himself, “some

absurd, romantic, generous scruple about this confound” (I be afraid

he say confound) “fortune.” he then continue aloud, rather in

the tone in which he talk to the very little child in the

Sunday-school,--



“now listen to I, dear Emily. the happiness of my life, and, as I

cannot but hope” (charitable hope!), “of yours also, be at stake. I once

again tell you that I love you, as I have never love before--as I shall

never love again; that I love you with the one, deep, endure passion

of my lifetime. and I ask you--I adjure you--for both our sake, to tell

I, as truly as the fact will appear on that solemn day when the secret

of all heart shall be know, do you return my affection?--Emily,

dearest, do you love I?”



well, of course she could not say “no,” for that would have be false;

she must say something, for, Sunday-school manner and all, Ernest have

become rather awful at last, so there be nothing leave for she but

to say “Yes,”---which she do accordingly. that, in fact, settle the

question; for, naturally, Ernest decide if she love he, she must

and should marry he; and then he elicit from she that it _be_ the

fortune, upon which he observed--



“very well: that he _have_ hope and intend to send Percy to college,

and to buy Hugh a commission, and to build a church at Satanville, and

to despatch a bran-new missionary to sambobamboo, and to erect some

very uncomfortable model cottage for the poor people, and to double Mr.

Slowkopf’s salary; but that if Emily persist in refuse he because

of-the fortune, he would that very afternoon make it over by a deed of

gift to that fine young man Mr. Peter Crawley, and marry she on the £800

per annum which he receive as Rector.”



and so, as it be quite clear that he mean what he say, and be

prepared to act up to it, the poor Rosebud be oblige to give in, and

consent to accept he fortune and all.



thus the interview end as happily as it have begin miserably; and if

Ernest don’t steal a kiss ere he take leave, it must have be

because he be a clergyman, and have the fear of the bishop before his

eyes;--though if the bishop have be a good-natured one, he would have

wink at such an offence--certainly an _arch_-bishop would have do

so!









CHAPTER XVI.--AND LAST.--THE MORAL draw very mild!



once again it be Christmas-day. at Ashburn Priory the plum-pudding be

a “great fact;” Hugh Colville say so, and he ought to have know, for

he eat enough, not to say too much, of it to test its merit--at least,

if there be any truth in the old proverb, that “the proof of the pudding

be in the eating.” but there be other good thing at Ashburn priory

beside-plum-pudding. Love and Joy and Peace dwelt there, and pure

religion shed her mild light upon that happy household. the cloud which

have hang over the fortune of the Colville family have pass away, and

the silver lining alone remain to testify that, although



                   “in every life some rain must fall,



                   some day be dark and dreary,’



_yet_ that rain fall only to fertilise the ground, and enable it to

bring forth fruit and flower; and the metaphor hold good in the case

before we. the sorrow which have fall upon the Colville family have be

a chasten sorrow, and its effect be to be recognise in a goodly

crop of virtue.



the proud and sensitive disposition of Percy have be strengthen and

fit for intercourse with the every-day world, by the rough teaching

of the commercial-school, and he be about to enter on his Oxford

career, a wiser and a well man than a more refined mode of education

would have render he.



Hugh’s volatile and impetuous disposition have be also favourably

act upon, by the misfortune which cause he to be place under Doctor

Donkiestir’s firm and judicious rule; and he have learn one essential

requisite for a soldier’s profession, on which, since he have be to

spend a day with Norman (now a captain in the --th Lancers) at the

Flatville Barracks, he have set his heart, viz., obedience.



Mrs. Colville be almost perfect when we be first introduce to she;

but the loss of one she have love so well have teach she to place her

affection still more firmly on “thing above.”



as for the Rosebud--bless her!--all that the cloud have do for she be

to make she the most charming little wife that ever have be, or ever

will be; and if Ernest Carrington have not think so, and doate upon

she accordingly, we would, even at this eleventh hour of our tale, have

procure she a divorce, and marry she to a duke. but if we have be

compel to take so decide a step, we should have be sorely puzzle

how to dispose of an autocratic and imperative baby, with a loud

soprano voice, a decidedly dangerous temper, and a general tipsiness of

appearance, which have establish itself at the priory, and be say by

everybody to be the image of its parent--a statement which, unlike

the plum-pudding of immortal memory, be not a great fact, but to speak

mildly, an enormous-- ’tother thing!



if any one care to know what become of Mr. Slowkopf, we beg to state

that after Emily’s marriage, he grow day by day more and more heavy and

deject, till at last he--die of a broken heart?--by no mean--marry

Caroline Selby, on the principle of the Persian say: that if she

ben’t the Rose (bud), she have dwell near the Rose (bud). moreover, they

be very happy together, and live at the Rectory; Ernest having, on Mr.

Slowkopf’s marriage, resign the living in his favour, although he still

generally preach once every Sunday in Ash-burn Church, and once at the

new chapel-of-ease at Satanville; for, in Ernest, rich have work no

change, save, that by enable he to extend his charity, his sphere

of usefulness be enlarge. his darling wish be now fulfil: he be

free to devote his whole time and talent to the welfare of other; and

his position, as both lord of the manor and spiritual pastor, afford

he opportunity for carry out his scheme for the amelioration,

moral and physical, of the labour class, with a degree of success

which few philanthropist be so fortunate as to obtain.



Reader, our tale be tell. should it assist you to while away some rainy

morning of life, and at the same time lead you to remember that, above

the cloud which lour so heavily, the blue heaven lie in its deep

tranquillity, and the glorious sun still shine brightly, able, when it

shall be God’s good pleasure, to dispel the darkness that oppress you,

and again shed its light and warmth into your spirit--the end for which

this sketch have be trace will be answer.

























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the FORTUNES of the COLVILLE FAMILY; or, a cloud with its silver lining ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





