The project Gutenberg eBook of Harry Coverdale's Courtship, and all that come of it

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Harry Coverdale's Courtship, and all that come of it



author: Frank E. Smedley



Release date: February 18, 2018 [ebook #56598]

                most recently update: March 1, 2019



language: English



credit: produce by David Widger from page image generously

        provide by the Internet Archive





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK HARRY COVERDALE'S COURTSHIP, and all that come of it ***









produce by David Widger from page image generously

provide by the Internet Archive





















HARRY COVERDALE’S COURTSHIP, and all that come of it



by Frank E. Smedley,



author of “Frank Fairlegh,” “Lewis Arundel,”

 “the Fortunes of the Colville Family,” Etc.



London: George Routledge and son



1854



[illustration:  0001]



[illustration:  0007]





               “those false alarm of strife,



               between the husband and the wife,



               and little quarrel, often prove



               to be but new recruit of love;



               and tho’ some fit of small contest



               sometime fall out among the good,



               that make no breach of faith and love,



               but rather (sometimes) serve t’improve.”



                             Butler.











PREFACE



this Tale of “Harry Coverdale’s Courtship” have be a kind of _enfant

terrible_--a thankless child--to its Author. it be originally begin

as a short story, but the character grow and expand upon his hand,

until they force he to allow they wide proportion than he have

originally intend.



then the Magazine in which the tale have be commence change owner,

and the new proprietor, not be inclined to agree to the arrangement

of his predecessor, see fit to end the story himself, after a much

more vivacious and dash fashion than that of the present “lame and

impotent conclusion.”



these and other mishap, _quæ nunc perscribere longam est_, as dear

Dr. Valpy’s Latin Grammar have it, have occasion the story to be

written--_à plusieur reprise_, to use the “correct” phrase.



the conclusion of the tale have be perpetrate at a time when, on

account of severe nervous headache, the Author be under strict medical

order not to write a line upon any consideration; and it be with the

fear of the doctor before his eye that he be pen these “few last

word.” they be not write in the “forlorn hope” of disarm hostile

criticism, but simply to assure those friend who have hitherto look

with an indulgent eye upon his writing, that if “Harry Coverdale’s

Courtship” do not come up to any expectation they may have form

from the perusal of his previous work, it be rather the misfortune than

the fault, of their grateful and obedient servant,



the AUTHOR.











HARRY COVERDALE’S COURTSHIP, and all that come of it.









CHAPTER I.--TREATS of the philosophy of life.



Harry Coverdale stand six foot one in or out of his stocking, ride

something over eleven stone, be unusually good, or, as young lady

term it, interesting-looking, numbered six-and-twenty year last grass,

and live at Coverdale Park when he be at home, with five thousand

a-year to pay for his housekeeping, of which he spend about two. at the

happy moment in which we have the pleasure of introduce he to

our reader, he be _not_ at home, at least not literally, though

figuratively he appear to be make himself so very decidedly.



he have arrive in London that morning, and have dine at his club, and

stroll down to the Temple afterwards, where, find that his friend,

Arthur Hazlehurst, be expect to return every minute, he have take

possession of his vacant chamber, light a cigar, lay hand on a

number of _the Sporting Magazine_, and fling himself at full-length

on the sofa (sofa do occasionally appear in the chamber of the

briefless) look, and be, especially comfortable. he be not, however,

allow to enjoy his position long in peace; for scarcely have he

establish himself, when a man’s footstep be hear run hastily up

the interminable staircase, while a quick eager voice, address the

small boy who do duty for clerk, exclaimed--



“eh! a gentleman whom you don’t know lie on my sofa and smoke my

last cigar! that’s come to the point and no mistake; cool though--I

wonder who the deuce it can be--not a client, of course.--Ah! Harry, my

dear old boy, this be an unexpected pleasure; why I’m as glad to see you

as if you be a client almost. I think you be in the Red Sea, man,

dredging for defunct Egyptians, or chip old block with Layard, or

some such slow thing; when do you return?”



Arthur Hazlehurst, the originator of the forego speech, be an old

college chum of Coverdale’s, who, when his friend have take his degree

(a highly respectable one) and start on an enlarged edition of the

grand tour, have go to read with a special pleader. having by a special

slice of luck contrive to acquire a knowledge of the law from that

process, instead of the more usual result of learn how to spend five

hundred per annum out of an allowance of two, and possessing, moreover,

an acute intellect, and a fair portion of industry, Arthur Hazlehurst

be look upon as a rise young man. in appearance he be, for a fair

man, rather handsome than otherwise, but if his talent for rise could

have be exercise bodily, as well as professionally, it would have

be as well for he, for his friend have the advantage of he in stature

by some three inch; his manner and way of speak be quick and

eager, and he have altogether a wide-awake look about he, as though

he regard society at large as perpetually in a witness-box, and be

always prepared to cross-examine and be down upon it.



“I return to England some three week since,” reply Coverdale,

abstract the cigar from his mouth, and lazily flip off the ashe

from the lighted end with his finger; “but I go quietly down to the

Park, and have be plod over account with the agent ever since.

shocking bad tobacco they make you put up with here; you shall try the

glorious stuff I’ve bring back from Constantinople--your Turk be the

boy to smoke. so you’ve become learn in the law, I hear, since I go

abroad.”



“eh! yes, I believe I’ve pick up a thing or two,” return hazlehurst

modestly; “I’ve find out the great secret of life; the next move be to

make the knowledge pay, and that’s not so easy.”



“I don’t know there be a great secret to find out,” observe

Coverdale, stroke his curly black whisker, “the rule of life seem

easy enough to I--make up your mind what you want to do, and then

quietly do it--that’s my recipe.”



“a very good one for you, my dear fellow, you’ve only to put your hand

in your pocket, and, as your money rattle, difficulty disappear;

but we’re not all bear to £5000 a-year, bad luck; father have flinty

heart, and even the amenity of the nineteenth century have fail

to macadamise them--‘I’ve give you an expensive education, sir, and

I expect to see you turn it to account.’ that’s about the style of

blessing we inherit now-a-day; however, my secret of life be this:

everything have a culminating point, and the dodge be to hit upon it

yourself, and bring other to it, with the least delay possible; in

these four word--come to the point, be embody the whole philosophy of

existence.”



“well, yes, I dare say there be something in it,” return Coverdale,

meditatively, “it never exactly strike I before, but there’s a

beautiful simplicity about it that I rather admire--a little too

railroadish, perhaps, unless a man’s in an awful hurry; you lose the

bright sunny peep and the jolly old road-side alehouse of life, by

rush so straight to your object.”



“sunny nonsense,” be the uncourteous rejoinder--“none of your old

slow-coach day for I; life’s not long enough for dream--Parr’s

life pill be a swindle, and Methusaleh die without leave his recipe

behind him;--so come to the point say I.”



“though I willn’t promise to adopt your philosophy for a permanency, I’ll

act upon it for once, at all event,” reply Coverdale, smile (and

a nice, genial, pleasant smile it be too, show a white, even row

of tooth, and light up a pair of large, dark, intelligent eye, and

make the “smiler” look particularly handsome). “so to come to the

point, I’m here to enlist you in my service for what the woman call a

‘day’s shopping’ to-morrow: I’ve no clothe to my back, no horse to

ride, no dog-cart to knock about in--in fact, none of the necessary of

life;--then, having benefit by your advice and experience, I mean to

carry you off to Coverdale for a crack at the rabbit; thank goodness!

they’ve get the game up and the poacher down, since I’ve be abroad:

that be the only thing I make a row about when I come into the

property. why, there be no preserve like the coverdale wood in the

county, and yet my poor uncle never have a pheasant on his table. thing

be rather different now, my boy, and my only real sorrow at the present

moment be, that there be two whole month to be got rid of before the

first of September: well! what do you say to my proposal?”



“do, along with you,” reply hazlehurst; “but on one condition only,

viz., that when we’ve polish off the rabbit, you’ll come with I

to the Grange, and make acquaintance with those member of the worthy

family of Hazlehurst, whose virtue be as yet unknown to you.”



“you’re very kind; but you’ve a lot of sister, or she-cousin, or some

creature of that dangerous nature, haven’t you? of course I mean no

disparagement to the lady of _your_ family in particular; but ’pon

my word, my dear fellow, I cannot stand woman: in Turkey they shut ’em

up, you know, so that I’m not accustomed to they; I’ve give up flirt

and dangle, and all the rest of it, long ago; it’s very well for green

boy, but at my time of life a man have something well to think about,”

 and, as he speak, Coverdale fling the end of his cigar into the empty

fireplace, pitch _the Sporting Magazine_ unceremoniously on the table,

and, look at his watch, continue, “it’s eight o’clock; I take a

couple of stall for the ‘prophète’ this morning, on the chance of

catch you; so jump into a pair of black trouser and let we be off.”



“not a bad move,” reply his companion, “I’ll adorn and be with you

in----”



“_Einem augenblick_,” suggest the grand tourist, philologically.



“if that’s german for the twinkling of a bed-post, yes!” be the

rejoinder, and in less than ten minute the friend descend the

staircase arm-in-arm, Hazlehurst leave strict direction with the

small clerk to inform any one who might ask for he, that he be

summon to attend a very important consultation.



the next day be devoted to the purchase of Coverdale’s necessary of

life. owe to Hazlehurst’s perseverance in bring all the tradesman

to the point, a vast deal of business be transact, and before

nightfall Harry be the fortunate possessor of a spicy dog-cart, a blood

mare to run in it, who _could_ trot fourteen mile an hour, and

really do perform ten mile in that space of time, equally to her own

satisfaction and to that of her new master--two showy saddle-horse, the

good be up to fifteen stone with any hound--a double-barrel gun,

by a famous maker--a brace of thorough-breed pointer--and a whole host

of the minor “necessary” animate and inanimate, all of which, put

together, make a considerable hole in a thousand pound; but, as Harry

sapiently observe, “a man could not live in the country without they,

so where be the use of bother.”



on the following morning, the two young man and all the purchase,

horse include, start by the Midland Counties Railway, and

dinner-time find they safely deposit at Coverdale Park, a fine old

place, which, with its picturesque mansion, beautiful view, and goodly

extent of wood and water, field and fall, be as desirable a property as

any english gentleman need wish to possess. after dinner the gamekeeper

be summon: he be a sturdy, good-look fellow, who have fill the

post of under-keeper in the time of Admiral Coverdale (Harry’s deceased

uncle, an old bachelor, to whose invincible hatred of matrimony his

nephew be indebted for his present position). Harry, before he go

abroad, have discover the head-keeper to be in league with a gang of

poacher, receive a per centage on all the game they sell; he have

accordingly dismiss he, and elect his subordinate to fill the

vacant situation--an experiment which have prove eminently successful.



“take a glass of wine, Markum; this be my friend, Mr. Hazlehurst.

we mean to have a slap at the rabbit to-morrow; so be here at eight

o’clock, and then we shall get a good long day: any more poacher since

we catch those last fellow?” and, as Coverdale speak, he fill a

large claret-glass to the brim with splendid old port, and hand it to

the keeper, who, receive it bashfully, and then, scrape with his foot

and duck his head twice with an expression of countenance as of a

sheep about to butt, reply, “your ’ealth, Mr. Coverdale, sir--your

’ealth, gent both,” toss it off at a draught--“there benot be no

reglur poarchin a-goin on, sir,” he continue, set down his glass as

if it burn his finger, and then jib away from the table as though

he have shy at it; “but that ’be young Styles have be a shooting

rabid on Wild Acre farm, and seem to say as he consider he’s a right

so to do.”



“Styles? who be he?” inquire Harry, quickly.



“well, he’s the son of old Farmer Styles, and he use to shoot just when

and where he like in the Admiral’s time, and that’s how he fancy

he’s get a sort of right, do ye see, Mr ’Enry--that be, Mr. Coverdale,

sir.”



“rabbit be not game, so you cann’t touch he on the score of poach,

Harry; but, to come to the point, if he’s on your land without your

permission, he’s trespassing, and that’s where you can be down upon

he,” interrupt hazlehurst, sententiously.



“then I shall have the law o’ my side in pitch into he, I suppose,

sir?” inquire Markum eagerly.



“Ho, no, my good fellow; I don’t wish to quarrel with any of my

tenantry, about here,” exclaim Coverdale hastily, “they’ll be break

pheasant’ egg, and play up all sort of mischief,--no: we must

have nothing of that kind--I’ll speak to the young man myself; there’s a

_quiet_ way of do these thing, as I must teach you all. good night;

remember eight o’clock tomorrow:” and Markum, look sheepish and

rebuke, quit the room, to tell the tale in the kitchen with the

follow reflection append, “and if that ’be young Styles happen

to be as cheeky to master as he be to other folk, it strike I the

quiet dodge willn’t pay.”









CHAPTER II.--AFFORDS a SPECIMEN of HARRY’S “quiet MANNER” with his

tenantry.



by two o’clock next day, Coverdale and Hazlehurst have walk for some

six hour, and conjointly take the life of seven couple of rabbit,

ten unfortunate have fall victim to the new double-barrel, while

Hazlehurst have dispose of the remain four. a sumptuous luncheon,

with unlimited pale ale and brown stout, await they at the

gamekeeper’s cottage, to which repast they do ample justice.



“I tell you what it be, Harry,” exclaim hazlehurst, set down an

empty tumbler, “if I eat any more luncheon, you will have to send I

home in a wheelbarrow, for to walk I shall not be able--as it be, I

feel like an alderman after a city feast.”



“in that case, you’d require a very capacious wheelbarrow, and I should

pity the individual who have to trundle it. come! finish the bottle--you

willn’t? then I will--and now we’ll be off--it strike I, fatigue

have something to do with it, as well as the luncheon; you’ve be

smoke-drying in London, young man, till you’re out of condition,”

 return Coverdale, laugh, as he remark the stiff manner in which

his friend rise and walk across the cottage.



another hour’s stride through high grass and fern prove the

correctness of this assertion; for hazlehurst, unaccustomed to such

severe exercise, begin to show unmistakable symptom of knock up. his

friend observe he with attention--“You really be tired, Arthur,” he

say, good naturedly, “you’ll be fit for nothing to-morrow, if you

walk much far. go back, Markum, and send one of your boy for the

shooting pony; let he bring it to we at the bridge foot--I be go

over Wild Acre farm next: I shall try through the spinney and round

the large meadow, so you can cut across and join we again in

half-an-hour--and Markum--wait one moment:--What sort of person be this

man style? how should I know he if I should happen to run against

he?”



“well, he be a tall, broad-shoulder, roughish-look chap, rather an

orkard customer for to tackle, Mr. Coverdale, sir, and he generally have

a sort of cross-bred, lurcher-like dog along with he, if you please Mr.

’Enry, that is, Mr. Coverdale, sir”--and so say, Markum start at

a swinge trot to execute his master’s wish.



“the fellow look as if he could go on at that pace for a fortnight

without turn a hair,” observe Hazlehurst, pause to wipe his brow;

“I never see such a cast-iron animal.”



“he’s at it every day, and that keep he in good order,” reply

Coverdale; “but I’ve walk he down before now, and should not wonder

if I be to do so to-day--I’m just get what the jockeys call my

‘second wind,’ and be good for the next four hour at least--ha! there’s

a rabbit sitting, pull at it when I clap my hand.”



“it’s too long a shot for I,” reply Hazlehurst, “bag he yourself.”



thus urge, Coverdale bring his gun to his shoulder and draw the

trigger, but the cap be a bad one, and would not go off, and his

second barrel be load with small shot, in the hope of pick up

a landrail (of which Markum have report the probable whereabout), the

rabbit skip away uninjured. it have not proceed ten pace, however,

when it spring into the air, and roll over dead--at the same moment

the report of a gun ring out from behind some low bush, and a lurcher

dog dash forward, and pick up the defunct rabbit. Coverdale’s face

flush with anger, and hastily exchange the defective percussion cap

for a sound one, he raise his gun with the intention of shoot the

dog; but, though quick-temper, Harry be a thoroughly kind-hearte

fellow, and a moment’s reflection cause he to relinquish his purpose;

recover his gun, he muttered--



“poor brute, why should I kill it?--it’s not his fault, but his

master’s.”



as he speak a tall figure rise from behind the bush, whence the shot

have proceed, and whistle to the dog, take the rabbit from he, and

put it in the pocket of a voluminous-skirt shooting-jacket.



“that’s the redoubtable Mr. Styles, _in propriâ personâ_, I imagine,”

 observe hazlehurst.



“and a cool hand he seem too,” return Coverdale, scowl at the

delinquent, who stand quietly reload his gun, as though _he_ be

“monarch of all he surveyed,”--“however, I’m not go to lose my temper

about it; it’s a great object with I, just now, to conciliate all the

neighbouring farmer.”



“then be you go to give he _carte blanche_ to spiflicate rabbit

when and where he like?” inquire his friend.



“not a bit of it!” be the reply, “I mean to put a stop once for all

to such practice; but there be a _quiet_ way of manage these matter

quite as effectual as put oneself into a rage.”



“don’t be a week about it, that’s all--come to the point at once,

there’s a good fellow, for I want to knock over another rabbit or two

before my Bucephalus arrive,” rejoin Hazlehurst.



 thus urge, Coverdale

advanced towards the stranger, and slightly raise his wide-awake as he

approach he, say with an air of Grandisonian politeness--“Mr. style

I presume?”



“yes, young man, my name’s Styles. what’s yourn?” be the unceremonious

reply.



he do not know I, think Harry: now for astonish he--rather!

“_my_ name, sir, be--ahem!--Henry Coverdale, of Coverdale Park, at your

service.” he pause to watch the effect of this announcement. ha!

I think so, he tremble, he be--why, confound the scoundrel! I

do believe he’s grin--he cann’t have understand me--“My name be

Coverdale, I say, sir.”



“well then, Mr. Coverdale, if that’s your name, the soon you take

yourself back to Coverdale Park the well I shall be please, for I’m

a shooting rabbit, and your jabbering scare the creetur,” be the

astounding rejoinder.



Coverdale could scarcely believe his ear; however, he contrive by a

strong effort to subdue his rise passion, as he answer; “if, as I

imagine, you be the son of old Farmer Styles, of Wild Acre, you must be

aware, sir, that the farm your father rent be _my_ property, and

that the rabbit you be shoot be _my_ rabbit; I must, therefore,

trouble you to hand over the one you have just kill, and to abstain

from shoot entirely, except on any occasion when I may invite you to

join I, or otherwise give you permission.”



“I know this, that father and I have get a thirty year’ lease to run,

and that when I want a day’s rabbiting, I mean to take it, whether you

like it, or whether you don’t. why, the old Admiral never say a word

agen it; but he _be_ something like a gentleman, he be!” be the surly

answer.



Harry’s eye flash fire. “do you mean to insinuate that _I_ be _not_

one then, fellow?” he ask in a voice that tremble with passion.



“and suppose I do, what then? feller!” return the other insolently.



“This!” be the reply, as spring hastily forward, Coverdale strike

Styles so violent a blow on the cheek with the back of his open hand,

that he stagger and nearly fell;--recovering himself with difficulty,

and hold one hand to his injure jaw, he mutter with an oath, “if

it ben’t for the confound gun, I’d give you the heartiest thrashing

ever you have in your life.”



“or get one yourself,” reply Harry, now thoroughly rouse; “but, if

you’re at all inclined that way, don’t disturb yourself about the gun;

if you will discharge your, I and my friend will do the same by our,

it’s only waste a charge or two of powder”--and, as he speak, he fire

both barrel in the air. style pause a moment, to assure himself that

no stratagem be contemplate, and then discharge his gun also, while

hazlehurst having glance at his friend with an expression of the

deep astonishment, hasten to follow their example. at this moment

the clatter of a horse’s hoof be hear, and Markum, the keeper,

canter up on the shooting pony. “ah! that’s right!” exclaim

Coverdale, who appear suddenly to have regain his good temper--“tie

the pony up to a tree and come here. hazlehurst, you will pick I up if

I require it, and Markum will do the same kind office by Mr. Styles, and

I don’t intend he to have a sinecure either,” he add, _sotto voce_.



“you don’t mean seriously you’re go to fight the fellow:” inquire

Hazlehurst.



“indeed, I do, and, what’s more, nobody shall prevent I, unless he

show the white feather,” be the positive answer.



“but--but you’ll get knock about so: besides, the brute’s a big,

heavy man than you, and as strong as an elephant. suppose he should

injure you,” remonstrate Hazlehurst.



“he may if he can,” be the confident reply; “why Arthur, you’re as

nervous as a girl; this be not the first time you’ve see I use my

fist, and I’ve take lesson from Ben Caunt since the old Eton day.”



“go in and win, then, if you _will_ make a fool of yourself,” rejoin

Hazlehurst moodily, as he help his friend to divest himself of his

shooting-jacket and waistcoat.



“now, Mr. Styles, I’m at your service,” remark Coverdale, address

his antagonist politely.



“so you mean fight do you?” inquire Styles, half incredulously.



“I mean to try and give you the thrashing with which you have threaten

I,” be the reply.



“and if you do, I’ll promise never to shoot another rabbit without your

permission; but if I’m good man, bl if I don’t smash ’em when and

where I like,” be the rejoinder.



“it’s a bargain,” return Coverdale, “so come on.”--As his antagonist

bare his brawny arm and muscular throat, Harry feel that, if his skill

be at all commensurate with his strength, he have cut himself out a

somewhat troublesome task, and he begin to own, in his secret soul, that

Hazlehurst be right, and that he be about to do a very foolish thing.

however, he have great confidence in his own skill and activity, and to

these quality do he trust to relieve he from his difficulty.

if those amiable philanthropist, whose rank, once number a

large majority of the aristocracy and gentry of the land, have, as

civilisation have spread, grow “small by degree and beautifully

less” (we allude to the “Patrons of the Ring,”)--if these humane and

enlightened individual expect a detailed account, _à la Bell’s life_,

of the “stunning mill between the Coverdale Cove and the Stylish

Farmer,” they must be doom to the pang of disappointment; for

unfortunately neither our taste, nor our talent, lie in that direction.

suffice it then to relate, that Mr. Styles’ science prove an article

of the very roughest country manufacture, while his antagonist go to

work with the skill and composure of a finished artist, Coverdale soon

perceive that he have only to stop or avoid his opponent’s blow,

to keep cool and to abide his time, in order to insure he an easy

victory--and the event justify his expectation. after six round--in

the course of which the farmer acquire two beautiful black eye, while

Coverdale have not get a scratch--time be call, and the seventh round

commence. style, smart from the punishment he have receive, and

irritated to the high degree by his adversary’s coolness, rush on

so furiously, and hail such a shower of blow upon his opponent, that

Coverdale find it would be impossible entirely to ward they off, and,

not wish to be disfigure by a black eye or flattened nose, be

force to exert himself in real earnest to endeavour to bring the battle

to a conclusion;--watching his opportunity, therefore, he draw back;

stop a terrific hit cleverly with his left hand, and then fling

out his right arm straight from the shoulder, and bound forward

at the same moment, he strike his antagonist a crash blow, which,

catch he full on the side of the head, send he down like a shot.



“that have terminate the case for the defendant, I expect,” observe

hazlehurst, sententiously, as, breathless and with bleed knuckle,

his friend seat himself on his extend knee--“he have have nearly

enough before, and he have get rather too much now. you hit he an awful

crack!”



“it be his own fault,” return Coverdale. “I do not want to hurt the

man if he would have fight quietly, and like a civilised Christian,

instead of a rage lunatic;--but he’s only stun--see he’s revive

already. confound the fellow, his head be as hard as a cannon-ball, to

which fact my knuckle bear witness.” so say, Coverdale rise, and

resume his coat and waistcoat, approach his fall foe, who, with

his head lean against Markum’s shoulder, be stare vacantly at the

sky.



“he’s as unconscionable as a hinfant, Mr. Coverdale, sir: you’ve be

and knock his hintellect slap out of he, which only sarve he

right, and be what all poacher ’andsomely desarve,” remark the

gamekeeper cheerfully.



“I know what will be the medicine to cure he,” exclaim hazlehurst,

produce a pocket-flask, and apply it to the lip of the vanquish

Styles. at first the patient seem inclined to resist; but as soon as

he taste the flavour of the content of the pocket-pistol, he raise

his hand, and push aside Hazlehurst’a finger, drain it to the

bottom.



“gently, my friend,” remonstrate the young barrister, “that’s Kinahan’s

good whisky--fortunately I supply the vacuum create at luncheon with

spring water. ah, I think as much, that’s the true elixir vitæ,” he

continue, as Styles, relinquish the flask, sit up and begin to stare

wildly about he.



“Styles, my good fellow; how do you feel now? you be stun, you

know; but I shall be very sorry if I’ve hurt you,” observe Coverdale,

good-naturedly. as he speak, Styles turn and regard he attentively,

measure his tall, active figure with his glance from top to toe.

at length he mutter, “well, I don’t think he have it in he, that I

don’t;” he then rub his head, with a look of thorough perplexity,

once more fix his eye on his late opponent, as if he be some

strange monster wonderful to behold: have, apparently, satisfy

himself that he be a real flesh and blood man, and not some newfangle,

cast-iron boxing-machine, he turn to the gamekeeper, observe,

“Markum, lend we a fin, old man, for I feel precious staggery-like,

I can tell you. your guv’nor hit hard.” on obtain the require

assistance, he rise, not without difficulty, approach Coverdale, and

hold out a hand somewhat small than a shoulder of mutton, say,

“shake hand, sir, you’re a gentleman, and what’s far more in my eye,

you’re _a man_ every inch of you, and I humbly beg your pardon for

insulting of you.”



“say no more about it, my good friend,” return Coverdale, heartily

shake his proffered hand, “we do not understand each other before,

but we do now, and shall get on capitally for the future I don’t doubt.”



“I shalln’t disturb your rabbit again, sir,” continue the penitent

Styles, entirely subdue by Coverdale’s hearty manner, “and if the

creetur should do any damage to the crop, why I know a gentleman like

you will bear it in mind on the rent-day.”



“certainly,” be the eager reply; “my object now be to get up the game,

and no tenant who assist I in this will find I a hard landlord.”



and so, after an amicable colloquy, they part the good friend

imaginable; style observe, as he turn to go, “I do not think there

be a man live who could have sew I up in ten minute like that;

but you be unaccountable quick with your fist, to be sure, Mustur

Coverdale.”



“Pray Harry, be this to be consider a speciman of your ‘quiet manner’

with your tenantry?” inquire Hazlehurst dryly, as he bestrode the broad

back of his shooting pony.



his friend colour as he reply with a force laugh, “well, I must

confess that for once in my life I a little lost temper;--but you see,

old boy.” he continue, bring his hand down upon Hazlehurst’s knee

with a smack which cause that delicate youth to spring up in his

saddle--“but you see _I manage to conciliate he after all_.”









CHAPTER III.--HAZLEHURST PLEADS his CAUSE and win it.



“and the bad of it be the fellow’s right--what a bore life

be--confound everything!--” as he give utterance to this sweeping

anathema, Harry Coverdale lift a shaggy Scotch terrier by the ear out

of an easy chair wherein it be repose, and fling himself on the

seat thus make vacant, wait disconsolately till Hazlehurst should have

finish a letter, which, with unwontedly grave brow he be peruse.



having continue his occupation till his friend’s small stock of

patience be become well-nigh exhaust, Hazlehurst close the

epistle, mutter to himself--“Well! they know well, I suppose--but

I don’t admire the scheme, all the same--” then, turn towards his

companion, he continue aloud--“I beg your pardon, my dear fellow! but

the governor’s letter contain a budget of family politic, which be, of

course, more or less interesting to I, especially as, in the event of

certain contingency, he talk of increase my allowance, but you’re

look sentimental--what’s the matter?”



“oh! nothing,” be the reply, “only that fellow Markum have be bore

about the rabbit; he say we’ve work they quite enough, and that the

fox will be pitch into the pheasant if they cann’t get plenty

of rabbit to eat, and that so much shooting will make the bird wild

before the 1st.--I know it all as well as he do--there ought not to

be another gun fire on the property till the 1st of September, but then

what be a fellow to do with himself? I might go to Paris--but I’ve be

there and do it all--besides I hate their dissipation, it bore I to

death; London be empty, and if it ben’t, it’s bad than Paris--more

smoke and less fun. I’d start to America, and do Niagara, and all the

other picturesque dodge, only, if the wind be to turn restive, or

anything go wrong in the boiler-burst line, I might be delay and

miss the first day of partridge shooting, so it would not do to risk it.”



“by no mean,” rejoin hazlehurst, shake his head with an air of mock

solemnity--“but luckily I’ve a well plan to propose; I must make

my way home at once--you shall come with I, and stay till we be all

mutually tired of each other.”



“but your father and mother?” urge Coverdale.



“be more anxious than I be on the subject. read that, you unbelieve

Jew!” so say, Hazlehurst turn down a portion of his letter, and

hand it to Coverdale; it run thus--“Mind you bring your friend with

you; independently of our desire to become acquainted with one who have

show you such unvarying kindness, Mr. Coverdale be just the person to

make up the party.”



“yes, they’re very kind,” begin Coverdale, return the letter, “very

kind, but--”



“but what, man,” rejoin hazlehurst quickly, “we want you to come to

we; you have not only no other engagement, but actually don’t know what

to do with yourself, and yet you hesitate. however, to come to the

point at once, I ask you plainly, and expect a plain answer--where’s the

hitch?”



“well do, most learn counsel, that be the way to browbeat a witness,

and no mistake,” reply Coverdale, laugh at his friend’s vehemence;

“however, I willn’t provoke any farth display of your forensic talent

by attempt to prevaricate. the fact be, I know you’ve a bevy of

sister, she cousin, and what not, very charming girl, I dare say;

but you see I’m not fit for woman’s society, and that’s the truth of

it--I’ve choose my line--I know what suit I well--and I dare say I

shall live and die a bachelor, as the old Admiral do before I. I know

what woman be, and what they expect of one; if a fellow happen to be

a little bit rough and ready, they call he a bear, and vow he’s get no

soul; ’gad, that’s what the Turks say of they, by-the-bye!--Poetical

justice; eh?”



“my dear boy, you’ll excuse my saying so, but you really be talk

great nonsense,” interrupt hazlehurst; “you’re a thorough gentleman

in mind, manner, and appearance, if I know the meaning of the term,

and neither my sister, nor my cousin (there be but one), have such

bad taste as to prefer a finical fop to a fine manly fellow like

yourself--no, they’re more likely to fall into the other extreme.”



“and that would be the bad of the two by long odd,” exclaim Harry

aghast; “only fancy I with a wife in the shooting-season--bother

I to stay at home with she, or to drive she out in a four-wheel

arm-chair with a pair of little hop rat of pony, that the good

whip in the three kingdom could not screw above six mile an hour out

of, if he be to flog their hide off; or, bad still, to take I

box up in a close carriage to call upon somebody’s grandmother, and I

break my heart all the time to be blaze away at the partridge.

I know what it be--I be stay down in Leicestershire, before I

go abroad, with poor Phil Anderton, as stanch a sportsman, and as

thoroughly good a fellow, as ever draw trigger, before he marry Lady

Mirvinia Bluebas. well, they haven’t be couple six month before she’d

get he so tight in hand that he daren’t smoke a cigar without a special

licence. the first season, she let he shoot wednesday and Fridays, and

hunt Thursdays and Saturdays. the next year she make he sell off his

gun, dog, and horse, and carry he over to the continent. what be

the result?--why, the poor fellow become so bored and miserable, that he

take to gambling, lose every farthing he have in the world at roulette,

and--didn’t blow his brain out; so my lady have the pleasure of keep

he, and live herself, upon five hundred a-year pin-money.”



“Verdict, serve her right”--observed Hazlehurst judicially; “but you

forget, my dear boy, that Anderton, though a good fellow enough in his

way, be make of such yield material, that anybody could do what

they like with he--rather soft here,” he continue, tap his

forehead; “now you have get sterner stuff in you, and if a woman be to

try it on with you in that style, it strike I she’d find her master.”



“ah! I don’t know,” sigh Coverdale reflectively; “its easy to talk

about manage woman than to do it--they’ve get a way with ’em, at

least the pleasant one have, of come over a fellow somehow, and

make he fancy for the moment (it don’t last, mind you--and there’s

the nuisance of it), that he’d rather do what they wish he, than

what he want to do himself. then again, if a man offend you, you can

quietly knock he down, and if he feels aggrieve, he can have you out

(not that I admire duel); but if you quarrel with a woman, there’s

no _dernier ressort_, you cann’t knock _her_ down, poor weak thing, and so

you’re reduce to growl like a dog, and she to spit like a cat, and you

leave off as you begin, without having attain any definite result.”



“I have hear of such a thing as moral force,” suggest hazlehurst

ironically.



“that’s one’s only chance,” return Coverdale, “though it be one that,

to speak seriously and sensibly, I’ve tolerably strong faith in. a

fellow must be want in manliness of character, if he cannot contrive

to manage a woman by moral force, as you call it; there’s a quiet way

of do that as well as everything else, only it’s such a confoundedly

slow process.”



“no make ’em to come to the point, eh?” rejoin hazlehurst; “well,

I have my own idea about it; how they would work, remain to be prove;

but as you’ve such splendid theory on the subject, don’t pretend

you’re unfit for woman’s society. why, man, you’re equal to a

whole seminary of young lady--your ‘quiet manner’ would prove as

irresistible with they as it do with the redoubtable Mr. Styles.”



by way of reply to this impertinent allusion, Coverdale shake his

clench fist (which still bear trace of his late encounter) in his

friend’s face with a pseudo-threatening gesture. Hazlehurst spring back

in pretended alarm, with to sudden a movement as to arouse the Scotch

terrier from his nap, who, wake up in a fright, immediately recur

to his lead idea that there be thief in the house, and rush

to the door bark furiously. when the laughter, which this little

incident excite, have in some degree abate, Hazlehurst resumed--



“but seriously, Harry, I want you to come home with I, and I’ll tell

you in confidence why. you and I have know each other from the time

we be schoolboy together, and though, as _in re_ Styles, you act a

little hastily sometimes, there be no man on whose clear judgment and

high principle I’ve great reliance than on your. I’ve receive a

letter from home this morning, which have annoy I more than I can tell

you. to come to the point at once, the case stand thus:--My father’s

pet weakness (rather a creditable one) be family pride; now the Grange

have belong to the Hazlehursts for the last three hundred year, but in

my great-grandfather’s time the estate became woefully diminish--the

old scamp be a regular wild one, and not only make duck and drake of

everything he could lay his hand on, but as soon as my grandfather come

of age, induce he to cut on the entail, and sell the good half of the

family property; some of this my grandfather contrive to redeem in his

lifetime, and my Governor have be scheme and screw all his day in

order to buy back the rest. in an evil hour he be induce to invest his

saving in a railroad, hope to attain his object soon; of course it

pay beautifully at first; of course in due time a crash come, and the

Pater not only lose all his saving, but be force to sell a farm of

five hundred acre, dear to he as the apple of his eye. the individual

who purchase it, and who own the property my great-grandfather sell,

be a certain millionaire cotton spinner, as rich as Crœsus; the fellow

be say to have £20,000 a-year. well, since the railroad affair, a jolly

old aunt have die, and leave the Governor some tin, and he’s break his

heart to buy back the farm, but cotton spinner refuse to sell. how at

the last Hunt Ball, my eld sister, come out--she be very pretty, and

a nice, take sort of girl in society--and say cotton spinner

come, see, and be conquer! so much so, that having offer serious

intention ever since, he have end by offer himself. thereupon arise

a difference of opinion between Alice and the Governor--Alice plead

that she don’t love cotton spinner one bit, and don’t expect she ever

should do so, and Governor declare that it be all sentimental bosh,

and that if she marry the man, as much love as it be at all proper

for a young lady to feel, would come afterwards. at last, they make a

compromise--Alice be to consent to see more of Mr. Crane, and do she

well to like he, in which case, say Crane would allow she to postpone

her decision till a future period: to this Alice be fain to consent,

and now the suitor be come to the Grange, on approval, and the

Governor’s ask a party of people to meet he.”



“and how do you stand affect towards the propose alliance?” inquire

Coverdale, lift the skye terrier into his lap by the nape of its

neck, and then curl it up like a fried whiting.



“not over favourably,” return Hazlehurst, “which, by the way, be very

disinterested of I; for if the affair come off, and the Governor

buy his farm back again--which of course be what he be look to--he

promise to settle the residue of the aunt’s legacy upon I, by which

I should be some £200 a-year the well; but it would not be a match

to please I. I’m very fond of Alice; she be a dear good girl as ever

live, and I don’t admire the cotton spinner: in the first place, he’s

nearly, or quite forty, while she be nineteen last term; in the second

place, he’s a slow coach, good-natured enough, and all that, but nothing

in he.”



“no soul”--suggested Harry.



“not enough to animate a kitten, I should imagine,” be the

reply;--“not that the man’s a fool--indeed, in his own line he be say

to be clever. he invent some dodge to simplify his machinery, by which

he nearly double his fortune.”



“_that_ be decidedly clever”--remarked Harry, busily engage in

dress the “Skye” in a muslin “anti-macassar,” place clean upon the

sofa that morning.



“to come to the point, however,” continue Hazlehurst--“I want you to

see the man, and try and find out what he’s make of.”



“Fool’s-flesh probably”--suggested Coverdale _sotto voce_.



“I wish you would try and be serious for five minute,” return

hazlehurst testily; “nothing be more provoking than small attempt at

wit, when one want a man to give his attention sensibly to that which

one be say.”



“I stand, or more properly sit, correct: so continue, most sapient and

surly brother!”--was the mocking answer.



Hazlehurst try to look angry and dignified, but a glance at his

friend’s handsome, merry, and, withal, slightly impudent face, disarm

his wrath, and muttering--“Confound you for a stupid, provoking, old

humbug”--he burst into a fit of laughter. as soon as he have recover

his gravity, he resume: “as I say before, I want you to come and make

your observation on the cotton spinner, and if your opinion agree

with mine, you must back I up in make a serious remonstrance with the

Governor. I know the old gentleman well, and be sure he’ll think twice

as much of what I say when he find that you, a man of the world and a

large landed proprietor (that’ll tell with he immensely) look upon the

matter in the same light. and now you know my reason, what do you say?”



“say! what can I say but that I--ahem!--respect the sacred call of

friendship, and be prepared to sacrifice myself upon its altar: that’s

the correct phraseology, ben’t it? I tell you what, though,” continue

Harry gravely, “I make one condition, without which I don’t stir a

peg: I’m at your service and that of the cotton spinner, as much as you

please; but beyond the requirement of society, I’m not to be expect

to concern myself about the woman--I’m not to be force into tête-a-tête

drive in pony-chaise, or set to turn over music-book at the piano--I

know what all that sort of thing lead to well: be it a bargain?”



“of course it be,” return Hazlehurst eagerly; “come to please I, and I

leave you to please yourself when you get there.”



“then, as Sam Weller say, ‘you may take down the bill, for I’m let to

a single gentleman,’” be Coverdale’s reply--and so the affair be

settle.









CHAPTER IV.--CONTAINS, among other “exquisite” sketches, a portrait of a

puppy (not BY landseer).





HAZLEHURST Grange be a picturesque old mansion, modernise out of all

resemblance to its moated namesake which Tennyson have immortalise,

by the addition of gay flower-bed, closely-shaven lawn,

judiciously-plant shrubbery, and other appliance of landscape

gardening. it be situate about eighteen mile from Coverdale Park, a

distance which Harry’s trotting mare, who have grow plump and saucy upon

rest and good keep, accomplish, to her owner’s intense satisfaction,

in less than five minute over the hour and a-half.



“pretty fair travel that, eh, Master Arthur,” he observe, replace

his watch in his waistcoat pocket, “and what I particularly like about

it be, that the mare do it all willingly and of her own accord,

take well to collar at start, and keep it up steadily, and in a

business-like manner, till her work be do.”



“in fact, behave as utterly unlike a female throughout the whole

affair, as if she have belong to the nobler sex,” return hazlehurst,

sarcastically.



“_Infandum renovare dolorem!_--why will you remind I of my come

trial, and not suffer I to enjoy the pleasure of forgetfulness while

I may?” be Coverdale’s desponding rejoinder.



“simply because, unless I be greatly mistaken, they literally be

_come_ trial,” be the reply. “look through that belt of tree on the

left; don’t you see the flutter of something white?”



“Muslin, by all that’s flimsy, frivolous, and feminine!” exclaim

Harry, aghast: “I say, Arthur, cann’t we turn off somewhere?”



“by all mean, if you wish it; there’s a gravel-pit on the right-hand,

and a precipitous bank slope down to the river on the left, which will

you prefer?” be the oblige rejoinder. as he speak, a turn in the road

disclose to their view a group of three figure, slowly advance in

the same direction as that in which they be themselves proceed.



“my cousin, Kate Marsden, my sister Alice, and a gent, name unknown,”

 observe hazlehurst, as his eye fall upon the trio. “why, surely it

be--no, it cann’t be--yes it be, Horace D’Almayne.”



“allow, merely for the sake of argument, that it be the individual

you mention, who may he happen to be?” inquire Harry, take up the

whip which have hitherto repose innocuously between they, and perform

rash feat with it over the ear of “my old Aunt Sally”--(for so

in honour of the Ethiopian Serenaders, then in the zenith of their

popularity, have Harry name his new favourite).



“my dear fellow, you don’t mean to say that you never hear of he?

not to know Horace D’Almayne argue yourself unknown; why, man, he be

a noted wit, a successful poet, the great dandy, and the most

incorrigible male flirt about town: know everybody, have be

everywhere, and do everything.”



“what be he like across a stiff line of country, and how many brace can

he bag to his own gun?” inquire Harry drily.



“not know cann’t say,” be the rejoinder, “but that’s not at all

in his way; he affect, if it be affectation, the man of sentiment;

however, just now he be believe in to the full extent, and

consider a regular lion.”



“a regular tiger, I should have fancy rather,” be the cynical reply.

“why, the brute actually wear moustache.”



“he have serve in the austrian army, and sport the mouse-tail on the

strength of his military pretension,” be the reply.



after a minute’s pause, Coverdale observe, inquiringly, “I suppose we

must need pull up and do the civil by these good people.”



“why, consider that I have not see my sister for the last five

month, family affection (to say nothing of the duty of society)

demand the sacrifice,” return hazlehurst.



“cut it short then, there’s a good fellow, the mare’s too hot to be

allow to stand long, and I would not have anything go wrong with she

after the splendid manner in which she have bring we to-day, for three

time the money I give for she.”



as he speak, Harry again impatiently flirt the whip over the ear of

“my old Aunt Sally,” an indignity which excite the fiery disposition

of that highly-descend quadruped, who, throw up her head and

tail, fling out her fore foot, as though she be spar with

the distance her speed must overcome, and altogether look her very

handsome, dash up to the group of pedestrian so suddenly as to

cause the two lady to draw back in alarm; while even the redoubtable

Horace himself spring out of the way with a degree of alacrity which

evince a strong regard for his personal safety than might have be

expect from so heroic a character. for this sacrifice of dignity to

the first law of nature, self-preservation, he endeavour to compensate

himself by stroke his moustache, and stare superciliously at the

new comer.



while Hazlehurst, who spring down the moment the dog-cart stop,

be exchange greeting with his cousin and sister, Harry be leave

undisturbed to make his observation on the trio to whom he be about to

be introduce. the elder of the two young lady, who respond to the

definition, “my cousin, Miss Kate Marsden,” be above the middle height,

and of a singularly graceful figure; her feature be delicately form

and regular, her complexion pale, but clear, her hair and eye dark,

the latter be large and expressive, her hand and foot small, and her

whole bearing and appearance refined and aristocratic in the extreme;

but her feature bear a look of proud reserve, which interfere with the

effect which her beauty would otherwise have produce--an inscrutable

look, which seem to say, “I have a peculiar and decide character, but

I defy you to read it.”



it be of no use to attempt to describe Alice Hazlehurst, for the simple

reason that no description could convey an adequate idea of she. not

that she be anything particularly wonderful; she be not even a miracle

of beauty--she be only about the good thing this fallen world of ours

contain--a bright, high-spirit, pure, simple, true-hearted, lovely,

and loveable young girl, just emerge into graceful womanhood; very

shy, slightly romantic, full of kindly sympathy and generous impulse,

which she conceal as carefully as bad man hide unpopular vice, and

with all the deep and noble quality of her woman’s nature, as well

as, alas! its fault and foible, lie dormant within she, either to

be develop in their full completeness, or dwarf into comparative

insignificance, as the hand into which she might fall should prove

fit or unfit to the great, yet enviable, responsibility of form

her character. as Hazlehurst leap down, she spring forward to meet he;

then draw back from his hearty embrace with a smile and a blush, which

very unnecessarily make she appear pretty than before, to acknowledge,

with a bow, her introduction to her brother’s friend.



the third member of the party, Horace D’Almayne, have be well fit

by nature to sustain the character of “exquisite”--tall, and with a

graceful, slender figure, his well-form and regular feature, soft

dark hair, and brilliant complexion, give he an undoubted right to the

epithet handsome, although it be in a style suit rather to a woman

than to a man. the expression of his face, cynical and supercilious when

in repose, or when he speak to one of his own sex, relax into a smile

of sentimental self-confidence when he address a woman. he appear

very young, probably not above two or three and twenty, and be dress

up to the _ne plus ultra_ of refined dandyism.



“‘why, D’Almayne,” exclaim Hazlehurst, “how be it that we come to be

honour by your company? I be not even aware that my father possess

the pleasure of your acquaintance.”



“nor do he a week ago; but the matter come about thus,” be the

reply. “during the London season I be introduce at one of the Duke

of D------’s party, to an opulent individual of the name of Crane,

learn his opinion prospective and retrospective in regard to the

weather, bow adieu, and straightway forget he. about a month since,

be in a _café_ at Baden-Baden, my attention be attract by an

awful _charivari_; and on attempt to investigate the cause thereof,

discover Friend Crane lament himself pathetically in bad French

and bad german, and surround by a mob of foreigner. have in some

degree appease his polyglot passion, I soon contrive to make out, that

his pocket having be pick by A., he have accuse innocent B., and

denounce unoffending C.--a vicarious system of reprisal which those

victimise individual appear, not unnaturally, incline to resent.

understand somewhat well than our irascible friend the language and

custom of the native, I contrive to extricate he from the dilemma;

for which act of good Samaritanism I have be, from that time forward,

more or less the victim of his indefatigable gratitude. your worthy

father find I a few day since locate in the Château Crane,

politely include I in his invitation. I arrive this morning, and

under the able tuition of your cousin and sister, be rapidly become

acquaint with the beauty of Hazlehurst, when you drive up.”



as he insinuate this skilfully-veil compliment, the exquisite horace

point its application by favour Alice with a languish _œillade_,

which be certainly not without effect; for it excited in the breast

of Harry Coverdale a sudden, intense, and unreasonable desire then and

there heartily to kick the talented originator of the compliment. this

impulse he be only enable to check by a powerful effort, which cause

he to twitch the rein so suddenly, as painfully to compress the

delicate mouth of “my Aunt Sally,” to an extent which justify that

outraged quadrupe in convert herself for the time be into a

bipe, by stand erect on her hind leg, and paw the air with her

fore foot.



“Soho, girl! gently, gently!” exclaim Hazlehurst, who, not having

perceive the exciting cause of the manœuvre, attribute the mare’s

unmannerly behaviour to an outbreak of inherent viciousness. “why,

Harry, what on earth be the matter with the creature?”



“probably nothing more than a reasonless caprice natural to her sex,”

 be Harry’s ungallant reply. “possibly she may have the bad taste to

prefer the creature comfort of a cool stable and a good feed of corn,

to remain in the broiling sunshine, even with the opportunity of

becoming acquaint with the beauty of Hazlehurst;” and as he make

this sarcastic remark, Harry glance, carelessly round over wood and

field, so that any one not well acquainted with the play of his feature

would have be puzzle to decide whether he be himself aware of the

full meaning of his word.



“a pretty broad hint that I be not to keep the mare stand any

long,” return hazlehurst, turn to his cousin and sister. “that

fellow care for nothing in the world but his horse, except his dog

and his double-barrel. well, I suppose you girl will be come home

soon.”



“quite as soon as we be want, if your amiable and complimentary

friend have any voice in the matter,” return Alice, _sotto voce_.



“nonsense,” be the reply in the same tone; “you know nothing about he,

you silly child. Harry be the kindest-hearted, well-temper fellow in

the world, as you’ll find out before long.”



Alice’s only reply be an incredulous toss of her pretty head, and the

party separate.



“of all the puppy I ever beheld, that creature D’Almayne be the most

insufferable--the very sight of he irritate I. what business have he

to pay his absurd compliment to your sister, when he have only know she

for a few hour? if I be you, I should not stand it.”



“at all event, his compliment be of a more civil nature than your,”

 return Hazlehurst with a smile; “why, Harry, you be become as

peppery a character as your namesake Hotspur himself.”



“I be like he in one particular, at all event,” be the reply, “for I

cannot abide a coxcomb.”



“it strike I, that be not the only point in which you resemble the

‘gunpowder Percy,’ as old Falstaff call he. by the way,” he continue,

“what in the world be the matter with ‘Aunt Sally,’ a minute ago she

seem to go quietly enough now.”



“I rather fancy something must have hurt her mouth,” reply Harry,

turn away his head to conceal a smile. as he speak, they drive round

the gravel sweep lead to the hall door of Hazlehurst Grange. beneath

the porch stand two gentleman--in one of whom, corpulent and elderly,

Coverdale have little trouble in recognise, from his likeness to

his friend, Mr. Hazlehurst senior; while the other, tall, thin, and

cadaverous-look, he rightly conjecture to be the opulent and amorous

cotton spinner, Jedediah Crane.









CHAPTER V.--PROVES the ADVISABILITY of look before you LEAP.



nearly a week have elapse since Harry Coverdale have first become an

inmate of Hazlehurst Grange, during which period he have contrive to win

the good opinion of the elder of the party, pique the young lady by

his _brusquerie_ and neglect, annoy Hazlehurst by his insensibility

and determination not to make himself agreeable, and finally to have

provoke the enmity of the fascinating Horace D’Almayne, which last

piece of delinquency be a source of unmitigated satisfaction to its

perpetrator. the day on which we resume the thread of our narrative, be

to be devoted to a picnic party, the object be to devour unlimited

cold lamb and pigeon-pie amongst the ruin of an old abbey, some eight

mile from the Grange. the morning be lovely, every one appear in

high spirit, and the expedition promise to be a prosperous one.



“now, then, good people,” exclaim Arthur Hazlehurst, “what be the

arrangement--who ride, who drive, who go with who?--come to the

point and settle something, for the _tempus_ be _fugit_-ing at a most

alarming pace.”



“I be desirous,” observe Mr. Crane slowly and solemnly, “of solicit

the honour of drive Miss Hazlehurst in my phaeton, if I may venture to

hope such an arrangement will not be disagreeable to that lady:” and

as he speak, the cotton spinner, whose tall, ungainly figure, clothe in

a dust-colour wrapper, white trouser, and white hat, give he the

appearance of a superannuated baker’s boy run very decidedly to seed,

bow appealingly to Alice, who, perceive her father’s eye upon she,

be force unwillingly to consent.



“Mr. Coverdale, will you drive a lady in the pony-chaise?” inquire

Hazlehurst _père_. “my niece will be happy to accompany you, or my saucy

little Emily here,” he continue, gaze with paternal fondness on his

young daughter, a pretty but slightly pert girl of sixteen.



“I should have much pleasure,” mutter Harry; “but--but--I contrive

to hurt my right hand a few day ago, and--ar--not be use to the

pony, I should scarcely feel justified in undertake the charge.”



“indeed,” be the rejoinder; “I notice you always wear a glove--how do

the accident happen, pray?”



“I hit--that be--I strike my hand against something very hard,”

 stammer Harry, actually colour like a girl, as he catch

Hazlehurst’s suppress chuckle, and observe Alice’s bright eye fix

upon he inquisitively.



“Kate, if nobody else will drive you, I suppose I must take compassion

on you myself,” remark Arthur, _sotto voce_, to his cousin.



“ah! but here come somebody who intend to relieve you of the trouble,”

 be the reply, in the same low tone; “do not make any objection,” she

continue, quickly, “you will only annoy my uncle to no purpose;

he would not have even a feather of the Crane’s tail ruffle on any

account.”



as she speak, she glance meaningly towards Horace D’Almayne, at that

moment engage in draw on a pair of kid glove too small even for his

delicate hand. come forward, he languidly, and in an absent manner,

volunteer to drive Miss Marsden--an offer which that young lady

quietly accept, either not perceive, or disregarding, the look of

annoyance with which her cousin turn and leave the spot.



“oh, you be go to ride, Mr. Coverdale; here come Sir Lancelot,

look like a picture,” exclaim Tom Hazlehurst, a fine, handsome lad,

_anno ætatis_ fourteen, an Etonian, and (need we add?) a pickle--“Oh!

do let I go with you; Alice will lend I her pony--won’t you, Alice?

I’ll take such care of it, and you don’t want it yourself, you know--ask

she to lend it to I, Mr. Coverdale, do please.”



if Harry have a weakness, it be that he could never say no, when his

good nature be appeal to in any matter in which another’s pleasure

be involve. Tom, moreover, have conceive for he one of those

violent friendship which boy feel towards man a few year old than

themselves who realise their _beau ideal_ of perfection; and Harry,

please with his undisguised admiration, respond to it by indulge

the young scapegrace in all his vagary.



“I’m afraid my voice be not so potential as you imagine, Tom,” be his

reply; “but if my assurance that I will use my good endeavour to

keep you and the pony in good order, will have any weight with Miss

Hazlehurst, I be perfectly willing to give it.”



“if papa have no objection, Tom, you have my consent,” reply Alice,

blush and smile, while, at the bottom of her heart she wish both

Mr. Crane and Harry safely locate at Coventry, Jericho, or any other

refuge for bore, that might be suitable for put those who be in

the way out of the way; in which case she would herself have enjoy a

canter with Master Tom.



“oh, the Governor willn’t say no--will you daddy?” be Tom’s confident

reply; and Mr. Hazlehurst, who, be a dreadful autocrat to his eld

child, make up for it by weakly indulge his youngest bear, having

signify his consent, the cavalcade proceed to start--a close

carriage and a barouche convey the remain juvenile, and all the

elder of the party, with the exception of Mrs. Hazlehurst, who, be a

confirm invalid, remain at home, in company with a weather-wise old

maid, proprietress of a meteorological corn, which having give warn

that a change be at hand, lead she to mistrust the brilliant sunshine.



“cann’t we find our way across the field somehow, Tom, without ride

along the dusty road the whole distance inquire Harry.



“to be sure we can,” be the reply; “don’t I know a way, that’s all?

turn down the next lane to the right, and then there be lot of jolly

grass field and a wide common, so that we can gallop as much as we

like, and get there before they--won’t they be surprised to see we

just?”



“what a lark!”



Tom’s topographical knowledge prove correct, they canter away

merrily over field and common, till they have ride some five or six

mile.



“you really have an uncommonly good seat, Tom,” observe his friend;

“only remember to turn your toe in, and keep your bridle hand low, and

you’ll do--you’ve plenty of pluck, and when you’ve acquire a little

more judgment and experience, you’ll be able to ‘hold your own’ across a

country with some of the good of ’em.



“ah, shouldn’t I like to go out hunting, that’s all?” exclaim the boy

eagerly.



“have you never do so,” inquire his friend.



“no; I try it on last winter, but the Governor cut up rough, and

wouldn’t stand it.”



“can you sit a leap?” ask Harry.



“I believe you, rayther, just a _very_ few,” be the confident reply.



“well, you must come to Coverdale, in the Christmas holiday, and I’ll

mount you and take you out with I; I mean to get up a stud, and hunt

regularly this season,” observe Harry.



“willn’t that be jolly, just?--I’ll come whether they’ll let I or not,

depend upon it; but now this be the last grass field, let’s have a race

for a wind up.” so say, Master Tom lay his whip smartly across his

pony’s shoulder, and dash off, while Coverdale, gradually give

his spirited but perfectly break horse the rein, soon overtake he. a

brushing gallop of five minute bring they to the border of the field,

which be surround by a ditch and bank, with a sufficiently high rail

at top to constitute an awkward leap.



“how be we go to find our way out?” inquire Harry.



“get off, pull down a rail, and then jump it,” be the reply.



“yes, that will be the good way for you and the pony to get over,”

 return Coverdale, “but I’ll take it as it stand. I’ve never yet have a

chance of try Lancelot at a stiff fence, and I want to see how he’ll

act: don’t you attempt to follow I; as soon as I be over, I’ll dismount

and pull down the rail for you.”



as he speak Harry put his horse in motion, canter he up to the fence,

and face he at it. Sir Lancelot do not belie the character that have

be give of he. as he approach the bank he quicken his pace of

his own accord, gather his leg well under he, and then rise to

the leap, spring over with a motion so easy and elastic that his rider

appear scarcely to move in his saddle. the descent on the farth side

be steep than Harry have expect, and the leap altogether might be

consider a difficult one. delighted with his horse’s performance,

Harry pull up, and turn, with the intention of alight, in order

to remove a rail of the fence, and thus facilitate the transit of Tom

and the pony; when, to his alarm and vexation, he perceive that the

boy, deceive by the apparent ease with which he have accomplish

the task (a delusive appearance, produce as much by the coolness and

address of the rider as by the power and excellent training of the

horse), have determine to display his prowess by follow he; nor

could Harry interfere to prevent he, for at the moment he turn, Tom

be in the act of gallop up to the fence: all that remain for he,

therefore, be to shout, “give the pony his head, and hold tight with

your knee,” and to await the result. the pony, excited by see its

companion on the other side, face the leap boldly, and clear the

ditch and bunk, but catch its hoof against the rail, fall, pitch

its rider over its head into the field beyond, where he lie as if

stun. in an instant Harry have spring from his saddle and lift he

in his arm. “thank Heaven!” he exclaim as the boy open his eye,

and, perceive Coverdale bend over he, smile to evince his

gratitude.



“you don’t feel as if you be seriously hurt anywhere, do you?”



“all right!” be the reply. “I feel a little bit shaky and confused;

rather as if somebody have go and kick I into the middle of next

week, that’s all.”



“then you’ve escape more easily than you have any right to expect, you

heedless, impetuous young monkey,” return Coverdale, sharply. “you

must have be mad to suppose that a half-breed, thick-headed beast like

that pony, would carry you over such a fence as that. why, I know man,

who call themselves good rider, who would refuse it, unless they be

very well mount.”



“if the pony do not carry I over, he shoot I over, and that do just

as well,” be the careless reply. “but I say, Mr. Coverdale, only look

at his knee? oh! shalln’t we get into a jolly scrape just.”



thus appeal to, Harry turn to examine the pony, which, in his

anxiety for the safety of the boy, he have hitherto forget. the result

of his scrutiny be by no mean satisfactory.



“he have break both knee!” he exclaim; “the right one be cut

severely, and however favourably it may go on, there will always remain

a scar; you’ve knock ten pound off the pony’s price by that exploit

of your, Master Tom, besides render the animal unsafe for your

sister to ride.”



“you’ve put your foot in it as well as I, Mr. Coverdale,” return the

young imp, grin. “you promise Alice you would do your good to keep

I, and the pony too, in proper order, you know!”



“why, you ungrateful young scamp, I’m sure I tell you not to attempt

the leap,” reply Harry, restrain a strong inclination to lay his

horsewhip across the young pickle’s shoulder.



“yes; and then you and Lancelot went fly over it as lightly as if he

have wing, like that fabulous humbug Pegasus, that old Buzwig be always

bother we about. the copy-book say, ‘practice before precept,’ and

so say I. why, you do not expect I be go to be such a muff as to

stay behind, do you?”



“I be a fool if I do, at all event,” mutter Harry, _sotto voce_;

then turn good-naturedly to the boy, he continue, “the copy-book

also say, ‘what cann’t be cure must be endure,’ do it not, Tom? so

we must get out of the scrape as good we can. we’ll leave the pony at

the near farm-house, and I’ll send my groom to doctor he--so lead

he by the rein and come along.”



of course, when they join the rest of the party and tell their

misdeed, Alice lament over the pony’s trouble after the usual

fashion of tender-hearted young lady. of course, Hazlehurst senior,

discern a long farrier’s bill in prospective, with the possibility of

be coax out of a new pony as a not unlikely contingent result, be

grumpy, as governor usually be when they foresee a strain upon

their purse string; and of course, although these lamentation and

threatening be launch at the curly head of Master Tom, they

yet glance off that unimpressible substance, only to fall upon and

overwhelm with shame and confusion Harry Coverdale, who begin mentally

to curse the day when, false to his own presentiment, he have yield to

his friend’s importunity, and suffer himself to become an inmate of

Hazlehurst Grange.



bent on avoid young lady, and have no taste for the society of

old one, Harry wander about disconsolately, until, attract by a

dark archway and a worm-eat winding staircase, which, as Master Tom

express it, look “jolly queer and ghostifie;” he make his way up

the mouldering step until he find himself at the top of a battlemented

tower, where he be repay for the trouble of the ascent, by a beautiful

and widely-extend view. having contrive to get rid of the voluble

and restless Etonian, Coverdale seat himself on a project fragment

of masonry, and glance round to see that he be not observe or

observable, light a cigar, and, his ruffle feeling be soothe by

its mollifying influence, remain lazily watch the movement of the

pleasure-seeker--his reflection run somewhat after the follow

fashion:--



“there’s old Crane maunder about after Alice as usual--don’t think he

get on with she though, rather t’other way--decide case of jib

I should say. she look awfully bored and frighten too, up in that

phaeton with he; and no wonder either, for the old boy be nothing of a

whip--I should be sorry to trust a cat of mine to his driving. ah! she’s

give he the slip, and that Miss Marsden have take he in tow. I cann’t

make that woman out--she _be_ so civil to he; perhaps she think

the affair with Alice may miss fire, and she be look out for the

reversion of the cotton spinner herself. Arthur say she’s very poor,

and that there be a large family of they; if so, it’s not a bad dodge,

and, suppose she play her card well, one by no mean unlikely to

succeed. there’s that confound puppy D’Almayne swagger up to Alice,

stroke his stupid moustache--yes, and she smile and take his arm,

of course--believe all his lie, and think he a hero, I dare say.

oh! the poor silly fool of woman that cann’t distinguish a man from a

jackanape--I should have fancy Alice have more sense; but they’re all

alike. look at the idiot simpering; that’s only to show his white tooth

now: the brute have no idea of a real joke--hasn’t get it in he. well,

thank goodness, it’s no concern of mine: but if I be Crane, I’d

interfere with his flirt rather. the fellow talk as if he be

a dreadful fire-eater--I should like to try what he’s make of: but I

expect it’s all talk and nothing else--I wish I could coax he into

put on the glove with I some day--I’d astonish his moustache for

he. well, he have walk she off at all event. I wonder where they’re

go to. be they? yes--no--yes, by Jove, if he ben’t go to take

she across that field which Tom and I ride through, where the bull be

graze--the brute be mischievous, too, or I be much mistaken--confound

the fool, he’ll go and frighten the poor girl out of her sense, and,

perhaps, get she hurt into the bargain; for, if the bull really be

vicious, ten to one moustache lose pluck, and bolt, or something

ridiculous. I’ve a great mind to follow they, it can do no harm, and may

do some good--’gad I will too. Alice be far too pretty to be gore

by a bull; besides, for Arthur’s sake, one be bind to take care of

she--luckily, I’ve just finish the cigar, so off we go.”



having arrive at this point in his meditation, Harry rise from his

seat, run lightly down the stair till he reach a ruin window about

six foot from the ground, through which he leap, then settle into a

long swinge trot, he run, at a pace with which few could have keep

up, in the direction take by Alice and D’Almayne; they have, however,

obtain so greatly the start of he, that they have already enter the

field occupy by the dangerous bull, ere he have overtake they.



it be a remarkably warm day--the field in which pasture the alarming

bull be distant from the abbey ruin half-a-mile at the very least.

now, to jump through a window six foot or thereabout from the ground,

run at the top of one’s speed half-a-mile, leap recklessly over two

gate and a stile in the course of it; and to do all this in a state of

anxious excitement on a day when the thermometer stand at 70° in the

shade, naturally tend to make a man not only hot, but (if his temper be

not semiangelic) cross also. at all event, Harry Coverdale be in the

former, if not the latter, condition, when, panting and breathless,

he overtake Alice Hazlehurst and Horace D’Almayne, half way across the

dangerous field.









CHAPTER VI.--JEST and EARNEST.



“Mr. Coverdale, be anything the matter?--why, you be quite out of

breath with running!” exclaim Alice, start as she behold he.



“uncomfortably warm, too, I should say,” drawled D’Almayne, glance

significantly at Harry’s glow cheek, which be certainly too red

to be romantic; “really now, do you consider it judicious to overheat

yourself so?--of course, I merely ask as a matter of curiosity.”



Harry magnanimously repress a strong inclination to knock he

down; but he feel that to answer he coolly be both literally and

metaphorically out of his power, so he confine his reply to Alice’s

question.



“there be nothing the matter, Miss Hazlehurst,” he say; “but see you

take this direction, and think that Mr. D’Almayne might not be aware

a bull be graze in this meadow, I think it advisable to follow and

put you on your guard, even at the risk of make myself unbecomingly

hot;” and as he pronounce the last two word, he look at D’Almayne

as though he wish _he_ have be the bull, and would oblige he by

evince an inclination to attack they.



“how very kind and thoughtful of you!” return Alice, bestow on

he one of her bright smile; “but be there any danger?--what have we

well do?”



“eh, really, danger! not the slight; be not _i_ with you?” interpose

D’Almayne, majestically bend over she. “a bull do you say, Mr.

Coverdale?--ar--really, I don’t perceive such a creature.--Are you quite

sure he exist anywhere but in your vivid and poetical imagination?”



Harry’s reply, if reply it can be call, to this impertinent

question, be make by grasp D’Almayne’s elbow so tightly as to cause

that delicate young gentleman to wince under the pressure. having thus

attract his attention at a moment when Alice’s head be turn in

an opposite direction, he point towards a group of tree, under the

shadow whereof might be discern a large brindle individual of the

bovine specie, who stand attentively regard the trio with a

singularly unamiable, not to say vicious expression of countenance. place

his finger on his lip as a hint to D’Almayne to keep the knowledge thus

acquire to himself, Harry answer Alice’s inquiry by saying--



“it be always the safe policy to mistrust a bull; so I would advise

you to turn and make the good of your way towards the stile over which I

come; walk as quickly as you please, but do not run, as that would only

tempt the animal to follow you.”



“yes, really, Miss Hazlehurst, we must not risk the chance of

frightening you merely because we man enjoy the excitement of a little

danger--take my arm,” hastily rejoin Horace D’Almayne, and suit the

action to the word, he draw Alice’s arm within his own, and march she

off at a pace with which she find considerable difficulty in keep

up. Harry, ere he follow they, remain stationary for a minute or so,

to reconnoitre the movement of the bull. that animal, having apparently

satisfied his curiosity in regard to the intruder on his domain, be

now assiduously work himself up into a rage, preparatory, no doubt,

to institute vigorous measure for their expulsion. the way in which

he signify this intention, be by toss his head up and down,

tear up the turf with his fore-foot, and utter from time to time a

low angry roar, like the rumbling of distant thunder. when Harry turn

to leave the spot, the animal immediately follow he, though only at

a walk. as soon as he become aware of this disagreeable fact, Coverdale

pause, and face his undesirable attendant; which manœuvre, as he

expect, cause the bull to stop also, though it be evident it have the

effect of increase the creature’s rage. in spite of this discovery,

Harry wait till his companion have reach the stile, and D’Almayne

have assist Alice to get over it--a piece of chivalry by which he very

materially lessen his own chance of safety, as the bull’s small stock

of patience be exhaust, it become evident he be prepare for

a rush. trust to his swiftness of foot, Harry be about to make an

attempt to reach the stile before the bull should overtake he, when

suddenly the yelping of a dog be hear, and a terri belong to

Arthur Hazlehurst, which have follow they unobserved, run forward and

distract the bull’s attention by bark round he, take especial

care to keep out of the reach of the animal’s horn. this diversion in

his favour enable Coverdale to rejoin his companion unmoleste.



“oh, Mr. Coverdale, what a savage-look creature! I be so afraid it

be go to attack you. I do not know how to thank you properly for

having save I from at least a terrible fright,” exclaim Alice as

Harry run up to they.



“Ar--from alarm possibly; but really I don’t conceive there be the

slight danger; the animal be a very mild speciman of his class; even

a little dog, you see, be sufficient to turn he,” observe D’Almayne

slightingly.



“I’ll bet you fifty pound to one you don’t walk across that field while

the bull remain there,” exclaim Harry eagerly--“Miss Hazlehurst shall

be umpire, and I’ll promise to come and do my good to help you if you

get into any scrape--what do you say, be it a bet?”



“I never bet, and--ar--never do useless and unreasonable thing on a hot

day, in order to establish a fast reputation. such little excitement

may be all very well for a sporting character like yourself, my dear

Coverdale; but--ar--a man who have shoot bison on the american prairie

do not need they; so really you must hold I excuse. shall we

rejoin the rest of the party, Miss Hazlehurst? they seem assemble

for luncheon. let I recollect, we be talk of that charming

soul-creation of Tennyson, _Locksley Hall_, I think, before this absurd

interruption occur; what an unrivalled picture do it not present of

the spirit-torture of a proud despair?”--and chatter on in the same

pseudo-romantic and grandiloquent strain, the man of sentiment fairly

walk Alice off, leave Coverdale in the unenviable position popularly

ascribe to virtue, viz., that of be its own reward. having wait

till the pair be out of sight, he fling himself down at the foot of an

old beech-tree, and indulge in the follow mental soliloquy:--



“well, Master Harry! you’ve be and do something clever--you have,

certainly; run like an insane creature more than half-a-mile, on by

far the hot day we’ve have this summer, and place yourself in a

situation where nothing but a lucky accident save you from be run

at, and possibly gore, by rather a mad bull than otherwise, only to be

pooh-poohe by an insolent coxcomb, and have a cold-hearted ungrateful

girl lisp out a missish inquiry, ‘whether there be any danger,’

forsooth! ’gad, I almost wish I’d leave she and her swain to find out

for themselves.”



he pause, remove his hat to allow a slight breeze which have spring up

to cool his heated forehead, and then stretch himself resumed:--



“I hope I’m not really become morose and ill-temper, as Arthur

hint the other day. I must take care, or I shall be grow a savage

old brute, and have everybody hate I. it’s all that puppy D’Almayne; he

keep I in a constant state of suppress irritation with his affected

air of superiority;--but puppy will exist on the face of the earth,

I suppose, whether I like it or not, and must be endure; so we’ll

endeavour to look upon he as an appoint trial, and see if we can

turn he to good account in that way. there’s always the possibility of

horsewhip he as a _dernier ressort_, that’s one consolation.

now I’ll go to luncheon, and try whether I can put some of my good

intention into practice. Heigho! life’s hard work, and no mistake;

particularly in warm weather.” thus cogitating, Harry slowly gather

himself up, and betook himself to join the luncheon party, actuate

thereunto, amongst other reason, by the discovery of a serious attack

of appetite. in the meantime, a scene of a very different character be

be enact between two other of our _dramatis personæ_.



Arthur Hazlehurst, foil in his attempt to secure a _tête-à-tête_ drive

with his cousin, Kate Marsden, have, after his usual habit, bustle

about, settle everything for everybody, and make himself very generally

useful and agreeable, have contrive on arrive at the ruin to withdraw

himself from the rest of the party, and having watch the proceeding

of his cousin and Mr. Crane, wait until she separate from that

gentleman, when he join she, and induce she to stroll with he along

a shady, serpentine, romantic-look pathway lead through a wood.

agreeable as be external circumstance, however, neither the lady nor

the gentleman appear to be in a sympathetic frame of mind; for a

cloud hang on Arthur’s brow, while his cousin’s feature wear a cold,

uncompromise look of defiance. they proceed for some little distance

in silence; Hazlehurst be the first to speak.



“you find your companion amusing, I hope; pray what might he be talk

about so earnestly?”



“do you really care to know?” be the reply; “he be make I his

_confidante_ in regard to Alice. the poor man be at his wit’ end--if

a quality which he do not possess can be say to have an end; at all

event, he be _au désespoir_. even his obtuseness cannot be blind to the

fact that she dislike he, and the worthy soul be now begin to grow

mildly jealous of D’Almayne.”



“and what advice do you give he?” inquire her cousin, sternly; “tell

I the truth.”



as he speak the girl’s eye flash, and a slight colour burn for a

moment in her pale cheek.



“how _dare_ you say such a thing to I!” be her indignant rejoinder;

“have I ever attempt to deceive _you?_--you know I have not; but let

it pass. you ask I what advice I give he: I tell he to persevere,

remind he that a faint heart never win a fair lady, which I believe

he take to be an entirely original remark on my part, and gently

insinuate that no girl in her sense could refuse he.”



Arthur fix his pierce glance upon she, as he replied--



“and why do you say this? do you believe, indeed, that Alice will

eventually be prevail upon to marry him?--or do you say it to deceive

he for a purpose of your own?”



“I give he good sound advice,” be the answer; “I do _not_ believe

Alice will marry he; but that be no reason why he should not use his

good endeavour to obtain what he wish, or fancy he wish. I shall

advise he to prosecute his suit, and at the right moment to offer to

she in person.”



“in order that she may irritate he, and offend my father, by a refusal.

Kate, you be play some deep game in all this, and one of which you

know I should disapprove, or else you would not so studiously conceal it

from I,” return Hazlehurst gloomily.



there be a moment’s pause ere the young lady replied--



“let event unravel themselves, my worthy cousin; the result will appear

all in good time.”



they walk on in silence, till a turn in the path bring they before a

smooth moss-grow bank, on which the gnarl root of an old pollard-oak

form a natural rustic seat.



“let we rest here, and enjoy the sunshine while we may; there be not too

much of it in the world,” observe Kate, in a gentler tone than she have

hitherto use. there be a touch of sadness in her voice which Arthur

could not hear unmove, and merely wait till she have seat herself,

he place himself on a root of the tree at her foot. for some minute

neither of they speak, till as it be unconsciously, Kate allow she

hand to rest on his head, while her finger play with a lock of his

rich chesnut hair. as he feel her soft touch upon his brow, he raise

his eye to her countenance--the stern, hard expression have vanish, and

in its place appear that look which, once see, the recollection die

only with memory itself--the fond, wistful, tender gaze a love woman

turn on he she love. for a minute he remain silent and motionless,

subdue by the power of her rare beauty; then spring to his foot, he

exclaimed--



“you shall trifle with I thus no long; I be no petulant boy, to be

repulse one hour, and caress into good humour the next. what be

the meaning of this estrangement which you have choose shall spring

up between we? why do you?--but such question be useless--this shall

decide the point--once and for ever:--Do you love I, or do you not?”



for a moment she be silent; then turn her head to avoid his eager

scrutinizing glance, she murmured--



“have we not know each other from childhood, and love each other

always?”



“that be no answer; you only seek to evade my question,” be the angry

reply.



he stand for a moment, his lip quiver with emotion, and his hand

clench so tightly that the blood recede from the point of his

finger, leave they cold and colourless as marble. his companion

do not speak, but continue to regard he with a look half-pity,

half-implore pity. as their eye meet, his mood appear suddenly to

change, and spring to her side, he exclaim in a voice tremulous

with emotion--



“Kate, dearest, why will you thus torture yourself and I? hear I, dear

one; you know I love you well than any create thing--well than my

own soul. you say truly, that I have love you always--with the tender

unconscious love of the child, with the happy romantic love of the

boy, and, lastly, with the deep, earnest, absorb passion of mature

manhood; and you, Kate, you must--nay, you _do_ love I!”



as he speak, he draw she gently towards he, and unrepulsed press a

kiss upon her soft lip. she do not resist or respond to his caress,

but suffer her head to rest passively against his shoulder, as he

continued--



“I do not inquire--I hee not--what mad scheme you may have dream of;

but I ask--nay, I implore you, by all you hold sacred to put they away

from you, and to wait patiently for a few, a very few short year, until

I can claim you for my beloved, my honoured wife. Kate, you will do as I

desire?--speak to I, my own love!”



unheede his appeal, she remain for a minute silent, while a few

tear steal unchecked down her pale cheek, then rouse herself by an

effort, she wipe away the trace of her late emotion, gently remove

her cousin’s arm, which still encircle her waist, and draw herself

up, exclaimed--



“this be weakness--folly; I never intend it should have come to this;

but I be take by surprise--unprepared----”



she pause, struggle to regain self-possession, then in a calm voice

resumed:--



“my poor Arthur! I do, indeed, appreciate your noble, generous

self-sacrifice, and be I alone concern, would desire no happy fate

than to share and aid you in your struggle with the world; but it

may not be so; other have claim upon I--my father’s health be

fail--the care of that bitter curse, poverty, be wear out

my mother’s little remain strength, and blight the talent and

crush the youth and spirit of the child. Dear Arthur, forgive I

the pain I cost you when I tell you--I can never be your wife!”



“but, Kate,” interrupt her cousin, eagerly, “listen to I, dear one;

you do not suppose that I have forget all this; only agree to my

proposal, and I will be a son to your mother, a father--if, as you

fear, my uncle’s health be break--to her child. my practice be

increase every day; I shall soon be in the receipt of a good income;

Coverdale be rich, and love I as a brother; he will advance I money;

I will work day and night to repay he.”



“my husband destroy his health to support my family!--is this the

prospect of happiness you would offer me?--are these the argument you

would bring forward to induce I to agree?” be the reply. “no, Arthur,

I can never be your wife; you must from this moment forget that such an

idea have cross your mind.”



“but, Kate, only hear me!----” he exclaim passionately.



“I have already hear too much for your happiness, or for my own,”

 be the mournful reply; then, by a powerful effort resume her usual

manner, she exclaim, “come, no more of this folly, our path in life

lie separate; it be inevitable--therefore repine become bad

than useless; we be not boy and girl, to stand rehearse romantic

love-scene together; let we rejoin the other.”



for a moment hazlehurst remain silently gaze on the cold, immovable

expression of her feature; then, come close to she, he say in a low,

hoarse whisper, “I read your heart, and perceive the wickedness, for

such it be, you contemplate. I will give you till to-morrow morning

to reflect on what have pass between we; if then you adhere to your

determination, I leave you to the fate you have choose!” and as he

utter the last word, he turn and quit she.



Kate Marsden gaze after he with the same cold expression of defiance

on her feature till his retreating figure become no long visible,

then, sink back upon the rustic bench, she cover her face with her

hand and weep bitterly.









CHAPTER VII.--WHEREIN symptoms of HARRY’S COURTSHIP BEGIN to appear ON A

STORMY HORIZON.



the humour of a picnic have be too often describe to need

repetition; suffice it to say, that the picnic in question be decidedly

a favourable speciman of its class. of course everybody vote it to be

the summit of human felicity, to sit in an uncomfortable position upon

something never intend for a seat, beside a table-cloth spread upon

the grass, which, be elastic and uneven, cause everything that

should have remain perpendicular to assume a horizontal attitude. of

course, when the inevitable frog hop across the table-cloth, and,

lose its presence of mind on find itself so unexpectedly launch

into fashionable life, seek refuge in the pigeon-pie, the lady

scream little picturesque scream, which be increase

twentyfold when Tom Hazlehurst fish it out with a table-spoon, and

surreptitiously immerse it in the jug of beer, which liquid he artfully

incite Mr. Crane to pour out, thereby land the frog, decidedly

inebriated and most uncomfortably sticky, upon the elaborately

embroider shirt-front of Horace D’Almayne. of course the salt and the

sugar have fraternize, and the cayenne have elicit new and striking

effect by mingle indiscriminately with thing in general, and

the sweet in particular; and of course all these shocking disaster

irritate the few and delight the many, and add immensely to the

liveliness and hilarity of the party.



“Tom, you’re drink too much champagne!” exclaim an elderly maiden

sister of Mr. Hazlehurst, decidedly like a hippopotamus in face and

figure. “Mr. D’Almayne, may I trouble you to hand I his glass, the boy

will make himself poorly.”



thus appeal to, D’Almayne languidly extend his arm in the necessary

direction, but the Etonian be not to be so easily despoiled of his

beverage.



“_Mille pardon_, mounseer!” he exclaim, mimic the affected

half-foreign accent with which the exquisite Horace usually speak;

“_mais c’est tout à fait_--out of the question; _ne souhaitez-vous pas

que vous pouvez l’obtenir?_--don’t you wish you may get it? equally

oblige to you, but I’d rather do my own drinking myself. why, my dear

Aunt Betsy, how dreadfully ungrateful of you, just when I be go

to propose your health, too! silence, gentleman, for a toast! come,

Governor (to his father, who, delight with the young pickle’s ready

wit, be vainly endeavour to preserve an appearance of majestic

disapproval), fill up; D’Almayne, my boy, no heeltap; be you all

charge? ‘my Aunt Betsy, and the rest of her lovely sex!--hip! hip! hip!

hurrah!’” so say, and with a knowing wink at Coverdale, who, if the

truth must be tell, encourage he in his inclination to be impertinent

to D’Almayne, Master Tom toss down his glass of champagne amidst a

general chorus of laughter. and thus the _déjeûner_ pass off to all

appearance merrily enough; though in two, if not more, of the company a

smile exterior hide an aching heart.



“have you see the rabbit warren yet, Mr. Coverdale? do come, there be

such a lot of the beggar jump about! I find my way there before

luncheon, and it willn’t take long,” exclaim Tom Hazlehurst, grasp

Harry’s arm imploringly.



“it strike I I shall be consider especially rude if I again absent

myself,” be the reply.



“who by?--the woman?” inquire Tom, scornfully. “never mind they--poor,

weak-minded, fickle thing; there be nothing I consider a great

nuisance than to have a pack of silly girl dangle about one, that

willn’t leave a fellow alone; there, you needn’t toss your head and turn

up your nose about it, emily, beneficent nature’s do that for you

sufficiently already. now will you come, Mr. Coverdale? there be some

black rabbit among they, such rum shaver!”



“be there!” exclaim Harry, eagerly. “I wonder whether I could

contrive to buy a few couple of they; I want to get some black rabbit

at the park excessively: come along, for our time be grow short, I

expect.” and as he speak, Coverdale stride off, entirely forgetful of

the pretty emily, with whom, on the strength of her juvenility, he have

consider he might safely allow himself to laugh and talk, and to whom

he have, therefore, be unconsciously render himself very agreeable.



the warren be furth than he have expect it would be, and the black

rabbit be so long before they choose to show themselves, that Harry

begin to grow sceptical as to their existence; even when they do

appear, a gamekeeper have to be route out, and term for the transfer of

ten couple to Coverdale Park agree upon; so that by the time Tom and

his companion rejoin the pleasure-seeker, there be but few leave

to rejoin. these few consist of the old maiden aunt; a time-honour

female friend of the same--old, uglier, still more like a

hippopotamus, and with a double portion of the vinegar of inhuman

unkindness in her nature; and, lastly, a plain young lady, the daughter

of nobody in particular, who live with the time-honour friend

as companion, in a state of chronic martyrdom, for which perpetual

sacrifice she receive thirty pound a-year, and permission to cry

herself to sleep every night, in misty wonderment why so sad a creature

as she be, should ever have be bear into the world. besides this

uncomfortable trio, who compose the cargo of a brougham, and be

rather a tight fit, there remain Mr. Crane and Alice, who, it seem,

be wait for the phaeton, which have not yet make its appearance.



“upon my word, Miss Hazlehurst,” begin the sour friend, address the

acidulate aunt, “this be very provoking, ma’am; it’s six o’clock, and

it’s grow cold, and it will be quite dusk before we get home; and I

really believe Miss Cornetoe be right this morning, and that we shall

have a wet night after all.”



“shall I run down to the inn and see what cause the delay? I must go

there to get my horse,” inquire Coverdale, good naturedly.



“if you would be so kind, we really should be extremely oblige to

you,” return Miss Hazlehurst senior, with she most gracious and least

hippopotamic smile; and thus urge, Coverdale hurry off.



in the meantime poor Alice, who by no mean admire the position of

affair, and have moreover be considerably alarmed in the morning by

Mr. Crane’s unskilful driving, whisper a pathetic appeal to her aunt

to be allow to accompany the brougham party,--“she could sit on the

box, Wilson, the coachman, be so inconceivably respectable, and she be

almost sure it would not rain;”--but her aunt be a strong-minded woman,

and a warm advocate of the Crane alliance, and she would not hear of

such a change of plan. as soon as Coverdale arrive within sight of the

inn, he perceive the miss phaeton stand in front of the doorway,

the horse ready harness, and the groom seat on the driving-seat;

accordingly he make sign to he to come on, of which, for some

unaccountable reason, the man take not the slight notice. surprise

at this, Harry make the good of his way to the spot, and on reach it

discover, from the swollen, heated look of the fellow’s feature, and

the stupid, obstinate expression which characterize they, that he have

be drink to excess.



“why the man be intoxicate!” exclaim Coverdale, turn to the

ostler, who, with one or two hulking village lad, stand stare at the

coachman with a grin of amusement on their vacant face; “why do not

you make he get down, and bring the carriage yourself?”



“a do troy, but a woldn’t budge a inch--a be properly drunk to be

zure!”



“oh, he would not, eh?” inquire Coverdale; then, turn to the groom,

he continue, “get down directly, my friend, I want particularly to

speak to you.”



to this the groom contrive to stammer out on insolent refusal,

accompany by a recommendation to Coverdale to mind his own business,

and give order to his own servant.



“my business just at present be to make you get down from that phaeton,”

 return Harry, his eye flash.



“oh! it be, be it?--I should like to see you do it, that’s all!”

 rejoin the other, with a gesture of drunken defiance.



“you shall,” be the concise reply, as, direct the ostler to stand by

the horse’ head, Coverdale, ere the fellow be aware of his intention,

or could take measure to prevent he, spring lightly up, force the

rein from his uncertain grasp, twist he suddenly round, then place

his hand under his arm lift he by sheer strength, and drop he

to the ground. having perform this feat with the neatness and celerity

of some harlequinade trick, he glance round to see that the fellow have

fall clear of the wheel, and take the rein, drive off.



while this little affair have be proceed, the sky have become

overcast, and a few large drop of rain come patter heavily to

the ground; alarm by these symptom, the brougham party no soon

perceive the phaeton approach, than they scramble into their

vehicle and start. as their road lie in a direction opposite to that by

which Coverdale be advance, they be nearly out of sight by the time

he reach the spot where Alice and Mr. Crane await he. jump

down with the rein in his hand, he be explain to the owner of the

phaeton the plight in which he have find his servant, when a faint flash

of lightning glance across the sky, follow after an interval by

a clap of distant thunder, at which the horse, which be young and

spirit, begin to prick up their ear, and evince such unmistakable

sign of alarm, that their master, fear they be about to dash off,

run to lay hold of their head. Misfortune often bring about strange

association. if any one have that morning tell Alice Hazlehurst that

before the day should be over she would have appeal for protection to,

and confide in, “Arthur’s cross, disagreeable friend,” she would have

utterly disbelieve the statement--and yet so it be to be. the moment

Mr. Crane leave her side, she turn to Harry exclaiming--



“oh, Mr. Coverdale, I be so frightened! he will never be able to manage

those horse: he could scarcely hold they in this morning, and the groom

be force to get down to they twice--he do not know how to drive one

bit!”



Poor little Alice! she be tremble from head to foot, and look so

pretty and interesting in her alarm, that Harry feel peculiar, he don’t

exactly know how, about it.



“I’ll speak to Mr. Crane, and persuade he to let I drive you home,”

 he reply eagerly. (he would have knock he down without the small

hesitation, if Alice have in the slight degree prefer it.) “I’ve

be accustom to horse all my life, and have not a doubt of be

able to manage these, even if the thunder should startle they; so please

don’t look so frightened.”



and as Harry say this with his very bright, kind smile,



Alice wonder she have never before notice how handsome he be, and

begin to think he could not be so very cross after all.



when Harry urge his request, Mr. Crane be considerably embarrassed as

to the nature of his reply. in his secret soul he be delighted to be

relieve from the danger and responsibility of drive Alice and himself

home through a thunder-storm; but, on the other hand, he could not

disguise the fact, that by allow himself to be so relieved, he should

detract from the heroic style of character he wish Alice to impute to

he. have it be D’Almayne instead of Coverdale who seek to become his

substitute, he would probably, at the hazard of break his own neck

and that of his lady-love, have refuse to permit he; but he have

observe, as indeed he must have be blind if he have not do,

Harry’s marked avoidance of the young lady, and trust to these his

mysogynistic principle he, with many excuse and much circumlocution,

agree to Harry’s proposal that he should ride his horse, and allow he

to drive the phaeton.



“Ahem!--if the storm should come on violently,” observe the

cotton-spinner, as a second growl of thunder become audible, “I shall

wait till it have subside; so don’t let they expect I till they see I:

get wet always give I cold.”



“all right, sir,” return Harry, as he wrap Alice carefully up in

his own Macintosh; “take care of yourself by all mean--good people

be scarce. we shall see nothing more of friend Crane to-night,”

 he continue, as he drive off; “the old gentleman be very decidedly

alarmed--that be, I suppose I ought not to call he an old gentleman,”

 he stammer, suddenly recollect with whom he be converse.



“why should you not when he be so?” return Alice, innocently.



Harry turn his head away to conceal a smile which the _naïveté_ of the

reply have call forth, mutter to himself as he do so, “poor crane!”



after a few minute’ silence, Alice begin abruptly, and

apologetically,--



“I’m sure I ought to feel very much oblige to you, Mr. Coverdale--and

indeed I do; this be the second really good-natured thing you’ve do by

I to-day.”



the tone in which she speak so completely betray that surprise be the

feeling uppermost in her mind, that Harry, slightly pique, could not

help replying--



“you do not, then, give I credit for possess the least particle of

good-nature?”



Alice smile as she answered--



“if I have have a proper degree of faith in Arthur’s representation, I

need not have feel surprise.”



the delicate irony of this reply be not lose upon Coverdale; but he

know that he have deserve it, and, with the ready frankness which be

one of his good characteristic, he hasten to acknowledge it.



“I certainly have do little towards practically vindicate the

character your brother’s partiality have bestow upon I,” he say; “but

I must be allow to plead in justification, that I be quite aware of my

own deficiency, and tell Arthur that I have be rough it abroad

so long, that I be totally unfit for lady’ society. he would

not admit the excuse; but it be a full, true, and sufficient one,

nevertheless.”



as he utter the last word, a dazzle flash of lightning appear

almost to envelop they, follow instantaneously by a deafening peal

of thunder. half blind by the blaze of light, the frightened horse

stop abruptly, then, terrify at the prolonged thunder, try to

turn short round; foil in this attempt by the skill and promptitude of

their driver, they begin rear and plunge in a way which threaten

every moment to overturn the phaeton. fortunately the road happen to

be unusually wide at this point, and Harry, who never throughout the

affair in the slight degree lose his presence of mind, decide that

whatever might most effectually frighten the horse, would create the

impulse they would eventually obey, determine to try the effect of

a little judicious discipline. accordingly, stand up, he begin to

administer the whip to their sleek side with an amount of strength and

determination which, from the contrast it afford to the mild and timid

drive to which they be accustom, so astonish the animal,

that bound forward with a snatch which try the soundness of their

harness, they dash off at a furious gallop; at the same moment, a

second peal of thunder, even louder than the precede one, increase

their alarm to such a degree, that Coverdale, despite his utmost

effort, find it completely beyond his power to hold they in.









CHAPTER VIII.--HARRY condescend to play the AGREEABLE.



“Miss Hazlehurst!--Alice! be you mad? only sit still, don’t go and

scream or anything, and all will come right.”



thus appeal to, or rather command--for the tone of the speaker’s

voice be unmistakably imperative--Alice, who when the horse bolt have

half rise from her seat, and in an agony of terror glance round, as

though she meditate an attempt to jump out, shrink down again,

and cover her eye with her hand, remain perfectly still and

motionless, thus enable Coverdale to devote his whole attention to

the horse. the terrified animal, after gallop nearly a mile, their

fear be keep alive by repeat flash of lightning and peal of

thunder, while a perfect deluge of rain convert the dusty road beneath

their foot into a morass, at length begin to relax their speed. as soon

as Harry perceive this to be the case, he turn to his companion,

say, “there, Miss Hazlehurst, I have get they in hand again, they’re

quite under command now, and the bad of the storm be over too, so you

needn’t be frighten any long; you have behave like a”--(regular

brick be the simile that rise to his lip, but he refrain, and

substituted)--“complete heroine, since you overcome that slightly insane

impulse to commit suicide by jump out.”



reassure by his manner, Alice venture to open her eye, and the

first use she make of they be to fix they upon the countenance of her

companion, strive to read therein whether the hope with which he

seek to inspire she be true or false. but Harry’s be a face about

which there could be no mistake; truth and honesty be write in every

feature so legibly, that the veri tyro in physiognomy could not fail

at once to perceive they.



“how fortunate it be that you be drive, and not Mr. Crane!” be

the first word Alice utter; “we should have be overturn to a

certainty if the horse have behave so this morning. I’ll take good care

not to let he drive I again. how cleverly you manage the creature

when they be plunge and rear! I should never have dare to whip

they while they be in that furious state, but it answer capitally.”



“you observe _that_, do you?” inquire Harry in a tone of surprise.



Alice favour he with a quick glance, as she reply, half archly,

half petulantly, “of course I do; what a stupid silly little thing you

seem to consider I!”



Harry pause for a minute ere he rejoin, laughingly, “you know nothing

about what I consider you, Miss Hazlehurst, and therefore I advise

you not to form any theory whatsoever on the subject, as they be

tolerably certain to be wrong one.”



“I dare say you have never give yourself the trouble to reflect at all

on so frivolous a topic,” return Alice; “I know your heterodox notion

in regard to our sex; you consider we all simpleton.”



“I’m sure I never tell you so,” be all the denial Harry’s conscience

permit he to make.



“not _vivâ voce_, perhaps,” reply Alice; “but I have hear it

second-hand from Master Tom: the boy be uncomplimentary enough before

you come, but he have be fifty time bad since you’ve be here to

encourage he in his impertinence.”



“a young cub!” mutter Harry aside, “I’ll twist his neck if he tell

tale out of school in this way;” turn to Alice, he continue, “it be

never too late to mend, be it? if I confess my sin, promise never to

do so any more, and throw myself on the mercy of the court, be there any

chance of my obtaining forgiveness?”



“as far as I be concern, yes,” be the reply; “in consideration of

your service this afternoon, I graciously accord you a free pardon for

all past offence, and for the future we will try and be friend.” as

she speak she half playfully, half in earnest, hold out her hand. Harry

take it in his own, and shake it--even in a glove it be a nice, warm,

soft little hand, a kind of hand that it be impossible to relinquish

without give it a squeeze, at least such be Harry’s impression, and

he act upon it, although to do so be by no mean in accordance

with his principle; but he do not happen to be think about his

principle just then. by this time the storm, which have pretty well

exhaust itself by its violence, resign in favour of a lovely sunset;

and the horse having come to the conclusion that they have thoroughly

disgrace themselves, and behave with an equal disregard of principle

and propriety, trot steadily along under Coverdale’s skilful

guidance, like a pair of four-legged penitent, anxious to retrieve

their character. and Harry and Alice suddenly find a great deal to talk

about, and be quite surprised when they perceive themselves to be in

sight of the Grange; and the gentleman felt move by a sudden impulse

to declare that, despite its unpropitious commencement, he do not know

when he have have such a delightful drive, to which the lady reply that

it certainly have be very agreeable, an admission which she endeavour

to qualify by attribute her pleasurable sensation to the influence

of the set sun and the delicious coolness of the evening air--a

transparent attempt at deception that only render the truth more

obvious.



the next morning a groom bring back Sir Lancelot, together with a note

from Mr. Crane, say that he have contrive to get wet through on

his way to the inn, that he fear he have take cold, and therefore

consider it most prudent to return home for a day or two; add that

he should hope to be sufficiently convalescent to rejoin the party

at the Grange that day week, when a dinner be to be give by Mr.

Hazlehurst to some of the county magnate. his note wind up with an

elaborate inquiry as to whether Alice have experience any ill-effect

from the “atmospheric inclemency,” as he be pleased to style the

thunder-storm, accompany by an infallible specific against all

sore-throat, cold, hoarsenesse, and rheumatic affection, which that

young lady straightway commit to the waste-paper basket. there be

also a note for Horace D’Almayne, from which drop an inclosure that,

as the exquisite stoop to pick it up, look marvellously like a

cheque.



“A--really I find I must go to town--a--business of importance--can I

execute any little commission for you, Miss Hazlehurst? I’ve excellent

taste in riband, I assure you.”



“there, do you hear that!” observe Tom _sotto voce_ to Coverdale. “I

always think he’d be a counter-jumper!”



“Kate, must I accompany he?” inquire Arthur of his cousin, _sotto

voce_; “remember, if you send I from you now, we meet again as

stranger!” there be a moment’s struggle, and her colour go and

come--then in a cold, hard voice she answer, “yes, go!”



Arthur look at she; her feature might have be sculpture in marble,

so fixed and immovable be their expression. that look decide he; and

with set tooth and lower brow he rise and quit the room.



in less than half-an-hour he return, prepare for a journey; and

beckon Coverdale aside, begin, “Harry, I have a favour to ask of you.

I be oblige to go to town suddenly, in consequence of an affair which

have cause I some annoyance; but I shall come back for the dinner-party

on the ----th. crane will also return then; and from what I can make out,

Alice’s affair will be definitely settle one way or other. the more

I see of Crane, the more I perceive how thoroughly he and Alice be

unsuited; but my father appear obstinately bent on the match: and if

Alice be to refuse he, she will require all the support that can be

give she. my poor mother’s health be, as you be aware, so delicate,

that although she be as much averse to the match as any of we, we cannot

expect she to exert herself; indeed, our chief anxiety be to prevent she

attempt to do so. the whole thing will, therefore, fall upon I: and

your support and assistance will be invaluable. my father have take a

great fancy to you; and your opinion weigh with he more than you will

believe. I be sorry to perceive that you be bored to death here; but

I trust to your friendship to remain till after my return. be I tax

your kind feel too far?”



“my dear boy, don’t make pretty speech; for I can stand anything but

that,” be the reply. “as to stay here, I have no thought of go

away till you have do with I. in regard to be bore, I’m get

over that beautifully. your family be charming people. I’m becoming

use to woman’s society, and, in fact, find it’s not by any mean as

bad as imagination paint it; and when D’Almayne be fairly out of the

house, I really shall not care how long I remain in it; so will that

satisfy you?”



“my dear fellow,” rejoin hazlehurst, warmly, “there’s nobody like you

in the world! I’ve always say so, from the day that I first set eye on

you at Eton, when you thrash the bully of the form for strike I,

and then box my ear because I take a blow from a boy less than

myself, without return it. I shall never quite turn misanthrope while

I’ve you for a friend.”



“Misanthrope! no, why should you?” be the surprised rejoinder. “what

ail you, man?--you look ill and unhappy. it’s nothing in the money way,

be it? I’ve get a few odd thousand lie idle at my banker, that I

should really be oblige to you to make use of.”



Hazlehurst shake his friend’s hand heartily. “God bless you, old fellow!

I know you would.” he say; “but money cann’t help I: I must fight it

out alone. I shall be myself again by the time I return--till then,

good-by,” and wring Coverdale’s hand once more, he turn and be

go.



“Alice, here’s a treat! everybody’s go away except that horrid Harry

Coverdale!” exclaim Emily, in a tone of despair; “we shall have he

on our hand, talk stable, and wish we be dog and horse, for a

whole week! what be we to do with the creature?”



Alice turn her head to hide her heightened colour, as she reply,

in a tone of voice that be almost cross, “really, Emily, you should be

careful not to carry that absurd habit of your of laugh at everybody

too far. People will begin to call you flippant. Mr. Coverdale be so

good-natured that he be the easy person in the world to entertain.

surely, Arthur have a right to ask his friend to remain here without

consult you or I on the subject.”



“Phew!” whistle Emily, and a droll little parody of a whistle it be;

“the wind have change, have it? I suppose that be the thunder-storm

yesterday; not to mention a certain _tête-à-tête_ drive. take care,

Ally: recollect that sweet bird the Crane! what do the song say?” and

pop herself down at the pianoforte, she run her finger lightly over

the key, as she sing with mischievous archness:



                   “’tis good to be merry and wise,



                   ’tis good to be honest and true,



                   ’tis good to be off with the _old_ love



                   before you be on with the new.”



the party which sit down to dinner at Hazlehurst Grange on that day be

a very select one. Mr. Hazlehurst have drive over to the neighbouring

town on justice business, and having sentence certain deer-stealer to

undergo diver unpleasantnesse in the way of oakum-picking, solitary

confinement, and other such amenity of prison discipline, have

stay to reward virtue by dining with his brother-magistrate upon

orthodoxly-slaughter venison. accordingly, Mrs. Hazlehurst and the

three young lady, Harry Coverdale and Master Tom, sit down to

what Mrs. Malaprop would have term “quite a _tête-à-tête_ dinner”

 together;--a tame and docile curate, invite on the spur of the moment

to counterbalance Harry, having miss fire, owe to the untimely

repentance of a perverse old female parishioner, who be take poorly

and penitent simultaneously, have send her imperative compliment to

the Rev. B. A. A. Lambkin, and she would feel oblige by his come to

convert she at his very early possible convenience; to which serious

call he felt oblige to respond.



Coverdale have find himself in an unusual and peculiar frame of mind all

day; for perhaps the first time in his life he have feel disinclined to

active exertion; and have positively go the length of abstract from

the library a volume of Byron, and spend the afternoon lie under a

tree, read the _Bride of Abydos_. now his peculiarity take a new

turn; and, free from his incubus, D’Almayne, a sense of the domestic

and sociable suddenly spring up within he, and throw off all

reserve, he appear for the first time during his visit in his true

colour--that be, unaffected, courteous, kind-hearted, amusing, and

well-inform. in consequence possibly of this change, the dinner go

off most agreeably; and the absence of the Reverend Lambkin be mentally

decreed to be a subject of thanksgiving, by more than one member of the

party.



in the evening there be certain wasps’-nests to be destroy, about

which Harry have express much interest; but now he discover that he

have blister his heel on the previous day, by run in a tight boot;

and Tom, mightily discontent at his defection, be force to invade

the enemy’s country without the assistance of his ally. when Coverdale

rejoin the lady, Emily be read Tennyson’s _princess_ aloud, and

the moment he appear, she declare she be tired, and hand the book

to he, beg he to proceed; her mischievous intention be

thereby to overwhelm he with confusion, and derive amusement from his

consequent mistake. but she meet her match for once, as Harry, coolly

reply that he should have much pleasure, take the book and begin

read in a deep rich voice, with so much taste and feeling, that she

surprise soon change to admiration. after tea, music be propose, and

the moment Alice begin to sing Coverdale, for the first time since he

have be in the house, approach the piano, and actually turn over

the leave for she!



“that lovely _Là ci darem!_ ah, Alice! if we have but a gentleman’s voice

to take the second! why _don’t_ you sing, Mr. Coverdale?” exclaim

Emily, turn over the page of the duet.



“I’ll try what I can do if _you_ wish it,” be Coverdale’s quiet answer.



Alice, to whom he speak, glance at he in speechless surprise; but

emily, at once make up her mind that he be attempt a hoax, and

eager to turn the table upon he, resumed--



“Bravo! give I your seat, Alice, I’ll play the accompaniment for you

both.”



now the truth be, that Harry have be gift by nature with a rich

powerful voice and excellent ear, quality which the admiration of his

“set” at Cambridge have induce he to cultivate. when he first start

on his grand tour, he encounter at Florence the mother and sister of

an old college friend, and those be the day before he have foresworn

young lady’ society, he be let in for a mild flirtation with one

of the daughter. the “emphatic she” happen to be _fanatica per la

musica_. accordingly for three month Harry take lesson of the good

master in the place, and sing duet morning, noon, and night; at the end

of which period the “love one” bolt with a black-bearded native, who

call himself a count, and _be_ a courier. since which episode, Harry,

disgusted with the whole affair, and all connect with it, have chiefly

confine his singing to lyrical declaration that he would “not go home

till morning.” it will therefore be less a matter of surprise to the

reader, than it be to his audience at the Grange, that Coverdale

perform his part in the duet with equal taste and skill, and very much

well than Alice do her--that young lady pronounce her italian

with rather a midland-county accent than otherwise, although her sweet,

fresh, young voice, in great measure atone for this little peculiarity.



“why, Mr. Coverdale, what a charming voice you have, and how beautifully

you sing!” exclaim Emily, look at he as if she could not even yet

believe that it be possible he should have so distinguish himself.

“I think you be hoax we, and I sit down to play the duet for the

amiable purpose of expose your ignorance.”



“how do you acquire such a pure italian accent?” ask Mrs. Hazlehurst;

“it will be of the great advantage to my girl to sing with _you_.”



“I learn of an italian fellow when I be at Florence, and I suppose he

teach I to do the business all right,” be the careless reply.



“and you have be here more than a week,” continue Mrs. Hazlehurst,

“and allow Mr. D’Almayne to monopolise both the reading and singing

department, though he cannot fill either one quarter as efficiently as

you be able to do. you really be too diffident.”



“I don’t imagine diffidence to have have very much to do with it,”

 observe Kate Marsden, quietly raise her eye from her work (a crochet

purse with steel bead), and fix they on Coverdale.



Harry laugh slightly as with heighten colour he reply, “you be

too clever, Miss Marsden. I by no mean approve of be subject to

such subtle _clairvoyance_; however, I may as well honestly confess that

you be right, and that a feeling more akin to pride than to humility

have prevent my seeking to rival Mr. D’Almayne.”



“_we_ have find you out at last though,” return emily, “and I for

one will do my good to punish you for your idleness, by make you

sing every song I can think of. I don’t believe it be either pride or

humility which keep you silent--it be nothing but sheer idleness.”



“judge of her principle from her practice, I can readily believe Miss

Emily Hazlehurst must consider silence to result from some reprehensible

cause,” reply Coverdale, with a meaning smile.



of course Emily make a pert rejoinder, and of course Coverdale be

force to sing half-a-dozen more song, which, as he have by this time

get up the steam considerably, he do in a style which win he fresh

laurel but it be a remarkable fact, that from the moment in which

Harry begin to read aloud, Alice, although her attention have never

flag, have scarcely utter a single word--perhaps it be because she

think the more.









chapter IX.--CONTAINS little else SAVE MOONSHINE.



Mrs. Hazlehurst be so confirm an invalid as to be unable to walk,

even so short a distance as from the drawing-room to her own bed-room,

whither she be usually carry by either her husband or her son.

she be in the habit of retire at nine o’clock, but on the evening

refer to in the last chapter the clock chime the half-hour after

nine, and Mr. Hazlehurst have not return.



“Mamma, dear, you be look tired--you ought not to sit up so late!”

 exclaim Alice, who have be observe her mother attentively for some

minute. “do allow Evans to carry you up: papa be sometimes keep till

eleven o’clock at these magistrate’ meeting, you know.”



one great charm which Alice possess in Harry’s eye be her devotion

to her mother, for whom she entertain an affection which be, perhaps,

one of the strong feeling of her nature.



“I have rather wait, dear,” be the patient reply:--“the worthy Evans be

grow fat and old, and I be always afraid of his fall; and James be

very willing, poor lad, but he be so awkward that he rub I against

all the corner we pass, and only escape knock my brain out by a

succession of miracle.”



“if you would allow I to assist you, Mrs. Hazlehurst,” begin Coverdale,

in a hesitate voice, as though he be about to ask rather than to

confer a favour--“I be sure I could carry you safely; I have observe

exactly how Arthur hold you, and it would give I so much pleasure to

be of use to you.”



“you be very kind,” return Mrs. Hazlehurst, while a glow of grateful

surprise colour her pale cheek; “but I cannot bear to give you the

trouble--you do not know how heavy I be.”



“you do not know how strong I be, my dear madam,” be the good-natured

rejoinder; “allow I--that I think be right,” and raise the light

form of the invalid in his powerful arm he carry she, as easily and

tenderly as a mother would her child, to her room, where, carefully

deposit she in an easy-chair, he wish her good night, and leave she

without wait to receive she thank.



“Alice, love, Emily will stay and read to I--go down and tell Mr.

Coverdale how much oblige I be; he carry I as comfortably as if he

have be in the constant habit of do so for year. the kindness

of heart, and delicacy of feeling with which he make the offer, have

gratify I exceedingly; depend upon it he be an unusually amiable,

excellent young man.”



“he certainly appear in a new character to-night,” return emily,

laugh; “hitherto he have perform the modern Timon most naturally and

successfully. I wonder what make the creature take it into his head to

act the man--or rather the woman--hater! you’d well ask he, Alice,

perhaps he will tell _you!_--What go already!” she continue, glance

round the room. “well then, mamma dear, as there seem to be no more

fun forthcoming, let I give you your dose of Jeremy Taylor; that be our

present good book, I believe.”



a reproof for the levity with which Emily speak rise to her mother’s

lip; but Mrs. Hazlehurst be a sensible woman as well as a good

one, and so, be able to distinguish between the exuberance of high

spirit, and a scoffing turn of mind, she only murmur, “silly child,”

 and shake her head, with a reprove smile.



when Alice return to the drawing-room she at first imagine it to

be tenantless; but on look more attentively she perceive the tall

figure of Harry Coverdale stand with fold arm in the recess of one

of the window. so noiselessly do she enter that Harry, whose face be

turn away from the door, be not aware of her approach until she be

within a few yard of he. as with a sudden start he look round,

she be surprised to observe the trace of deep emotion visible on

his feature, which be usually characterise by an expression of so

completely opposite a nature. with a murmured apology for intrude on

he, Alice be about to withdraw, when Coverdale hasten to prevent

she.



“do not run away,” he say quickly, then continue, “you be surprised

to see I look sad; I think I should like, if you will permit I, to

tell you the cause. it be so seldom I meet with anybody to whom I can

talk about such thing--people in general would not understand I, but I

feel an instinctive certainty that you will. it be such a lovely night,

would you object to come out? your cousin, Miss Marsden, be already

enjoy the moonlight.” as he speak, he point to a white figure

pacing, with bent head and measure step, along a terrace-walk on the

further side of the lawn. throw a shawl over her head to protect

herself from the night dew, Alice signify her consent, and open one

of the french window, they descend into the garden. for some minute

they stroll on side by side without speak; the silence at length

become embarrass, Alice break it by observing--



“I must not forget to deliver mamma’s thank for your kindness. you

carry she so easily and carefully, she say, she could almost imagine

you must have be accustom to such an occupation before.”



Harry smile a melancholy smile. “that be what I be go to tell you

about,” he say, “only when it come to the point, I feel as if it be

impossible to begin. carry Mrs. Hazlehurst to-night bring back such

a flood of recollection!” he pause, then in a low tone continue:

“for many month before her death my own poor mother become perfectly

helpless, and I use to carry she like a child from room to room. I be

only seventeen when I lose she, and, except your brother, I have never

have any one to love since; and though Arthur be as good a fellow as ever

breathe, and all that one can wish a friend to be, yet somehow, whether

it be the difference between a man’s mind and a woman’s, or what, I

cannot tell, but there be thing I’ve never talk about with

anybody since my mother die, because I’ve feel that nobody else could

understand I. perhaps, if she have live, I might have be more what I

sometimes wish I be--less rough, and--but I do not know why I should

bore you with what must be singularly uninteresting to you.”



“pray go on,” reply Alice; “I have hear so much of you from Arthur,

that I always hope I should some day know you myself, and that we might

become friend; but--” here she stop, apparently embarrass how to

proceed.



Harry come to her assistance--“But when I do appear, I make myself so

disagreeable that you naturally repent ever having waste a thought

upon such an unamiable savage. be not that what you would have say?

well, you be quite right, I deserve that it should be so.”



there be a degree of regretful earnestness in his voice and manner

which touch Alice’s gentle heart, and she hasten to reply:--



“Nay, it be only that you do not know we; and--I think that silly Mr.

D’Almayne annoy you with his air and affectation; but I be sure you

will never be so--so--”



“brutish!” suggest Harry.



“so unjust to yourself again,” resume Alice.



“you be very kind--kind than I deserve by far,” reply Coverdale. he

pause, then continue, “I don’t think I be naturally such a bear; but

from childhood I have have to battle with the world on my own behalf. do

Arthur ever tell you any of my early history?”



“no; he often allude to it as curious, but say we ought to see you

first, and then we should understand you well and care more to hear

it,” be the simple reply.



Harry smile. “the only romantic episode in my career occur when I

be a very young boy,” he say, “so young, that if I have not hear

the story over and over again from the mouth of my late uncle, the

old Admiral, I should scarcely have remember it. to enable you to

comprehend the situation properly, I must trouble you with a few family

detail. my grandfather have two son--the Admiral the elder, and my

father the young. my father, when a lieutenant in a march regiment,

fall in love with a very pretty, amiable but portionless girl; my

grandfather desire he to marry an heiress; my father refuse, and

urge his affection for another; my grandfather grow imperative, my

father recusant; my grandfather storm, my father persist; and the

affair end by my father marry his lady-love, and my grandfather

disinherit he for so do. the natural consequence ensue: my

grandfather devote his fortune and influence to my uncle’s advancement,

and at the age of fifty he become an admiral; at the same age my father

find himself a captain, exist on half-pay, with a microscopic

pension and an incurable wound in his side, as reward for having

serve his country. ‘england expect every man to do his duty,’ and

occasionally recompense he for it with honourable starvation. as my

father’s health decrease his expense increase, unpaid doctor’

bill stare he in the face, and butcher and baker grow uncivil and

importunate.



“at my grandfather’s death he leave every farthing he possess to his

eld son. angry at the injustice, my father refuse his brother’s

offer of an allowance, and unwisely determine to dispute the will.

accordingly, he not only lose his cause, but irritate my uncle to

such a degree, that all communication cease between they. when I be

approach the august age of ten year, and affair seem to be come

to a crisis, by some chance I, play with and apparently absorb by

a regiment of tin soldier, happen to be present at a family committee

of way and mean. during this colloquy, the unfortunate disagreement

between the brother be talk over and lament by my mother; who

exert all her eloquence to persuade my father to write to this Admiral

and inform he of his fail health and ruin fortune, and trust to

his generosity to forgive and forget the past. but my father’s pride

stand in the way. he would willingly have be reconcile to his

brother, _if_ he have not require pecuniary assistance at his hand; but

the consciousness of this necessity render he inexorable. so find

his wife’s argument unanswerable, he adopt the usual resource in

such case--viz., he talk himself into a rage, and fling out of

the room, slam the door behind he, leave my mother and I

_tête-à-tête_.



“after a minute’s silence, I surprise she by ask, ‘papa’s very poor,

and my uncle’s very rich; and papa would ask uncle to give he some

money, only they quarrel when grandpapa stop papa’s pocket-money:

ben’t that it, mamma?’



“‘yes, my dear,’ be the reply; ‘but you must not talk about it to

anybody remember.’



“I nod assent, then resume, ‘Uncle’s a good, kind man, ben’t he?’



“‘yes, my love; a good man I know he to be, and he be kind once,’ be

the reply.



“‘then why don’t you go and tell he that papa’s very sorry he be

naughty, and want to make friend again; and if uncle be good and kind,

he will say yes; and when they be friend again, uncle will be sure to

give he some of his pocket-money without be ask, because they be

brother. willn’t that do, mamma?’



“my mother rise with tear in her eye, stroke the hair back from my

forehead, imprint a kiss on it, and murmur, ‘your papa would never

allow I to do so, darling,’ quit the room.



“well, I sit and cogitate the matter: even as a child I be of a

fearless nature, and confident in my own resource; and at last a plan

occur to I. at that time we live in London, and I attend a public

school as a day-scholar. at this school I have a friend--a boy some

two or three year old than myself. to he, in strict confidence, I

impart my scheme, which he be pleased graciously to approve of,

and in which he volunteer to aid I. accordingly, on the following

morning, when my parent imagine I be decline _hic, hæc, hoc_, I

be, under the able guidance of my school-fellow, make my way to the

office of a coach which pass within half a mile of Coverdale Park.

having see I set off in high health and spirit, my friend after

school-hour leave the follow note at our house:--



“‘dear Mamma,--I have go to see my uncle Coverdale, as you could

not do it. Papa never tell I not to--so he willn’t be angry with _I_.

Thompson see I off, and will leave this, so no more at present,



“‘from your dutiful son,



“‘H. C.’



“I reach Coverdale Park without adventure, and greatly astonishing a

solemn butler by demand to see my uncle forthwith, be usher into

a large oak-panel apartment, wherein sit a fine, portly-look

gentleman, eat his dinner in solitary dignity. as soon as his eye

fall upon my feature he start, exclaiming--



“‘bless my soul, boy! who be you?’



“‘your nephew Harry Coverdale, uncle,’ return I, look he full in

the face. my gaze seem rather to embarrass he, for his lip move

convulsively ere he be able to frame a reply. at length he exclaim

angrily--



“‘and pray, sir, what do you want here?’



“feel by no mean incline to enter abruptly upon family affair in

presence of the servant, I pause. but certain inward craving, arouse

by the sight of the good thing before I, soon furnish I with an

idea, and with a decidedly suggestive emphasis, I answer, ‘I have

_not_ have any _dinner_ yet.’ my uncle again look at I, to see whether

my observation be the result of impudence or simplicity--decide

apparently in favour of the latter, he desire the servant to place I

a chair, and give I a knife and fork. fortify by a good dinner, and

encourage by a kind twinkle in the corner of my uncle’s eye, which

belie all his attempt to look angry, I soon begin to chatter away

freely, and enlighten my newly-find relative as to my opinion of thing

in general. after the cloth be remove, and I have volunteer grace; at

which my uncle appear first surprised and then edify, he began--



“‘now, boy, tell I the truth--but first, you shall have a glass of

wine; which will you take?’



“‘I always tell the truth, uncle, even if it get I a thrashing; and

I’ll take port, for that’s the only wine fit for a gentleman,’ answer

I, which reply so delight my uncle, that he pour I out a bumper,

and pat I on the back exclaimed--



“‘Bravo, my boy! stick to truth and port wine through life, and you’ll

be a credit to your name!’



“that speech of mine win the day! I explain the object of my visit,

and that it have originate wholly with myself; and succeed so

well, that on the follow morning my uncle accompany I home, be

reconcile to my father, to whom, till the day of his death (which

occur within the next year), he show every kindness, and after that

event take my dear mother to reside with he at the Park, provide for

my education, and eventually make I his heir.”



to this recital, follow by a detail of many of those pure thought and

deep feeling which lie hide in the breast of every generous-hearted

man, till heaven bless he with a female friend worthy to receive such

sacred confidence, do Alice listen with grow interest and sympathy;

and when, two hour afterwards, Mr. Hazlehurst return home in a great

state of universal vinous philanthropy, Harry and his companion

could scarcely believe they have be walk together for more than

half-an-hour.



the week pass away like a dream. Harry walk, and drive, and sing,

and read poetry with the young lady, and find himself especially

happy and comfortable. moreover, he contrive to institute a system of

romantic ramble with Alice, during which they talk about all

those peculiar subject which can only be discuss comfortably in a

_tête-à-tête_--thoughts and feeling too delicate to be submit to the

rough handling of a crowd. and Alice, after three day’ experience,

tell Kate Marsden, in strict confidence, that she have form the high

opinion of Mr. Coverdale’s principle; that he be so good and sensible,

and in every way superior to the young man one generally meet, that it

be quite a privilege to possess his friendship--didn’t Kate think

so? to which Kate reply in the affirmative; add, that girl

be usually so frivolous and empty-headed that they be not worth

cultivating. “where be the good of make friend of people, unless one

could look up to they?” Alice respond, “where, indeed!” and consider

that Kate take a very proper and sensible view of the matter.



one small incident occur, however, which somewhat ruffle the smooth

surface of Alice’s tranquillity. two or three day after the picnic,

there arrive from Mr. Crane a note, together with a slim and genteel

quadrupe, possess a greyhound-like outline, shadowy leg, and a long

tail, and purport to be a thoroughly-break lady’s horse, with which

the cotton-spinner begged--“Miss Alice would allow he to replace

the pony injure by the furious riding of her brother and Mr.

Coverdale,”--an association in iniquity which delight Tom as much as

it provoke Harry, and, secretly, Alice also. this horse Mr. Hazlehurst

insist upon it Alice should not refuse; and he become so angry when a

faint remonstrance be attempt, that the poor girl quit his study

in tear--a melancholy fact, which emily, in a truly feminine and

injudicious burst of virtuous indignation, reveal to Coverdale,

thereby lay in he the foundation of a deeply-root aversion to the

animal, which lead to result that would have be well avoid.



the morning follow the arrival of this undesirable addition to the

family, Mr. Hazlehurst announce his intention of ride over to call

upon and inquire after Mr. Crane, and his wish (which mean command)

that Alice should accompany he on her new horse. “Mr. Coverdale, will

you ride with we?” continue the head of the family, graciously; “I do

not think you have see Crane Court yet. the scenery in and around the

park be very rich, and the view from the terrace most extensive.”



Harry, in his secret soul dislike Mr. Crane and all that appertain

to he, and fancy, moreover, that the presence of Mr. Hazlehurst

would effectually neutralise the pleasure of Alice’s society, as their

conversation would be thereby restrict to unmeane commonplace, be

about to invent some polite reason for decline, when, happen to

glance at the young lady in question, he read--or imagine he read,

something in the expression of her countenance, which induce he to

alter his determination. accordingly, Tom be make happy by obtain

permission to go to the village-inn, where Coverdale’s horse be put

up, order the groom to saddle Sir Lancelot, and ride that exemplary

quadrupe back, as a reward for his trouble.



“how do you like Mr. Crane’s present to my daughter? in my opinion it

be one of the most perfect lady’s horse I have ever see,” complacently

remark Mr. Hazlehurst to Coverdale, as they stand at the hall door,

criticise the horse which a groom be lead up and down.



“I dare say the old gentleman”--(Mr. hazlehurst’s brow darkened)--“paid

a high figure for the animal,” be the reply; “it have its good point,

and be very well fit for a park hack; but it’s a weedy, straggle

sort of beast--showy action, but badly put together;--and there’s

something queer about its eye--it have an uncomfortable way of leer

round at you, and show the white, that I don’t like. you can see

it’s be feed under the mark, and I shouldn’t wonder if, now it’s on

full allowance, it be to turn out skittish.”



“I cann’t say I at all agree with you, Mr. Coverdale,” be the hasty

reply. “I flatter myself I know something of horse, and I consider this

as perfect a lady’s hack as I ever beheld, and a most valuable animal

into the bargain. as to temper, it’s as quiet as a lamb--a child might

ride it. I must beg you will not say anything which might tend to alarm

my daughter, or prejudice she against it.”



Harry turn away to hide a smile, as he reply, “never fear, sir;

Miss Hazlehurst shall form her own opinion of its merit, without my

attempt to bias her judgment.”



when Mr. Hazlehurst assist his daughter to mount, Harry, who really

doubt the temper of the animal, watch it closely, and his previous

opinion be confirm by observe that it lay back its ear, glance

viciously round, and at the moment when Alice spring up, make a faint

demonstration with its mouth, as though it covet a sample of Mr.

Hazlehurst from the region of that gentleman’s coat-tail, and be only

restrain from attempt to obtain one by a recollection of former

punishment. the preliminary arrangement be safely accomplish, the

trio start, follow by a mount groom, Coverdale keep close to

Alice’s bridle-rein.



they have proceed some distance, without anything occur to justify

his suspicion; and, in spite of all drawback, Alice be really

begin to enjoy her ride, when her father propose a canter; and on

quicken her pace, the odd manner in which her horse toss and shake

his head, in some degree alarm she.



“loosen the curb-rein a little,” suggest Harry, “and try to hold he

entirely by the snaffle. I will keep close to you, so do not be afraid,

lest he should bolt.” Alice comply, and the horse appear to approve

of the alteration, cease to shake its head; but as it become warm to

its work, it pull so hard against the snaffle, that Alice’s delicate

hand be unable to prevent the canter from increase into

something very like a gallop. Sir Lancelot keep pace with

he, stride for stride; but Mr. Hazlehurst’s short-legged cob--the

“dray-horse-in-miniature--warrant-equal-to-sixteen-stone” style

of animal, which elderly gentleman ride for the benefit of their

digestion, not be calculate for such fast work, be very soon

distance.



“what have become of papa?” exclaim Alice, glance round; “we ought

to wait for he, but I cann’t make this creature go slow--it pull

dreadfully. may I use the curb?”



“I have rather you do not,” be the reply; “the brute seem so uneasy

when you try it before--perhaps its mouth be tender; I will examine it

when you dismount. canter on to the next hill, and then we will stop for

Mr. Hazlehurst.” and they do so accordingly, though Alice be unable to

pull in her horse until Harry lean over and give she the assistance of

his strong arm.









CHAPTER X.--“EQUO NE CREDITE TEUCRI.”--(Virgil)



“why don’t you hold in your horse, Alice, and ride at a proper

lady-like pace, instead of tear along in that extraordinary manner?”

 inquire Mr. Hazlehurst, come up very red in the face, hot, and

discompose; both himself and the cob be entirely out of that useful

article, breath.



“I could not contrive to make he go slow, papa,” reply poor Alice,

timidly; “even now you see he be very fidgetty, and keep continually

pull.” this be perfectly true; for the horse, excite by its gallop,

begin to demonstrate its real character, and refuse to walk, sidle

along, toss its head impatiently, prick up its ear at every

sound, and look as if it be prepared to shy upon the very slightest

provocation.



“Pulling!--yes, of course it do,” rejoin Mr. Hazlehurst, angrily;

“you cann’t expect to hold a fine, high-courage animal like that with

the snaffle only--tighten the curb-rein directly. take care what you be

doing!--steady! horse, steady!--touch he with the whip on the shoulder.

bless I! she’ll be throw!”



while Mr. Hazlehurst be speak they have, in turn a corner, come

suddenly upon a wheelbarrow, in which be deposit two jacket and a

hat, belong to some man who be mend the road. the moment Alice’s

horse catch sight of this object it stop short, and as, in obedience

to her father’s direction, the frightened girl jerk the curb-rein,

and strike the animal with her whip, it rear, and at the same time

plunge round so suddenly as to unseat its rider. fortunately, Coverdale

have keep as near to she as possible, and by a quick motion of the

bridle-hand and touch with the spur, he cause his horse to turn at the

same moment as do that on which Alice be mount; he be thus enable

to pass his arm round her waist and prevent she from fall.



“be your foot clear of the stirrup?” he inquire, hastily. perceive

that it be so, he continue, “let go the rein, then, and trust yourself

entirely to I.” as he speak, the groom come up, and catch the bridle

of the plunge horse, lead it away; while Mr. Hazlehurst, descend

from his saddle with a great degree of celerity than might have be

expect from a man of his age and stoutness, receive his daughter

in his arm, and lift she to the ground;--for which feat of agility,

Harry, who be by no mean impatient to be relieve of his lovely

burthen, mentally anathematise he. then ensue a great confusion of

tongue; Mr. Hazlehurst, be himself chiefly to blame, evince his

penitence by accuse everybody else, especially the groom--an old

favourite retainer, who hold and express a strong ungrammatical

and illogical opinion, diametrically oppose to his master’s, on all

subject, divine, moral, and physical. at length, in utter despair of

attain any practical result, Harry, mutter to himself his surprise

that people would not adopt his system, and strike out for themselves a

quiet way of do thing, coolly take the matter into his own hand,

by shift Alice’s saddle to the back of the cob; when he have complete

this arrangement, and assist the young lady to mount, he politely

hold Sir Lancelot’s stirrup for the accommodation of Mr. Hazlehurst,

observing--



“he will carry you just as quietly and easily as your own horse, sir;

he be a hand or two high, certainly; but if you _should_ take a sudden

fancy to leap the next stiff fence you come to, he’ll carry you over it

like a bird; so you must set the good against the evil.”



“you’re very kind, sir. Ugh! what a height the brute is!”--(these

word accompany the effort of literally _climb_ to the

saddle)--“But--but--I’ve drop my pocket-handkerchief--thank-you. what

be you go to ride yourself?”



“I be go, if you have no objection, to find out why Mr. Crane’s

purchase dislike to pass that wheelbarrow, and to convince he that

there exist a strong necessity for his so do,” return Harry, with

his head under the flap of a saddle--he be engage in securing with

his own hand the girt around Alice’s discard steed, despite sundry

futile attempt at kick and bite institute by that unamiable

quadrupe.



“oh, Mr. Coverdale--please--pray do not attempt it!” exclaim Alice,

eagerly; “I’m sure the creature be vicious! you will be throw and hurt,

to a certainty!” Harry, thus apostrophise, emerge from beneath the

saddle-flap, and toss back his dishevelled hair, and replace his

hat, which for the great convenience of strenuous buckling he have

take off, cross over to Alice’s side.



“you be hold the rein twist Miss Hazlehurst,” he say; “let I

arrange they for you.” as he restore the rein properly place to

her grasp, somehow their finger become interlaced, and Harry appear

unable to disentangle his for some second; during which space of time,

Alice, blush and turn away her head, murmur imploringly--



“you _will_ not ride that creature!”



“your father will never be convince that the brute be unsafe for you

unless he see it in its true colour; besides, I dare say I shall have

no trouble in get it past the barrow--there be a quiet way of

do these thing,” be the confident reply. Alice still seek to

remonstrate, but in vain; for press her delicate finger as though he

be loath to relinquish they, Coverdale turn away with a gay smile,

and place his toe in the stirrup, vault lightly to his saddle.



having wait till Mr. Hazlehurst and his daughter have ride on a short

distance, Harry put his horse in motion, and prepare to follow they;

but the moment it catch sight of the alarm wheelbarrow, it again

stop short, and attempt to repeat its former manœuvre. willing to

try mild measure first, Coverdale, although he prevent the animal

from dash round as it have do when it unseat Alice, allow it

to turn, and ride it back a few pace, give it time to compose its

excited feeling, ere he again bring it up to the object of its fear.

as it approach the spot he keep it tightly in hand, and, when it begin

to waver, stimulate its flagging resolution by the most delicate hint

imaginable from his “armed heel.” the instant it feel the spur, it

swerve aside, dash round, and as soon as its head be turn in a

homeward direction, evince an unmistakable desire to bolt. Harry’s brow

grow dark. “lend I your whip,” he say, approach the servant, who

sat grin with the satisfaction usually display by professional

horseman on witness the discomfiture of an amateur rider--more

especially if the amateur happen to be a gentleman.



“you be too good-natured with he, Mr. Coverdale; you should give it

he hot and strong, sir. but law! that hanimal ain’t fit for lady and

gentleman; he want a reglar sharp rough-rider on his back, that’ll take

the nonsense out of he, he do.”



“your whip be too light; get down and cut I a good, tough ash stick out

of the hedge there. I will hold your horse,” be the only reply Harry

vouchsafed.



the man glance at his face in surprise, and see that he be in

earnest, hasten to execute his wish, return in two or three

minute with a couple of plant of ground-ash, about the thickness of

a finger. having carefully examine these, Harry select the one he

consider the most serviceable.



the groom watch he narrowly. “so you really mean business, eh, sir?”

 he say.



“I do,” be the concise reply, as, with compressed lip and flash

eye, Harry turn and ride off.



probably, from some instinctive consciousness that he be not to be

allow his own way without more serious opposition than he have yet

encounter, the horse, as he draw near the dread spot, display

strong sign of fear and ill-temper than before, stare from side to

side, with his ear in constant motion, arch his neck, and toss

the foam-flake from his mouth, as he impatiently champ the bit. the

moment he catch sight of the wheelbarrow, he swerve aside with a bind

which would have unseat any but a firstrate horseman, and attempt

his usual manœuvre of turn round. in this he be foil by an

unpleasantly sharp stroke on the side of the nose from the ash sapling,

which, oblige he to turn in an opposite direction, bring he again

in sight of the wheelbarrow, while a strong application of the spur

cause he to bind forward; thereupon he rear, but a crack over the

ear bring he down again; then he set to kicking, for which he be

reward by find his mouth violently saw by the snaffle-bit, while

a perfect tornado of blow from the ash stick be hail upon his flank

and shoulder. find this the reverse of agreeable, he, as a last

resource, rear till he stand perfectly erect, paw the air wildly

with his forefeet. but he have overshoot the mark.



at the conclusion of the previous struggle, the ash stick have break off

short in Coverdale’s hand; consequently, he be prevent from apply

the counter-irritation principle as before, and be only able, by

great quickness, to extricate his foot from the stirrup, ere the horse

overbalance itself, and fall heavily backwards. fortunately for his

own safety, Harry be unusually prompt and active in all situation of

danger; and, in the present emergency, these quality stand he in good

stead. although, of course, unable entirely to free himself from the

fall animal, he contrive to slip aside, so that it should not fall

upon he; and almost as soon as the frightened creature have regain

its leg, he also have spring up, apparently unhurt, and leap upon its

back. but the fight be win. completely cow by its fall, and weary

out by the pertinacity of its rider, the conquered animal permit

Coverdale to ride it backwards and forwards past the dread

wheelbarrow, approach nearer at each turn, until at length he make

it pause, with its nose within half-a-yard of the alarming jacket, and

discover for itself that they be make of fustian, of the most innocent

quality, and flavour with the usual cottage smell of bacon and wood

smoke.



elate with his success, he rejoin Alice and her father, say, as

he do so, “well, Miss Hazlehurst, I tell you there be a quiet way of

tame the dragon, and you see I be right.”



Alice, who be very pale and trembling, murmur something about she

“rejoice that he be not hurt.” but Mr. Hazlehurst, who appear

unusually cross and grumpy, reply, “if that’s what you call a _quiet

way_ of enforce obedience, Mr. Coverdale, all I can say be, I pity any

poor creature that happen to be under your control!”









CHAPTER XI.--“POST EQUITEM SEDET ATRA CURA.”--(Horace)



Mr. Hazlehurst, in his position of father of a family, have be so long

accustomed to consider his will law, that the possibility of his be

in the wrong be one which he never contemplate; the fact, therefore,

of any one having prove he to be so, constitute in his eye a

high and unpardonable misdemeanour. of this capital crime have Harry

Coverdale, on the occasion just describe, be guilty; and Mr.

Hazlehurst, albeit outwardly he resume his usual manner towards

his guest, could not in his secret soul either forget or forgive his

offence--more especially as the circumstance of Mr. Crane’s present

be demonstrate to be unsafe for a lady to ride (and that it be so,

even Mr. Hazlehurst’s power of self-deception could not conceal

from he), be at that particular juncture of affair singularly

embarrassing. of this change of sentiment straightforward, unsuspicious

Harry never dream; accordingly, he continue to behave towards the

old gentleman as freely as he have hitherto do, maintain his own

opinion, even when they entirely differ from those of his host,

courteously, indeed, but with the sturdy independence natural to his

character--a sturdiness which, until it be exert in opposition to his

sovereign will and pleasure, Mr. Hazlehurst have particularly admire.

so for the rest of the week affair (with this single exception) go on

most agreeably and satisfactorily to all party.



Harry, having once break the ice, contrive speedily to win the good

opinion (to use no strong term) of all the female portion of the

community. from the kind attention he pay Mrs. Hazlehurst, he soon

acquire so much influence over that amiable lady that, to please he,

she consent to various scheme devise for her benefit and amusement,

which her daughter have previously urge upon she in vain;--for

instance, when Harry, instruct by Alice in regard to time and season

and the like minor particular, come at the _very_ moment when she be

go to decide that she do not feel equal to go out at all that

day, to tell she that the pony-phaeton be wait at the door, and

that he should really think her unkind, and imagine he must have do

something to offend she, if she refuse to allow he the pleasure of

carry she to the chaise, and drive she just far enough to do she

good, and not to tire her,--what could she do but consent? _Ce n’est que

le premier pas qui coûte_. this point gain, if be easy to persuade

the invalid to take a short excursion daily; and as her complaint be in

some degree on the nerve, the beneficial effect of the fresh air and

exercise soon become apparent. moreover, as Alice know how to drive a

little, and wish to improve in that useful accomplishment, Harry could

do no less, when he have bring Mrs. Hazlehurst safely home from her

daily drive, than take out the young lady, and give she a lesson; and as

these lesson usually last some two hour at a stretch, the fat

pony begin to get into excellent working condition, and consider

themselves put upon, wonder why the Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals neglect to interfere in their behalf. emily, too,

have quite alter her opinion of their guest, and entirely sympathise

with Tom’s declaration that he be “a stunning good fellow, and no

mistake!” Kate Marsden say little, but observe the progress of event

with calm approval; for she perceive that to be go on, which would

greatly facilitate the execution of certain scheme which she have

devise.



at length arrive the important day of the dinner-party. be we

call upon to define the meaning of the term dinner-party, we should

denominate it an awful immolation of mind to matter, a wanton sacrifice

of the head to the stomach. why, on a hot summer’s day, eighteen

individual, suppose to be in their proper sense, who might dine at

home if they choose, should agree of their own free-will to victimise

themselves and each other by congregate together in one room, for the

space of two mortal hour, to eat--and, in the case of the lord of the

creation, probably to drink also--a great deal more than be good for

they, be one of those social problem of which we expect to arrive at

the solution about the time when mankind be thoroughly regenerate by

Miss Martineau’s _a_theological view (to coin a word), but not before.



if there be no other argument against this insane system of monster

dinner-party, the frightful state of discomfort into which the family

of the giver of the feast be throw by the come event, would alone

be sufficient to prove our case. unless the establishment be on a scale

proportionable to that of the individual who, on find the number of

his guest exceed the mean of conveyance provide for they, coolly

order round “more phaeton!” anarchy and confusion reign predominant

throughout the devoted mansion for at least four-and-twenty hour before

the affair come off. in the first place the servant, male and female,

all go mad; if you give an order, the recipient stare you vacantly in

the face, and do something else immediately; if you lay down a book,

or any similar article, in its proper place, somebody instantly remove

it and hide it in an improper one, where you be fortunate if you

stumble upon it by accident in the course of the follow six month.

the lunacy of the servant react upon their better--everybody be a

little out of temper, everybody be over-officious, and have a way of his

or her own for do everything diametrically oppose to the variously

diverge way of everybody else. from the early dawn the very

garret be redolent of “make soup,” which odour remain in possession

of the house till about the time at which luncheon should be, but of

course be not, forthcoming, when it be supersede, and retire _vice_

the venison put down to roast, which we would rather decree should be

“put down” as a nuisance--at least, as far as regard our olfactory

nerve. but it be an endless task to attempt to sum up all the

misery incidental to the preparation for celebrate one of those

“feast of _un_-reason,” nor do we expect very many of the gentle public

to sympathise in our view; for in every society which we have as yet

frequent, “_L’Amphitryon où l’on dine_,” though he be heavy as his own

dinner, be certain to be a popular man.



however this may be, one thing be certain, that Harry Coverdale, on the

morning precede the dinner-party at the Grange, experience in his

proper person many of the inconvenience allude to, and having make

several attempt to improve his position, by seek to induce somebody

to do something sensible or agreeable, all of which prove abortive, by

reason of the impossibility of extract even Alice from the vortex of

preparation--Harry Coverdale, thus victimise, _faute de mieux_, mount

his good steed, and set off to ride away from the blue devil; but the

remedy do not succeed--the devil follow he, and grow bluer and

bluer with every mile he pass over, and, at last, the bluest of they

all assume the likeness of Mr. Crane!



“confound Mr. Crane!”--thus run Harry’s thoughts--“confound the old

fellow! he’s come to marry Alice--my nice, warm-hearted little friend,

Alice! I don’t by any mean approve of it. he’s old enough to be

her father, or anybody else’s, for that matter: the thing be

ridiculous--quite absurd!--Besides, the dear little girl dislike

he--naturally she do: there’s nothing to like in he. why, she care

more about I than she do about he!” he pause in thought, remove

his hat, push back his thick, clustering hair, put his hat on again,

and continue: “I declare, if I’d not entirely make up my mind against

marrying, I’d enter for the stake myself, and see if one could not

jockey the old fellow and governor Hazlehurst too. Alice be a prize well

worth win; but it’s too late to change one’s mind! I ought to have

behave differently to she at first, if I’d want she to fall in love

with I--though I think I’ve get over all that pretty thoroughly, too.

ah! well, I’ve choose my line, and must stick to it; and as the shooting

season ben’t so very far off now, thank goodness, I shall contrive to

make it out somehow, I dare say. and, by Jove, there’s a whole pack of

bird sun themselves in that great field--five or six covey all get

together--and stunning good covey they must be, too. there’s a gap

in the hedge; I’ll leap over and see if I can get near enough to

count they. now, Lancelot--steady, sir!--you _must_ do it--over we go!

famously clear! I wouldn’t take five hundred guineas for you, you

beauty! that I wouldn’t. we’ll show some of ’em the way across country

when the hunting begin; willn’t we astonish their weak mind for they,

rather!” and so, pat and caress his horse, Harry make a wide

circuit, and avail himself of the shelter of a belt of tree,

contrive to get near enough to the partridge to count they; by which

process he arrive at the interesting discovery that there be exactly

thirty brace, with one bird over; which ornithological irregularity

rather distressed and provoke he, though why it should have do so

neither he nor, as we imagine, any one else, could possibly conceive.



but the partridge be count, back come the blue devil in great

force than ever: and his thought grow so troublesome, not to say

unbearable, that Harry begin to imagine he must be bewitch--a

supposition in which, perhaps, he be not so very far wrong after all.

as a last refuge against his persecutor, he resolve on a good gallop;

and so make his way across country, a distance of some eight mile, as

straight as the crow fly, leaping gate and crash through hedge in

a very reckless and steeple-chase kind of manner, which obtain for

he a more than sufficient amount of hard british swearing from sundry

irate member of the Agricultural Association, who, for once in their

life, have a real grievance to complain of. as he clear the last fence

lead into the park in which the Grange be situate, the village

clock strike six, and he could perceive a carriage, with the Crane

livery (green turn up with yellow), wind slowly through the

tree. three minute more find he in the stable-yard, and fling

the bridle of his reeking steed to his groom, while he utter the hasty

caution, “you see the state he’s in; take proper care of he,” he make

his way to his bedroom by a back staircase, overturn a water-can, and

run into the arm of a pretty housemaid (to whom he apologise by

mention that he be sorry he be in too great a hurry to give she a

kiss), in the course of his rapid career. and so, very hot, very

dusty, considerably tired, and with a most unromantic appetite, he set

vigorously to work to (as servant inelegantly, but graphically term it)

clean himself.



when, some twenty minute afterwards, Coverdale reach the

drawing-room, he find all the guest assemble. many of they, to whom

he be personally know, immediately claim acquaintance, recognise

he in spite of the improvement which his residence abroad have work

in his manner and appearance. some two or three of the young man be

old college chum, who be really overjoy to see he again, and who

immediately gather round he and besiege he with question. Glancing

round the circle, he perceive D’Almayne bend tenderly over Alice;

but the sight no long annoy he--he have get over _that_. Alice

see the exquisite in his true colour; Alice have laugh at he--poor

D’Almayne! but on her other hand sit the cotton-spinner, and he be

more formidable; for he do not (fortunately for himself) depend on

his personal attraction alone--there be twenty thousand solid good

reason per annum why he should not be refuse; reason which render

his alliance with Mr. Hazlehurst’s family so desirable, that all that

gentleman’s paternal authority be certain to be stretch to its

uttermost limit to enable Mr. Crane to carry his point. moreover, as

Harry enter the drawing-room, Tom have give he the follow note:--



“_dear Hal,--I have write to tell the governor that I shall be

detain in court so late that it will be impossible for I to get away

to-night (the truth, you heretic!). I shall start by the first train

to-morrow, and be with you to breakfast. keep a sharp look-out upon the

cotton-spinner; and if at any moment he appear as if he be prepare

to pop, throw a book at his head without hesitation! so will you

continue to deserve the good opinion of,



“Arthur H._”



at dinner, Coverdale be seat next a fast young lady, who rather make

love to he than otherwise; but she do not take much by her motion,

for Harry have a good deal of business on his hand. first, there be his

appetite to satisfy, and the monster be very insatiate after his gallop

across country; next, he feel it incumbent upon he to keep a strict

watch over Mr. Crane and Alice, who be seat nearly opposite to he;

and he seriously debate in his own mind whether a finger-glass might

not be consider a legitimate substitute for a book, on one or two

occasion, when the cotton-spinner appear to be attempt the

excessively tender. good eating require good drinking; thirst demand

Pale Ale, etiquette oblige Champagne, and the mixed duty of society

necessitate Port and Sherry; Hock be very refreshing in hot weather; it

be no use to hand round Curaçoa, if people willn’t drink it; Hermitage and

Lunel be so nice, that everybody take they; Claret be a necessity in

all properly order establishment; and if your host produce a bottle

of good old Burgundy, he must be a fool who refuse to taste it. but for

a man to do all this, and at the same time to think, feel, and express

himself as coolly and prudently as he would after a mutton-chop and

a glass of table-beer, would require he to possess a brain make of

cast-iron, and no heart at all, and such be by no mean the physical

conformation of our hero. Harry, however, possess a good strong head

of his own; and although, as dessert proceed, his eye grow bright,

and he involuntarily emulate D’Almayne by smile frequently, and

unconsciously display an even row of white tooth, these peculiarity

only serve to make he look especially handsome. but the wine do

something else; for, as the lady rise to leave the room, it inspire

he with a determination to jockey D’Almayne, who usually usurp

the privilege of open the door on such occasion--a “cut out”

 expedition which Harry conduct with equal skill and success. as Alice,

who come last, pass he, some spirit (whether of wine, or another

equally favourite theme for minstrel’s lay, we cannot tell) urge he to

bend his head, and whisper the inquiry, “have you be happy with your

delightful companion?”



a contemptuous smile, and a slight negative motion of the lip answer

the question; and, for a moment, their eye meet. Alice’s must have be

a singularly expressive glance, for Harry read therein that she be

anxious and dispirit, but feel a vague and general reliance on his

willingness and ability to afford her comfort and protection.



have Mr. Crane know the exact feeling with which Coverdale grasp

a finger-glass, and mentally calculate the amount of force it would

require to launch the missile against the chinchilla-crown head of

his opposite neighbour, that worthy man would scarcely have venture to

continue his mild and meaningless prosing so contentedly.









CHAPTER XII.--HARRY put his foot in it.



the moment Harry reseat himself at the dining-table, two of his old

college friend place themselves beside he, and plunge at once into

recollection of “auld-lang-syne,” completely monopolise he. the

sound of his own name eagerly pronounce, rouse he at length from an

interesting reminiscence of how gloriously drunk Jones of Magdalen have

be at Tippleton’s wine-party (when he _would_ sing a pathetic ballad,

begin, “there’s a wail on the mountain!” and be stop by a roar

of laughter, chorus the inquiry, “how the deuce it--the whale--get

there?”). the speaker be Mr. Hazlehurst. “excuse my interrupt your

conversation for a few minute, Mr. Coverdale,” he begin, “but we want

your opinion. you’ve travel and see the working of different tariff

regulation, and have opportunity of compare the prosperity of

other nation with that of our own, while at the same time you be a

sufficiently large land-proprietor to give you a stake in the country,

and to induce you to feel a strong interest in the general prospect

of the agricultural population. I be sure you must agree with I in

consider protection a most essential and salutary measure.”



“if I might be allow to make just one observation before Mr. Coverdale

favour we with his view on this important question,” insinuate

Mr. Crane, in the mild and most affectionate tone of voice

imaginable--wine always reduce this excellent man to a state of weak

and inappropriate philanthropy--“if I might observe that, with the

high respect for, and admiration of, the agricultural population

of this great country, I feel it incompatible with my feeling as a

protestant, and therefore, so to speak, in a general way as a brother,

not to say as a man also, and more particularly as a mill-owner, to

forget the thousand of operative who crowd our large city, and who,

when satisfied with cheap bread, add to the dignity and prosperity

of the nation; but, on the contrary, when deprive of this mean

of support, object to resign themselves to the dispensation of a

beneficent providence, and fly in the face of society as chartist,

leveller, red-republicans, and all that be dangerous and subversive of

morality and security of property. if I may so far presume as to call

Mr. Coverdale’s attention to the desirableness of provide food at

a rate which will enable the manufacturing class to exist without

constantly work themselves up into a state of illegal desperation, I

shall feel that I have, if I may be allow the expression, unburthene

my conscience.” thus say, Mr. Crane cast a timid and appealing look

from Harry to his host, and sip a glass of Burgundy with the air of a

man apologise for some misdeed.



“it be not a subject upon which I have ever expend any vast amount

of consideration,” begin Coverdale, wish in his secret soul that he

might have the feeding of Mr. Crane for the ensue six month

entrust to he, in which case he would have afford that gentleman

an opportunity of practically test the merit of _very_ cheap bread

indeed, and of nothing else--except, perhaps, cold spring water; “but

the common sense of the matter appear to lie in a nutshell: the two

great division of the poor class be the manufacture poor and

the agricultural poor, the manufacturer be the most numerous--to

sacrifice one to the other be unfair, but to offer up the great to the

less be ridiculous. free-trade have have a fair trial, and have be prove

to benefit the masse, though it lie heavily on the land-owner. well,

then, relieve land of its burthen, and make the income-tax permanent

to reimburse the Exchequer. that’s the line I should take if I be

Premier, which, thank heaven, I’m not.”



as Harry conclude, two or three man begin to speak at once, but Mr.

Hazlehurst, by a solemn wave of the hand, immediately silence they.

that excellent magistrate have drink more wine than be by any mean good

for he; his constitution be gouty, and he have not have a fit for some

time; before such attack he be usually as irritable as though his

brain be a hedgehog, and society at large a pack of wire-haire

terrier attempt to unroll it. Claret be the most unwholesome wine

he could take, and on the evening in question he have imbibe nearly

a bottle thereof; but of all this _dessous des carte_, Harry be

innocently unconscious.



“I beg your pardon, gentleman,” begin Mr. Hazlehurst, solemnly, “but the

right of reply at present rest with myself. moreover, if my ear do

not deceive I, Mr. Coverdale have make an observation which I must call

upon he either to explain or retract; but in the first place, let

I express my surprise and regret, sir,” here he address himself

pointedly to Harry, “that a young man in your position, a large

land-proprietor, a lover of field-sport, possess a practical

knowledge of land, and a personal acquaintance with the habit and

custom of the agricultural poor--the bone and sinew of our country,

should thus turn against and betray the interest of the class to

which he belong, and league himself with those who would, in their

shortsightedness, sap the vital of that free and independent character

which have make we the great nation that we be. with regard to the

observation to which I allude, I believe, that having stigmatise

the opinion I hold as a sacrifice of the great to the less, you

deliberately pronounce those opinion ridiculous. have I not repeat

your word correctly?”



“I certainly say that to sacrifice the great number to the less would

be ridiculous,” return Harry, completely take aback at this sudden

and unexpected accusation; “but I only meant--”



“you mean what you say, I presume?” interpose Mr. Hazlehurst, in the

magisterial tone of voice in which he be accustom to cross-examine

and be down upon equivocate poacher.



“of course I do,” return Harry, his eye flash as he observe a

sarcastic smile upon the face of Horace D’Almayne. “I always mean what I

say; but my remark relate solely to general principle, and have not the

small reference to you personally, sir.”



“which be equivalent to say, that I do not understand the common

meaning of word,” return Mr. Hazlehurst, in the same irritate tone

of voice. “really, Mr. Coverdale, your explanation do not tend to do

away with the unfavourable impression your observation force upon I.”



“it be equivalent to nothing of the kind, sir,” rejoin Harry, lose

his self-command as a second glance at D’Almayne reveal the fact that

he be hide a laugh behind an elaborately-work cambric handkerchief;

“but if you choose to put a wrong construction upon every word I

utter, it be useless for I to discuss the matter far with a man

so--a--so----”



at this critical moment, Tom Hazlehurst, who have be listen with a

countenance of blank dismay to the altercation between his father and

his friend, contrive, either by accident or design, to throw down

and break a valuable china plate. this incident create a diversion by

call forth an outburst of parental wrath, under cover whereof Harry

regain sufficient self-control to enable he to suppress the word

“wrong-headed,” with which he have be on the point of conclude his

sentence. at the same time, Mr. Crane, have a mortal antipathy to

anything like quarrelling, which, as he say, produce “an insalubrious

agitation of his nervous system,” or, in plain English, frighten he

out of his wit, suggest that they should join the lady--a proposal

which lead to a general move. five minute’ reflection, in an atmosphere

less oppressive than that of the heated dining-room, cause Harry to

perceive that, by having allow himself to be provoke by the obstinacy

of a pig-head and slightly tipsy old gentleman into even a momentary

forgetfulness of the respect due to Mr. Hazlehurst’s year and

position, he have act wrongly and foolishly. it moreover occur to

he, now that it be too late to be of the slight use, that owe to

this unfortunate disagreement he must have completely neutralise any

influence he might have possess with his host, and thus, in fact,

frustrate the whole purpose of his visit: by which mean Arthur would

be vex, and the possibility of Alice’s marriage with Mr. Crane rather

increase than otherwise. just as he be about to exchange the cool

air of the garden (whither on leave the dining-room he have betake

himself) for the less agreeable temperature of a crowded drawing-room, he

be pat on the shoulder by one of his college acquaintance.



“ah, Knighton! what be it man?” Observed Harry, wish his dear

friend at Jericho. “I take you for the stem of a tree, you stand so

motionless.”



“why the fact be, my dear fellow,” return Knighton, a well-dispose

goose, who, when Harry first commence his college career, have form

an enthusiastic attachment for he, in return for which he expect his

friend to advise he how to act and what to say upon every occasion,

trifle as well as important--a tax which even Harry’s good-nature

find somewhat oppressive, “the fact be, I consider it quite

providential, if I may say so, find you here to-night: you know I

always like to have your opinion before I make up my mind; there be

nobody with such good sense as you, at least, nobody that I’ve ever meet

with. my dear Coverdale, I’m go to take the most important step--that

be, if you see no reason against it, which I can scarcely feel a doubt

of; but I’ll tell you the whole affair, begin properly at the

beginning. when I be down in Hampshire three year ago----” but we will

not inflict Mr. Knighton’s amiable prolixity on the reader, suffice it

to say that, having link his arm within that of Coverdale, he parade

his victim up and down a gravel walk for the space of at least three

quarter of an hour, while he pour into his ear as dull a tale of

true love as ever run smooth: true love of the very mild quality,

which, from the beginning, be certain to end simply and naturally in

a stupid marriage, about the whole of which affair there could not by

possibility be two opinion. at length, when Harry have agree, with

everything and to everything at least twice over, and strongly advise

his tormentor to act as he feel certain he would have do if his advice

have be just the other way (for this young man, although he eagerly

seek counsel, by no mean consider himself bind to walk thereby),

it suddenly occur to Mr. Knighton that he be do an unkind thing

by his friend, and a rude one by his host, in not soon join the

lady; accordingly, at (literally) the eleventh hour, he exercise thus

much self-denial, viz. have nothing more to say, he say it.



when Coverdale enter the drawing-room, he cast round his eye to

discover what might have become of Alice and Mr. Crane, and fail to

perceive they, be about to find some excuse for make his way into the

boudoir beyond, when Emily pounce upon he to entreat he to sing for

the edification of some dear Mary Jane or other, who be die to hear

he; and the very identical Mary Jane herself second the request in

a mild, insinuating, blatant tone of voice, as of some bashful but

persuasive sheep, there remain nothing for he but to consent, which

he do with a very ill grace indeed. having dash through a tender and

sentimental italian love-ditty in a ferocious, not to say sanguinary,

style, he declare he be so hoarse that he could not sing another note,

and again make an attempt to enter the boudoir, which he succeed

in reach just in time to see Alice quit the room with a heighten

colour, and in a manner which betoken hurry and agitation, while Mr.

Crane remained gaze after she with a countenance indicative of the

deep and most helpless bewilderment. from these symptom Harry

rightly conjecture that while he have be off duty the cotton-spinner

have pop; but whether his offer have be accept or reject he be

utterly unable to divine. Mr. Crane look stupid and puzzle-pat--but

_that_ he be sure to do in any case. for the rest of the evening

Coverdale be in a fearful state of mind; people stay late, and it

seem to he as if everybody have enter into a league to worry and

torment he. first, the young lady who have sit next he at dinner get at

he again, and flirt at he so violently, that (his thought run

entirely on marry and give in marriage) he become possessed of a

nervous dread lest she should be go to make he an offer--this idea

gain confirmation from its suddenly occur to he that it be

Leap-year, he grow desperate, and pretend that Emily have make he

promise to sing again, astonish that damsel by cross over to inform

she that his hoarseness have entirely depart, and that he should have

the great pleasure in favour her friend with the song she have

wish to hear; for which piece of inconsistency Emily bestow upon he

a glance so penetrate and satirical, that he long to box her pretty

pert little ear for it. when the song be over, Knighton emerge from

behind a broad old lady, somebody’s mother-in-law, very far go in

Curaçoa, which she conceal behind a pious zeal for clothing the

female native of Barelyaragon (an unknown island, discover by Juan

de Chuzacruz in the sixteenth century, and forget ever since) in the

cast-off garment of the Bluecoat-school boy. the moment Knighton

get clear of this philanthropic elder he pounce upon Coverdale,

and carry he off to a recess, then and there relate to he an

additional episode in his amatory career, which be not of the slight

importance either to himself or to anybody else, but which take nearly

as long to communicate as the original history. during this infliction,

Harry’s attention be occupy by observe the behaviour of Mr. Crane.

almost as soon as Alice quit the boudoir, Kate Marsden have enter

it, and begin a long and apparently interesting conversation with Mr.

Crane, during which that gentleman, who at the commencement appear

rather low and desponding, gradually brighten up, and, under the

influence of his fair companion’s society, grow quite lively and

animate; in fact (if by any stretch of imagination the reader can

connect two such antagonistic and incongruous idea as Mr. Crane

and flirtation), an uninitiated spectator, behold the pair, might

legitimately have come to the conclusion that Kate Marsden and the

cotton-spinner be very decidedly and unmistakably flirt.



the long evening come to an end at last, and Coverdale having see

Knighton safely deposit in a dog-cart, with nobody to bore but

a sleepy groom, be make his way to the spot where the bedroom

candlestick be usually to be discover, when he suddenly encounter

Mr. Hazlehurst. stand aside to let he pass, Harry, in his most

polite and conciliatory manner, wish he good-night. the only reply

vouchsafed be the slight and stiff possible nod of the head, and

with a countenance as dark and lower as the most viciously dispose

thunder-cloud, the offend autocrat pass on.









CHAPTER XIII.--“DEEPER and DEEPER still.”



when Coverdale reach his own room, his first act be to lock the

door, his next to fle open the window; he then untie his neck-cloth,

pull off his coat and boot, and substitute for they a dressing-gown

and slipper, cast a long, linger glance at his cigar-case. shake

his head negatively, he mutter, “I daren’t risk it; old Hazlehurst have

a wonderful nose for tobacco--if it be but as good for partridge and

pheasant he’d make an invaluable retriever!”--he pause, sigh deeply,

partly for want of a cigar--partly because, though he be not at all

aware of it, one of the great reality of life be for the first time

dawn upon he; then draw a chair to the open window he seat

himself, and give way to thought.



“I’ve make a pretty mess of it this evening, and no mistake!”--thus

run his ideas--“gone and offend the governor, and render he as

cantankerous as an old rhinoceros, so that the more I want he to do

anything, the less likely he’ll be to do it. then in my confound

good-nature, I’ve allow that ass Knighton to detain I with his stupid

prosing, so that I lose sight of the cotton-spinner, and give he a

chance of make Alice an offer--a chance of which the old fellow be

inspire with wit enough to avail himself, I’m almost certain. Arthur

will be preciously savage! and enough to make he--the notion of

sacrifice Alice to such an old anatomy as that--a yellow-skin brute

like a resuscitated mummy, without more than two idea in his head, and

two such idea--cash and cotton! he think of nothing else, asleep or

awake. I wonder what answer Alice give he; but there ben’t much doubt

of that, the poor girl daren’t disobey her father--besides, woman don’t

refuse £20,000 a-year. well, I wish old Crane joy of his bargain. she’ll

soon get sick of he, and be miserable of course; then she’ll take to

flirt with every young fellow she meet, to get rid of her _ennui_;

choose out one to establish a platonic friendship with, perhaps!--I’ve

see all that sort of thing in France and Italy often enough. D’Almayne

very likely, he’s just the sort of puppy to lead a woman on--she

laugh at he now, but it may be different when she’s only old Crane to

contrast he with. by the way, I’ll give Arthur a hint on that score.”

 he rise, pace up and down the room several time, then continued--“I

wonder what the deuce be the matter with I! I feel most absurdly and

unpleasantly miserable.” he reseat himself by the window, toss back

his hair, and sit silently watch the moon, just then emerge from

behind a bank of cloud. it be a time and scene to elevate and refine

man’s nature; and Harry be not insensible to the influence. he think

of his boyhood, and his mother’s tender love; he recur to the

moonlight stroll in which he have confide these cherished memory to

Alice, and the warm and ready sympathy with which she listen to the

recital; then minute point in their subsequent intercourse force

themselves into his recollection--smile, word, and glance, trifle

in themselves, but when collect, suggestive of a definite idea; and

lastly, her look when she quit the dining-room that evening flash

across he, and with a sudden start he press his hand to his forehead

as he resumed--“Fool that I be, I see it all now--now when it be too

late I love she, and I might have win her love--it only require to tell

she of my own feeling, to change the affectionate interest she have

conceive for I into a warm sentiment; and now, perhaps pique by

my apparent indifference, she have accept this man, and seal her own

unhappiness--and mine too, for that matter; but I deserve it! why do

I let this chance of a bright future escape I! to fancy that the mere

physical excitement of hunting and shoot (pastime for a thoughtless

boy) could content a being endow with reason and feeling!--though

really I doubt whether I deserve such a title. I must have be

blind--stultify, not to see all this before!” bury his face in his

hand, he remain for some time in deep and self-upbraid thought;

rouse himself at length by an effort, he continued--“well! it’s no

good sitting here torment myself all night long--I’ll go to bed

(though, of course, I shall not sleep a wink), and in the morning I’ll

walk over to the station, meet Arthur--tell he how I’ve mismanage

everything he expect I to do, and find some excuse for leave this

place to-morrow. I should go mad if I be to stay here long! Heigho!

I wonder what will become of I--it will be no pleasure to look forward

to the shooting season now! I don’t believe I shall ever care to hit a

bird or mount a horse again. I’ll go to India, and join the army as

a volunteer, or start off to look for the north pole, or something.

I shall hang myself if I stay at home, and do nothing but think about

Alice and that detestable old crane!” by the time his meditation have

reach this point, Coverdale be unrobed, and, jump disconsolately

into bed, have not lay his head on his pillow for five minute ere he

fall sound asleep, and dream of a _battue_, in which he try to shoot

Mr. Crane (who, on that occasion only, appear ornithologically and

picturesquely attire in the tail and plumage of a cock-pheasant), and

could by no mean induce his gun to go off.



the sun shine in through the open window awake Harry, when he fancy

he might have be asleep about a quarter of an hour; on refer to

his watch, however, he find it be halfpast six, and as the train by

which Arthur Hazlehurst be expect would arrive at twenty minute past

seven, and it be a good half-hour’s walk to the station, he rise and

begin dress. as his thought recur to the event of the previous

evening, all his care and anxiety come back upon he with redouble

force, and he feel more thoroughly out of sort and unhappy than he ever

remember to have do since he have come to man’s estate. when the

operation of shaving oblige he to look in the glass, he be surprised,

and if the truth must be tell, rather alarmed also, as he catch sight

of the expression of his feature. “what a hang-dog, miserable brute

I look like!” he mutter to himself; “it strike I I drink more wine

than be good for one last night--that come of old Hazlehurst bring

out Burgundy after everybody have have enough. the old boy must have be

frightfully screw himself, or he would never have get so cantankerous

with I about nothing--I hate a man who grow quarrelsome over his

liquor! Heigho! I feel shockingly seedy and down in the mouth, what

the deuce be I to say to Arthur!--how on earth be I to set thing right

again with the old man! I wonder whether he will be stupid enough to

expect I to make an apology? I wouldn’t mind do it to an old codger

like that, but ’pon my word I should not know what to say--I’ve

nothing to apologise about that I can see. I hope Arthur willn’t be angry,

or bad still, unhappy about Alice--poor, dear Alice: if she come down

to breakfast look miserable, I shall never be able to stand it! I’d

well not look at she at all--that will be the only plan: I’ll be off

before luncheon. when I get home, all by myself, and have nothing to do

but sit and think, I shall have a pleasant life of it! well, I certainly

_have_ go and do it this time handsomely--rather!”



thus fret and worry himself he finish dress, and, make his

way quietly down stair, effect his exit unobserve. fancy he be

late he start at a brisk walk, and having cross the open part of

the park, reach a stile at the entrance of a grass-grow footpath

overshadow with tree. before enter this he look at his watch,

and find that instead of too late he be too early, by nearly half an

hour; accordingly, get leisurely over the stile, he stroll onward

in the direction of a rustic bench, which he remember to have see

some short distance far up the path, where, if the truth must be

tell, he propose to console himself with a cigar. as he come in sight

of this bench he perceive that it be occupy, and a second glance

be scarcely need to convince he that the occupant be Alice. for a

moment he be perplex as to what course to take, whether to join she,

or to retrace his step, and avoid a meeting which he feel, under the

circumstance, must necessarily be most embarrassing. perceive that

the young lady’s head be turn in the opposite direction, and that

she have therefore not yet see he, he draw back a pace or two, so as

to place the trunk of a tower elm between they. “what shall I do?”

 think Harry; “I have not an idea what to say to she that would be

likely to be of any use; in fact, there’s nothing to be say. she have

accept old Crane, and now she’s come here to meet Arthur, tell he

what she’s do, say she could not help it, and ask he to forgive she

and make the good of it. I shall be _de trop_ evidently, so the good

thing I can do be to jog back again; and yet--and yet I should like to

walk by her side, and look into her dear blue eye once more--heigho! I

almost wish my dream would come true, only reverse, and that I be

the pheasant and Crane go to shoot I, though I should not be in much

danger, for the old muff would be safe to miss I. well, I suppose

I’d well be off--be she there still? yes, but what be she

do--crying?--why by heaven she’s cry as if her heart would break!

oh, you know I cann’t stand this, so it’s no use think any more about

it; speak to she I must and will!” and, suit the action to the word,

he be about to spring forward and join she, when it occur to he

that it would only distress and annoy she if he be to obtrude his

presence upon she when, imagine herself alone, she be unrestrainedly

give way to her grief; so, with that tact spring from innate

delicacy of feeling which prevent Coverdale’s honest, straightforward

character from ever become rough or overbearing, he wait till poor

Alice have dry her tear, and with slow, listless footstep (sadly

different from her usual bounding and elastic gait) resume her walk in

the direction of the railway-station. as soon as she be fairly start

Harry emerge from his hiding-place, and follow she with vigorous

stride. when he have approach within hearing distance, he endeavour

by various mean, such as stamp with his foot, brush against

the underwood as he pass, and the like, to render she aware of his

presence, but for some minute without success. at length, however, a

violent onslaught he make against a blackthorn bush (by which mean he

acquire a practical knowledge of the penetrate property of thorn)

attract her attention, and with a start sufficiently violent to show

that her nervous system be unusually excited, she turn and beheld

he. re-assured by find that the alarm sound have be cause by

the approach of a friend, rather than by that of a wild beast or an ogre

(plague so common in the midland county of “England in ye nineteenth

century,” that of course her imagination have instantly suggest they),

Alice wait till he come up, and receive he with her customary

bright smile, although her heighten colour, and an unusual degree of

consciousness in her manner, prove that for some reason the meeting

rather embarrass she also.



“you walk betime, Miss Hazlehurst,” begin Harry, anxious to break the

ice, but not know in the slight degree how, when it should be

break, he be go to proceed; “you be really a pattern of early

rise; but I have a notion we be both bind on the same errand,

namely, to meet Arthur--be I wrong?”



“quite right,” be the reply; “I get up at a wonderfully early hour;

I suppose I be too much excited by such an unaccustomed event as a

dinner-party, to be able to sleep at all soundly.”



“you look fag and weary even now,” return Coverdale, regard she

anxiously, “and you will fatigue yourself still more by walk to the

station and back. be you prudent to undertake so long an expedition

before breakfast?”



“oh yes,” be the reply; “it will refresh I and do I good; besides, I

want particularly to see and talk to Arthur.”



“I will accompany you as far as the station, if you will allow I,”

 return Harry, “and, as soon as your brother arrive, leave you to talk

with he in peace; the few word I have to say to he will do equally

well after breakfast.”



Alice signify her consent, and the conversation continue for several

minute to turn on indifferent subject, though the burden of sustain

it fall chiefly upon Alice, Harry’s observation become short

and less coherent at each reply. at length, however, Alice’s stock of

small-talk fail she, and Harry, in despair, be about to hazard some

such original observation as, that the grass be look remarkably

green, when his companion suddenly address he.



“I be afraid that you will think that I be interfere very

unnecessarily and impertinently, Mr. Coverdale, but I must trust to your

kindness to make allowance for I.”



“she be actually go to confess the cotton-spinner to I, and tell

I I’m in the way, I do believe! cool hand woman be, and no mistake!”

 think Coverdale; he only say, however, “pray go on.”



“the fact be,” resume Alice, with a falter voice, “my brother Tom

inform I (you must not be angry with the poor boy, for he do it out

of regard for you) that you--that be that my father and you differ

about some political question after dinner yesterday, and that my father

be so carry away by the subject as to become injudiciously warm, and,

from Tom’s account, personal, and that his observation annoy you.

now, I be so very sorry this should have occur, for he have form

such a high opinion of you, and Arthur be so much pleased to see how

well you get on with he--a point on which he appear particularly

anxious.” (Coverdale bite his lip, and cut off a thistle’s head viciously

with his cane.) “but, if you could be so very good as to overlook

anything my father may have say, it would make I--I mean it would make

Arthur, and--and--all of we so much happy.”



“my dear Miss Hazlehurst,” begin Harry, vehemently, “how very kind of

you to trouble yourself about I! I can assure you I be most anxious

to say or do anything to regain Mr. Hazlehurst’s good opinion. I know

I make he rather an impertinent answer; but really I be so unprepared

for such an attack; and then, to make matter bad, that old idiot,

Mr. Crane--that be,” he continue, suddenly recollect to whom he

be speak, and turn crimson as he do so, “I beg your pardon

for speak so disrespectfully of he to _you_; I really forget--I be

certainly lose my sense!” with a blush as bright, though not quite

so deep colour as that of Coverdale, Alice, turn away her head,

reply:



“Mr. Crane’s only claim on my respect be, that he be my father’s friend;

if I must own the truth, I do not myself consider he very wise.”



“his _only_ claim do you say!” exclaim Harry, earnestly. “oh, Miss

Hazlehurst--Alice--pardon I if I ask you to deal openly with I; be I

indeed wrong in suppose that you be engage, or about to become so,

to Mr. Crane?”



“oh yes!” be the hurried reply; “such a fate would render I most

miserable.”



upon this hint Harry spake; the reality and strength of his feeling

impart an earnest dignity to his manner, and an unwonted eloquence to

his speech, which would have deeply affect his fair auditor, even have

her own heart not plead warmly in his favour. as it be, before they

arrive in sight of the railroad station, Harry have somehow come to the

conclusion, that the communication he should have to make to his friend

Arthur would be very much more satisfactory, though perhaps little less

embarrassing, than the one he have originally design. it certainly

be a considerable change in the tenour of his report to be force to

explain, that instead of consider himself the most miserable be

in the world, he feel convinced he be by far the happy; for that

Alice--resolve not to marry the cotton-spinner--have give her heart,

and promise her hand, to he.



and thus, short, sharp, and decisive, begin and end “Harry Coverdale’s

courtship:” all the result, good and evil, “that come of it,” may be

learn by any reader sufficiently persevere to peruse that which

remain to be tell of this veracious history.









CHAPTER XIV.--DECIDEDLY EMBARRASSING.



Alice and Harry be so deeply engross with each other and so

absorb in the interchange of those mysterious but delightful nothing,

which form the staple of lover’ communication, and which, deeply

interesting to the happy pair, appear to the unsusceptible public the

veri nonsense imaginable, that they be still some distance from

the station when the train rush up, sneeze out a few passenger, and,

snort and coughing, dash off like a well-dispose fiery dragon,

warrant quiet to ride and drive. walk on rapidly they soon

discover Arthur, embarrass by a carpet-bag and a mackintosh, make

the good of his way to meet they; the moment he come within speak

distance, he exclaimed--



“what do I behold! Harry Coverdale with a young lady on his arm! surely

the age of miracle be return! well I never do! do _you_ ever? and

Alice look so deliciously self-satisfied and unconscious, too! why

you stupid little owl (you’re very like one, with your hooked nose and

great eye), don’t you know you’re bore he to death? he care for

nothing but horse, dog, and gun; and above all perfectly abominate

woman.” Alice smile, and attempt to make a playful rejoinder, but in

vain,--her heart be too full; have she speak at that moment she must

have burst into tear. the speech affect Harry differently.



“I do nothing of the kind,” he say, angrily; “Arthur how can you be

so absurd!” pause for a moment, the ludicrous nature of the situation

occur to he, and, with difficulty restrain a laugh, he turn the

conversation by seize his friend’s carpet-bag, exclaim as he do

so, “come, give it up, of course I’m not go to let you carry it;

you’re look horridly thin and pale, as londoner always do: be

he not, Al--a--, Miss Hazlehurst? what! you refuse; give it up this

instant, or I declare I’ll carry you and it too.”



during the playful struggle which ensue for the possession of the

carpet-bag, in which contention Harry be soon victorious, Alice, glad

to obtain a few minute in which to compose herself, walk on. as the

young man hasten to rejoin she, hazlehurst, lay his hand on

Coverdale’s arm, inquire “how have it all go off? crane haven’t

venture to offer yet, of course?”



“yes, by Jove, he have though!” be the reply; “the old muff contrive to

pop last night--confound him!--when I be out of the room, and haven’t a

chance of throw anything at his head.”



“and Alice?” inquire the brother, eagerly; but his eagerness frustrate

its own purpose (no uncommon case by the way), for, pronounce the name

in a loud key than he be aware of, the fair owner thereof stop

short, and thus prevent the possibility of further explanation. as

they continue their homeward walk, Arthur, who be a quick observer,

soon detect a change in Harry’s manner towards his sister; for

which, at first, he feel excessively puzzled to account. a respectful

tenderness be apparent in his tone when he address she, and he

exhibit a degree of eager, almost affectionate, solicitude for her

ease and comfort, in all the minor incident of a country walk, such as

Hazlehurst, during the whole of their intimacy, have never before see

he evince towards a young lady.



“what have come to Harry now, I wonder?” thus run his reflection; “if

it be any one in the world but he, I should say he be flirt with

Alice; but Harry never flirt in his life, so that be impossible.” he

ponder for a moment, then an idea strike he. “I see it now; my father

have force the poor child to accept old crane; Harry know it, and

the pity his kind, warm-hearted nature lead he to feel towards she,

influence his manner. they be each come to tell I all that have

occur, and have meet by accident; yes, that must be it.” in order,

however, more fully to satisfy himself of the correctness of his theory,

he observe, in his usual light, jest manner, “I think Mr. Coverdale,

it behove I, as ‘a man and a brother,’ to inquire how you happen to

be march about the country, _tête-à-tête_ with my sister, at this

unconscionably early hour?”



Harry, who, between his desire to enlighten Arthur as to the new and

transcendently delightful, but especially embarrassing turn affair have

take, and the impossibility of do so before Alice--the overpowering

nature of his feeling towards that young lady, and his extreme

happiness at find they reciprocate--the great and imminent danger

_in re_ Crane, and the humiliating confession regard his lose

influence with Mr. Hazlehurst, together with the awkward position

in which he stand towards that outraged and obdurate elder--be in a

tremendous frame of mind, merely start and stare vacantly at his

interrogator.



but Alice, have by this time regain in some degree her

self-possession, reply quietly, “Mr. Coverdale and I be both

come to meet you, and encounter each other accidentally, walk on

together.”



as she speak, Arthur, strive to read her countenance, fix his eye

upon she. unable to meet his glance she turn away with an April look,

half tear half smile. “it must be as I think,” reflect Arthur;

“but if anything be to be do to save she, no time should be lose.

I’ll not waste the present opportunity. my dear Coverdale,” he continue

aloud, “I wish to have a few minute’ private conversation with my

sister; you and I be too old friend to stand upon ceremony, so you

will not be offend if I ask you to walk on, and wait for we at the

stile at the end of the path.”



this direct appeal bring Harry to his sense, but not feel sure

whether Alice would approve of have the whole burden of explanation

throw upon she, he glance inquiringly towards she ere he venture to

reply. now, Alice, fond as she be of her brother, be also (from their

difference in point of age, as well as from the fact that Arthur’s

nature be more firm and resolute than her own, and his manner quick

and abrupt) a little afraid of he. thus, be aware how very highly

he esteem Coverdale--an estimation which she be inclined to transcend

rather than to depreciate--a sudden fear seize her lest Arthur, deeming

she a mere silly child, should consider his friend have do a foolish

thing in choose she for a wife, when he might have select, at the

very least, some strong-minded peeress, and that he might be angry

with she for her presumption in having accept he. this feeling,

overpower for the moment every other, induce she to respond to

Harry’s look of inquiry by a slight shake of the head, and a glance

which would have keep he by her side if a whole regiment of brother,

arm with Minie rifle and Colt’s revolver, have attempt to separate

they. but Arthur, be totally unarmed, and having simply ask a civil

question, the answer which Harry, appropriately quote Walter Scott,

might have make to the hypothetical regiment, “come one come all, this

rock (not that there be a rock, but that be a trifle) will fly, from

its firm base as soon as I,” be unfit for the present emergency,

and no other equally good suggest itself. what he _do_ say be this,

“a--really--of course I’d do it in a minute, my dear fellow--but--a--I’m

not quite sure,”--here he glance at Alice--“that be, I’m positively

certain that--a--in fact, the thing’s impossible.”



“you’re certain that it’s impossible that you can walk on to the stile

before Alice and I! my dear Harry, what be you talk--or rather

(for the truth be you’re pre-occupied), what be you think about?”

 inquire Arthur, in amazement, see from the expression of his

friend’s countenance that he be really anxious and excited. Coverdale

be again hesitate how to reply, when Alice relieve he from his

difficulty by say hurriedly, “I will walk on, and leave you to talk

to Mr. Coverdale.”



as she speak, they reach the rustic bench before allude to, and

Arthur, completely mystify, seat himself, and make a sign to

Coverdale to follow his example.



“one moment, and I’ll be with you,” reply Coverdale, spring to

Alice’s side; “then I may tell he everything?” he continue.



“oh yes,” be the unhesitate answer.



“and you _will_ wait for we at the stile? I willn’t detain he five

minute.”



“if _you_ wish it.”



“_can_ you doubt it?” be the necessary lover-like rejoinder; and

Coverdale return to his friend, who look especially puzzled and

slightly provoke.



“now be silent!” exclaim Hazlehurst, as Harry be about, with the

great volubility, to plunge at once _in media re_. “you have live

amongst woman till you’ve learn to chatter like they, I think. I shall

never bring you to the point, unless you will let I cross-examine you.”



“fire away, then; only look sharp, for your sister must not be keep

wait,” be the reply.



“you’ve grow wonderfully polite and attentive all of a sudden,”

 return Arthur, sarcastically. “but now listen to I. have Crane make

Alice an offer?”



Harry reply in the affirmative.



“do she refuse he?”



“of course she do,” be the disdainful rejoinder.



“I don’t see any of course in it,” return hazlehurst, moodily.

“my father be resolve on the match: Alice have be bring up to obey

he implicitly, and the habit of obedience be very strong in such a

gentle, yield nature as her.”



“if she be gentle and yield I’m not!” exclaim Harry, vehemently;

“and with your support, and the knowledge that his daughter’s happiness

be at stake, Mr. Hazlehurst must listen to reason.”



“my dear boy,” return Arthur, earnestly, “what a warmhearte,

thorough-go friend you be! you really take as much interest in the

affair as if it be your own. I see you naturally reckon on the extent

of your influence with my father, and I have reason to believe you do

not overrate it. why, what be the matter now? have you take leave of

your sense?”



this inquiry refer to a sudden and alarming outbreak on the part of

Coverdale, who, when his influence with Mr. Hazlehurst be mention,

spring to his foot, utter what mild mamma, engage in the moral

instruction of their tender offspring, term a “naughty word.”



“you be enough to drive one mad!” he exclaim, angrily; “say, and

make I say, all sort of absurd thing at cross-purpose, because you

willn’t listen to the explanation I’m remain here on purpose to give

you; keep Alice wait, too!”



“well, let she wait,” return Arthur, testily, worry by Harry’s

constant reference to this point; “anybody would think you be Alice’s

lover instead of old crane!”



“and so I be,” be the unexpected rejoinder; “and what be more, old

fellow, her accept lover also! oh, Arthur,” he continue, seat

himself by his friend’s side, and lay his arm on his shoulder, “I’m

the happy, lucky dog in existence! to think that she should be

able to love such a rough, uncultivated--but you be not displeased, be

you--surprised, of course, you must be.”



“Surprised, indeed,” be the reply; “so much so, that even yet I

can scarcely believe it; it have almost take my breath away! but

displeased!--why my dear Harry, I’d rather she marry you than any man

breathing, be he prince, duke, or what not. it be the most charming,

glorious, wonderful thing that ever happen! but even now I cann’t

conceive how it have come about; and yet, when I begin to reflect, I

fancy that Alice be grow shy and conscious in regard to something

or somebody, before I go away. it’s natural enough that she should

fall in love with you; but that you should take a fancy to she, or

indeed to any girl, do, I own, surprise I. I have so thoroughly make

up my mind that you mean to be an old bachelor.”



“you could not have do so more completely than I have,” rejoin Harry;

“but the fact be, that from the first moment in which I see your sister

I fall in love with she, though I have not the most remote idea of it at

the time. I can trace it all now; hence my dislike of D’Almayne, and the

poor old cotton-spinner. I be afraid the fascination of the one might

win her heart, or the fortune of the other obtain her hand--in fact, I

be unconsciously jealous of they both. but now come on, we be really

keep Alice an unreasonable time. aye, you may laugh; I don’t care a

_sous_ now that you know all about it. why Arthur, old boy, you will

be my real _bonâ fide_ brother one of these days!--that be a contingent

advantage which have only just occur to I.”



seize his friend’s hand as he speak, he press it with such

good-will, that Hazlehurst be enable to give a shrewd guess at

the sensation produce by that interesting mediæval amenity, the

thumb-screw. and thus mutually pleased and excited, the young man

proceed, both talk volubly, and generally at the same moment, till

they reach the stile, where they find Alice await they, look

very timid, very conscious, but exceedingly pretty. she need not have

be uneasy, however, for Arthur have too much good taste and kind

feel to laugh at she at that moment; on the contrary, he hasten

to set her mind at rest by whispering, as he imprint a kiss on her

glow cheek--



“my darling child, you have make I almost as happy as you have render

_he_.”



the walk home be a very delightful one. Alice lean on Harry’s

stalwart arm, and feel the most perfect and irrational confidence in his

power to shield she from the effect of her father’s anger, Mr. Crane’s

despair, and all other uncomfortable consequence of the act of

filial disobedience which she meditate. Harry, already experience a

sensation of delicious proprietorship in regard to the sweet girl beside

he, feel himself exalt in the scale of humanity, and hold his head

a good inch high on the strength of it; from which moral and physical

elevation he look down upon all field-sport as soulless and ignoble

pastime, and despise they accordingly. Arthur, hope that his

sister’s attachment to a man in every way so worthy of she, would

inspire she with the firmness requisite to withstand successfully his

father’s possible opposition to the match, and that the matter would

eventually end by secure her happiness and that of his friend, “forget

his own grief,” to rejoice in their bright prospect. and so they

reach the pleasure-ground, where Alice, separate from the two

gentleman, run in to compose her excited feeling before appear at

breakfast.



“Arthur, wait one moment,” exclaim Coverdale, lay his hand on

his friend’s arm to detain he; “I have something important to say to

you;--isn’t she an angel, my dear boy?”



“why really, my good fellow, between friend, and see that you appear

to attach so much importance to the fact, I should say, take into

consideration the evidence in the case, and come to the point without

any unnecessary prolixity, that she be by no mean an angel, but simply

a very pleasant little female mortal, and--ahem! my poor sister, sir.”



“Psha! you stupid old humbug!” return Harry, give he a playful

push, which cause he involuntarily to leap over a flower-bed; “do just

listen to I for a minute, and give I a sensible answer if you can.

it’s all very pretty for my darling Alice, and you and I, to settle

this matter so sweetly and easily; but remember, there’s the governor to

bring round, and Crane and his confound £20,000 a-year to beat out of

the field; it strike I we’re in an awful fix, and about to become an

interesting young couple. what be to be the next move, eh?”



“oh, the affair lie in a nutshell,” return hazlehurst. “fortunately,

my father have always appreciate you properly, and now the unusual

degree of influence you have acquire over he will stand you in good

stead. he may be a little annoyed at first, when he find he must

relinquish his favourite design of purchase old Crane’s farm; but he

be very fond of Alice, and very proud of she.”



“he’d be a most unnatural old heathen if he ben’t,” mutter Harry,

_sotto voce_.



“consequently,” continue hazlehurst, not heed the interruption,

“when he perceive the immeasurable advantage to be obtain by

allow she to marry a man she love, and who be in every way deserve

of her affection, instead of an old scarecrow, who will be in his dotage

(I believe he be so already, more or less!) while Ally be still quite a

young woman, he cannot hesitate for a moment in give his consent. you

have well speak to he the instant breakfast be over; depend upon it

you’ll find he all amiability.”



“depend upon it I shall find he nothing of the kind,” return

Coverdale, snappishly; then, see the look of surprise that spread

over his friend’s countenance, he continue, dejectedly:--“Ah, my dear

boy, you little know the extent to which I’ve be put my foot in it

since you go away. Tom tell I I annoy your governor three or four

day ago, by take the nonsense out of that beast of a horse old crane

have the stupidity to give Alice; a brute which would have break she

sweet neck, if I haven’t luckily be at hand to catch she as she be

fall. then, to improve the matter, last night we all drank wine

enough, and the Head of the Family get a little too much into it to be

good for its proprietor; accordingly, he force I to give my opinion

about free-trade, and then pitch into I for so do, and declare

I’d insult he: upon which I lose my temper, and say something rude;

and, to come to the point, as you call it, he be now as savage as a bear

with I, and all the blessed influence you’ve be pay I such pretty

compliment about, if it ever exist, be scatter to the wind. I dare

not speak to he, it would be bad than useless; he’d be only too glad

to refuse I at once, lest he should lose such a good opportunity of

pay I off for last night. ah!” he continue, “you may well look

puzzled,--you would not like to have many client with such a talent

as I possess for unconsciously cut their own throat! what’s to

be done?--divide the wire of the electric telegraph at King’s Cross

Station, and then take Alice along the Great Northern to Gretna

Green--though Gretna Green have be do brown by some recent act, have

it not, and the harmonious and hymeneal blacksmith retire into private

life? come, advise, for I can hit upon nothing; only remember one

thing,--since Alice be good enough to say she will have I, _marry I

must and will be_, if all the father in England be to set themselves

against it!”









CHAPTER XV.--RELATES the unexpected benevolence of HORACE D’ALMAYNE.



Arthur Hazlehurst, with an aspect graver than his willnot, reply to

Harry’s appeal--“It certainly be very unfortunate that you should have

select last night, of all other, to displease my father; because,

owe to the Crane offer, time be of the great importance; but for

that I should not have care; you would only have have to wait for a

week or two, take pain to be especially polite and deferential in

the interval, and he would have totally forget his anger. as it be,

perhaps I have well speak to him,--he be sure to tell I about the

cotton-spinner, and I can avail myself of that opportunity to come to

the point; and now, if you have nothing well to propose, we’ll go in

to breakfast. love may possibly destroy the appetite, but a railroad

journey have a directly contrary effect.”



Harry _have_ nothing well to propose--(for a vague suggestion in regard

to punch old Crane’s head, if he (Crane) do not mind what he be

about, could scarcely be consider in the light of a serious, practical

amendment)--so they go in to breakfast accordingly.



this meal appear to be a most unsatisfactory one to “all who assemble

within those wall;” for, despite the presence of every delicacy of

the season, and a few over, each individual seem labour under some

secret sorrow, and a general wet blanket damp, and hang heavy on,

the spirit of the whole party; with the exception, perhaps, of Horace

D’Almayne, who be unusually animate, and watch the proceeding with

a look of quiet penetration.



when the lady quit the room, Mr. Crane call Mr. Hazlehurst aside,

and inform he that he wish for the honour of an interview; to which

request that gentleman accede in his most gracious manner, and they

adjourn together to the library.



Harry, with a significant glance to Arthur to remain on the look out and

watch proceeding, stroll off with Tom on some horse-or-dog-inspect

pretext, but really to keep himself out of harm’s way till he be

wanted,--so low an estimate have he now acquire of his own diplomatic

ability.



D’Almayne and Arthur be thus leave _tête-à-tête_, the former accost

the latter after the follow fashion:--



“Hazlehurst, _mon cher_, I shall die of _ennui_ if we have many such

_triste affaire_ as this meal of which we have just partake, now,

without be more inquisitive than my neighbour, you cannot suppose

I have remain entirely in the dark in regard to the little amusement

your friend and relation have devise to vary the monotony of life

withal.”



“and the result of these your observation?” inquire Arthur, coldly.



“be, that the various interest clash, and that delicate dilemma

innumerable must, ere long, present their horns;--now I, be an

easy-temper fellow, like to be happy myself, and to see every brother

man, and sister woman, happy also. I shall, therefore, have

much pleasure in do _mon petit possible_ to smooth away these

difficulty--an endeavour in which my influence with our good friend

Crane will greatly assist I; but to enable I to do this, you must of

course take I so far into your confidence, as to tell I whether I be

right in my preconceive ideas--_che dice, Signor_?”



Arthur reflect for a moment--he know D’Almayne to be quick-sight,

clear-head, and fertile in expedient, at the same time he believe he

be design and self-interested; in the present emergency, however, he

might, from his influence with Mr. Crane, be possibly of some use,

while he could scarcely, with the bad intention, render the aspect of

affair more complicated and unsatisfactory than it now appear.



accordingly, he replied,--“It cannot involve any alarming stretch of

confidence on my part, merely to tell you whether your ‘guess at

truth’ have hit the mark, or fly wide of it. so you have only to

propound your query, and I will answer they as clearly and concisely

as in I lie.”



“_C’est bon!_” be the reply. “a--to begin with--I be correct, be I not,

in suppose that last night my worthy friend Crane offer his hand and

£20,000 per annum (in which latter item his heart be of course wrap

up and include) to your amiable and accomplished sister?” hazlehurst

nod assent, and D’Almayne continued,--“The young lady, however, or I

be much mistaken, greatly prefer your excellent and energetic friend,

Mr. Coverdale (who, you must pardon I for say, remind I of a

well-intentione, enthusiastic bull in a chinashop), which preference

the gentleman return to such a degree, that I be inclined to believe

he _have_ tell, or in some other manner render the fair Alice aware of,

his love. her manner at breakfast this morning, be compound of such

an elaborate endeavour to conceal the conscious and confiding, behind

the most transparent _eidolon_ of indifference, that no one at all

acquaint with woman’s nature could doubt about the matter.”



“you be indeed a close observer!” exclaim Arthur, surprise out of

his caution. “Coverdale’s attachment be a thing I never even suspect

till--a--till this morning.”



“Mr. Crane tell I, your father be intensely anxious to purchase one of

his farm adjoin your estate, which he (crane) be unwilling to part

with,” resume D’Almayne; “thence, I imagine, proceed your respect

progenitor’s anxiety to bring about the match. to finish the catalogue

of my observation up to the present time, I conceive Mr. Crane to be

now in the act of urge his suit to Mr. Hazlehurst, and complain

that ‘Miss Alice’ as he call she (he always talk on such subject

like an underbred greengrocer, or second footman), rather kick,

than jump, at he when he offer she--ahem--his income and his

affection.”



“your surmise be so wonderfully correct,” rejoin Arthur (determine

to make a merit of necessity, and appear open with one who seem thus

well acquainted with all the family secret), “that in tell you that

as soon as Mr. Crane leave the study, I mean to appeal to my father in

my friend’s behalf, I shall, probably, only forestall you in express

another of your judicious anticipation.”



“I rather imagine that would be the next move,” be the easy,

self-satisfied reply.--“Mr. Coverdale, with all his surprising freshness

and _naïveté_ of character, could scarcely propose to urge his suit

in person, after having quarrel with your father over his wine last

night; for which reason, by the way, it require no very great tact to

divine that Mr. Crane’s proposal will find favour in Mr. Hazlehurst’s

eye, and Mr. Coverdale’s be reject.”



“and the remedy?” inquire Arthur, eagerly.



D’Almayne pause, then a meaning but disagreeable smile pass across

his handsome feature, as he replied,--“If I can induce Mr. Crane to

withdraw his suit of his own accord, yet continue his amicable relation

towards this family, and be willing to sell the farm to your father at

his own price, and by these mean lead Mr. Hazlehurst to regard your

friend’s offer favourably, shall I be act in accordance with your

wish.”



“Nay, my dear D’Almayne, if you can indeed persuade Mr. Crane to perform

so magnanimous a part, I shall consider you the good and clever

fellow in the world. as to my wish you to do so, I should as

soon have think of wish you to appoint I First Lord of the

Treasury--one only wish for such thing as one, in some degree,

expect to obtain. but surely you over-calculate your power of

persuasion,” return hazlehurst, scarcely know whether D’Almayne

might not be amuse himself at his expense.



“I will remain here and await the result of your interview with your

father, and if it terminate as I predict, I will attempt my little bit

of diplomacy;--the result will prove to you whether or not I overrate my

machiavelian talent,” be the confident reply--and so they part.



Mr. Hazlehurst, senior, be by no mean in an amiable frame of mind when

his son enter the library--the gout, considerably increase by the

wine-bibbing of the previous evening, pervade his entire system, mental

and bodily; and through the atrabilious medium of a disorder stomach,

he look back upon his disagreement with Coverdale, till it became

magnify into a serious quarrel. Mr. Crane have just inform he that,

on renew his offer to Alice on the previous evening, the young lady

mutter a few word, incoherent indeed, but, as he conceive, of a

negative tendency, and instantly convey herself away without

afford he an opportunity of obtain an explanation. Whereupon

Mr. Hazlehurst, wax wroth, declare she should accept he that very

morning; beg he to retire until he should have see his daughter,

and, as he be pleased to term it, bring she to her sense; and having

just dispatch a summon to the poor girl, be wait her arrival

to perpetrate an act of parental tyranny, when his son enter. the

consequence may readily be imagined:--Coverdale be angrily and

unceremoniously refuse; Alice anathematize, excommunicate, and

order magisterially to be imprison in her own room till far

notice, and Arthur severely reprimand for having introduce Coverdale

to the family (which, be it remember, he have do at his father’s

particular request), and caution against venture to countenance

Alice in her disobedience, or ever again to refer to the subject in his

(Mr. Hazlehurst’s) sovereign presence, on pain of be cut off with

the trilling patrimony of one shilling sterling. Arthur attempt a

mild remonstrance, whereby he obtain a particular request instantly to

leave the room, and a general order in regard to the entire alteration

of his conduct, and abnegation of his present opinion on all subject,

human and divine. return to the breakfast-room in the frame of mind

naturally consequent upon such a reception, he discover D’Almayne

comfortably lounge in an easy-chair, and peruse a handsomely bind

copy of the _Pleasures of Memory_.



glance up as Hazlehurst enter, he observe coolly--“I need not ask

you how it have go, _mon ami_, your face tell I.”



Hazlehurst stride impatiently up and down the apartment; then stop

short in front of his companion, he exclaim abruptly--“Try your

plan, whatever it may be; for common sense be throw away upon a man so

prejudiced and positive as my father have show himself to be; and common

patience cannot bear the irritate speech he make, when all the time

one feel that one be strive for the right, and that he be totally and

entirely wrong.”



“you be warm, _mon cher_,” be the calm reply. “papa have be

wrong-headed time out of mind, and will probably continue so till time

shall have pass away, together with all other sublunary weight and

measure; so why afflict yourself at the inevitable? but I will now

proceed without delay to try my eloquence upon the dear, reject Mr.

Crane--a--by the way, you must give I one promise. ‘on their own merit

modest man be dumb;’ now my modesty be so outrageously sensitive,

that I be not only dumb myself, but require my friend to be so

likewise; in plain English, if I do this thing to oblige you, you must

promise I to keep my share in the transaction a secret; the change

must appear to emanate from the united kind regard and amiable

self-sacrifice of your father and Mr. Crane.” see Arthur hesitate,

he continued--“Without this assurance, you must excuse my decline to

interfere.”



“be it as you will then,” begin Arthur.



as he speak the door fly open, and Alice, eager and tearful, hurry

in, exclaiming,--“You have see my father! can it be true that he be so

cruel as to refuse his consent. he have just write I such a dreadful

note, order I not to quit my room!”



here, catch sight of D’Almayne, she stop short in confusion and

alarm. that individual hasten to relieve she by walk to the door;

but as he pass Arthur he whisper, “you may make an exception in your

sister’s favour. I absolve you from your vow of secrecy as far as she be

concerned. I be a tender-hearted fellow, and beauty in tear be always

too many for I.” as he speak, he leave the apartment, and close the

door behind he.



Alice hear Arthur’s account of D’Almayne’s unexpected access of

benevolence with surprise; but not having witness the quiet confidence

with which he assert his power of influence Mr. Crane, she put but

little trust in his assurance, merely set they down as the vain

boasting of a conceited youth, who be actuate by a good-natured desire

to help they out of their difficulty. that she do he injustice may

be gather from the fact, that later in the day Mr. Crane seek a

second interview with Mr. Hazlehurst., after which the latter gentleman

summon Harry Coverdale to his august presence; and when that happy but

much confused young man enter the _sanctum sanctorum_ of the library,

send for his daughter Alice likewise, and having pronounce a strongly

acidulate, not to say, crab, benediction upon their youthful

head, dismiss they in time to write by that day’s post to his man of

business, to prepare the purchase-money for the Hazlecroft farm, then

the property of Jedediah Crane, Esq. the dinner-party that evening

pass off much more agreeably than the breakfast have do. Coverdale

sit by his lady-love, look the picture, or well still, the reality

of happiness; but Arthur Hazlehurst wear a gloomy brow when he perceive

that his cousin, Kate Marsden, have pair off with the cotton-spinner,

and that they appear mutually satisfied with the arrangement.









CHAPTER XVI.--TREATS of thing in GENERAL.



it must be confess that Harry Coverdale be of a somewhat impetuous

disposition. no soon have he obtain Mr. Hazlehurst’s consent to the

match, than he commence a system of alternate petting and persecution,

whereby he contrive to render the life of Alice and her mother

scarcely endurable, until he have induce they to fix an early day for

his “execution,” as Tom irreverently paraphrase the solemnisation of

the marriage ceremony. this object happily accomplish, a journey to

London be propose, whereat Mr. Hazlehurst look very black; but when

Alice seat herself on his knee, and, stroke his bald head, call

he a dear, good, kind, papa (on speculation, probably, for at that

moment he do not in the slight degree look the character), his heart

soften, and he consent to the plan. then somebody tell Arthur of a

wonderful doctor, who have find out a new system of cure everything,

and especially complaint analogous to that under which Mrs. Hazlehurst

laboured; accordingly, he determine his mother should form one of the

London party, and consult this fashionable fee-taker; and when Arthur

have determine on a thing, it generally come to pass. therefore, after

considerable pro-ing-and con-ing, and macadamizing of difficulty, the

matter be finally arrange by Mrs. Hazlehurst, her son, and her two

daughter, take up their abode at Cherry’s Hotel, in Jermyn Street,

while Coverdale establish himself in his old quarter at the

Tavistock, in Covent-garden.



then they begin to be overwhelm with business. first, the infallible

doctor be to be consult; so poor Mrs. Hazlehurst be drag out of

bed some three hour soon than usual, breakfast in a nervous tremor,

which render the ceremony a most unreal mockery, be transport from

her carriage to a stately dining-room, where some twenty fellow-victim

be already incarcerate, whence (having wait two hour, because, in

her ignorance of London rascality, she have omit to fee the noble

creature in plush and powder who have admit she) she be at length

(his nobleness not be able long to exclude she) usher into the

presence of the potentate of pill himself. this erudite individual be

a short, stiff man, with a short, stiff appearance,--the result of the

most severe application of starch and hair-brushes,--and a short, stiff

manner, assume, as be the stare and swagger of Van Amburg and other

tiger-tamer, for the purpose of browbeat and mentally subdue

refractory or sceptical patient. see at a glance, however, that

poor Mrs. Hazlehurst be already subdue, he obligingly let off a little

superfluous starch, slightly disarrange his hair, smile, to show a

fine set of false tooth, put in at trade-price by a friendly dentist,

and having thus bring himself somewhat near the limpness of average

humanity, add (as he would have probably express it) a couple of

drachm _syrupi saccarinis_ to his manner, ere he proceed to catechise

his patient as to her symptom, and the remedy that have be apply

to remove they. to each fact thus elicit, he reply by frown

portentously, screw round his mouth, and muttering, “I know it,” in a

gloomy and mysterious manner, as though he have acquire the knowledge

by some awful and supernatural course of study; and, indeed, as Mrs.

Hazlehurst’s confession involve she having have a dangerous fall from

her horse at a period when he, the doctor, must have be about five

year old, and that she have be lay up with a bilious fever exactly

two calendar month and four day before he be bear, he can scarcely be

suppose to have come by his information honestly and lawfully. in

fact, to a logical mind, the question resolve itself into the follow

hypothesis--that he must either be a true prophet, or a lie doctor.



having elicit all the fact he care to learn (which, if he know they

before, he might as well have save himself the trouble of do),

he draw himself up to his extreme altitude,--which be nothing very

tremendous after all,--got his starch up to high-pressure pitch,

judiciously temper its stiffness with soothe syrup, and deliver

himself of the following opinion:--“Madam, you have tell I nothing

that, the moment I behold you, I be not prepared to hear. I do not in

the slight degree impugn the judgment and skill of Mr. Smithers”

 (the Hazlehurst general practitioner), “but the instant I glance at

his first prescription I see he have take a wrong view of our case.

Superacetate of Euroclydon and bi-carbonate of Hydrocephalus would never

remove the pain and palpitation on our right side--”



“the _leave_ be the side on which I usually feel the pain,” begin Mrs.

Hazlehurst, mildly.



“eh! left--yes, of course; I say left, don’t I? I believe I observe

to you before, madam, that the moment I set eye on you I became

aware of--in fact, I _feel_ (if I may so express myself) that pain

and palpitation on our left side; and I say to myself, if that very

talented practitioner, Mr. Smithers, have administer Superacetate of

Euroclydon, and bi-carbonate of Hydrocephalus to that pain of our--with

the high respect for Smithers (he be walk St. Bartholomew’s when

I be dresser to the late celebrate and lament Flayflesh), I must

say he have mistake our case. now, I shall just--I make no secret of my

practice--I shall just throw in three grain of extr. Borealis Aurorae,

with equal proportion of Astri caninis, Geminorum siamesiæ, and

_sesqui_-carbonate (mind that) _sesqui_-carbonate of Pantapolion, and

our pain will lapse (as Byron so beautifully express it) into ‘a

happy memory of the past.’ you will take the mixture six time in the

twenty-four hour, and the pill immediately before dinner. with regard

to diet, everything you have be accustom to eat be wrong; your

appetite be weak, and you like delicacy, as they be call, well

than substantial joint, I dare say?”



Mrs. Hazlehurst acknowledge that his penetration have not fail he;

and he resume sharply--



“Madam, we musn’t touch they! they be poison in such a case as ours.

no; we must restrict ourselves to plain beef and mutton, _very_ much

underdone; stale bread, _no_ vegetable, _no_ fruit, _no_ nice thing,

_very_ bitter beer, with plenty of the camomile in it (that’s the

brewer’s secret, strychnine’s all a delusion), and stick to the

_sesqui_-carbonate of Pantapolion, and we shall be a different woman in

a short time. let I see you again on Friday. _good_ morning.” and

so, pocket his guinea with less respect than many man pay to a

fourpenny-piece, the fashionable quack allow his victim to escape.



then there be shop. there be a good many shop in Regent Street,

and those that be not there be in Bond Street, at least a fair

sprinkling of they; but Harry solemnly declare (_after_ his marriage)

that during the fortnight the party be in London, they go into they

_all_, and every man know what _that_ involve. give a woman her head,

so far as to allow she to put it into a shop, and he must indeed be a

clever fellow who can coax or coerce she out of it under half-an-hour.

but Harry be in love, and love be blind (though it have an awkward trick

of recover its eyesight after marriage and make up for lost

time, by spy out all kind of thing to which it have far well have

remain blind); besides, Alice be not more _exigeante_ than a lover

generally desire his mistress should be: too much independence of

character in a young girl be by no mean an attractive quality.



then there be a good deal of sight-seeing to be get through. Emily have

never be in London before, and Alice only once for a week. so they

“do” Westminster Abbey, which they really enjoy; and St. Paul’s,

which they pretend to admire, and don’t; and the Tower, where Emily

call the figure in the horse-armoury a set of quizzical old thing;

and the Polytechnic, where they see a man go down in a diving-bell, to

pick up nothing at the bottom of a large wash-hand-basin, and come

up again half suffocate, which they consider curious and highly

satisfactory, as no doubt it be to everybody but that unfortunate

martyr to popular science himself, who (take the most cheerful view

of his amphibious occupation) can scarcely be regard in the light of a

jolly young waterman. then they go to the National Gallery to see the

picture, which, as it be not an unusually bright and clear day, of

course they be unable to do; but they have the pleasure of see the

building itself, and the fountain in Trafalgar Square, which they all

agree they have never behold anything like before; and Harry add, that

in his travel he have not meet with anything to equal the whole affair in

its peculiar style, and that he think foreigner must be very strongly

impressed by it, and that it must at once give they a clear idea of

english taste; which remark it be a pity the architect be not there

to hear, as they might possibly have be of use to he. Emily have

never behold a play, so they go to the I-see-um Theatre, where they

witness the performance of a very long melodrama, adapt from the

French (that be, all that be national and peculiar--without which the

plot become a mere silly tissue of improbable event and impossible

situation--omit, and the place supply by worn-out and conventional

clap-traps). this _pièce de résistance_, which be to last the

play-go public for some four or six month, accord to the degree

in which it suit their appetite, be so well put on the stage, and so

well act, that the false sentiment and bad morality which pervade

it be for the time forget, and it be not till Arthur call his

attention to the fact, that Harry recollect this un-english jumble

of crime and folly, be play night after night to crowded house,

while the masterpiece of Shakspere, the great dramatist who ever

live, be banish to an obscure theatre in the outskirt of London,

or be force to be translate into a foreign language, and act by a

foreign company, ere the “ear polite” of London fashionable could be

persuade to listen to they. the two young man argue the question in

all its bearing, and arrive at this conclusion, viz. either that if

Shakspere be well act it would be well attend, or that if

Shakspere be well attend, well actor would soon be find

to perform the character; though which of these statement might be

regard as the cause, and which as the effect, they could by no mean

agree. and by that time, the play be conclude, Emily declare that

it be quite perfect, really charming; and that, as to Shakspere, he be

an obsolete old slow-coach, and very wicked too--or else, why do they

want a family edition of he? whereas, if there have ever be any harm

in this play, which she do not believe could have be the case, dear

Mr. Kingsby Florence have translate it so beautifully that it might have

be act anywhere--in a church almost. then she turn and appeal to

her sister, to support she in her girlish and unorthodox enthusiasm.



Alice reply gravely, and with a pseudo-matronly air which be highly

amusing, that although she must confess she have be interested and

entertain by the play she have just witness, yet that she have

listen to Arthur’s argument with Mr. Coverdale, and quite agree in

the view take by the latter gentleman; for which sympathy of opinion

Harry possess himself of the lovely sympathiser’s hand, and press

it gratefully; while he inwardly thank heaven for having bestow upon

his future wife such a correct taste and sound understanding.--And

so, between doctoring, and shopping, and sight-seeing, and hurrying

dressmaker, and tailor, and coach-builder, and a host of minor

tradesman, all the wedding paraphernalia be purchase, a vast amount

of business transact, settlement prepare, and money spend; and a

fortnight pass away so quickly, that it appear like two or three

day to the actor in the genteel comedy thus perform.



then they all return to the country, Harry go to the Park to

make arrangement for the incoming of house-decorator and furnisher

innumerable, who be to put to the rout all the old admiral’s bachelor

abomination, and prepare the mansion for the reception of its fair

mistress. that amiable young lady be begin to find, by experience,

that to be “go to be marry” be very hard work indeed, the wear and

tear of the feeling be a marked and alarming feature in the case.

thus, whenever Harry be away for a day, she find herself anxious,

low-spirited, and a prey to innumerable misgiving lest evil should

befall he. on one evening in particular, when he return full twenty

minute later than he should have do, she feel so convinced that

“dreadful trotting-mare” have by some mean compass his destruction,

that she receive he with a gentle shower of tear, which of course he

kiss away, as he whisper that very soon she would be his dear little

wife, and then nothing should part they even for an hour; and Alice

smile through her tear as she think how, with every taste and

feel in common, they should trip gaily along the pathway of life,

hand in hand, like a conjugal couple of siamese twin. dream! pretty

Alice, dream! which many a young girl’s love heart have frame ere

this, only to awaken to a far different reality, and weep over the

departure of such bright illusion.



but there be not much time for dream or romance at the Grange, for

the “fatal day” come near and nearer with alarming velocity, until

at last it actually arrive; and everybody be in such a state of

excitement, that an uninitiated spectator might have imagine the whole

household, instead of merely one member of it, be go to be marry.

as every one expect a most fatigue day, of course no one sleep a

wink during the previous night; and as the match be in every way most

desirable, and Alice enjoy as fair a prospect of happiness as those

who love she good could wish she, of course all the woman, the moment

it be light, indulge in the feminine luxury of “a hearty cry;” after

which libation to sensibility, they set to work in real earnest to dress

themselves and each other as becomingly as they possibly could. on the

bride’s dressing-table be find a set of pearl ornament, suppose by

the learn in such matter to have cost at least £500, together with a

slip of paper, represent Mr. Crane’s good wish for her happiness;

which piece of generosity Alice think very amiable and pretty of he,

as indeed it be. Kate (wear a splendid bracelet, giver unknown) and

Emily be to be bridesmaid, and four of the prettiest bosom friend

the bride possess make up the team. these six susceptible young

creature turn out in light blue, and very nice they look, only (as

Master Tom, reprieve for a week from Eton in order to be present at the

ceremony, observe), they do not step well together--a deficiency for

which he account by remark that his cousin Kate carry her head

so high, without a bearing rein, and have such grand action, that it

naturally make the other girl look rather screwy; and indeed Master

Tom’s descriptive power so far exceed our own, that we shall violate

confidence by avail ourselves of a letter he dispatch the next

morning to one of his friend at Eton, in which he give his own

impression of the eventful day. it run as follows:--



“Dear Tipsby,--If this blessed hot weather do not make dripping of

a fellow prematurely, you will have an opportunity of weeping on the

affectionate bussing of ‘your, truly,’ by the 5 p.m. train on Monday

next. the cause of my shirk a week be not, as you impertinently

insinuate, my have ‘over-goose-berry myself,’ but the no less

alarming fact that my eld sister have be and go and commit

matrimony, and I have wait to see she turn off. the ‘shocking event’

arrive at a climax (that’s grammar, ain’t it?) yesterday. I rise with

the lark (i.e. Arthur, my big brother, come and drag I out of bed at

seven o’clock), and dress myself. yes, I should think I do--rather!

Kerseymere sit-upon, make precious loose in the leg, and with a

large pink check on a lavender ground--stunnin! satin vest, colour

to sympathize; silk necktie, pink ground, lavender pattern, once

round--end at least a quarter of a yard long, and such a bow!--there’s

high art for you, my boy!--and last, not least, real Oxford bang-tail

coatee (none of your blackguard boy’ jacket), bright blue, with only

two button and button-hole about it, and all sort of jolly pocket in

original place; but, don’t fret, you shall see it. well, to return

to our mutton, as the french say: very few show at early breakfast,

sensibility supersede appetite in a general way, though I cann’t say

I perceive much difference as regard number one: yet, when I come to

think of it, I recollect I only eat three egg; but then the ham be a

real brick. nothing particular occur till we be to go to church;

but when the trap come round, you may fancy there be something to

look at. my brother-in-law, Coverdale--oh, Tips, he really _be_ a

fine fellow, as handsome as fun--can ride anything you like to put he

across--a dead shot--A1 with his fist (’gad, I should be sorry to get

even a left-hander from he), and as good-temper and jolly as a cock;

but you shall see he some day: well, he come up with his own horse,

a pair of blood bay, he give £350 for ’em, and they’re dirt cheap at

the money; he be a first-rate judge of a horse; but I’ll tell you all

about the trap when we meet. then down come the girl; Ally (that’s my

eld sister), be smother with veil, and flounce, and pearl, and

that sort of nonsense; and look precious pale and interesting, and

like to blub; so we bundle she into the family-coach, and Coverdale

jump into his own trap, and away we all scuttle to church. we’ve get

a good, sharp parson, that can go the pace slap up when he like; and,

know that the Champagne be wait for he, he put the harness

on ’em in no time; and the woman do the water-cart business in

style--where all their tear come from I cann’t think--but they lay the

dust beautifully. then there be sign name in the vestry, and a lot

of chaff about kiss the bride, which so upset that muff, Lambkin,

the parson’s apprentice (curate, I suppose, be what they call the chap),

that he fairly turn tail and bolt. next, we all bundle home again;

Ally in Coverdale’s trap this time (and precious handsome he look, as

he hand she in, I can tell you); and then come the ‘crown mercy’

(as Lambkin say in his sermon last Sunday), the wedding breakfast. the

governor have do the thing well for once in his life, I will say that

for the old boy. there be all the delicacy of all the four season

(one only wish one have four stomach, like a camel, to pay they proper

attention; though I don’t do badly, in spite of my mono-stomachic

conformation). then the Champagne;--my dear Tips, I be not use a mere

figure of rhetoric when I say the supply be unlimited;--how much

I drink I literally _cannot_ tell, but, in mention the affair

to inquire friend, you have well restrict your statement to

half-a-dozen bottle--as a general rule, a gentleman should not take

more on such occasion--it be not every man who possess my strength of

head and self-control. I sit next to one of the bridesmaids--



                   “‘a little, laugh fairy thing,



                   just like an angel on the wing;’



                   a rosebud ’neath the moon’s pale ring;



                   a playful zephyr, whisper



                   some secret to the early Spring.



as Tennyson have it--stunning poet, Tennyson! at first my modesty

prevent my getting on with she quite as fast as I could have wish;

in fact, till after my fourth glass of Champagne, I have not go beyond

ask if she like roast chicken, and say ‘bless you,’ when she

sneeze; which I have since thought might not be quite etiquette, for

she certainly look surprised. however, ‘_in vino jollita_,’ as Cicero

say; after imbibe the ‘rosy,’ I go ahead like bean, and I flatter

myself--ahem!--made a very considerable impression; but then recollect

the expense with which I be get up! the woman who could look on that

bang-tail coatee with indifference must be a heartless tigress. at all

event, Juliana Georgina (sweet, poetical name! benot it, Tips?) don’t;

and if my mother invite she here during the Christmas holyday--which,

betwixt you and I and the post, be not impossible--I should not be

surprised if the affair be to assume quite a serious complexion. it

be some time since I have experience what the mounseer call a ‘_grande

passion._’ when the party generally have pitch into the grub, till

the power of nature wore force to cry ‘hold, enough!’ (though, for my

part, I don’t think one’s bread-basket do by any mean hold enough

on such occasion) everybody drink everybody’s health, and everybody

return thank. my brother-in-law, Coverdale, make a stunning speech,

the good that be make, by long odd; though Master Arthur don’t

disgrace his profession in the jawing line either. the governor do the

pathetic and paternal; but it be precious slow, and all his joke old

one. Mr. Crane (he’s a rich old buffer that be nibble after Ally,

but it ben’t likely she’d have anything to say to he when she’d a

chance of take such a trump-card as my brother-in-law, Coverdale, into

her hand) follow in the benevolent and philanthropic line; but he make

a regular mull of it, bad than the daddy; and when they’d do make

fool of themselves, the sitting break up, and my brother-in-law and

Alice start for the Continent. and the last thing before they be

off, Coverdale, while he be wait in the hall for his wife (woman be

always too late for everything), tip I a flimsy to the tune of

ten pound, and tell I not to forget I be to come to the Park in the

hunting season, and he’d take care to find I a good mount; but if ever

there be a real brick, my brother-in-law Coverdale be the identical

article, and no mistake. and that this be a full, true, and particular

account of this wonderful wedding, sayeth and attesteth,



“your, in the bond of jollity,



“Tom Hazlehurst.”



“P.S.--Advice to cricketer! mind your batting, old fellow; for I’ve be

put up to some first-rate bowling dodge by my brother-in-law, Coverdale

(he’s one of the top-sawyer at Lord’s), that will send your stump

fly about your ear, if you don’t mind your eye. “_Verbum sit.

slow-coachici!_”









CHAPTER XVII.--PLOTTING and COUNTER-plotting.



the same post-bag in which Tom Hazlehurst dispatch his letter to his

schoolfellow, convey also two other epistle write by inmate of

the Grange. for the reader’s benefit we will take the same liberty with

they, which we have already take with the Etonian’s literary effusion.

the first be from Kate Marsden to Miss Arabella Crofton, a lady some

three or four year old than herself, who have be one of the teacher

at the school at which Kate have be bring up, and be now governess

in a german family. Miss Crofton be a woman of unusual mental ability,

and have in a great degree mould Kate’s character, be now her sole

_confidante_ and mentor. it run thus:--



“dear Arabella,--Since I finally determine on follow your advice,

fate seem to have play my game for I, and I now consider it as

secure as anything which have not actually come to pass can be. I

tell you, when I write to you at Baden-Baden, that _his_ friend, Mr.

Coverdale, and my cousin Alice, be evidently becoming attach; you

will therefore be the less surprised to hear that they be marry

yesterday; the matter come about thus:--Soon after I write to you,

Mr. Crane, by my advice, offer; Alice of course refuse he, but so

equivocally (she be quite a child in such thing) that the poor, dear,

dull creature scarcely catch her meaning. I immediately take he in

hand, and, avail myself of the situation, flatter his vanity to

such a degree, that ere the evening finish he believe not only that

Alice would accept he, but that I, Kate Marsden, be hopelessly in love

with he. accordingly, when he learn unmistakably next morning that

Alice mean to refuse he, _my_ good taste stand out in very favourable

contrast. in the meantime, Mr. Crane’s offer bring Mr. Coverdale

to the point, and Alice gladly accept he, in do which she act

wisely, for he be a good, amiable, sterling man! and when the romance

have wear off, and they have get over the bore of awakening from ‘love’s

young dream,’ I believe they will settle down into a very happy couple.

my uncle at first refuse his consent, for Coverdale have only five,

instead of twenty thousand a-year; and Mr. Crane sulk in a corner;

but that strange Mr. D’Almayne, about whom I tell you before, and who

possess a degree of influence over Mr. Crane of which I by no mean

approve, go to he, and persuade he not only to give up Alice

good-humouredly, but actually to play a generous part, and talk my uncle

over to give his consent to my cousin’s union with Mr. Coverdale. thus,

you see, as I begin by say, my game be play for I, and I have only

to sit still and avail myself of the move as the other make they.



“I be much puzzle by this Mr. D’Almayne. he be, unless I be much

deceive, a complete adventurer, scheme for his own advantage (_i_

ought to be able to recognise such a character); but what his object can

have be in this affair I cannot possibly conjecture. pure philanthropy

have nothing to do with it, of that I be certain. again, how he contrive

to influence Mr. Crane to behave so amiably I cannot conceive. sometimes

I fancy he have divine my intention of marry the _millionaire_; but,

if so, why should he aid I in my project?--for I know by his manner

(although he be very cautious) that he admire I himself. certain it

be, that since the conversation I have allude to, Mr. Crane have be at

my foot, and be only wait to offer till he imagine time enough shall

have elapse to prevent the transfer of his affection (?) from Alice

to I appear too ridiculous. however, the affair will unravel itself

some day. and now that my plan be likely to be crown with success,

you will ask I how I feel on the subject. determine as ever! that

which I have begin I will carry through; but, Arabella, I be most

miserable. for myself alone I should not care; to rescue my family from

poverty, I should be happy to sacrifice my personal hope and wish;

but to see Arthur suffer be indeed bitterness, and that he do suffer

frightfully, I, who can read his every look and gesture, cannot for

a moment doubt. oh, that I have know the depth and reality of his

affection soon, or that the necessity be less cogent! then he bear

it with such manly endurance his manner to his family be exactly the

same as usual; not one of they suspect that anything have occur to

pain he. again, it be such an aggravation of my sorrow that he blame

I so deeply! sometimes, when I be talk to Mr. Crane, I catch his

stern, penetrate glance fix upon I with a calm earnestness of

rebuke, which affect I more deeply than could the most vehement

reproach; and when I have act my part for the day, and, in the

solitude of my chamber, I recall all that have pass between we, and

reflect that it be I who have bring this sorrow upon he--I who even

now feel that I love he well than my own soul--I who would gladly

have die for he, I sit, night by night, like a cold statue of despair,

or lie sleepless, shed such tear as I trust God’s mercy permit not

to flow quite in vain! yet it be my duty--you _know_, you cannot doubt

for a moment, it be my duty--you could never have _dare_ to counsel

such a sacrifice of the only thing which can make the burden of life

endurable, a real, deep, true affection, if you have not feel certain it

be my duty.



“you have set I a cruel task, Arabella, but I do not flinch from it;

you shall find your pupil worthy the trouble you have bestow upon she.

I shall write again when anything conclusive be settle. if all go

well, I shall be in a position to fulfil my old promise, and offer you

a home on your return to England. would to God it be likely to be a

happy, though a humbler one! but that be past now. farewell.



“your, in many sense of the word,



“Kate Marsden.”



the third epistle be from Horace D’Almayne to a friend and ally in

Paris. “we transcribe it _verbatim_:--



“Alphonse, mon cher,--I enclose you a draft for 3000 franc, wherewith

I beg you to satisfy Carreau, the tailor, _et tous les autre brigand_,

who render Paris an unsafe residence for I. you will naturally ask how

I have obtain the money; not at the gaming-table, nor on the highway,

like Claude Duval. railroad and police have free England from

highwayman. no; I have for the present fill my purse by study the

great game of life; in which, like all other game, you must either

pillage, or be pillage. you and I, man of wit and of action, naturally

belong to the former class, and have meritoriously labour to fulfil

our destiny. since I have be in England this time I have sedulously

cultivate the _millionaire_ I introduce to you last season, whose

pocket you so obligingly relieve of £500 at piquet. I make a bad

bargain there in only claim one-third of the spoil; I should have

demand half, for without my assistance you could have do nothing

with he; but I understand they, these cautious islander, some of

their blood run in my vein--my mother, as you know, having be an

Englishwoman. however, the time spend on my _millionaire_ have turn

out a more profitable investment than I at all calculate upon. he be

a weak, vacillate character, one of those feeble-minded mortal who

always require some intelligence strong than their own to lean upon.

this support he have find in your humble servant; and so convince

have he become of my diplomatic power, that just at present he can do

nothing without my approval and sanction. his great object in life be

to marry, and it be to assist he in obtain a wife that my counsel

be require. when I first arrive here, I find he be dangle after

a charming little country girl, the daughter of a land proprietor in

these part. I soon discover that the say proprietor, for mercenary

reason, desire the match; but with the young lady I could do nothing.

I give she the full benefit of my eye, which, as you know, be not

willnot to look in vain; but it be no use--even ‘_les petite moustache

noire_,’ usually so irresistible, be throw away upon she; nor have

friend Crane’s £20,000 per annum (_mon Dieu, Alphonse, quelle somme

merveilleuse!_) any more effect upon she. but I soon find a clue to

her obduracy--the silly child be enamour of her brother’s friend, a

fox-hunt squire, a true speciman of young John Bull. I see how the

game would go, John Bull return her affection; he be a real type of

his class. rich, obstinate, and impetuous, he be resolve to marry the

pretty rustic; she be equally determine; her brother befriend he;

the thing be to be, so I arrange my hand accordingly. there be in

the family a _belle cousine_--such a splendid creature, _alphonse!_

beautiful as an angel, the _contour_ of a Juno, the port of an empress.

she have tact and talent; a soul of fire beneath an exterior of ice; she

be poor and ambitious. I could not have hope to find one well suit

to my purpose. she shall marry Crane; his purse will be in her hand; he

will become her slave; and, _alphonse_, she shall be mine! do you doubt

my success, _mon ami?_ Bah! the game be as simple as child’s play. she

be young, ardent; she will marry an old man to satisfy her ambition--she

will despise he. her heart will pine for an object on which to

lavish its tenderness; I shall present myself, become her friend, her

counsellor--and the result? oh, you cannot doubt it. so I have pull

the string, and my _marionnette_ have dance, and be dance. my

_millionaire_ offer--the little rustic refuse he. while he be

smart from this insult, I suggest to he that _la belle cousine_

pine for love of he; praise her wit and beauty; and advise he to

revenge himself by transfer his attention to she. the bait take; I

work out all the minor incident admirably; the young fox-hunter have

marry the pretty rustic, and take she out of my way yesterday. the

lovely Kate, play her own game, labour indefatigably for my interest

also. my friend Crane be delighted, and show his gratitude by _urge_

I to borrow money of him--(I have mortgage my farm in Brittany to

he for six time its value; when the three prior claim upon it be

satisfied, and he bring forward his, this fact will surprise he, and

teach he prudence for the future)--I avail myself of his liberality

with caution, for I must not cut up my golden goose too quickly. but

it be well to have more than one resource to rely upon; so if your rich

young german countess should resolve on visit England, send I timely

notice. I feel that my star be in the ascendant. _Cher Alphonse_, wish

your friend the success which should reward talent, in the use of which

you have so well instruct your devoted,



“Horace.”









CHAPTER XVIII.--ALICE’S first introduction to her HUSBAND’S “QUIET

MANNER.”



if our reader, gentle or simple, will obligingly stretch their

imagination sufficiently to depict for themselves the happiness of

Alice and Harry during the first month of their married life, popularly

denominate the honeymoon, and be content to permit we to resume our

office of chronicler at the termination of that mellifluous (though, to

all but the party concern, especially insipid) season, the reader

aforesaid will merit our eternal gratitude, which we hereby beg to

present they with.



Alice and Harry, then, having be marry one calendar mouth, during

which period they have be “up” the Rhine, and one or two of the

swiss mountain--having see a great many strange thing and strange

people--having talk a vast amount of bad french and bad german, and

narrowly escape an attack of cholera from listen to the dissonance

of that arch-delusion the _Ranz-des-Vaches_--having eat such wonderful

article, cook in such wonderful fashion, that if the genus Bimana

be not providentially omnivorous, they would infallibly have be

poison--having travel over land and water by every specie of

conveyance know to the annal of locomotion, except perhaps a balloon,

or the back of an elephant--have at length make their way to Paris; and

as the inhabitant of that skittish and inconstant capital be then

figuratively pat each other on the back, by way of congratulation

on the fortunate accident which have preserve those that remain alive

after the late revolution from having shoot each other through the

head, our bride and bridegroom, establish in a comfortable hotel, have

determine to remain there till such time as they should mutually agree

upon for their return to England. for, be it observe, that enough of

the halo of the honeymoon yet linger around this young couple, to keep

they in the misty delusion that they possess but one “will of their

own” between they. they have yet to learn that there be a high, truer,

nobler state of association to be arrive at, even here on earth--a

state in which we recognise the deep happiness of be privileged to

sacrifice our own desire to those of the being we love well than

ourselves. a logician may stigmatise this as merely a refined phase of

selfishness; but it be such selfishness as might cling to we in heaven,

and we yet remain sinless. be this as it may, Alice, who have never be

abroad before, find every pleasure enhance by the charm of novelty,

and be in a perfect Elysium of happy excitement. Harry have see and

do it all, and a great deal more besides; and would have find it a

bore, only it be sufficient amusement to he to watch his young wife’s

delight at all she see and hear. whether this amusement of watch,

petting, and spoil Alice, be at all begin to lose its charm, may

be gather from the follow conversation:--



“Harry, you sleepy old thing, this be the third time I’ve ask you

whether Madame de Beauville be certain of get we an invitation to

Lord N--------’s picnic at Versailles; do rouse yourself and answer I!”



thus apostrophise, Coverdale--who be stretch at full length on (and

beyond) a brocade sofa, and have be lazily watch his wife, as with

a vast deal of unnecessary energy she stitch away at a button, which,

accord to button-nature, have “come off” her husband’s glove the very

first moment he attempt to draw it on--half-raise himself on his

elbow as he replied--



“there be nothing certain under the sun; except that my little wife

have the prettiest hand and arm of any woman (I don’t care who she may

be--Jew, Turk, infidel, heretic, or Christian) in the known world. but

that old humbug, Madame de Beauville, promise I faithfully to do she

good for we--not that I’d believe she on her oath; she try to book

I for one of her scraggy daughter, the last time I be here; but it

wouldn’t act--the trap be too visible, and the bait not sufficiently

tempting. what very high action you have with that needle-hand of your!

you’ll overreach yourself, or get sprain in the back sinew, some of

these day, if you don’t look out.”



“I will not allow you to ‘talk stable’ in that way, sir,” return

Alice, playfully shake her finger at her recumbent spouse; “you shall

not go to the picnic at all, you naughty boy, unless you behave well.

come, get up,” she continue, “if you lie down again you’ll be asleep in

a minute; you’re so idle, you’re actually grow fat!”



“Nonsense, you don’t really mean it!” exclaim Harry, spring up with

a bind which shake the room, and startle Alice so much that she dropt

the glove, needle, thread, button, and all, prick her finger into the

bargain. “by Jove,” he continue, regard himself anxiously in a large

pier-glass, “so I be! I tell you what, Mrs. Coverdale, this be get

serious, and must be put a stop to!”



“my dear Harry, how dreadfully impetuous you are!--you’ve make I

jump so, that I’ve dropt my work, and be and go and prick my

favourite finger, as you say in your horrid slang--look!” so say, the

pretty Alice pout like a spoilt child, as she then most assuredly be,

and hold up the injure finger to excite her husband’s commiseration.

when a proper degree of pity have be show, and the necessary amount

of matrimonial felicity transact, Alice resume: “what a dreadfully

conceited fellow you be, to be so alarmed at grow fat! be you

afraid of lose your beauty?”



“my how much?” be the astonished reply. “what funny idea do come into

a woman’s head to be sure! why, you silly child, do you think I ever set

up for a ‘beauty’ man? or care two straw what I look like? such folly

be very well for get up puppy, like Horace D’Almayne; but they’re not

in my line.”



“I’m sure you’re fifty time as handsome as Mr. D’Almayne,” be Alice’s

eager rejoinder; “but” she continue reflectively “if you be not afraid

of your good look, why be you so horrified at the idea of grow

fat?”



Harry colour slightly, and try to evade the question; but his wife’s

curiosity, be by this time excite, be not so easily baffle, and

Coverdale have nothing for it but to confess the truth, which he do

thus:--



“well, if you must know, little wife, I’ve a bay colt by Fencer out of

a Harkaway mare, and a chesnut filly by Hercules out of Bulfinch, both

rise five (I refuse 600 guineas for the pair of ’em a year ago),

which I expect to do most of my work next hunt season; but as

they’re both young unmade horse, I would not ride over twelve stone

for anything; nothing cow a young horse more than overweighte he at

start.”



“oh, Harry!” exclaim Alice reproachfully, “I think you mean to give

up hunt now--I’m sure you say so when you were----, that is, before

we be marry. why, you would be away from I more than half the day

every time you go out! besides, it’s so dangerous! oh, no; you may go

shooting sometimes, and I can ride a pony and mark for you, as I use to

do with papa and Arthur, but you must not hunt.”



“and cann’t you ride and see the hound throw off, darling? it’s one of

the prettiest sight in the world. the first thing I mean to do when

we get back, be to buy you a perfect lady’s horse; something rather

different from that brute poor old Crane give you.”



“then you willn’t promise to give up hunting, you naughty boy--not even

when I ask you to do so to please I?”



 and, confident in her own power,

the young wife cast a look, half-implore, half-commanding, on her lord

and master, which he would have find it no easy matter to resist to

a degree which should vindicate his right to such a title, when the

opportune entrance of the valet, with a packet of letter, extricate

he from his dilemma.



“a note from Madame de Beauville, contain an invitation to the

picnic!--how delightful!” exclaim Alice, appeal for sympathy to

her well half; but he be engage in peruse the follow epistle,

which, owe to the peculiarity both of diction, writing, and

spelling, it be not too easy to decypher:--



“honour Sur,--I remain your humbel survunt and gaim-keepur as wos,

John Markum, whech I would not ’ave intrude on you injoye of

yourself in fur part as be most fit, having marry a beutiful yung

English lady, as they do tell I, and the darter of squire hazlehurst

likewise; which having cause a many thing to go rong at home, I thort

you would be glad to hear on it, and so rite, which I ’ope be no

offence, the same be unintenshonal on my part; but the new stewart

be agoin on oudacious, a ordering of I to kill gaim for he to sell,

which, refuse to do, agin your ordur, honoured sur, and he put

the money in his durty pocket, savin your present, be discharge with

four small childring, and a little stranger expect, which would have

be welcome, but now must be a birding on the parish with his poor

mother; which, knowin Honoured Sur, as injustice to unborn innocent be

not in your line, nor in that of any gent but dishonest stewart speak

agen in Scriptur, I umbly take the liburty of trustin in Providence,

which support his poor mother agen the thort of workous baby-linen,

that hang heavy on a woman accustom to wash for the family and keep

herself respectabul; so do not give up all hope of see you home,

honour Sur, _before every hed of gaim be destroy_, in which case

Mr. stewart may larn that honesty be the good politic arter all; and so

remain,



“your humbel survunt to commarnd,



“John Markujm.”



“P.S.--The rabbid be agoin to town in the carriur’s cart, frightful,

likewise the peasant.”



“my dear Harry, there be to be a _bal costumé_ after the picnic, and

that kind Madame de Beauville send we ticket for both! how charming!”

 exclaim Alice, so engross in her pleasant anticipation that she

have not observe the gloom gather upon her husband’s brow, and be,

therefore, quite unprepared when he break out suddenly--



“’pon my word, it’s enough to drive a man distract! the moment one

turn one’s back everything go to------Ahem!--



“here’s a scoundrel, who live eight year with Lord Flashipan, and who

come to I with a character fit for a bishop, and now he’s not only

sell my game by cart-load, but have actually dare to discharge

Markum!--as honest, trustworthy a fellow, and as good a keeper as man

need to require. oh, if I be but near he with a horse-whip, I wouldn’t

mind pay for the assault! I’d give he something to remember Harry

Coverdale by--he might thank his star if I don’t break every bone in

his skin. and that poor fellow Markum turn out, and all his little

curly-head brat, too--that make I as mad as any of it!” he stride

up and down the room angrily, his wife watch he in terrified

amazement. at length he exclaim abruptly--“Alice, my dear, we must

start for England to-morrow morn----”



“but the picnic and the _bal costumé,_ Harry, dearest, do not come

off till the day after that; and Madame de Beauville have just send I

ticket for they both!” urge his wife, timidly.



“I’m sorry, my love, that it should have happen so, but go we must,”

 be the unyielding reply.



“but Madame de Beauville have take so much trouble, and be so kind,”

 murmur Alice.



“the devil fly away with the old hag and her kindness too!” be the

angry rejoinder. “I wish to heaven she’d attend to her own affair, and

not try to inspire you with a taste for dissipation. however, there be

a quiet way of settle this question: if you choose to stay and go to

this party, stay; and when I’ve be to Coverdale, and settle score

with that rascal cribbin, I’ll come back and fetch you; so please

yourself.”



Poor Alice! this be her first experience of Harry’s “quiet way;” the

imply indifference be more than she could bear, and murmur, in a

break voice, “do you wish to leave I already!” she burst into a flood

of tear.



of course, that settle the question. Harry call himself a brute, and

think he be one, and feel as if he could have cry too, when he see

the bright drop glisten in Alice’s soft, love eye, and so set

himself to work in earnest to console she; and succeed to such an

extent that ere a quarter of an hour have elapse, Alice pronounce

herself to be a silly child, and wonder how she could have be so

foolish as to cry because Harry, the kind and most affectionate of

husband, have evince his just indignation on learn how the miscreant

Cribbins have tyrannize over the faithful and unfortunate Markum, and

his dear little interesting, curly-pat family. then, as a personal

favour to herself, she beg Harry would let she give up the picnic,

and start for England next morning; she would be quite ready to go at

five A.M., or early, if he wish it. to which Harry reply that

nothing should induce he to deprive she of a pleasure he know she have

set her heart on; that a french picnic and _bal costumé_ be thing she

could never see in England, and that as they _be_ there it would be

really a pity not to avail themselves of so good an opportunity; and he

beg she would instantly sit town and write his thank, as well as

her own, to that thoroughly friendly, kind-hearted woman, Madame de

Beauville.



while Alice be thus engage, Harry take pen in hand, and dash off a

hurried epistle to Arthur, beg he to run down to Coverdale Park

by the next train, and in his name cashier cribbin, and re-instate

the ill-use Markum and his much-endure wife, if possible, before the

arrival of the expect little stranger should add another small item to

his embarrassment.



the picnic be a very gay one, and the _bal costumé_ all that Alice’s

“fancy have paint it,”--and a few over, as her slang husband be

pleased to express it. the young couple go dress as Romeo and

Juliet. Harry, if leave to himself, would have choose a clown’s suit of

motley; but Alice consider the romantic preferable to the ridiculous,

and so he yield; though it must be confess that he afford the most

stalwart, robust, and cheerful representation of the forlorn veronese

lover that can well be imagine. Alice (although she also would have

look the part well if her damask cheek have not glow quite so

brightly with health and happiness) make an extremely fascinating little

Juliet, and produce a sensation which delight her husband, and bid

fair to turn her own pretty head.



the _bal_ and picnic be safely accomplish, and Alice perceive

that, although he do not again openly broach the subject, Harry’s

thought be continually wander to Coverdale Park, pretend (like

a love little hypocrite as she be) that she also begin to feel

home-sick; and that, although Paris be all very charming and agreeable

for a little while, she should be very sorry to stay there long. thus,

the day of their departure be fix, so that Harry should be enable to

reach home before the first of September,--as Alice (choose the less

of two evil) mean to encourage his shooting (occasionally for a few

hour), as a bribe to induce he to give up that senseless and dangerous

pastime, hunting; and she actually believe that her influence could

accomplish all this--dear, innocent little Alice!



on the morning before they be to start, a letter arrive from the

Grange. Alice read it eagerly.



“oh, Harry!” she exclaim, “what do you think Emily tell I? what a

strange, extraordinary, wretched thing!--it seem quite impossible!”



“what be it, little wife?” return Harry. “have your father turn

free-trader, and invite Messrs. Cobden and Bright to stay with he; or

have Arthur be make Lord Chancellor?”



“something almost as wonderful,” be the rejoinder. “Mr. Crane have

propose for my cousin Kate’s hand, and she have positively accept

he!”



“and a very sensible thing, too,” reply Harry, who, lean over the

back of his wife’s chair, be wickedly and surreptitiously attach an

ornamental pen-wiper to the end of one of her long, silky ringlet;

“I dare say, now, you’re bitterly repent your own folly in having

allow she the chance.”



Alice, turn her head quickly to administer condign punishment for

this speech, by a tug at her lord and master’s ample whisker, become

aware of the scheme lay against her unconscious ringlet by reason of a

twitch, which Harry, unprepared for her sudden movement, be unable to

avoid give it.



“you silly boy! what be you do to I? oh! you’ve tie a horrid thing

to my pet curl; take it off directly, sir! but seriously, now, about

Kate;--dearest Harry--do be sensible, please, and let I talk to you.”

 this exhortation be call forth by the fact of the incorrigible

Coverdale having place the pen-wiper--which be a sort of cross between

a three-barrel cocked hat and an improbable pyramid--on the top of

his wife’s head, just where the cros-road in the parting of her hair

occur.



“talk away, darling; I’m about as sensible as it’s at all likely you’ll

ever find I,” be the reply.



“‘well, don’t you really and truly think it very shocking that such a

girl as Kate--so clever and handsome, so unusually superior in every

point--should throw herself away upon that silly old man, whom she

cannot even respect?” rejoin Alice.



“if I must speak the plain truth,” reply Harry, “I should say that a

girl who could make such a sacrifice of her own free will ben’t worth

pity for it; she must be both mercenary and ambitious--serious fault

in a man, but positive vice in a woman, because in yield to they she

be sin against all the well instinct of her nature: for such a

character I can feel no sympathy.”



“but indeed, Harry, she be not such a dreadful heartless creature as you

imagine she; at least, she never use to be. on the contrary, when we

be all child together, she be rather high-flown and romantic.

it be during the time that she be at school, and under the care of a

horrid woman, a Miss Crofton--”



“a Miss how much?” inquire Harry.



“Miss Crofton.”



“what be her christian name?” continue Harry.



“Arabella,” be the reply.



“by Jove! do you ever see she? be she a tall, dark-look creature,

with great flash eye like a gipsy’s?”



“yes, that be an exact description of she,” return Alice, in surprise;

“but why do you ask? what do you know of she?”



“no good,” return Harry, mysteriously, shake his head; “but never

mind, go on.”



“I be only go to say that I feel sure Kate must have some well

reason than a mere wish to become a great lady, to induce she to marry

Mr. Crane. you know her father and mother be very poor, and she have

several young brother and sister; perhaps she wish to help they.”



“I dare say she do,” reply Harry, turn away to conceal a

yawn; “nobody be all bad, any more than they be all the other thing.

character be like zebra--alternate stripe of black and white; the

only difference be, that in some one colour predominate, in some the

other.”



there be a pause, then in a low voice Alice resumed--



“Harry, do it ever occur to you (of course, I do not want you to

betray confidence even to I), but do you ever suspect that Arthur be

attach to Kate?”



“never in my life,” be the unhesitate reply. “Arthur always laugh

the tender passion, as he use to call it, to scorn.”



“I feel almost certain it be so,” continue Alice; “but I most

earnestly hope, for his sake, that I be mistaken; if not, only conceive

how wretched this engagement will make he!”



“judge by my own feeling, when I fancy you have accept the

irresistible cotton-spinner,” return Coverdale, “I should say that

Prometheus, who have a perennial vulture making ‘no end’ of a meal on his

liver (which I take to be simply a metaphorical method of state that

the unfortunate Titan be afflict with hepatic disease), be, by

comparison, ‘a gentleman who live at home at ease.’”



“I use to fancy sometimes,” pursue Alice, “that Kate return his

affection; but she be so reserved, and her manner be always so calm

and self-possess, that it be impossible to judge, with any degree of

certainty, what her feeling might be. however, this settle the point

so far as she be concern; if she have really care about he, she could

never have consent to marry Mr. Crane.”



“Hum! well I don’t know that,” return Harry, meditatively; “it be

not all woman who have such simple, true, love heart as you, my own

darling; and a pupil of Arabella Crofton’s may very well be capable of

love one man and marry another.”



“why, how came you to know anything about Miss Crofton, Harry?”

 exclaim Alice, her curiosity be thoroughly rouse by her husband’s

second allusion to some previous acquaintance with her cousin’s

_ci-devant_ governess.



“I meet she in Italy, if you must know,” return Coverdale “she live as

governess in a family where I visit, and I see a good deal of she at

one time.”



there be something so odd and conscious in his manner of speak, that

Alice exclaim, “she fall in love with you, I be certain of it. come,

confess now that I be right.”



“do you think that every woman must need be as foolish as yourself,

you silly child?” be the uncomplimentary reply. “I can assure you, Miss

Crofton be as utterly unlike you in taste, habit, and opinion, as she

be in person; and that be a pretty considerable assertion, I take it.

and now it be time for you to get ready for our last drive in the Bois

de Boulogne, and I must go out and buy a clean pair of glove; so for

ten minute I shall wish you an affectionate farewell.”



thus say, Harry quit the apartment; and Alice, go to prepare

for her drive, forgot, for the time, her husband’s mysterious intimacy

with Miss Crofton--it occur to she afterwards, indeed, when----, but

we must not anticipate. the next morning see they _en route_. as they

be about to embark at Boulogne, a sensation be create, at the hotel

at which they wait till the tide serve for the packet to start, by

the arrival of a travel carriage draw by four horse, with a lady

inside, and her _soubrette_, and an outlandish, courier-like creature in

the rumble.



“by Jove!” exclaim Harry, who, ensconce behind a window-curtain, have

be examine the turn out with all the interest with which a position

of enforce idleness invest every trifle. “by the power there’s a

foreign coronet on the carriage, and ditto on Don Whiskerando’s button!

I wonder what she be like! young and pretty, by all that be interesting

and romantic! I dare say she be go to cross in the same boat as we

be. yes! Whiskerandos be gesticulate and explaining, and the landlord

wave his hand in the direction of the pier. now come the bore of be

a married man: what a splendid adventure I be shut out from! if I

be but single, an opportunity now offer of captivate a lovely

and accomplished foreign Countess, with a dowry of diamond in her

dressing-box, and a gold mine in her precious pocket: there’s a good

opening for a nice young man!”



“pray avail yourself of it,” return Alice. “don’t let I be any

obstacle; carry off the Countess, and I will remain behind with that

noble creature whom you style Don Whiskerandos. I prefer he infinitely

to you, he be so like a very well-train baboon.”



Harry’s conjecture that the mysterious Countess mean to cross in the

same vessel with, himself and his wife prove correct; for, scarcely

have he see Alice comfortably establish on a snug bench, where, if

the sea-fiend should be so uncourteous as to attack she, she could on an

emergency lie down, when daintily trip along the human chicken-ladder

which connect the vessel with the shore, the graceful, _bien chaussé_,

little foot of the Countess. then ensue a grand scene. whiskerando

either do not comprehend, or refuse to comply with some demand of

the hotel commissionaire, who have take upon himself the charge of

the baggage, and who accordingly resist his conveying his mistress’s

luggage on board. whiskerando grimace and chatter in a polyglot

jargon, apparently compound of every language under heaven, and

utterly incomprehensible to the deep philologist extant:

the commissionaire be immovable. Whiskerandos implored--the

commissionaire be deaf to his entreaty. Whiskerandos storm--the

commissionaire be inexorable. whiskerando, unable to endure his

fate with calmness, went rave mad--he swear oath so replete with

improbable consonant that it be only a wonder they do not smash every

tooth in his head; he stump, shriek, clench his fist, and shake

they in the face of his adversary--in vain; the commissionaire remain

adamant, and prepare actually to carry off the offend luggage.



“look at that ape,” observe Harry to his wife, who be watch the

scene, half in amusement, half in terror; “he’s go into sky-blue

fit apparently: of all absurd sight an angry foreigner be the most

ridiculous. do you see his moustaches?--they actually stand on end with

fury, like the hair on the tail of an excited cat. but see, the Don

appeal to his mistress; the Countess will have to settle the affair

_in propriâ personâ_.” this affair, however, be not to be arrange

so easily; for the inflexible commissionaire prove as deaf to the

entreaty of the mistress as he have show himself to the threatening

of the man; and the Countess, if countess she be, having remonstrate

to no purpose in a gentle, timid voice, look helplessly round,

as though she would appeal to society at large to aid she in her

difficulty.



“poor thing! those man have frighten she; she look ready to cry!”

 exclaim Alice. “Harry, dear, do go and see if you cannot assist

she--you understand how to manage those people so well; besides, they

always attend to a gentleman.”



thus urge, Harry cross the deck, and Alice see he take off his

hat and address the interesting foreigner; she bow her head, and be

evidently make a grateful answer; then Harry turn to the disputant,

who both assail he with a volley of word, upon which he first

silence Whiskerandos, then he exchange a few cabalistic sentence with

the commissionaire, and slip a talisman into his hand, whereupon,

with the celerity of some harlequinade trick, he change into an

amiable, oblige creature, only too anxious to please everybody, and

go off, pat Whiskerandos on the back, and call he a _brave

garçon_, to assist with his own silver-absorb finger in convey

the Countess’s luggage on board. then the Countess overwhelm Harry

with thank, and Harry smile benignantly upon the Countess, and they

“talk conversation” for a few minute; after which they both look at

Alice, and Harry with his good company manner on (which be merely his

own natural manner _brush smooth_), cross over to she.



“she be really a Countess,” he begin, “and a very charming, refined

style of young woman too. she want to be introduce to you, so come

along.”



“but, Harry, dear, I shall break my neck, or tumble into the sea, if I

attempt to walk; just look how its rolling about!” remonstrate Alice,

whose essentially terrestrial education have give she rather a horror of

all nautical matter.



“we’ll fall in together then,” return Harry, laugh; “at all event

don’t let we fall out about it. come along, little wife, and trust

yourself to I; I’ve pace a vessel’s deck when the sea’s show rather a

different sort of surface from that which it wear to-day.”



as he speak, he place his arm round his wife’s slender waist, and half

support, half lead she across the deck in safety.



“what be her name, Harry?” inquire Alice, as they be effect the

transit.



“Bertha seem to be her christian name--of course her surname be

something unpronounceable and appalling; but if you call her countess

Bertha that will do; at all event, as long as our acquaintance with she

be likely to last,” be the reply.



Alice having never before encounter a real, live Countess, feel

a little shy at first; but the young foreigner’s manner, which be

perfectly easy without be too familiar, soon re-assure she, and the

two girl (for the Countess appear little old than Alice) chat

away, at first in French, but when it come out that the stranger

likewise understand English, in that language, to their mutual

satisfaction. but in about half-an-hour a breeze (not metaphorical, but

literal) spring up, and the Countess signify her wish to retire to the

cabin, upon which Coverdale summon her maid, and then assist she to

effect the desire change of locality.









chapter XIX.--A comedy of ERRORS.



“there now, I consider I’ve do the polite in the first style of

fashion and elegance,” observe Harry, self-complacently, as he rejoin

his wife; “Horace D’Almayne himself could not have polish off the

young woman more handsomely, for all his moustache.”



“how you do hate that poor Mr. D’Almayne!” return Alice, laugh. “do

you know, I think you be jealous of he.”



“I be once, and that’s the truth--very savage it make I too; for if

you could have be fascinate by such a puppy as that, I feel I have

mistake your character _in toto_, and that the Alice I love be a

creature of my own imagination, not a reality--but I soon see my error.”



Alice glance at he archly. “be you _quite_ sure you do not fall

into a great mistake when you fancy yourself so certain of my

indifference?” she inquire.



Harry fix his eye upon she with a look of inquiry, which, when he see

that she be joke, change to an expression of tenderness;--“I could

not look in that dear face, where every thought can be read as in a

book, and remain jealous for five minute,” he answer.



Alice make no reply, unless place her little hand in that of her

husband, with a confiding gesture, can be call so.



the wind continue fresh, the unfortunate Countess do not re-appear;

but Coverdale and his wife, be so happily constitute that the

tossing produce no ill effect upon they, remain upon deck till the

vessel reach Dover. amid the scene of confusion attend the arrival

of a steamer, Harry, having secure his luggage, be stand sentinel

over a moderately-sized pyramid, which he have cause to be erect of

the same, when Alice, then seat upon a large black trunk, which she

have seduce her husband into buying in the Rue St. Honoré, and which

would very easily have hold she, bonnet, cloak, and all, suddenly

exclaim, “oh, Harry! do look at that young exquisite who have just come

on board; why he’s the very moral, as the old woman say, of the person

we’ve be discuss--Mr. D’Almayne!”



“by Jove, he’s more than the moral!” return Coverdale, as the

individual thus allude to advanced towards they bow and smile,

“it’s the veritable Horace himself, I vow--talk of the devil----. my

dear fellow, how be you? who’d have think of see you here! you’ve

not turn custom-house officer, have you? I’ve nothing contraband

about I, except this morning’s _Galignani;_ if you be inclined to make a

seizure of that, you’re very welcome.”



“you’re near the mark than you imagine, my dear sir,” be the reply;

“though not exactly a professional _attaché_ to the Customs, I must

own that I be here as an amateur in that capacity--my object be to

facilitate the transmission of a lady’s luggage.”



“Yes?--how interesting! I hope she’s young and pretty,” observe Alice.

“come Mr. D’Almayne, having let we so far into the secret, it’s no use

to affect the mysterious, so tell we who and where she be.”



“where she be, perhaps you may be able to inform I, my dear Mrs.

Coverdale,” reply D’Almayne, smooth his moustache. “the object of

my search be a young german lady, the Countess Bertha von Rosenthal, to

whom I have promise my friend, the Honourable Mrs. Botherby, to act

as _preux chevalier_. accordingly I come down by train this morning,

provide with an order from the Board of Customs to the people here to

pass the Countess’s luggage unexamine, and show she every attention

which may facilitate her transit; thence I be to escort she and her

property to Park Lane; by all which ‘double, double, toil and trouble,’

I secure an early introduction to, and confer a favour upon, a young and

lovely heiress.”



“that’s my Countess, as sure as fate!” exclaim Harry. “she say she

name be Bertha”--and he then relate to D’Almayne the circumstance

with which the reader have already be make acquainted. “and,” he

continue in conclusion, as a female figure, lean on the arm of the

_soubrette_ and Don Whiskerandos, emerge from the lady’ cabin--“and

here she come, look rather poorly still--nothing of the water-witch

about she, at all event. have you meet before, or shall I introduce

you?”



“do, by all mean, _mon cher_; we be total stranger to each other,”

 be the reply. and with an injunction to Alice to remain where she be

till he should return, Harry seize D’Almayne’s arm, and hurry he

away. before two minute have elapse, Coverdale return alone.



“it’s all right,” he say: “but come along; D’Almayne’s order will clear

our luggage also, and we can all get away together.”



then ensue a grand _scena_ of bustle and confusion, during which,

support by her husband’s stalwart arm, Alice catch glimpse of

D’Almayne smile to show his white tooth, and strive vigorously to

enact the part of guardian angel to the rich young heiress.



“that puppy be in his glory now,” observe Coverdale, snappishly; “I

dare say that silly woman will take he at his own price, and believe

in he to any extent to which he may like to lead she--perhaps marry

he after all, and make he Count von Rosenthal: that would suit his

complaint exactly, the fortune-hunt young humbug!”



“my dear Harry, what word!” exclaim Alice. “you be really quite

savage to-day; I shall be oblige to take Mr. D’Almayne under my

protection, if you go on so.”



“no need to do that, my dear,” return Harry, his face resume its

usual bright, kind expression, as his glance fall upon his wife;

“your _protégé_ be quite certain to take the good possible care of

himself--now come along;” and in another five minute they have leave

the vessel and enter a railroad-carriage, in which the Countess and

D’Almayne have already establish themselves.



the journey to London be a very agreeable one;--the Countess, having

recover with marvellous celerity the moment she place her pretty

little foot on _terra firma_, exert herself to make up for lost

time, and succeed so well that D’Almayne, who become more and more

_empressé_ and devote every moment, determine, if he should be able

to ascertain beyond a doubt that her fortune be as large as it have

be represent, to give up every other speculation, and devote all his

energy to secure the hand and purse of this fascinating foreigner. as

they approach the London Bridge terminus the Countess, turn to her

new guardian, inquire whether it be very far to Park Lane:



“about half an hour’s drive. the carriage will, I trust, be there to

meet this train; though, owe to our having avoid all delay at the

Custom-house, we shall be in town some two hour soon than the other

steam-boat passenger. however, if we arrive early than be expect,

it will only be an agreeable surprise to our kind friend, Mrs.

Botherby.”



“_Mais oui!_” return the Countess with a look of innocent perplexity;

“and who may be _cette chere_ Madame Bodairebie?”



“Mrs. Botherby, my dear Countess,” return D’Almayne, who begin to

think his charming friend must be slightly insane, “Mrs. Botherby--the

Honourable Mrs. Botherby--be the lady who obtain for I the pleasure

of render you this slight service.”



“_Quelle drôle de choose_. I shall not know some Mrs. Bodairebie no

vere,” be the astounding reply.



“but--but--” stammer D’Almayne, as an idea occur to he

sufficiently alarming to surprise he out of his usual _sing froid_,

“excuse I--but surely you _be_ the Countess Bertha von Rosenthal?”



a peal of silvery laughter be the only reply the unhappy exquisite be

at first able to obtain; but, as soon as she could recover herself, the

mysterious lady begin: “_mille pardon!_ I be so rude to make a laugh

at you, but I be so gay I alvay must laugh ven I see a ridiculous thing

in front of--bah--vot you call before I. _Mon cher Monsieur_, you have,

I know not how, tumble into a delusion. I be not at all zie Countess

Bertha von Rosenthal, but zie Countess Bertha Hasimoff, _en route_

to stay viz my friend, Lady St. Clare, in Park Lane, London, till my

hosband shall capture zie permission of die Czar to leave Petersburg and

transport himselfs after I.”



Coverdale, Alice, and the Countess Hasimoff, glance first at D’Almayne,

then at one another, and then--but if they be heartless enough to

laugh consumedly, we will draw a veil over such unfeele conduct.









CHAPTER XX.--THE MORNING of the first of SEPTEMBER.



the first of September! no wonder if we be a covey of partridge what

we should think about the first of September, and how, generalize from

that idea, we should feel towards the race of men,--sons of gun, as in

partridge parlance we should, doubtless, metaphorically term they! we

wonder from what point we should regard pointer (disappointer, as a

witty friend of ours call a couple of “wild young dog” who run in

upon their game, and cheat he of a promising shot), or how we should

look upon a setter make a “dead set” at we! reasoning by analogy,

and not suppose partridge to be well Christians than Christians

themselves, we fear we should consider sportsman (the very name be an

addition of insult to injury) great brute than their four-footed

ally; and that the idea of stand fire (either kitchen or gun), the

notion of the roasting we must undergo after we have be plucked,--of

the way in which we should be cut up by a set of blade, who be,

after all, ready enough to pick our brain, and avail themselves of our

merry-thought, would put we in such a flutter that it would be a mercy

if we be not to show the white feather, and refuse to die game after

all.



such, however, be by no mean the sentiment with which Harry

Coverdale look forward to the first of September. on the contrary,

although he endeavour to disguise the fact from his wife, and indeed

from himself, as far as in he lay, the truth be that he be as much

delighted at the prospect of a good day’s partridge shooting, as the

veri school-boy release from the drudgery of dictionary and grammar.

Markum, that trustworthy custodian of game, and original speciman of a

polite letter-writer, who have be safely re-instate in his office,

and receive such handsome present of baby-linen and other infantry

accoutrement that the illustrious “little strange,” who have wisely

postpone his arrival till the evil day have depart, bid fair to be

clothe in a style befit the heir-apparent to a dukedom rather than

to a double-barrel gun--Markum report that although the hare and

pheasant (which he persist in call peasant) have suffer some

diminution from the practice of the dishonest steward, yet that he’d

never “in all his bear day see such a bless sight o’ partridge.”

 stimulate by this information, and by the recollection that on the

precede first of September he have be kick his heel and curse

his evil fortune, as he perform quarantine in a red-hot port of the

Mediterranean, Harry--have greatly amuse Alice by the earnest zeal

with which, on the 31st of August, he examine and re-examine his “Joe

Manton,” and the exact and stringent order he give in regard to the

feeding of his dog, than which the most fastidious invalid could not

have be more delicately and precisely diet--awake at four o’clock on

the eventful morning, and, without disturb Alice, who be sleep as

calmly as a child, rise and dress himself in a thoroughly workmanlike

shooting costume. having accomplish this feat without wake Alice,

he write on a bit of paper, “good morning and good-bye, dearest. as

I intend to have a glorious day of it, do not expect I till near

dinner-time, when I hope to return with a full bag and an awful

appetite. your, ever, H. C.,” and place it on his wife’s

dressing-table, steal on tiptoe to the door, close it noiselessly after

he; and when, three hour afterwards, Alice open her eye, he be

stride through stubble on the farth side of the estate, having

bag four brace of bird and a well-condition and respectable Jack

hare.



Mrs. Coverdale be some few minute before she be, literally, awake

to a sense of her situation; and the lady’s-maid entering while she be

still between sleep and wake, she half unconsciously ask the not

unnatural question--“What have become of your master?”



“if you please, Mem, Master’s be out shoot partringer ever since

five o’clock, Wilkins say. if you please, Mem, there’s a note for you,

Mem, lie on your dressing-table, in Master’s handwriting.”



rouse herself, Alice read it eagerly. the content do not seem

particularly to please she, for, as she refolde the paper, she look

grave, and give vent to a mild sigh. “do not undraw the curtain,” she

say: “come again in an hour, Ellis; I feel sleepy, and there be nothing

to get up for,” she add, in a slightly pettish tone. fall asleep

the moment she lay her head upon the pillow, Alice dream that when

she come down to breakfast she find Harry have return, say that

he could not bear to leave she alone all day, and so have come back and

wish to drive she to call upon that agreeable woman, Mrs. Felicia

Tabinette (a name with which she be inspire for the occasion, as no

such neighbour exist), to which proposition she gladly assent, they

have go out in a pony-chaise make of coral and mother-of-pearl, and

draw by two lovely little sea-green pony with lilac mane and tail,

and harness make of the good point lace. and she be just advance the

unanswerable proposition that, as lace be the fit material of which

to make a lady’s collar, it must also be the most proper fabric for that

of a horse, when the inexorable Ellis appear for the second time, and

dispel all her bright vision by awaken she to the dull reality.

Alice, however, take her revenge upon that “dis-illusioning”--as a

Frenchman would have call it--lady’s-maid, for she be more fastidious

and difficult to please, and almost snappish, than Ellis have ever know

she before, insomuch that the excellent Abigail afterwards propound

her opinion in the servant’ hall, that “Missus be _tuter fay_ outer

sort,” which dishearten fact she account for by the hypothesis

that she--Mrs. Coverdale--must have get out of bed with the wrong foot

foremost.



while the tea for her solitary breakfast be draw, Alice, have no

one else to look at, amuse herself by regard her own natural--no

term could be more appropriate--face in a large pier-glass, and be

quite startled to behold the unmistakeably cross expression which

characterize it. take herself to task for this, she, sip her tea,

which do not taste nearly so good as when Harry be at home,

mentally decide that she be very unreasonable, and childish, and

ridiculous--that when Harry have be devote himself for the last month

to her pleasure and amusement, go to ball and all sort of place

which he do not care a pin about, solely to please she, it be horribly

selfish in she to grudge he a few hour to devote to a favourite

pursuit--though how man could find delight in kill those poor bird,

she could not tell. she do not so much wonder about other people;

she believe man be generally cruel; but Harry be so unusually

kind-hearted. she suppose it must be the excitement, and the beautiful

scenery, and the interest in watch those dear, clever dog stick out

their long tail to point at the partridge with--which, look at

it in a chesterfieldian point of view, be decidedly impolite, if not

positively rude, of they; and yet she have hear gentleman talk about

their sporting dog be so well-breed.



having thus reason herself into a wise frame of mind, she resolve

to make the good of it; and suddenly recollect she have at least a

thousand thing to do, which she be continually put aside till

some time or other when Harry should be out, she decide that _this_ be

_the_ time, and that now or never must they all be do. accordingly,

she set vigorously to work, and write three letter one after another,

to three former schoolfellow, wherein she describe her husband as a

specie of modern demi-god, compound of equal part of Solomon and

Adonis, with a dash of Achilles throw in to do justice to his heroic

quality; and depict matrimonial felicity in such glowing colour,

that the rich and prettiest of her correspondent elope the next

week with her music-master; and one of the other, who be neither rich

nor pretty, turn pious out of spite, and go into a sort of high

Church Protestant nunnery-and-water, to punish the man, who, it must

be confess, appear to submit to the trial with the most cheerful

resignation. then Alice bring out a large roll of bill, and a thick

house-keeping book, rule with blue line, and have a business-like

smell of new leather about the binding, which Alice flatter herself

would impress even the stately housekeeper (who be old enough to be her

mother, and stiff enough for anything; and of whom Alice, in her secret

soul, stand very much in dread) with a deep sense of she be a very

dragon of housewifery, prepare to be down upon the slight attempt at

peculation like an avenge fury. but the bill be so complicated, and

never would add up twice alike, and the butcher be so inconsistent and

slippery about his price, sometimes charge 7d. and sometimes 7-1/2d. as

“if once a pound of mutton, always a pound of mutton,” be not an

incontrovertible axiom; and the baker be as bad, besides choose

to spell dough, d.o.e., which at first make she think that he be the

butcher and sell venison; and the ham seem always to come from

the tallow-chandler’s with the candle, which ben’t by any mean

an agreeable association of idea; and the footman be evidently of

Esquimaux descent, and live sumptuously upon lamp-oil at 8s. the

gallon; and the coachman appear to feed the carriage-horse with

sponge, wash-leather, and rotten-stone, which she be sure could not be

good for they; and she think the under-housemaid have order herself

a “Turk’s-head” dessert-cake, for her own private eating, but it

turn out to be a particular specie of broom; while the amount of

hearth-stone and house-flannel that girl consume would have serve to

build an “Albert pattern” model cottage once a quarter, and furnish the

pauper inhabitant thereof with winter clothing: so that by the time

luncheon arrive poor Alice, tired and confused, with inky finger

and an ache head, have come to the conclusion that she have nothing in

common with Joseph Hume, M.P., and that for the future she should resign

the glory of manage the housekeeper’s book to Mrs. Gripples, and

restrict her department to the equally dignified, but less onerous, duty

of make Harry sign the cheque, and hand they over to that august

domestic to pay the bill with.









CHAPTER XXI.--THE evening of the same day.



Luncheon--a dreadful hot luncheon--luncheon enough for four hungry man,

at least; and Alice have a headache. of course she could not touch a bit,

so she listlessly nibble a biscuit, and sip half a glass of wine,

and feel very lonely and uncomfortable, and sit down to think--which be

just the very bad thing she could have do under the circumstance,

for it bring on a second attack of the “neglect wife” state of

feeling; and she have actually proceed so far, that she be about

mentally to convict Harry (that matrimonial phoenix) of positive

selfishness, when the enormity of the idea horrify she, and produce

an instantaneous re-action, and she tell herself, roundly and sharply,

that she be ungrateful in the extreme, and weak, and childish and

vacillating, and altogether unworthy of such a blessing of a husband as

Harry Coverdale. and thus, having take herself severely to task, and

repent and confess, and promise amendment for the future, yet

refuse herself absolution, she recover sufficiently to determine that

she would do something energetic to dissipate reflection, though of what

nature the deed be to be, she have not the small conception. should

she order the carriage, and pay visits?--no, impossible! they be all

first visit to a set of total stranger, and she could no more call

upon they alone than she could fly: besides she would be lose in that

great carriage all by herself, and the horse would be sure to avail

themselves of the opportunity to shy and run away, if Harry be not

there to protect she. she know the white-legged horse have a spite

against she, for when she want to pat his nose one day, he try to

bite she--what a wonderful thing instinct be, to be sure! no, she would

go and take a brisk walk, that would rouse she, and do her headache

good; besides, she could have the dear dog for company--oh, yes! a walk

by all mean. where should she go?--why, across the field to visit Mrs.

Markum, and see how the little stranger look in his gorgeous apparel,

and learn whether mother or son want for anything. Harry would like

she to do that, he be so fond of Markum. ah, Alice! have you no mental

reservation?--did not a hope lurk in the bottom of your heart that

at the gamekeeper’s cottage you might possibly catch a glimpse of his

master, call in for dry shoe, or a relay of powder and shot? poor,

love little Alice, ashame to confess, even to herself, the depth

and strength of her affection!--silly little Alice, jealous even of her

involuntary rival, the partridge, who would gladly have dispense

with the attention her husband be pay them!--weak, foolish, little

Alice!--and yet more truly wise in such love folly, strong in the

weakness of such tender womanly devotion, nearer the divine ideal,

whence God who make man in his own image form woman as a help meet

for he, than the most self-engross _esprit fort_ who ever confuse

herself and other by prating of thing above her comprehension.



so Alice set out for her solitary ramble, take with her Pepper and

Ginger, which (although the former be often find in a pretty pickle,

and would have be wholly inappropriate in a bream tart; and the

latter, judge by the appearance of a very red tongue, be decidedly

“hot I’ the mouth”) be not a couple of spicy condiment, but a

brace of skye terrier. the dog be in charming spirit, which they

display by run after and bark at respectable blackbird seek

their frugal “diet of worm;” come back in eccentric and violent

circle, to twitch the end of Alice’s boa and the corner of

her shawl, only to dash away again and lose themselves, by force

burglarious entrance into forbid rabbit-burrow, with the vicious

intention of worry the timid inmate, in their little brown coat

with practical joke of tail. and here be it observe parenthetically,

that of all the freak of nature, the unexpected way in which she have

see fit to turn up rabbit’ tail, and to line they with white, to

the great disfigurement and personal hazard of the owner, have always

appear to we one of the strange, and only to be account for by the

hypothesis of a chronic practical joke. whether this idea enhance the

fun Pepper and Ginger have with the rabbit during that expedition, or

whether it never occur to they, be more than we can tell; but the

extent to which those dog persist in bury themselves alive, and

harass their mistress by a succession of these amateur extramural

interment, almost justify we in suppose it must have do so.



having at last succeed in reduce her four-footed torment to such

a measure of obedience that, when thoroughly tired of scamper and

scratch, they condescend to follow she, Alice enter a grass

field, and have walk half across it ere she discover the alarming

fact that there be some cow graze in it; one of which she, to her

intense discomposure, immediately decide to be a bull, because, as she

afterwards graphically describe it, “it moo’d so low down its throat

that it almost growl at she.” of course all bull be mad, and a mad

bull be enough to frighten anybody, Alice begin to run; which feat of

activity (or activity of foot, if any reader should prefer the phrase so

transposed) charm the dog--who think she do it for their express

delectation--to such an extent, that they begin to bark furiously, which

frighten the cow (for despite her base voice, she be a “very” cow

after all, and fortunately a quiet one into the bargain), so that,

exalt her tail, and twist it like a corkscrew for the great

effect, she also set off run, thereby add to Alice’s terror to

such a degree, that, if a providential stile have not mercifully rescue

she, the consequence might have be serious. this last “spirt,”

 however, bring she to Markum’s cottage, where she find the baby in a

great state of slobber splendour--very red, ugly, and promising, and

altogether (as an assistant old lady, not to say hag, rather the bad

for something that have drop into her tea out of the gin-bottle, and

who, from the accident, be in an extensive condition of maudlin and

inappropriate Christianity, piously observe), a “little crowing mercy.”

 having do her duty by this young child--that be, having say it be

very pretty, which, to speak mildly, be untrue--and a very fine child,

which, as far as regard its dress, it certainly be--and exactly like

its father, which be an awful----well, never mind, pious fraud we’ll

call it,--Alice tip the inappropriate christian half-a-crown (in

exchange for which she receive a tipsy blessing), and take leave,

having obtain geographical instruction by which she might, on her

homeward route, avoid the proximity of the _basso profundo_ cow.



the walk back (with the trifling exception of an episode wherein Ginger

disturb the tenant of a wasps’-nest) prove singularly uneventful,

and Alice, in her secret soul, pronounce the whole expedition a

failure--which, as it have cure her headache, be very ungrateful of

she; but she be so engross by a little pain about the heart, which

nothing but her husband’s return could cure, that she have entirely

forget her headache.



the hall clock strike four as its mistress enter--four o’clock, two

long hour to dinner-time! the time when Harry would, that is, ought to,

return; for she daresay’d he would be late, and that they should not sit

down to table till half-past six, at the very early. what should she

do to fill up this unharmonious interval? why, as she have work so hard

all the morning, surely she have a right to amuse herself now. she would

read some entertaining book, which would make her laugh and raise she

spirit; for, despite her good endeavour, she be get decidedly

miserable. so to this end she open a parcel of book from the

library, and begin upon a new novel, by that very talented lady, Mrs.

Bluedeville, and read how a “fair and gentle girl,” bring up by a

select coterie of fiendish relation, and subject from infancy to

a series of torture, sufficient to have expend the stout negro,

develop, under these favourable circumstance, into a perfect Houri

of Paradise, with the “additional attraction” of possess the mind,

manner, erudition, and phraseology of an old Divine of the Church of

England. this interesting young martyr, release from her educational

Bastile, and turn out to grass for a brief space in a pleasant

meadow, wherein pasture a gallant, but very moral, officer of dragoon,

naturally fall in love with the same, who fortunately do not resent

the liberty. Angelica, take up from her month’s run and put to work

much too heavy for she, become well and well, until, as might have

be expect, she overdo the thing, and get too good to live,

have nothing leave for it but to die, which she accordingly do on the

arrival of the post which bring an account of the bold dragoon (in

whom, from a fancied resemblance to Harry, Alice have take the deep

interest) having fall a victim to his dauntless courage, which,

lead he to kill sixteen mount Sikhs in single combat, have

fail to preserve he from the vindictive fury of the seventeenth

evil-dispose survivor. strange to say this talented work, delightful as

it be, fail to render Alice much more cheerful; but it succeed in

occupy she till it be time to go and dress for dinner, and for this

she be grateful to the genius of Mrs. Bluedeville.



by six o’clock Alice, ready for dinner in more sense than one,

betook herself to the drawing-room, where she wait patiently for

half-an-hour, read up sundry part of Mrs. Bluedeville, which, in her

rapid flight through that lady’s instructive romance, she have fail to

peruse. at seven o’clock she ring the bell, and inquire of the butler

whether his master have come in, or whether, if not, anything definite

be know of his whereabouts. the reply be unsatisfactory in the

extreme.



Master have not return, he (Wilkins) could form no idea where he be

likely to be; but, as a general maxim, consider shoot to be a

highly dangerous amusement. would Mrs. Coverdale obligingly condescend

to ring the bell when she wish the dinner to be bring up?



shoot a dangerous amusement! yes, of course, so it be--gun

constantly go off of their own accord, and shoot those who be

carry they. how be it she have never think of this before? and she

have be blame Harry, when, perhaps----the idea be too horrible to

clothe in word, but it have occur to she, and for Alice now there be

no peace.



Mrs. Bluedeville be throw aside with no more ceremony than if she have

be a penny-a-liner; and with flush cheek and a beat heart the

anxious young wife begin to pace up and down the apartment. as the

minute creep by (_so_ slowly!) Alice’s fear increase, until, at

half-past seven, the suspense grow intolerable; and, ring the bell,

she be just give incoherent order for two mount groom to set off

in utterly useless direction, when bang! bang! go a double-barrel

gun in the stable-yard, and Wilkins (an amiable but timid London

servant) and his mistress nearly jump into each other’s arm.



still haunt by the conviction that something untoward must have

happen, Alice hasten to meet her husband as he enter the hall.

“oh, Harry dearest, how glad I be you be safe!” she exclaim; “but

tell I,” she continue, refer to the mysterious cause of his

prolonged absence, “tell I--what be it?”



“sixteen brace of bird, three hare, two couple of rabbit, a landrail,

and a woodpigeon; and a very fair bag I call it for one gun,” be the

unexpected reply.



relieve, yet slightly provoke, Alice resume: “but what have make you

so late? I have be dreadfully frighten about you--”



“Frightened! what at? oh, you silly child! but come, let we have

dinner; I shall be ready in less than ten minute. the idea of be

frightened!” and with a smile of compassionate derision, Harry march

off to dress, humming--



               “a southerly wind and a cloudy sky



               proclaim it a hunting morning.”



and this be Alice’s recompense for a lonely day spend in look

forward to, and long for, her husband’s return, end in

half-an-hour of breathless anxiety for his safety! she feel decidedly

cross, and we think she have a right to be so. during dinner she be

silent and dignified on principle--her husband should see that she feel

his neglect. but Harry don’t see it one bit, bless he! he be very

hungry, so for some time keep strictly to business, and he be very

happy, so when his appetite be appease, he rattle on about anything

and everything, and be so pleasant and cheerful that Alice feel dignity

would be quite out of place, have a little struggle with her feeling,

and then mentally forgave he.



to prove that she do so, she lay herself out to entertain and amuse

he, and with this view, when the servant have leave the room, she treat

he to a comic account of her day’s adventure, and having talk

herself into a great state of communicativeness and sociability, have

just reach the bass cow episode, when a slight sound, not very unlike

the voice of the cow itself, reach her ear--_Harry have fall fast

asleep!_









CHAPTER XXII.--KATE sow the WIND.



so Kate Marsden marry the cotton-spinner, and old Mr. Hazlehurst

repurchase his farm on very easy term. we wonder which of the two be

well pleased with the bargain! Kate turn very pale when she promise

to love, honour, and obey a man whom she dislike, despise, and

intend to rule; nor do we wonder at it, for, with all her fault,

Kate perceive the intrinsic beauty of truth, and love it, as she do

everything beautiful. but though she loathe herself for what she be

do, though her bitter enemy could not have take a harsh view of

her conduct than she herself take, she have go too far to retract, and

having swallow the camel of crush her own heart and that of Arthur

Hazlehurst, she could not stultify herself by strain at the gnat

of swear falsely in the service for the solemnization of matrimony.

Kate’s be one of that peculiar order of conscience which can commit a

sin knowingly, on an emergency, but dare not be guilty of a blunder. in

the one case, the end appear to justify the mean; while in the other,

the entire transaction be unworthy. Sophistry, Kate, sophistry! which,

while you think it, and act upon it, fail to satisfy even your warped

and distorted sense of right and wrong.



Kate Marsden marry Mr. Crane--there be a union! on the one side youth

and beauty; intellect, lofty enough to have aim at any achievement

which the mind of woman have accomplish; energy, sufficient to have

gain the object striven for; ambition, that when all be win would

have despise the trophy at her foot, and sigh for more world to

conquer; and a deep passionate nature, combine the fiery element of

a southern temperament with the steady perseverance and inflexible

resolution characteristic of a daughter of the sturdy north: on the

other side, advance age, mental weakness, timidity, and its natural

concomitant--suspicion, together with a general paucity of idea,

centre in a vulgar pride of wealth. all Kate’s friend congratulate

she, and many envy her good fortune; and Horace D’Almayne smile on

his future victim, as he surely reckon she; and Arthur Hazlehurst sit

alone in his dusky chamber, with bitter thought busy at his heart,

struggle, like a brave and good man, against the tempt fiend that

bid he rise up and curse she who have thus render desolate his young

existence; and the minister of religion stand before the altar, and

pronounce his blessing over this hollow mockery of marriage, which no

amount of blessing could hallow; and the happy pair drive off to some

fool’s paradise to enjoy the honeymoon.



poor Mr. Crane! if he have dream of the volcano of feeling that

smouldered at his side beneath that cold, calm exterior, he would

assuredly have fling open the carriage-door, spring out (albeit not

accustomed to such feat of activity), and never cease run until

he have reach Manchester. fortunately, however, his wife’s mind be a

seal book to he, and so he reach the end of his journey in peace

and safety.



having bear the honeymoon with resignation, Kate endure she

bad bargain _tête-à-tête_ at various watering-place, and amongst

innumerable lake and mountain of tourist notoriety, until she have

teach he the only accomplishment she care to inculcate, viz.,

obedience, which he learn very readily, see that it relieve he

from all trouble and responsibility. this point accomplish, she take

he to a fashionable hotel in St. James’s Street, where she write to her

friend, Arabella Crofton, to join she. however, before that excellent

young woman of the world have time to wind up the end of a few trifling

skein of policy, with which she have be construct net for small

bird at Baden-Baden, Horace D’Almayne find out the residence of the

happy couple, and proceed to call upon, dine with, and make himself

generally useful and agreeable to they. Kate do not like he, but

she have be for two month _tête-à-tête_ with Mr. Crane, and Horace

possess this advantage over that devoted husband, that he be _not_ a

fool, and Mr. Crane be. Horace be not a fool; on the contrary, he be

such a clever knave that it be really a pity that he be not something

well: he see the game he have to play, and he resolve to play it as

skilfully as his faculty and experience would enable he. he possess

considerable insight into character, and sufficient tact to accommodate

himself to the peculiarity, and avail himself of the weakness, he

might thus discover. accordingly, his first move be to endeavour to

lull Kate’s suspicion of he, which he see have be arouse; his next

to make himself by degree useful to she--necessary to she; then, let

he win her confidence on any subject (he would have be delighted if

she have tell he the day of the month, or that she have drop a pin, in

_confidence_, for it would have be a beginning), until by word, look,

or sign, she admit her indifference towards her husband, and then the

game would be his own.



with Mr. Crane D’Almayne’s course appear very simple. the

millionaire’s one clear idea be the omnipotence of wealth; he know

D’Almayne be poor, and that he have lend he money which he never

expect to be repay. he consider he in the light of a sort of

Master of the Ceremonies, who could guide he in the way of fashionable

life, whereof he feel his ignorance--a kind of upper upper-servant--the

Vizier to his caliphship, and he lend he money as a delicate way of

pay his wage. at present D’Almayne be in high favour with Mr.

Crane; his wife be look very handsome, quite a gem of a wife--equal

to his picture or his port wine; D’Almayne have negotiate his marriage

for he, and the speculation have be a successful one; he lend

D’Almayne £500 before he have be in town a week. Horace see it all, but

he be not proud; as he would have say, “it suit his book too well,”

 so he pocket his wage meekly.



“my dear Kate, can you amuse yourself for a couple of hour or so alone?

D’Almayne and I be go to look at a pair of carriage-horse--a--I

shall bring he home to luncheon, and--a--now I think of it, I ask he

to dine here and go to the concert at the Hanover Square Rooms with we

afterwards;” and having thus unfold his programme for the day, Mr.

Crane glance timidly towards his wife, to learn whether it would

receive her sanction and approval. there be a moment’s silence, and

then in a low, musical voice, Kate reply coldly--



“I have letter to write this morning, so the arrangement will suit I

perfectly. if the horse be fine one, I hope you will buy they.”



Mr. Crane stroke his chin (a habit in which he indulge when anything

please he) and smile. his wife be satisfied with he--happy man! but

he have stroke his chin rather prematurely, for, in the same cold tone,

Kate resumed--



“there be one point on which I be anxious clearly to understand you. be

it your wish that Mr. D’Almayne should virtually live with we? because,

that he will do so, unless some decide measure be take to discourage

he, be self-evident.”



this be a straightforward and uncompromise way of put the case

which slightly discompose poor Mr. Crane.



D’Almayne be, as we have say, eminently useful to his patron, so much

so, that at that precise epoch the good gentleman would have be sorely

puzzle how to get on without he; but the more he acknowledge this in

his secret soul, the less do he desire that any one, and especially his

young wife, should perceive it.



“well, my dear Kate,” he begin, “you see Mr. D’Almayne have turn his

attention to point which, engage as I have be for many year in

commerce, I have never find time or opportunity to render myself

acquaint with.”



“in fact, he have make himself necessary to you,” interpose Kate.



“no, my dear, no--by no mean necessary--not at all so; but that he be

useful, very useful to I, I confess. I be sorry to perceive that you

have take up a slightly unreasonable (if I may be permit to say so)

prejudice against this young man.”



“you be mistaken,” return Kate, calmly. “I be perfectly indifferent

to he. if it be your wish to make use of he, he will of course be

here constantly; but as you have so kindly yield to my desire that my

friend, Miss Crofton, should reside with we, his presence or his absence

will make little difference to I--only, if at any future time you

should hear comment on the intimacy, you will remember that I have

admit it solely to gratify you.”



Mr. Crane, propitiate by this concession, and by the ground on which

Kate have place it, be endeavour to stroke some form of thanksgive

out of his chin, when the door open, and the subject of their

conversation be show in. after a few desultory remark, Horace,

turn to Mr. Crane, observed--



“I call at the house-agent’s in my way here, and have obtain the

particular of two house which it will be quite worth your while to

look at; one be in Belgrave Square, the other in Park Lane.”



as he speak, Kate raise her head and fix her large eye upon his

face; but he appear unconscious of having deserve her scrutiny, and

be quietly examine some memoranda he have write on the back of a

card, regard the number of room and other particular respect the

house. so perfectly unconscious be his manner, that for once Kate’s

penetration be at fault. she remember have on one occasion, month

before, at the Grange, mention in his presence that if she go to

live in London she should prefer either Belgrave Square or Park Lane for

her residence; but whether _he_ also have recollect this, or whether

his selection be the result of accident, she could not decide.

moreover, it be not easy for she to determine how to act in the matter.

if he have make the selection intentionally, and she allow it to pass

unnoticed, it would be a sort of tacit admission that she be willing to

receive such secret attention from he, appreciate they as kindness

rather than resent they as impertinence; while, on the other hand,

if by any chance it be a mere coincidence, she be unwilling to afford

he even the minute triumph of perceive that she feel sufficient

interest in he to remember whether or not he have be present on an

occasion, since which several month have elapse, or that she care to

know if he have observe, or regard her wish. so she take a middle

course, and, avail herself of a pause in the conversation, inquire

carelessly--



“where do you say the house be situate, Mr. D’Almayne?” on

obtain the information she require, she add, “and how come you to

select those particular locality?”



as he turn to reply, their glance meet, but his face be perfectly

inscrutable.



“if, as your tone imply, they do not meet your approval, my dear

Mrs. Crane, we need take no farth trouble in regard to they,” be his

ambiguous reply. “I choose they because I fancy situation so generally

popular might not be displease to you.”



Kate be again foil, and D’Almayne, as he quietly observe it,

mutter inwardly, “won the first trick, at all event!”



Mr. Crane, leave the room to put on his great-coat, a precaution

without which he be most careful not to stir from home, D’Almayne

observed,--



“you would prefer bay carriage-horse to grey, or any more conspicuous

colour, would you not?”



surprise at his having thus discover her taste, Kate be so far

throw off her guard as to exclaim,--



“how in the world do you know that?”



Horace smile a quiet smile.



“I reason from analog,” he say; “your dress be always rich and

striking, but never showy; and the effect be produce by its consistency

as a whole.”



Kate involuntarily return his smile; tact and keen intelligence be

quality she highly appreciate.



“you be a close observer,” she say, “and shall be reward by learn

the interesting fact that I _do_ prefer bay horse to those of any other

colour.”



before the week be over, Mr. Crane have purchase a magnificent pair

of bay carriage-horse, and have take a lease of a noble mansion in Park

Lane. the only fault Kate could discover in either, be the conviction

force upon she that it be to the agency of Horace D’Almayne she be

indebted for they.









CHAPTER XXIII.--ADVICE GRATIS.



Harry could not give up shooting, Harry would not give up shooting, and

Harry do not give up shooting. on the contrary, he could, would, and

do shoot _every_ day, and all day long, except on Sundays, throughout

September and October; at least, there be so few exception that they

only prove the rule. Alice do not like it at all; at first she be

very miserable. one day Harry find she crying, and be considerably

surprised and greatly concerned at the unaccountable discovery, do

not rest until he have ascertain the cause, when he be particularly

shock, and blame himself so much, that he refrain from shoot

for two whole day, and really would have strive to reform his conduct,

only that, unfortunately, an invitation arrive to join a grand _battue_

at a certain Colonel Crossman’s. this, in his then frame of mind, he

would have refuse; but there be a Mrs. Crossman in the case, Alice

be include in the invitation, and they be beg to stay three or

four day; which, as the Popem Park preserve be the well stock

of any in the county, be an offer not lightly to be reject. thus,

unfortunately, they go--we say unfortunately, because Colonel Crossman

be, take as a whole, a jovial, hot-temper, selfish brute; and his

wife a quick-witte, worldly-minded, selfish fool. they do very well

together, because, as he usually live out of the house, and she in it,

and both do exactly as they like, when they like, their fault seldom

clash; if such a collision do take place, there be an awful tumult,

in which brutality have his way for the minute, and pay for it in minor

misery which folly indict upon he for the next fortnight. and yet

this amiable couple have a kind of theoretical and useless affection for

each other, which be engender partly by habit, and partly by a deep

and essentially vulgar reverence for appearance, which, together with

go to church once on Sunday, stand they in the stead of religion

and of morality. thus be they bad counsellor for our young married

couple. on the first morning of her visit, Alice be stand at the

drawing-room window, watch the figure of her husband and Colonel

Crossman stride through a turnip field about a quarter of a mile

distant, when Mrs. Crossman join she.



“ah! there they go,” she observe, in a vinegar-and-water voice; “we

shall see no more of they till seven o’clock, depend upon it.”



“do Colonel Crossman never return to luncheon?” inquire Alice

timidly, for she stand slightly in awe of the female soldier beside she.



“return to luncheon!” be the astonished reply, deliver in much such

a tone as might have be anticipate if Alice have inquire whether the

gallant colonel usually make his mid-day meal upon red-hot ploughshare;

“come home to luncheon! not he. he wouldn’t do such a thing to save my

life, I believe; certainly not if the scent be lie well. why, Mr.

Coverdale do not spoil you in that way to be sure, do he? the

colonel tell I he be a thorough sportsman.”



“so he be,” return Alice with a sigh, which escape she involuntarily.



“ah! no woman with a heart should ever marry a sportsman,” rejoin

Mrs. Crossman, with rather more vinegar and less water in her tone than

before. “out all day, from the first of September till the breeding

season come round again; then the moment they’ve finish dinner and

their bottle of port-wine, asleep they go, and only wake to stamp and

swear with the cramp, and drop off again, till they tumble upstairs to

bed, and be no comfort to anybody. you be a young wife yet, my dear,

and your husband’s hardly grow tired of you, perhaps, but wait another

month or two and you’ll see--man be all alike!”



there be just enough applicability to her own case in this tirade to

make Alice feel rather angry and thoroughly uncomfortable; but the

idea of compare Harry with Colonel Crossman be too bad, and anger

predominate as she reply, “Mr. Coverdale be not quite so selfish as

you imagine, my dear madam; certainly he leave I a good deal alone when

the shooting season first begin, but as soon as he be aware how dull

and lonely I feel, he give up shoot for, for--”



“half a day?” inquire Mrs. Crossman, sarcastically.



“he do not go out for two whole day; and since that he have generally

return to luncheon,” reply Alice, colour from vexation.



“wonderful!” exclaim Mrs. Crossman, with an affectation of extreme

surprise; “actually stay at home for two whole day, when he’s be

married as many month--what a model man! not that I believe Colonel

Crossman ever do so much as that even,” she continue, turn on the

vinegar. “I pick he up in India, you know--be actually weak enough

to fall in love with the creature! even go the length of refuse two

district judge and the resident at Bamboozel for his sake! and would

you believe it, we haven’t be marry above a week, when the man

be brute enough to go out hog-hunting, and leave I all by myself at

Boshbogie, on the border of the great Flurry-yun-ghal Jungle, with

nothing more conversable than tawney and tiger within thirty mile of

I; but, however, I be not long before I learn how to take care of

myself--and the soon you do the same, my dear, the well for your

happiness. man be easily enough manage if you do but set the right way

to work. if you choose to be always humble and meek to ’em, they’ll

let you lie down for they to wipe their boot on, but if you only show

they you’ve get a spirit of your own, and don’t care for ’em----



“but I don’t know that I have get what you call a spirit of my own,”

 interrupt Alice, smile at her companion’s vehemence, “and I

certainly do care about my husband.”



“ah, my dear, that’s all very well now; but wait a bit--wait till some

day when he want to go shoot, and you want he to do something else,

and then see of how much use your meekness and fondness will be to you.

he will think to himself, ‘oh! she will be just as well please a couple

of hour hence, as if I have lose my day’s sport for her silly nonsense.’

I know he will, man be all alike. no; soon or later you’ll find you

will have to pluck up a spirit, and treat your husband as he will treat

you. if he leave you by yourself all day, fill your house with company;

if he go out shoot and hunt with his friend, do you go out

riding or drive with your; if he have his season in the country, do

you have yours in London; opera and shopping be amusement you’ve just

as good a right to, as he have to go pop at the partridge and

pheasant; and if you care so much about keep he at home, hook some

young dandy (there will be plenty ready to nibble when such a bait as

your pretty face be hang out for they), and flirt with he steadily till

the desire effect be produce. that will bring your husband to his

sense, if anything will. I once settle the Colonel in three day by

go all respectable length with Adolphus Fitz-duckling. it lead to a

duel, though; but that be because both Duck and Crossman be army man,

and mix up with a fighting set. I take care never to go quite so far

again, except with a civilian; but then I haven’t get such a quiet,

demure manner as you have. a set of impudent young puppy in the Old

43rd use to call I ‘Flirting Fan.’ however, I can tell you I be able

to keep the Colonel in much well order, ‘flirt he down,’ as I use

to call it, than I’ve ever manage to do since I grow old--that be, less

young than I be at that time.” and so this good woman, or rather this

woman who, despite her fault, have some good in she, whereby she

vindicate her title to humanity, run on until Alice heartily wish she

back again amongst the tawney, or the tiger: we be afraid that at

that especial moment our little heroine would decidedly have prefer

the latter.



in the meantime, Harry and the Colonel be blaze away at the

long-tail most unmercifully: Harry, who be a crack shot, bring down

everything he point his gun at, while the Colonel, whose hand have

an awkward trick of shake, as if its proprietor be in the habit of

imbibe too much port-wine, miss much oftener than be agreeable to

he, on each of which several occasion he attribute his failure to,

and condemn in no measured term either the gun, or the bird, or

both. about two o’clock Harry pull out his watch, and glance at it

observed--“I don’t know what your arrangement may be, Colonel, but if

Mrs. Crossman be of as sociable a disposition as my little wife, she

will consider we great bear if we don’t return till dinner time.”



at this moment a splendid cock-pheasant rose, “whir” into the air at

some considerable distance from the sportsman, whereupon the Colonel,

consider it a difficult shot, call out, “your bird, Coverdale.”

 Harry, embarrass with his watch, which he still hold in his hand,

raise his gun, and catch his finger in the guard chain, pull the

trigger too soon, and miss with both barrel, while the Colonel,

see that the pheasant be now so far off that it could be no

discredit to miss it, pull at it, and by accident bring it down.



“Bravo! Colonel, that be the clever shot that have be make to-day by

long odd!” ejaculate Harry.



“ah! that’s a trifle to what I use to do when I be your age,” be the

slightly apocryphal reply; “nothing with feather or hair on it have

a chance, if I put my gun up at it, I can tell you. but what be you

say about go home? why I’m just get into shooting order;

you’re not knock up, to be sure, already.”



“no; nor six hour’ more hard walking would not do it,” return Harry,

laugh, as he mentally contrast his own power with those of the

Colonel, who, although he have carefully assign all the tough of

the work to his guest, be evidently begin “to want his corn,”

 as Coverdale metaphorically paraphrase the fact of his entertainer’s

require his luncheon. “I merely ask you whether Mrs. Crossman would

not disapprove of our remain out all day?”



“Mrs. Crossman may go and----hang herself in her own petticoat string!”

 be the uncourteous rejoinder. “ah! I see how it be,” continue the “old

soldier.”

“I see all about it: you’re a young hand yet, Coverdale, and I’m an old

one; take my advice. you’ve marry a nice gal, and a pretty gal--don’t

you go and spoil she; it’s the nature of woman to like to have their own

way; and one of their way--and a most aggravating and unaccountable one

it be--be always to have a fellow dangle about after they, and there

they’ll keep he drive ’em out, or ride with ’em, or dawdling

in shop, and pay their bill for ’em--they don’t forget that, mind

you--or read to ’em, or some such confound humbug. hang it, sir,

I’d soon be a galley-slave, or a black nigger at once! well, if you

begin by indulge a woman (they’re all alike in such point), she’ll

be your master ever after, and your life willn’t be worth a----” (as we

do not know the exact value of the coin to which the Colonel allude,

we abstain from a more particular mention of it). “no; if you’re to have

any peace or comfort in the married state, you must let your wife see

that you’re determined to show you’re the superior. the only way to do

it effectually be--come to heel, Countess, ah! would you then!” (and

whack, whack go the dog-whip against poor Countess’s sides)--“the only

way to break ’em in is--(whack)--to show ’em clearly whose will

be the strong, and whose must yield. I have trouble enough with Mrs.

Crossman, I can assure you. she be not an easy woman to break in, sir;

but she find she’d meet her match. if she scold, I storm; if she

rave, I swear; if she sulk, I whistle; if she cry, I light a cigar;

if she faint, I lay she on the hard board that I could pick out in

the floor, and smoke till she come round again. the only time she go

into hysteric I fling a pail of cold water over she--that cure she

at once and for ever. I dare say you think I an old brute, but the day

will come when you’ll recollect my advice, and be glad enough to act

upon it. woman be all alike, more or less.”



Harry _do_ think he an old brute, and thank his star that neither

in mind nor in person do Alice in the small degree resemble Mrs.

Crossman; he also think that he should never remember the Colonel’s

advice with any other feeling than disgust. ah! Harry--Harry!









CHAPTER XXIV.--A STORM BREWING.



“Harry! my dear Harry!--Wilkins, where _be_ your master? I _tell_

you I must speak to he before he go out, and now you’ve let he go

without----”



“wilkin! where the d------ oh! wilkin, what do you do with that bag

of snipe-shot I bring down from London?”



thus apostrophise by an agitated _soprano_ at the drawing-room door,

and an impatient _tenore robusto_ in the entrance-hall, Wilkins, the

amiable and timid London butler, who have play the character of Job’s

comforter to Alice’s _Didone abandonata_ on the memorable evening of

the first of September, make two or three step in the direction of the

drawing-room, then twist round with a sudden jerk, as though he have

be work by machinery with which somebody be play trick, rush

frantically into the hall, and hand his master a wrong bag of shot

exclaim, without any breath left--



“this--a--be they, sir; and my mistress--a--says----”



“swan-shot, you fool--that be, Wilkins, big enough to roll over a

bullock! it’s the snipe-shot I’m look for. no, not that. don’t you

know snipe-shot when you see it? when the scent’s get dull every

minute, too! I ought to have be out these two hour. that’s right, my

good fellow: don’t be a month about it--give it I. I shall be home to

dinner.”



“but my mistress particularly wish to speak----” falter poor

Wilkins. Harry, fling down with an angry gesture the shot-belt he have

just fill, and mutter that he have well give up go out at all,

stride off to the drawing-room, and put his head in through the

partially open door, as though he be afraid of be take prisoner

if he trust himself bodily in the apartment, exclaimed--



“how, then, little woman, what be it? quick, please, for I want to be

off.”



“there be an invitation just arrive from Allerton House for Tuesday

week. what be I to say?”



“oh, we must go, of course. I want you to get intimate with Lady

Allerton, she’s a charming woman, and Lord George be a good little

fellow in his way, though an awfully bad shot. Dinner, I suppose?”



“yes; but, Harry, wait one moment and listen to I!” exclaim Alice.

“you need not be in such a hurry; you will have plenty of time for that

horrid shoot before six o’clock.”



“horrid shooting, indeed! much you know about it,” mutter the

victimise sportsman, inwardly chafe at the delay; “it will be horrid

shoot in one sense, if I be hinder much long. the scent willn’t lie

when the dew be off, and I may as well go out with a walking-stick as

with a gun, for there will be nothing to shoot at.”



“well, I’ll let you go directly, you impatient, silly boy,” return

Alice, smile at the serious, business-like view her husband take of

his amusement. “the only thing I wish to say be, that if we accept this

invitation, we shall be almost certain to meet the Duke and Duchess of

Brentwood there; and you know I’ve be wait for you to go with I,

day after day, and I’ve never return their visit yet. you must take I

to call before Tuesday week; I’ve be quite rude already.”



“all right,” return Harry; “we’ll go in style, and call on the old

duchess. I’ll wear a red coat, and stick a peacock’s feather in my hat,

if that will please you. it’s a pity she’s so like a Chimpanzee! most

probably she be relate to the monkey tribe--suppose we ask she when we

call; it will be a new and original style of conversation, eh? well,

ta ta! it’s so late now that I’m afraid you willn’t have the felicity of

see I again till dinner-time;” and without allow his wife an

opportunity of remonstrate, Harry close the door, and be soon pay

off the long-bill in a way in which they scarcely approve of have

their “little account” settle. Alice watch he depart with a smile,

which fade into a sigh as she turn to write an acceptance to the

dinner invitation, and then employ and amuse herself as well she might,

during the weary hour which must elapse ere her husband would return.



Lord Allerton be the eld son of the Duke and Duchess of Brentwood,

who be the great people, _par excellence_, of the Coverdale Park

neighbourhood; and when the Duke and Duchess come to spend their

Christmas in the country, Alice, stimulate thereunto by the

conversation of the Mesdames Jones, Brown, and Robinson of those part,

feel slightly curious to know whether these ancient and venerable

limb of the aristocracy would deign to honour she by a call, and be

proportionably gratify and bored when, on a dreary morning, the dull

old Duchess come and pay she a singularly heavy and uninteresting

visit. to induce Harry to accompany she when she return this equally

flattering and alarming civility, have be for several day the sole

object of Alice’s existence,--an object in which, as the reader

may perceive by the forego conversation, she have hitherto be

unsuccessful.



the next morning Alice once again make an attempt to entice she well

half away from the pleasure of the plain; but the rabbit have begin

bark the young ash-tree in a favourite plantation, and be to be

“pull down” accordingly. this occupation last several day; at the

expiration of which period certain poacher, choose to join in the

amusement uninvite, have to be “pull up” for their iniquity--a

series of up and down which leave only two day vacant before the

important Tuesday dedicate to the dinner-party at Allerton would

arrive. the first of these day it rain cat and dog, and snow

fragment of polar bear so decidedly, that even Harry could not get out

till about half-past three, when, in desperation, he envelop himself

in a Macintosh, and gallop over to _the_ town, five mile off (as all

town be from all country house), to match some ribbon for Alice, and

look at the newspaper on his own account. the _County Press_ be

just out, and therein Harry perceive a lead article attack the

decision arrive at by himself and his brother magistrate in the

case of the “pull up” poacher. this be equally irritate and

interesting, he sit down in the reading-room of the library diligently

to peruse the same--phsa-ing, pish-ing, and “confound the fellow”

 at every second line. he have just get to a paragraph beginning,

“Mr. C--d--le may be well qualified to lead the way across a stiff line

of country after the hound, or roll over unoffending hare and rabbit

in a _battue_--but that be no proof that he possess an equal right

to ride rough-shod over the enactment of a British Parliament, or to

overturn the decree of abler lawyer than be to be find among the

bench of magistrate at H--------,” when a large hand be place over

his eye, and a loud, jovial voice exclaimed--



“never mind, Harry, my boy--little flipkin the editor’s get a wife with

the devil’s own temper, and she help he to write the leader; she take

a dislike to you when she be Miss Jamby, and keep the confectioner’s

shop, when you neglect she, and flirt with the girl behind the

counter, because she happen to be the prettiest, and now she’s pay

you off; you cann’t horsewhip a woman, you know, so you’d well take it

easy.”



before the speaker have arrive at the conclusion of his advice gratis,

Coverdale have remove the hand which impede his vision, and turn

round, exclaimed--



“why, it’s Tom Rattleworth, by all that’s extraordinary--I think you

be in Canada, with your regiment, man!”



“so I be till the gout carry off the governor, and leave I a

miserable orphan with £15,000 a-year in my pocket. when that lamentable

event occur I think I be, for the first time in my life, worth

take care of, so determined to cut the red cloth and pipe-clay

business, and come home and live virtuously ever after.”



“you seem to have recover your spirit pretty well, if one may judge

by present appearance,” return Coverdale, half-amuse, half-disgusted

at his quondam friend’s sentiments--“at all event you’ve not grow thin

upon it.”



“no! but that’s the very fact which prove how deeply I feel my forlorn

condition; it’s old Falstaff--be it not--observe how grief swell a

man? I don’t ride a pound under twelve stone,” be the rejoinder. “by

the way,” continue Rattleworth, “that remind I--it’s deucedly lucky

I meet you; you’re the very man that can tell I all about it--Broomfield

be anxious to give up the fox-hound; he be grow old and lazy, and he

want I to take ’em.”



“my dear fellow, I’m delighted to hear it,” exclaim Harry, eagerly;

“old Broomfield be completely past his work, and of all the man I know

you’re the fit to succeed he--you will do the thing as it ought

to be do. I should have undertake they myself, if I have not become a

Benedict: Broomfield try to persuade I.”



“well now look here,” resume Rattleworth, meditatively; “I’ve promise

to meet Broomfield to-morrow, and take his horse and everything at a

valuation. now there be not a man in the county whose opinion about a

horse I’d soon have than your; can you spare time to go with I? I

shall really consider it a personal favour if you will do so.”



“of course I will,” return Harry; for if he have a weak point on

which he be accessible to flattery, it be concern his knowledge of

horse-flesh; “there can be nothing I should like well, in fact--what

time do you go?”



“I be to lunch with he at one,” be the reply; “and we be to look at

his stud afterwards.”



“then I’ll meet you at the cross road by Hanger Wood, at half-past

twelve,” return Harry; and so, with a hearty shake of the hand, the

friend part.



Tom Rattleworth be the only son of a man who have begin life as a

land-agent and attorney in H----------; but have very early in his

career dabble in stock-jobbing till he make a considerable sum of

money, which his business connection enable he to lay out to great

advantage, he grow rich, purchase an estate, marry into one of the

county family, and bring his son up “as a gentleman”--that be, he

send he to Eton, where he learn nothing but how to get into and out

of scrape; and buy he a commission which he would have do well

without. nature having thus place a silver spoon in Tom’s mouth,

appear to consider his head sufficiently furnish without go to

any unusual expense in the article of brain; so she give he barely an

average quantity, and make up the deficiency by an actual passion for

horse-flesh. Thomas, thus endow, be the schoolfellow and holiday

associate of Harry Coverdale; and have one, and only one taste in

common, they have keep up their intimacy, until Harry start on his

grand tour, and Tom be send with his regiment to Canada, since which

period the interview we have just describe be their first meeting.



as Coverdale canter home through the mud, and rain, and sleet, it

suddenly flash across he that the next be the only day remain in

which to call on the Duke and Duchess of Brentwood before the dinner at

Allerton House; and his conscience smite he as he reflect that the

engagement he have form would prevent he from accompany Alice;

indeed, so annoyed do he feel at this unlucky coincidence, that for a

moment he be on the point of turn his horse’s head, and ride after

Tom Rattleworth to get off the engagement; but it be grow dusk, and

he reflect that Chase Hall, the residence of the renowned Thomas,

be so far out of his way that he should be unable to reach home by

dinner-time, and then Alice would get frightened about he, which would

annoy she more than be oblige to pay her visit alone; so with this

bit of sophistry he, for the moment, quiet his conscience. before he

arrive at his own house, he have mentally decide that, as it would only

worry his wife, he should say nothing about the Rattleworth engagement

to she that evening, and that in the morning he should mention it as an

equally unfortunate and unavoidable necessity, and persuade she to pay

the first visit without he. of course she would be a little

annoyed just at first, but she be so sweet-temper and amiable,

that--that--and here his reflection refuse to clothe themselves in

intelligible language;--had they do so honestly, the sentence would

have end thus--“that she would submit without make a scene.” and

so he canter home, where Alice, with her sunny smile and bright love

eye, be wait to receive he, and make a vast fuss with the poor

dear because he must be so wet, which, thank to Mr. Macintosh--his

admirable invention--he be not in the slight degree, though he

appreciate the affectionate fuss Alice make about he all the same.



Harry! you blind, stupid Harry!--as if her little finger, bless it, be

not worth all the horse-flesh that ever be foal, from Bucephalus,

down to the winner of the last Derby.



the next morning be a very fine one. Alice and Harry make their

appearance in the breakfast parlour about nine o’clock; each be a

little out of sort. Alice, not having be able to get any air or

exercise on the previous day, have wake with a headache, which Harry

continually forget, would leave the door of his dressing-room open,

and attire himself to the tune of “a hunting we will go.” then a new

morning gown, on which Miss Flippery, the dressmaker at H--------, have

stake her credit, do not fit, and in turn round to look at the

set of the back, Alice trod on the skirt, and tear it out of the

“gathers”--whatever they may be; and as woman seldom swear, and the evil

be scarcely serious enough to cry over, poor little Mrs. Coverdale be

unable to vent her annoyance, and bring it down to breakfast with she

accordingly. Harry, on the other hand, conscious that he be about

to commit an act of injustice, on which (although he repent of it

sufficiently to feel very uncomfortable) he be still determine, try

to keep up his courage by affect a degree of hilarity which cause

he to make bad joke about every subject mention, and to evince

such a total want of sympathy with his wife’s headache and consequent

depression of spirit, that Alice for the first time in her life

consider he tiresome and in the way, and feel inclined to say sharp

thing to he and snub he. after a longish pause, interrupt only

when, on two occasion, Harry be pull up for whistling, and a third

time for beat the devil’s tattoo on the chimney-piece, Alice

begin, “really Wilkins have take to burn the toast so black, it be

impossible to eat it. I wish you would speak to he about it, Harry.”



“certainly, my love,” be the cheerful reply; “what shall I say to he?

that although I approve of his black my boot, I disapprove of his

black my toast, and that I shall thank he to do it brown in future?”



“if you like to risk the chance, which be almost a certainty, that the

man will misunderstand you, for the sake of make a stupid slang pun, I

advise you to do so,” be the captious reply.



“Phew!” whistle Harry; “how solemn, and sensible, and serious we’ve

grow all of a sudden! I beg to inform you, Mrs. Coverdale that I expect

my wife to admire my pun, if nobody else do.”



“then you must contrive to make well one, and to time they rather

more appropriately,” rejoin Alice, so snappishly that her husband

look up in surprise. recall to herself by the unmistakeable

astonishment depict on the bright, good-natured countenance of she

well half, Alice continue in a milder tone, “you must not mind what I

say this morning, Harry, dear; my headache make I so dreadfully cross

and stupid.”



“poor little thing! you be shut up all yesterday, you know, and that

be enough to give anybody a headache,” return Harry, who consider

house be build only to dine and sleep in, and would have have Alice

spend her day _al fresco_, even as he delight to do. “you must go out

as much as possible to-day; luckily it be very fine.”



“yes; and I be to be honour with my husband’s company too, which be

a most unaccustomed pleasure,” rejoin Alice, brighten up at the

recollection. “it be certainly very good policy to make yourself so

scarce, though I wish you do not adhere quite so strictly to it; why

you have not drive out with I since we return from Popem Park! at

what time do you mean to order the carriage?”



“why it’s an hour’s drive at least; James have well be at the door by

two o’clock,” reply Harry. then turn towards the fire, and move

the ornament on the chimney-piece into wrong position, he continue,

with an elaborate attempt at _nonchalance_, which veil most

inefficiently his consciousness that he be about to perform an act

against which his moral sense rebel, he resume: “I’m afraid my love

that I must ask you to call upon the Duchess of Brentwood without I

this morning--a business engagement of--a--importance--that is, one that

I cannot avoid, will, I be afraid----”



and here he break off abruptly, for, glance at his wife, he perceive

an expression in her pretty face that he have never behold there before;

the bright eye be flash, the soft cheek burn, and the coral

lip pout with unmistakeable anger. Harry have at length go too far,

and his sweet-temper, love-hearte little wife be positively and

seriously angry with he. but so unusual a circumstance demand a fresh

chapter.









CHAPTER XXV.--THE STORM BURSTS.



Alice Coverdale, annoy and pain by what she consider she

husband’s injustice and unkindness, do not leave he long in doubt as

to her feeling upon the subject; for as soon as she could conquer a

choke sensation in the throat sufficiently to speak, she exclaimed:--



“really, Harry, I must say you be most unkind and inconsiderate; you

choose of your own accord to accept the invitation to Allerton House,

though I warn you at the time that it would necessitate your calling

on the Duke and Duchess first: you agree--in fact, you promise to do

so. there have not be a day since that I haven’t remind you of this

promise, so it be impossible you can have forget it;--there be a

time, and not so very long ago either, when you be ready enough to go

anywhere with I, and be only too glad to find I wish you to do so.

I little thought, poor foolish girl that I be, how soon thing would

alter; and now, when you know as well as I do that this be the last day

on which we can pay this visit, you’ve form some stupid engagement

(to go and shoot somewhere, I dare say; I wish gun have never be

invent--horrid dangerous thing--always go off unexpectedly and

kill people), and so make it impossible to return the Duchess’s call:

and tomorrow I shall be ashamed to look she in the face, or to speak to

she; though I dare say she willn’t give I a chance to do that, for she be

as proud as Lu------ as a woman can be.”



here, from sheer want of breath, Alice be force to pause, Harry

quietly remark: “woman can be as proud as man for that matter, _ecce

signum_, but now just listen to a little common sense for a minute. I

fully intend and wish to accompany you, but I happen yesterday, at

H--------, to meet with a very old friend of mine, who inform I that

he be go this morning to transact certain business matter which

would involve the expenditure of a considerable sum of money, in regard

to which affair he particularly require my advice and opinion.”



“he must be go to buy a gun or a horse then,” interrupt Alice;

“those be the only thing people imagine you understand; and I don’t

wonder at they either, when they see you waste half your life about this

horrid sporting. if you give up all intellectual pursuit in this way,

you’ll go on till you become fit for nothing but to hunt, shoot, eat,

drink, and sleep, like that dreadful old creature, Colonel Crossman.”



thoroughly provoke by this last speech (which touch on a sensitive

point in Harry’s disposition, and arouse a latent fear, by which he be

always more or less oppress, lest people should consider he, from his

fondness for field sport, a mere addlepate, fox-hunt squire), he

reply, with more asperity in his tone than he have ever before use, or

believe it possible he could use, towards Alice, “take care you don’t

become a peevish shrew, like Mrs. Crossman. you be angry, and forget

yourself; when you grow calm again, you will perceive how foolish

and unreasonable you have be to lose your temper about such a silly

trifle.”



“you think be rude to your friend and unkind to your wife a silly

trifle, do you?” inquire Alice.



Harry’s colour rise as he take a turn up and down the room to compose

his feeling ere he would trust himself to reply. “you want to make I

angry,” he say, “but I do not intend to afford you that satisfaction.

listen to I,” he continue, see that his wife be again about to

interrupt he, “listen to I, and when you have hear what I be about

to say, you can reply as you please. I make this engagement to oblige

my friend, without at the moment recollect that to-day be the time

appoint for call on the Duchess; but when I reflect that one be

business of importance, and the other a mere visit of ceremony, I

hope and believe you would be reasonable enough, when I should

have explain the matter to you, not even to wish I to give up my

engagement, and would exercise sufficient common sense and self-control,

to go and pay the visit alone.”



“then you think wrongly,” return Alice, with vehemence; “if you

require a wife who could go about by herself and visit a set of proud,

stiff people, who be stranger to she, and keep up your position in

the county, while you be out hunt and shoot all day, for your own

selfish amusement, you should have choose some fashionable woman of the

world, and not a poor simple country girl like myself, who rely on

your affection to protect and encourage she;” and here Alice show

strong symptom of a disposition to bring that “young wife’s last

resource” of a flood of tear to bear upon her disobedient and

refractory spouse.



Harry, see this, and having be throughout the interview haunt by

a latent consciousness that he be in the wrong, be strongly tempt to

yield, and, dispatch a messenger to Tom Rattleworth furnish

with some good and sufficient social white lie to account for his

non-appearance, to stay quietly at home till the time should have

arrive to accompany his wife to visit their aristocratic neighbour;

but, unhappily, Colonel Crossman’s caution, “you’ve marry a nice gal

and a pretty gal, take care you don’t go and spoil she,” flash across

he: “woman be all alike, more or less; it’s the nature of ’em to

choose to have their own way; if you indulge ’em at first, they will

be your master ever after; show your wife she have meet her match,” &c.

&c.--these, and such like precept, ring in Harry’s ear. Alice be

angry and unreasonable, strive for the upper hand, in fact; he must

not permit this: for her sake, as much as for his own, he be call

upon to assert himself, and vindicate his marital authority. yes,

painful as it be to his feeling to speak or act harshly to his young

wife, whom, even at that moment, he care for more than any other

create be, he would give she a lesson which should cure the evil at

once and for ever. so put on a very grave look he begin: “my dear

Alice, you be forget yourself, forget our relative position;

but there be a quiet way of settle such affair; verbose discussion

of this nature do not suit I--I be essentially a man of action. it be

the husband’s right to command, the wife’s duty to obey. I have hope

your own proper feeling would have save I the pain of be force

to remind you of this. I must now add, that I consider myself bind

to fulfil my engagement to my friend, and intend to do so: during my

absence, it be my wish and desire that you should drive and call on the

Duchess of Brentwood; if, which I can scarcely conceive possible, you

still refuse to do as I have point out, I shall, before I leave this

room, write a note to Lady Allerton, inform she that we be unable to

dine with she to-morrow, without assign any cause whatsoever for this

change of intention--which, as I cannot give the true reason, and will

not stoop to invent a false one, be the only course leave open to I.”



having deliver himself calmly and firmly of this despotic speech,

Harry fold his arm across his broad chest, and lean his autocratic

back against the chimney-piece, stand look as if he feel himself

completely “monarch of all he survey,” his wife include. meanwhile a

fearful struggle between good and evil be proceed in Alice’s mind;

a kind word or look would instantly have cause the good to triumph: but

her husband stand cold and inexorable as a statue of Fate. then the

same personage who tempt Eve to the sin which lose she Eden, suddenly

cause to flash across Alice’s recollection all Mrs. Crossman’s

argument, and she determine to follow her advice, to “pluck up a

spirit, and treat her husband as he treat she,” &c. Accordingly, by

a great effort restrain her tear, which during Harry’s harangue have

begin to flow, she look up with flash eye and crimson cheek, as

she reply:



“the obedience you require be not that of a wife but of a slave, and

I refuse to yield it. you have treat I unkindly and unjustly, and I

will not sacrifice myself to oblige you.” Harry make no reply, though

his lip move convulsively, as though he could scarcely command himself

to keep silence; then snatch pen and ink, he scrawl a hasty note,

seal and direct it, and rise, quit the room without utter

a single word. as the door close behind he, the tear which Alice have

hitherto with such difficulty repressed, burst forth unrestrained. she

be rouse from a paroxysm of weeping by the sound of horse’ foot, and

spring to the window, reach it in time to see Harry give a note to

a groom, who ride away at speed in the direction of Allerton House; then

mount his own horse, he also gallop off, ere Alice could muster

sufficient presence of mind to attempt to recall he.









CHAPTER XXVI.--THE ATMOSPHERE remain cloudy.



fall out with the wife of one’s bosom be a process that bear

a marked affinity to two other domestic operation which, from time

immemorial, have lapse into well-merit disrepute--viz., quarrel

with one’s bread and butter, and cut off one’s nose to spite

one’s face; the same moral but uncomfortable necessity of inherent

self-chastisement be common to all three. thus Harry Coverdale,

having vindicate his marital dignity, and gallop off the irritation

consequent upon so act, heartily wish the deed undo, and Alice

and himself friend again; for, little as he appear to prize it, she

affection have become necessary to he, and he could no more do without

it, than he could have dispense with sunshine in summer, or fire at

Christmas. accordingly it be in no very amiable frame of mind that

he join his fox-hunt ally; and it require all the allurement of

oyster, porter, devil bone, and unimpeachable port wine, to

enable he to “cast dull care away,” sufficiently to take a proper and

sportsman-like interest in all the minutiæ of the propose transfer

of stock, canine and equestrian. once fairly in for it, however, his

stable-minded propensity assert themselves, and he spend a deeply

interesting afternoon in feel back-sinew, detect incipient curb

and spavin, condemn an incurable sand-crack, and otherwise test

and pronounce judgment upon the quadrupedal inmate of Squire

Broomfield’s hunting stable. as the wane light herald the approach

of dinner-time (that important epoch in the day with all country

gentleman, and with most London one also), and the last horse have be

trot out and trot in again, and its petticoat (which groom call

‘body-clothing’) replace, Harry’s thought fall back into their former

gloomy train. anxious, therefore, to learn how Alice be progress

under the weight of his high displeasure, he be about to take leave,

when Tom Rattleworth draw he aside, observe in a confidential

whisper,--



“I say, Coverdale, old Broomfield be go to ask you to stay and

dine--I know he be, he look so pleased with himself. for mercy’s sake

don’t refuse, or else I shall have to endure a _tête-à-tête_ with

the old boy, and that will use I up all together--horse, foot, and

artillery; for, besides be bore to extinction, he will do I out of

every advantage you have obtain for I to-day. he’s an awful screw,

and I’m good for nothing at a bargain after the first bottle; so if you

leave I to his tender mercy, I’m safe to be butcher like a lamb,

and serve up in my own _mint sauce_ before we quit the mahogany.”



“I’m afraid I _must_ decline,” be the reply, “for my wife have be at

home by herself all day, and it be not fair to expect she to spend

the evening in solitude also. but you need not be victimise on that

account; come home and dine with we. you’ve never meet my wife; she

be in the school-room and a pinafore when you go abroad with your

regiment. say yes, and then you can tell old Broomfield that you be

engaged to I.”



“so be it then,” be the rejoinder, and thus be Mr. Broomfield cheat

of his guest, and Harry enable to avoid a _tête-à-tête_ dinner, and

possibly a scene, with his outraged spouse. in the meantime, Alice have

be endure all the mental torment consequent upon having be angry

with the person one love good in the world. first, the idea that she

have be most cruelly use, and extensively sin against, and put

upon, be the only one which present itself to her mind in anything

like a clear and definite shape; and she bewail her evil fortune in

a very thunderstorm of weeping. have by this mean condense, and

dispose of, a vast amount of superfluous steam, she grow calm and

more reasonable, when the uncomfortable possibility gradually dawn

upon she, that she also might have be to blame--that she have first

irritated, and then defy Harry, and utterly and completely fail in

her duty as a wife; and so penitent do she become on the strength of

this conviction, that if her husband have return at that moment, she

would have throw herself at his foot and humbly implore his pardon,

which act of unqualified submission must have disarm Harry so entirely

and totally, that he would instantly have forgive she, and frankly

confess himself to blame, and Alice would never again have experience

the effect of his “quiet manner.” but, unfortunately, Harry be at

that moment differently occupy, in impress upon Tom Rattleworth

the important fact, that Lucifer would be all the well for have a

red-hot iron pass lightly over his off fetlock at the first convenient

opportunity, and thus Alice’s extreme penitence evaporate as her anger

have do. the final conclusion at which she arrive be, that she

would confess her fault to Harry on his return, and then try calmly and

quietly to convince he of his injustice. if she should succeed in this,

of which she do not feel by any mean certain, they would exchange

forgiveness; and, warn by that which have occur, take heed to their

way, and live in harmony and affection ever after. all these

sentiment Alice propose to deliver when she and her husband should be

_tête-à-tête_ after dinner, at which time she have observe Harry to be

usually in an amiable and convincible frame of mind. it may easily be

imagine, therefore, that when she hear Tom Rattleworth declare

with much enthusiasm, and in a voice raise to the pitch in which its

possessor have be willnot to direct the gallant fraction of the british

army lately under his command to “Should--der ar-r-ums,” that he be

open to “be bless,” on the spot, if “the jolly old place do not look

stunning,” she be by no mean incline to afford he the benediction he

have invoke, and heartily wish he at the bottom of the Red Sea, which

we take to be the low geographical limit to which a lady’s anathema

can be permit to descend. she have not time to do more than condemn

her unknown visitor to the oceanic penal settlement aforesaid, ere a

sound as of a jib man impel forward by some powerful agency in

the rear, together with the follow expostulation, meet her ear:--“My

dear fellow, I’m not fit to be introduce; I’m all over mud, I be upon

my life!”



in another moment the drawing-room door fly open, and her husband and

a tall, large, bushy-whisker, bluff, young man, who look as if he

could only have be bring in door by way of a trick, like a pony, or

a wheelbarrow, stand before she.



“Alice, this be Tom Rattleworth, an old schoolfellow of mine, who be

very anxious to form your acquaintance, and have kindly consent to dine

with we,” observe Harry.



“Hey!--haw!” begin Tom Rattleworth, utter sound like a bashful ogre

in his intense consciousness of his muddy disqualification for female

society; “haw!--hey! the kindness all--haw!--the other way. I

hope--Mrs. Coverdale--my dear fellow--will excuse--I tell you I ben’t

fit to be see; but you seem to be--the road be--impetuous as ever--so

very muddy.” having deliver himself of this slightly incoherent

address, the embryo M.F.H. “make his reverence” to Alice, and then

perform the military evolution express in the mysterious term,

“to the right about! wheel!” he lay violent hand upon his host, and

force he out of the room as energetically as he have be himself

propel into it.



the dinner soon make its appearance, and be a “real blessing” to

all party, for it provide they something wherewith to occupy their

mouth, and thus obviate the painful necessity of manufacture

small-talk--a toil compare with which the labour of Hercules appear

child’s play, and the up-hill work of Sisyphus a mere game at ball.



the first sharp edge of his appetite take off, Tom Rattleworth begin to

converse fluently upon the only topic which never fail he, and which

invariably form the staple ingredient in his discourse, and, indeed,

in his thought generally--viz., himself and his own saying and doing.



Alice, bored and unhappy, utter monosyllabic reply, when she

perceive that she be expect to do so; and remain silent and

_distraite_ when such exertion be not require of she.



Harry, partly grieve at perceive the accustomed sunshine in his

wife’s pretty face overcast, partly irritated at what he imagine to be

the sulkiness of her manner; annoy at his friend’s egotistic chatter,

which he feel be disgusting Alice, and which he could not contrive

to check (see that the obtuseness of Tom Rattleworth’s faculty

render he totally impervious to a hint); and generally provoke by

the change from his usual state of careless, light-hearte happiness

to his present uncomfortable frame of mind--a change which he

rightly enough attribute in a great measure to his own hastiness and

mismanagement, almost lose his temper. this he display by rate the

lad who assist Wilkins, until he reduce that unhappy juvenile to

such a pitch of nervousness and general mental debility, that, having

inveigle his mistress into sugar instead of pepper a broiled

turkey’s leg, and replenish the Champagne glass from a bottle of

bitter ale, he be send out of the room in disgrace. but in this mortal

life (which would be quite unendurable if such be not the case)

all thing soon or later come to an end--and dull dinner be no

exception to the rule--thus, after the dessert have be place on the

table, Alice, having finish her half-glass of sherry and nibble a

fragment of some little vegetable absurdity preserve in candied sugar,

and look like a geological speciman rather than a sweetmeat, reckon

she have sufficiently fulfil her duty as hostess, and be watch for

an opportunity to escape and go and be wretche comfortably by herself,

when Tom Rattleworth, address she especially, began:--



 “’pon my word,

my dear Mrs. Coverdale, when I see you and my friend Harry here so happy

together.” (Harry seize a pear and begin denude it of its rind with a

kind of ferocious eagerness, suggestive to any one acquaint with the

_dessous des carte_ of his willingness to perform a similar operation

upon his _mal à-propos_ guest), “I declare it make a fellow feel quite

down in the mouth when he think of go home to enjoy his own single

blessedness, as they call it--though single t’other thing would be more

like the truth, I fancy--but then it ben’t everybody that’s as lucky as

Harry and you--not suit to each other so charmingly, you understand.”

 (Alice, avoid her husband’s eye, bend over her sweetmeat as though

she be anxious to count the number of spangle of candy sugar

it take to cover a square inch thereof.) “now there be a man in our

regiment--curious coincidence, _his_ name be Harry, too--but those

thing do happen so curiously--Harry Flusterton his name be--well,

ma’am, when we be quarter up at Montreal, there be a family there

to whom Harry and I take out introduction, and as we find ourselves

decidedly hard up for amusement, we use to visit there pretty much.

there be two or three daughter in the family, but the eld be

the one that take my fancy most, and Harry Flusterton be of the same

opinion. accordingly we both lay siege to she, but Harry soon begin

to shoot ahead, and I, find that it be no go, quietly take up with

number two, who, although she haven’t her sister’s point, figure, or

action, be by no mean a girl to be despise, especially in a

dull place like that; well, my dear fellow--haw!--my dear ma’am, I

mean--’pon my word, I’m not fit for lady’ society--but the long and

short of it be, Harry be marry--everybody think he be the lucky

dog breathing--I’m sure I do for one, and say as much to Eliza--that

be the young one, you understand, that I be oblige to put up with.

when I make that remark to she, she look at I queer like, and say

she, ‘I hope your friend be a very sweet temper, Mr. Rattleworth?’ ‘of

course he be,’ return I, for he be, up to the day he marry, as easy

temper a fellow as you’d wish to meet with. would you believe it, Mrs.

Coverdale, this charming creature that we have both fall so desperately

in love with (not but that I like Eliza just as well when I once get

use to she) turn, out a regular vixen--a perfect virago, ma’am; why

Harry himself tell I that they haven’t much more than get over the

honeymoon, when the first time he want she to do something she don’t

like, some nonsense about visit, or some such stuff, the way she

flare up be a caution to single men----”



“my dear Rattleworth, I’m sorry to interrupt you,” exclaim Coverdale,

who could bear it no long, “but I’m afraid my wife be a little

overcome by the heat of the room--those servant will make such

ridiculously large fire. my dear Alice, if you prefer the drawing-room,

I’m sure Rattleworth will excuse you; this place be like the black-hole

in Calcutta.” and while Rattleworth, talk all the time, spring to

open the door, Harry cover his wife’s retreat by institute a furious

onslaught upon the unoffending fire. it be well he come to the rescue

when he do, for in another minute Alice would have be in hysteric.

to get rid of his dear friend as soon as possible be Harry’s next

anxiety, but this be no such easy matter. Thomas Rattleworth,

Esq., M.F.H., be at that happy moment the victim of two strenuous

necessity--one to listen to the sound of his own voice, express

not so much his idea as his paucity thereof; and the other to imbibe

a bottle of port wine, in twelve dose of a wine-glass each; and

these necessity have the unfortunate property of re-act upon and

increase each other; for talk make he thirsty, and drinking

make he talkative, so that it be eleven o’clock before he have talk

himself out, by which time the terminus of a second bottle of port have

be arrive at. with a feeling of relief such as Sinbad the Sailor

might have experience when he feel the leg of the Old Man of the Sea

gradually relax their clasp around his wearied shoulder, do Harry

assist his friend to light a cigar, then watch its fiery tip gradually

disappear in the darkness, as Rattleworth’s cover hack canter off with

its master’s six foot one of good-natured goose-flesh.



leave to his own meditation, Harry start a cigar on his own account,

and, the night be a fine one, he pace up and down the gravel walk in

front of the house until he should have clear his brain from the fume

of the wine civility have force he to swallow. the calm star come out

one by one, and as he watch their bright effulgence, an idea of

his childhood, that they might be the eye of angel, recur to

his memory; and he could even fancy they appear to gaze upon he

reproachfully. no human be possess even the low order of

reflective power, or the faint vestige of imagination, can watch the

tranquil splendour of a starlight night--a scene which at once proclaim

God’s omnipotence, and appear a work fit to the majesty of the Great

being who create it for his own glory--without becoming imbue with the

idea of rest and peace, and desirous of realise these blessing in his

own life. “with God and infinity so near we, how we loathe the trifle

of existence! and, above all, how we despise and contemn the littleness

of our fallen nature! how we repent with bitter tear of shame and

contrition the evil they have work in ourselves, and through we

to other! and how, at such a moment, do the quality we inherit from

heaven--truth, and love, and mercy--expand within we, and fill our

soul, and raise we, for the time, above ourselves, and near to the

high estate from which we have fall--alas I that it should be only for

the time! Coverdale be not insensible to these elevate influence;

his love for Alice return in all its original strength and purity,

and he determine, before he sleep that night, to bring about a

reconciliation, even if his wife should refuse to confess that she have

act wrongly. yes! he would actually go the length of own that he

have be to blame and be sorry for it, and then Alice would forgive

he, and all would be as though this foolish disagreement have never

occur.



false reasoning, Harry! there be two thing a woman, however thoroughly

she may forgive they, never forget--neglect and unkindness; and when

once these have cast their shadow across the bright eager gladness with

which she yield up her whole soul as a thank-offering to he she love,

man, with his strong, sterner nature, can no more bring back the

delicacy and freshness of that young affection, than he can restore to

the peach the bloom which his careless finger have profane--the

love may still exist in its full reality, but the bright halo of early

romance which surround it have be dispel, never to return.









CHAPTER XXVII.--THE PLEASURES of keep up the game.



having look at the star, and profit by their quiet teaching, Harry

go in a sadder and a wise man, resolve, ere he sleep that night, to

confess his fault, and, if it might be so, obtain Alice’s forgiveness.

but Alice, tired and unhappy, have go to bed, and cry herself to

sleep like a weary child; and when Harry enter her room, he find she

lie with her head pillow on her arm, and the tear-drop scarcely

dry upon her long silken eyelash, as soundly asleep as though

care, and sin, and sorrow, be evil of which her philosophy have never

dream--so Coverdale could only invoke a silent blessing upon she, and

hasten to follow her example by go to bed and to sleep himself. thus

an opportunity be lose of regain the “high estate” in his wife’s

affection, from which he have fall by reason of his inconsiderate

selfishness, and hasty and impetuous temper; and it be a fact equally

true and try, that an opportunity once lose never return, even an

advertisement in the _Times_ would fail to regain it.



one of the strange and least comprehensive of psychological phenomenon

be the total change produce in our thought, feeling, opinion, hope,

fear, sympathy, antipathy, and all the other component part which

make up that wonderful spiritual steam-engine, the mind of man, by a

good night’s sleep. we go to bed desperately in love with some charming

girl we have flirt with half the evening, despise her cruel old male

parent, who _would_ come and disturb our _tête-à-tête_, and take she

away at least an hour soon than anybody not utterly callous to all the

fine feeling of human nature would have dream of do; and have

with unchristian malignity her tall cousin in the Blues, who, having

know she from her cradle upwards, dare to call her “Gussie” to our

very face--we sleep soundly, our mind lie fallow for some six hour,

and lo! a change have come o’er we; our goddess have step down from

her pedestal, and appear a very average speciman of white musline

femininity and flirtation, whom her father have improve into quite an

amiable model _paterfamilia_, at whose patient benignity in remain,

to please his daughter, at an evening party till half-past three a.m.

we actually marvel; and as to that fine young fellow her cousin, we be

really shock when we recall our unchristian feeling towards he, and,

as some slight compensation, mentally book he for an invite to that

dinner at Blackwall which we propose bestow upon a dozen of our very

particular friend, in the unlikely event of our exchequer hold out

till the white-bait season. thus, by the next morning, Coverdale have

sleep off the sharp edge of his penitence, and when Alice begin by

a great effort to refer to the event of the previous day, with the

intention of confess herself in the wrong, and ask forgiveness,

Harry, dread a scene with a degree of horror equally masculine and

English, check the flow of her eloquence by exclaim abruptly and

cheerfully, “yes, dear, certainly--but don’t say another word about it;

we be both very silly, and make each other very miserable, when we

might be as happy as the day be long; let bygone be bygone, we will

forgive and forget, and be wise for the future, eh?” as he speak, he

draw she to he, and seal his forgiveness on her lip with a kiss,

render all discussion impossible by leave the room.



this speech (kiss include) ought to have satisfy any reasonable wife,

but unfortunately at that moment Alice be not exactly in a reasonable

frame of mind; she have dwell so long on one idea, in accordance with

which she have arrange the whole programme of a dramatic reconciliation

scene, that she by no mean approve of Harry’s short cut to concord,

render null and void all her explanation of how, and why, and

wherefore she have come to behave ill, together with a spirited sketch in

monologue of her contrition for the past and vow of amendment for the

future; the whole to conclude with certain annotation and reflection,

which she trust would so affect her husband’s feeling, and convince

his understanding, that he would for the future restrict shoot to two

short morning a-week, and cast hunting “to the dog” entirely, and now

all the mysterious pleasure the gentle sex derive from talk a thing

_well_ over, be deny she.



ah! that “talk over,” what a wonderful female attribute it be! how

vast and important a part of “woman’s mission” do it constitute!

in fact, we have meet innumerable woman--the majority of our female

acquaintance, we should say--whose whole and entire mission appear to

consist of a “call” to “talk over,” first, their neighbour’ affair (a

duty to their neighbour in which they never fail), secondly, their own.

the french aphorism (seldom act upon, by its voluble originator),

_Cela va sans dire_, must seem unspeakably absurd to these advocate for

an indefinite extension of the “freedom of debate;” while the “silent

system” must appear a more “capital punishment” than death itself,

always suppose the excellence of a punishment to be test by its

severity: but we be slightly digress.



if anything be need to prove the absurdity of human

being--creature with immortal soul, place in this world to prepare

for eternity--darken the sunshine of each other’s life by bicker

about trifle, that evidence would be afford when we observe the

manner in which such mental _nebulæ_ vanish before the presence of

any of the stern reality of existence. thus when, breakfast be

conclude, Harry be call mysteriously out of the apartment to learn

that a mount groom have just arrive from Hazlehurst Grange, with the

intelligence that old Mr. Hazlehurst have be seize with a fit, from

which, when the servant come away, he be not expect to recover,

Coverdale’s only thought be how most tenderly and judiciously to break

the sad news to Alice. having execute his painful task with a degree

of tact and delicacy of feeling for which those who know only the rough

side of his character would scarcely have give he credit, and soothe,

to the good of his ability, the burst of grief with which Alice receive

the intelligence, Harry continue, “and now, love, the moment you be

able to start, the phaeton will be ready; it be light than the close

carriage, and in an emergency like the present, every minute become of

consequence.”



“and you?” inquire Alice, glance at he timidly through her tear.



“I of course will drive you myself; you do not suppose I should let you

go alone.”



Alice could not reply, but as she press her husband’s hand

caressingly, the old love look come back into her eye, and Harry feel

that he be forgive. on reach the Grange the report of the sick

man be more favourable than Alice have dare to hope. an apoplectic fit

constitute one of the few exceptional case in which prompt medical

assistance do not necessarily increase the evil, and the Esculapius

of the neighbourhood have this time successfully interpose between death

and his victim; while Mr. Hazlehurst have receive a lesson sufficiently

severe to prevent he from object to the substitution of toast and

water and “bland” pudding for Port wine, bottle in the year 1830, and

the roast beef of Old England. Coverdale having remain at the Grange

for three day, during which time he have shake hand with, and lament

over Arthur (who, summon at the commencement of his father’s illness,

appear look so pale and thin, that it be decide _nem. con._ that

he be work himself to death--a view of the case which he rather

than otherwise encourage by the faintness of his denial), be force

to return to the Park to attend the next meeting of magistrate, and

finally to dispose of the offend poacher. accordingly, having

arrange with Alice to send the close carriage for she on the day but

one follow, he take leave of the Hazlehurst family, and drive to

H--------. here, after a long examination, the aforesaid poacher be

convict, and sentence, one to nine month’, another to a year’s

imprisonment--Markum’s evidence be so clear and convincing, that such

an issue become inevitable. as the gamekeeper leave the court, a tall,

gipsy-look fellow come up to he, and mutter in his car, “you’ll

live to repent this day’s work, Master Keeper; look to yourself one of

these dark night.”



“look to _yourself_ if I catch you on our ground,” be Markum’s

contemptuous rejoinder; “there’s enough oakum to pick in H-------- gaol

for Tom and you too.”



“who be that fellow,” inquire Coverdale, as the man, perceive that

the keeper’s reply be begin to attract attention, turn away with

a scowl.



“that be Jack Hargrave, Mr. Coverdale, sir,” return Markum; “brother

along o’ Tom, as we’ve give twelve month to; and sarve ’Im right, a

poachin’, thievin’ wagrant.”



“be this fellow a poacher also?” ask Harry.



“that be he then,” be the reply; “a reg’lur breed un, and as deep a hand

as ever set a snare, only he’s so ‘wide o’,’ that it’s not so easy

to nab the warmint; but I’ll be down upon ’Im yet, for all his

threatening. he’s bin hear to swear he’ll put a charge o’ shot under

my veskit some o’ these night; he’d well not, though, or he may find

there’s two can play at that game.”



“no violence, my good fellow, no violence; it’s not a light thing to

shed the blood of a fellow-creature--besides, there’s a quiet way of

manage these affair. I shall warn the police to keep an eye on that

man Hargrave; he look dangerous; and you may as well put on another

watcher, it willn’t do to be shorthande just now.” so say, Coverdale

turn away, and be soon deep in conversation with the inspector of

the mount rural police; after which, refuse to make one of a jovial

party who be about to dine with Tom Rattleworth, and be tolerably

certain to remain playing whist, and imbibe strong liquor till the

small hour should be again upon the increase, he drive home to his

solitary mansion.



it be the first time since his marriage that Coverdale have dine by

himself, and he feel proportionably lonely; everything tend to remind

he of Alice--her favourite dog, a little black-and-tan spaniel, with

large love eye, not unlike her own, leap on his knee after dinner,

and gaze wistfully at the empty chair opposite, utter a low whine,

as though it would inquire, “where’s my mistress?” the footstool,

whereon her dainty little foot be willnot to repose--the screen with

which she be accustom to shade her fair cheek from the too ardent

advance of the fire--each object, animate or inanimate, recall his

thought to Alice; and feel, even more strongly than he have ever

yet feel, how deeply and tenderly he love she, he for the first time

perceive that love in its true light, and, in acknowledge its full

reality, become conscious of the duty and responsibility such an

affection entail upon he. faintly and dimly at first the light break

in upon he; deeply do he feel the difficulty of the task, and his

own inability to perform it; and bitterly, most bitterly, do he regret

his own selfish carelessness, which have, as he be fain to confess,

tend already to estrange his young wife’s affection, and to convert

a gentle, yield girl, into a wilful and exact woman. and thus he

sit, ponder over and regret the past, and form wise and good

resolution for the future, while minute glide by unobserved grow

into hour, until the sudden restlessness of the little dog, which have

be sleep quietly upon his knee, rouse he, and look at his

watch, he perceive it be nearly midnight. as he do so the dog, whose

restlessness appear to increase, utter a short bark, while at the

same moment a distant sound be faintly audible, which Harry’s practise

ear instantly recognise as the report of a gun. to spring to the

window, open the shutter, and fle up the sash, be the work of

an instant; a like space of time suffice to resolve doubt into

certainty,--guns be be discharge in a favourite plantation about

half a mile from the house--a plantation in which the pheasant be as

well feed and tame as barn-door fowl; it be evident the poacher be

take their revenge, and that these sacred bird, the Lares and Penates

of Harry’s sporting mythology, be be ruthlessly slaughter on

their roost. Harry ring the bell furiously; then, before the alarm

Wilkins (who, having commence his career in the service of an

apoplectic alderman, labour under a chronic impression that somebody

be in a fit) have pass beyond the door of the servant’ hall, he

rush impetuously out of the dining-room, and meet that bewilder

domestic in full career, nearly frighten he into an attack of the

malady he so much dread for other, by exclaim, “here, quick! tell

Saunders, or some of they, to saddle the shooting cob, and bring he

round instantly; then find I a hat and pea-jacket. quick, I say!”



as the butler vanish on his mission, Coverdale take down from a peg in

the hall, a special constable’s staff which have be intrust to he on

behalf of her gracious Majesty, at a time when an extra dose of politic

and strong beer have prove too potent for the dense agricultural pate

of certain free and independent (_alias_ bribe and tipsy) elector of

the neighbouring county town. it be a stout piece of ash, about a foot

and a half long, thick than an ordinary broom-stick, and weight with

lead, for the benefit of any unusually opaque skull into which it might

be deem advisable to knock a respect for our glorious constitution.

Harry feel its weight, and, as he pass his wrist through the leather

thong attach to it, he think to himself they would be bold man who

could prevent he, with that in his hand, from go where he please.

the instant the cob appear he spring into the saddle. “do you and

Marshal get a couple of stout stick, and make the good of your way to

the ash plantation!” he exclaim hastily; “there be poacher out, and

from their venturing to come so near the house, I should fancy there

must be a strong gang of they, and Markum may want all the help we can

give he.”



so say, Coverdale gather up the rein, and without wait the

groom’s reply, ride off at a brisk canter. as he approach the wood, he

draw in and pause, uncertain whether Markum might yet have reach the

scene of action: as he listen, the sound of man crash through the

dry underwood become distinctly audible; then shout and a clamour of

angry voice, and finally, the unmistakeable noise of a conflict meet his

ear. pause no long, he put his horse into a gallop, and dash

on till he reach a hand-gate lead into the wood. this, to his

annoyance, he find lock; true, he have a master-key, which he have

fortunately bring with he, but he be force to dismount in order

to unfasten the padlock. while thus engage, the sound prove that the

affray be still rage fiercely, and, as he fling the gate open, a gun

be discharge, follow almost instantaneously by the report of

two other. fear mischief might occur before he could reach the

combatant, Coverdale remount hastily, and heedless alike of

obstacle and darkness, gallop down one of the grass ride through the

plantation, avoid collision with the trunk and branch of tree

by, as it appear, a succession of miracle. before, however, he

could arrive at the scene of action, the sound of blow, the shout

and imprecation, have cease, and nothing but a confused hum of voice,

together with a low moaning, as of some person ill or in pain, meet his

ear. force his horse through the tangled underwood, Coverdale come

suddenly upon a group of man, amongst whom he recognise several of his

own farm labourer, while two under-keeper be kneel beside the

prostrate figure of a man who, from the stiff, unnatural attitude in

which he lay, appear either dead or die. to leap to the ground, and

snatch a lantern from one of the bystander, be Harry’s first act;

then bend over the fallen man, he recognise in the ghastly feature,

distort and convulse with agony, the well-know countenance of

honest, sturdy Markum, while from a gun-shot wound in his right side the

dark life-blood be slowly flow.



“how have this happen?” be Coverdale’s hurried inquiry. “be it an

accident, or have any of those scoundrel dare to shoot he?”



there be a moment’s pause, and then one of the elder man reply,

“it wor no accident, Mr. Coverdale; but gile there can tell you well,

squire; he wor near to un when he drop.”



the under-keeper thus appeal to--a tall, strap young fellow, who

be vainly attempt to staunch the blood which still continue to

flow--turn to reply, while Coverdale, kneel beside the wound man,

endeavour to arrange a more effectual bandage.



“all as I know, sir,” he say, “be that I wor a watch nigh down by

the warren, when up cum poor Master Markum here, and ‘gile,’ say he,

‘ye’re want, lad; there’s they out as don’t oughter be.’ so he and

I, and the rest o’ our mate here, which master have appinte to meet at

eleven o’clock--for I expect he’d have some hint give he of what be to

be up, make for the ash spinney, and lay we down in a ditch. well, it

warn’t long afore we hear the blackguard at work among the pheasant,

a banging away like blaze. we wait till they get near we, and then we

up and at ’em like good un. there be more of ’em nor there be

o’ we, so they show light a bit. poor master there he jest wor

real savage; he hit out hard and straight, and roll ’em over like

nine-pin; they worn’t o’ no manner o’ use again he, not none on ’em.

well, they soon get enough of that sort of fun, and one arter another

cut away, till at last they all fairly turn tail and bolt--that be,

all but one, and he master collared, and say he, ‘stop a bit, Jack;

I’m agoin’ to send you to see your brother in H-------- gaol; I’m

afeard Tom should be dull for want o’ cumpany, poor chap!’ well, Jack

Hargrave, for he it wor, fit sharp for his liburty, but master wor too

good a man for he; and he’d a take he as safe as mutton, only Jack

hollard arter one of his mate as have a gun, and tell he to shoot the

-------- keeper, and not let he be take. the fellow stop and face

round--he wor a young chap as I know well--I’d cotche sight of his

face afore he cut away, a soft young feller, as anybody might bully into

anything; and when Jack rap out a volley of oath, and tell he to

let fly, and chance hittin’ he, shoot he do, and poor master let go

his hold o’ Jack’s collar, and roll over and over like I’ve see many

a hare and rabbid roll over afore his gun.”



“but there be more than one barrel discharge,” interpose Coverdale;

“I hear three shot in succession--how be that?”



“why, when I see poor Master Markum fall, I be jest agoin’ to kneel

down to raise he a bit, when I ketche sight o’ Jack Hargrave and his

pal a cutting away like lamplighter, and I feel mad like to think he

should get off scotfree arter what he’d be and do, and have my gun

in my hand, I give ’em the content of both barrel; it worn’t right,

I know, Mr. Coverdale, but if you’d be in my place, squire, I’m

bless if I don’t think you’d ha do the same, axe your pardon.”



feel a strong private conviction that “Giles” have only judge

he correctly, Harry look grave and shake his head, as if such

a possibility could not exist in the case of a magistrate, ere he

inquire, “do you think you hit either of they?”



“they’d get a farish start before I pull at ’em,” be the reply,

“and the light ain’t that good for a long shot, but I fancy Jack

Hargrave’s get something to take home with he, for he give a rare jump

as the charge reach he; but it warn’t enough to stop he, for I see

he a runnin’ like a greyhound arter-ward.”



while this conversation be proceed, Coverdale, by aid of sundry

neckcloth, and a strip that he cut from his own pea-jacket, have

contrive a bandage which in great measure stop the bleeding, and

Markum revive sufficiently to recognise those about he; as his eye

fall on Coverdale, a faint smile pass across his feature.



“be it you, squire?” he murmur in a low voice. “ah! you always have a

kind heart of your own; Jack Hargrave’s kep his word, you see. I expect

he and his mate ’as finish I atween ’em this time.”



“we’ll hope not, my poor fellow--but don’t speak. do you think you can

bear carry yet--yes? four of you take that hand-gate off its hinge,

and bring it here; we’ll lay he on that. we shall have a surgeon for

you directly, my poor fellow! I send one of the lad off on my horse to

fetch Mr. Gouger the moment I come up--now, steady with he. I’ll lift

his head--that’s it; now raise the gate steadily. gently there--well

do--be you all ready? step together mind--march.”



as he speak, Harry (who himself support one corner of the temporary

litter he have contrive) and three other, raise the wounded man on

their shoulder, and carry he to his own cottage, which fortunately

be near at hand. he bear the transit bravely, though the pain

occasion by such motion as be unavoidable, reduce he more than once

to the verge of fainting. shortly after he have reach his destination

the surgeon arrive. Coverdale wait until he have pronounce the wound

dangerous, though not necessarily mortal, then leave he to make

a more minute examination, he quit the house. he find a mount

policeman await he outside, who, make his round, have be

attract by the sound of gun at that unusual hour.



“ah, policeman, I be just go to send after you; my head keeper have

be shoot by these poach rascal, and be seriously hurt, I’m afraid!”

 exclaim Coverdale. “how be we to make sure of the fellow who do it?

it lie between a man call Jack Hargrave--”



“a reg’lur bad un,” observe the horse-patrol, parenthetically.



“you say you know the other man,” continue Harry, appeal to the

under-keeper; “be you acquainted with his name?”



“they do call he ‘winkey’ in a general way, from a trick he’s get with

his eyelid; but his right name be Jim Fags,” be the reply.



“I know he,” observe the policeman. “well, sir, as we’re acquaint

with the party, I should say we’re safe to be down upon ’em

somewhere to-morrow. I’ll ride over to H--------, and put all our man

on the scent.”



“Stay! that give I an idea,” say Coverdale; then turn to the

under-keeper, he continue in a low voice--“You be sure you hit

Hargrave--be you, gile?”



the young man nod in the affirmative, and his master resumed,--



“go and fetch Nero, poor Markum’s night-dog, muzzle he, and bring he

in one of the greyhound leash. we’ll contrive to take these rascal

before day dawn, policeman.”



while Coverdale be explain his plan to the patrol, Giles return

with the dog: it be a splendid animal, a cross between the English

mastiff and a spanish bloodhound. its size be unusual, and its strength

enormous. its eye glare red in the torchlight, like those of some

wild beast. when it see the policeman it utter a low growl, and the

bristle on its back stand up like a mane; but at a word from Coverdale

it relinquish its hostile attitude, and with a sagacious look, which

say almost as plainly as word could have express it--“I comprehend;

it’s not he they’ve send for I to worry”--thrust its huge head

caressingly into its master’s hand.



“now patrol,” resume Coverdale, “if you will ride along the skirt of

the wood, and lead my horse, I fancy I shall be able to put the dog on

the track of these fellow--and, if so, he will never leave it till the

game be run down. you have handcuff with you?”



“aye, and pistol too, for the matter of that,” be the reply.



“I don’t expect they will be require,” rejoin Coverdale; “the

scoundrel will scarcely want more fighting than they’ve have already;”

 then signal gile to follow with the dog he turn, and, re-enter

the plantation, soon reach the scene of the late conflict.



“now try and find, an nearly as possible, the spot where Hargrave be

when you fire at he,” begin Coverdale; “give I the dog to hold, and

take the lantern with you.”



gile obey; and having walk about fifty pace down a narrow pathway

through the wood, begin carefully to examine the ground on either side.

having pursue his investigation for some minute in silence, he pause,

examine the spot still more closely, and then make a sign to Coverdale

to join he.



on reach the place Harry observe, by the light of the lantern,

several dark spot, and a long mark on the soft ground, as though some

person have slip and nearly fall, then deep footstep lead towards

the outskirt of the wood. the moment the dog perceive the scent of

blood all the savage instinct of its nature awake, and, with a

bind, which test the strength of the leash, and nearly dislocate

Coverdale’s shoulder, it spring forward along the track of the

fugitive. five minute’ painful toil through bush and briar, bring

they to the outskirt of the plantation, where they find the policeman

wait with the horse. hastily spring to the saddle, Coverdale

make Giles attach a small cord he have bring with he to the end of

the leash, against which the bloodhound now strain impatiently; then

twist the other end round his own wrist, he be about to desire the

under-keeper to return, when the patrol interfere by observing,--



“well take Giles with we, sir!”



“why so, policeman?” rejoin Coverdale, sharply; “we’re two to two,

fresh man against tired one; besides, you’re arm, and they’re not.”



“Jack’s get a gun with he, and be likely enough to use it now his

steam’s up,” insinuate Giles, who by no mean approve of lose his

share in the expedition.



“and when we have nab ’em, I shall want help to convey ’em to

H-------- gaol,” plead the policeman. “I can take he up behind I.”



“as you will; only lose no more time,” be Coverdale’s reply; and

cheer on the dog, he ride forward at a brisk trot.



the track lead they through the Park, and then over hill and dale,

plough field, and rough stubble, till it bring they out upon a wide

bleak common, dot here and there with patch of furze and broom,

which show dark and shadowy in the moonbeam, like plume upon a

hearse. across the wild and most tangled portion of the heath the dog

lead they, still strain at the leash, and utter from time to time a

suppress whimper indicative of impatience. on the farth side of the

common rise a steep bank, in one portion of which a deep hollow have be

excavate for the purpose of obtain gravel. as the dog approach

this place, its eagerness become, if possible, strong than before,

until, at about thirty yard from the spot, it suddenly stop, and

again erect the bristle on its back, utter a deep growl. at the

same moment, Coverdale, whose sight be remarkably keen, perceive a

figure cautiously steal away under cover of the bush. point he

out to the policeman, whose horse be begin to evince symptom of

distress under its double burden, Coverdale observed,--



“I can only see one man, but let we make sure of he. get down gile,

and hold the dog. now patrol, while I ride round that bush and head the

fellow, do you go on and seize he; and if you want any assistance, I

shall be ready to afford it.”



so say, Coverdale ride forward to cut off the poacher’s retreat,

while the policeman, put spur to his horse, and draw his

cutlass, dash up to the fellow, and seize he by the collar.



overawe by the gleam weapon, and exhaust by his previous

exertion, the unfortunate Jim Fags (_alias_ winkey) attempt no

resistance; and the policeman avail himself of his pusillanimity to

produce the handcuff, and dextrously secure his prisoner. he be thus

engage when Coverdale, who be walk his horse quietly towards they,

suddenly catch sight of what, at the first glance, appear to he only

the stump of a tree, but on close inspection prove to be the figure

of a man, crouch under the shadow of the gravel-pit, while, at

the moment in which Coverdale first perceive he, he be take a

deliberate aim with a short gun at the unconscious patrol. for a moment

the policeman’s life hang upon a thread; but a slight movement of the

horse bring the unfortunate Winkey’s head into the line of fire, and

his accomplice lower his piece, and slightly alter his position,

while he take fresh aim. the opportunity be not to be lose--quick as

think Coverdale rise in his stirrup, and with the full force of his

muscular arm hurl the constable’s staff, which he have retain the

whole evening, at the head of the kneeling figure. fortunately for the

policeman, the missile take effect, and, stun by the force of the

blow, Jack Hargrave (for he it be) measure his length upon the turf,

discharge the gun harmlessly as he fall. before he could regain his

foot, Giles and the dog (who, but for his muzzle, would have tear the

poacher to piece) be upon he. in less than two hour from that time

both the culprit be safely lodge in H-------- gaol.









CHAPTER XXVIII.--ALICE succour the distressed.



Mr. Hazlehurst’s progress towards recovery be so satisfactory that

Alice, when the carriage arrive to fetch her home, feel not the

small scruple in leave he. as Harry consider the distance

between the Grange and Coverdale Park too great for his carriage-horse

to perform twice in one day, the equipage have be dispatch the

previous evening, and the servant be consequently unacquainted with

the event of the past night. having take leave of her mother--who,

rouse by the necessity of become a nurse instead of a patient,

appear rather benefit than otherwise by the unusual demand upon her

energy--and of Emily, now fast develop into a very pretty girl,

Alice start on her return home, and accomplish the great portion

of the transit without let or hindrance. when within about five mile

of the Park, however, one of the horse be discover to have cast a

shoe; and as it would have be worth more than his situation to have

take it far in so defenceless a condition, the coachman draw up at

a village blacksmith’s, where the evil might be remedie. under these

circumstance, Alice determine to walk on till the carriage should

overtake she, which, as the morning be fine, she consider the reverse

of a hardship. ponder many thing--for Alice be no long the

careless, light-hearted girl we once describe she--she trudge on, at

first briskly, then more leisurely, as the road begin to ascend, until

she might have proceed some two mile; and yet the carriage do not

make its appearance. toil up hill, attire as lady usually be

from November to April, with an amount of merino, velvet, and fur, which

might defy the severity of a siberian winter, and be clearly _de trop_

under the influence of a sunshiny morning in March, not unnaturally

render Alice hot and tired; and fancy, from her imperfect knowledge

of the locality, that she must be upon her husband’s territory, she

determine to make acquaintance with the inmate of a cottage which she

perceive by the roadside a short distance high up the hill, and, with

their permission, to rest herself until the carriage should arrive. with

this intention she approach the cottage, and find the door

close, rap at it with first her knuckle, then the handle of a

most frivolous and ephemeral little parasol; but neither of these

application produce the desire effect, she, like little Red

riding-hood, raise the latch and open the door. the sight which

meet her eye be one calculate alike to stimulate her curiosity and

interest her sympathy. in a cradle, on the opposite side of the room,

lie an unconscious and remarkably pretty and comfortable-look baby

fast asleep, while near it, with the light from the casement streaming

full upon her smooth dark hair, only partially conceal beneath her

neat white cap, sit the young mother, her face hide in her hand,

weep bitterly. start at the sound of the opening door, she remove

her hand, and disclose feature which, swollen and disfigure as they

be by grief, yet evince token of unusual beauty. she rise as Alice

enter, and hastily dry her tear, stand regard she with a wild

eager glance of inquiry.



“what have you come to tell I?” she say: “they have not relent--not

set he at liberty again?--or the other one--he be not bad--oh,

God!--not dead?”



surprised and embarrass by the strange eagerness of her manner, and

interested by her appearance and evident distress, Alice hasten to

assure she that she be not the bearer of any tiding, good or evil, and

having explain the object of her intrusion, continued--



“but you be anxious or unhappy about something; will you not tell I

why you be cry so bitterly when I come in--perhaps I may be able to

assist you?”



thus appeal to, the girl (for she appear scarcely above twenty)

fix her dark eye on Alice’s face, and read therein her kind and

love nature, which indeed be so legibly depict that the veri

dullard at decipher character could scarcely fail to discover it,

answer more gently than she have before spoken--



“I beg pardon, lady; but I’m amost crazy with grief this morning, and

my head’s so a-run on it, that I hardly know what I’m a-say or

a-doing on. Ye’re welcome to rest, lady, as long as you please;” and as

she speak she dust a chair with her apron, and place it for Alice,

who, seat herself, resumed--



“you say you be unhappy, but you do not tell I what about.”



the woman pause for a moment in thought, then continued--“I need make

no secret of it; the whole country round be ring with it by this

time. some poor fellow, lady, as have wife and child to feed, and no

money to buy bread to give to ’em, go to get a few of the bird and

thing that’s run wild in the wood of they that’s rich, and don’t

want ’em; and the keeper cum to stop ’em, and one of ’em get shoot

in the confusion; and the police have take my husband and my brother,

and swear the’re the man that do it; and the’re to be have up to-day

before they that’s sure to condemn ’em, innocent or guilty--gentleman

that chuse to keep the wild creature that God send for food for they

as want it, all for their own selfish amusement--beg your pardon,

lady--but it’s the truth; and when one’s heart ache like mine do, the

truth will out.”



“it be natural, perhaps, that you should think thus in your situation,”

 return Alice, gravely; “but depend upon it your husband and your

brother will not be punish unless they justly deserve it. the

gamekeeper be not kill I hope?”



“oh no, my lady! not hurt very serious neither I do hope; only they want

to make the most of it, to get a chance to punish my poor fellow, don’t

you see?” be the reply; “and if my husband be put in prison for long,

and lay out of work, what’s to become o’ I and the child?”



“you have more than this one, then?” inquire Alice.



for answer the woman rise, and pass into the inner room of the

cottage, in less than a minute return, bear in her arm a little

girl, apparently about two year old, whose bright, rosy cheek, and

eye evidently distress by the vivid sunlight, give unmistakeable

token of having be rouse out of a sound sleep. Alice possess a

thorough woman’s love of child, lead she to consider ugly one

pretty, and pretty one “little angel;” so she immediately take this

particular duodecimo angelic speciman on her knee, and win its celestial

affection by allow it to play with her watch, and a bunch of

miscellaneous rubbish attach thereunto, and denominate, on the _lucus

a non lucendo_ principle, a chatelaine. this reinforcement of infantry

having completely win the day (the “dear” sleep baby have be a

powerful, unconscious advocate of its parent’s cause), Alice begin to

consider how good she could assist the distressed mother. the first

point be to learn to whom to apply in favour of the culprit, and she

accordingly inquire on whose land they have be take, and in whose

service the wound gamekeeper reside? the answer be at the same

time embarrassing and satisfactory. of course, if the offence have be

commit upon her husband’s property, he could, if he would, decline to

prosecute the offender--if he would?--there lie the difficulty. Alice

be well aware of the serious light in which Harry regard the crime

of poach; and the attack on the gamekeeper even she be force

to reprobate; but if it should prove that the man be not seriously

injure, she trust to her newly-regain influence to enable she to

place the matter in such a light that Harry would agree with she in

overlook the culprit’s offence for the sake of his family; or, at all

event, if that be expect too much of his penitence, she have only

to ask it as a personal favour, and he surely could not refuse she.

so, carry away by her feeling of kindly sympathy, and act on the

impulse of the moment, she put forth all her power of consolation,

and end by disclose her name, and the relation in which she stand

towards that persecutor of poacher, Harry Coverdale, at the same time

promise to use her influence, which she represent as all-powerful,

to screen the culprit from the effect of their misdemeanor.



before her consolatory harangue be well conclude, the carriage

arrive, and Alice, having kiss the child (the unfortunate

baby be arouse expressly for the performance of the affectionate

ceremony, a violation of the right of the subject which it resent

by cry and slobber with a twenty-infant power over Alice’s velvet

mantle), leave five shilling in the hand of their mamma, by way of a

peace-offering, and depart, thoroughly satisfied with she _début_ in

the character of poor man’s friend and cottager’s comforter. all the way

she drive home she be build castle in the air for the benefit and

behoof of the ruin family, having mentally adopt the little girl as

lady’s-maid, and apprentice the baby, which be of the nobler sex, to a

serious and immaculate carpenter, before she reach the Park.



Coverdale be absent when his wife arrive, having ride over

to H--------, to assist at the committal of Jack Hargrave and his

accomplice; but she receive from Wilkins, who be, in more sense

than one, a confidential servant, an over-full, untrue, and

particularly-exaggerated account of the affray of the previous night,

from which she acquire two fact, which tend considerably to disquiet

she, viz.:--first, that the wounded man be markum, her husband’s

especial favourite; and secondly, that Harry have be personally

involve in the affair; both of which consideration increase the

difficulty of the negotiation for gaol-delivery to which she have

incautiously pledge herself. having take off her thing, she

proceed first to fraternise with her King Charles spaniel and the two

canary-bird (which latter plume biped celebrate her return in song

of shrill triumph, like a couple of inebriated penny whistle), then

to put all the ornament right, which the housemaid have dust into

uncomfortable and heterodox position. she have just discover a china

cup, which nobody have break, and which yet be divide in several

place, having probably split its own side laugh at the grotesque

figure with which its manufacturer have see fit to embellish it, and

she be hunt for a bottle of diamond cement wherewith to repair

the damage before her husband’s return, when the sound of horse’ foot

announce that event to have take place.



the first word that meet her ear be, “let one of the helper go down

to Markum’s cottage, wait till Mr. Gouger have see he again, and bring

I his report without a moment’s delay; if it should be unsatisfactory

I’ll send for Brodie by electric telegraph. be your mistress return?”



a warm embrace, an expression of his delight at have she back again,

a hurried enquiry after Mr. Hazlehurst, and then Harry rush into his

narrative of the poach affair, and in his eagerness to detail every

circumstance of a matter which interest he so deeply, do not notice

the tameness of Alice’s sympathy, or the lukewarm manner in which she

second his virtuous indignation against the miscreant who have all but

murder good, honest Markum: “and small thank to they that it be ‘all

but,’ for, if ever a scoundrel mean mischief, that scoundrel be Jack

Hargrave.”



Alice see this be no time to urge her suit, and so merely confine

herself to the general remark, that it be a dreadful affair for all

party, and that she pity the wife of the wretched man who have

commit the rash act, as much as anybody concern in the matter; to

which Harry replied:--



“that it serve they right for marry poacher, and that they might

think they be lucky not to be the victim themselves, for that a

fellow who would take to poach be capable of cut his wife’s

throat, or of any other enormity.”



Mr. Gouger’s report be, on the whole, satisfactory. Markum be go

on well, though he (Gouger) could not pronounce he out of danger;

the injury be very serious, and several day must elapse before the

ulterior consequence would be apparent; or, as the doctor himself

remark, the effect of extraneous particle of plumbago, or lead,

introduce into the vital system by the sudden expansion of saltpetre

and other explosive compound compress within the narrow limit of a

gun-barrel, and discharge thence by ignition, accord to the natural

law of projectile, be most subtle and deleterious, lead sometimes

to the total destruction of animal life, at other to a concussion of

the nervous system; or again, &c. &c.: from which sapient opinion Harry

collect that Brodie need not be send for immediately.



day glide by, the prisoner be remand till Markum’s chance of life

or death should be ascertain, and Alice have not find a fitting moment

in which to make her appeal. at length the surgeon, with grave look,

which might mean everything, anything, or nothing, advise, merely as

a matter of precaution, that the wounded man should make a deposition

before a magistrate, so that if anything _be_ to happen, the

jury might have the advantage of his statement of fact. Coverdale,

therefore, having persuade one of his brother magistrate to accompany

he, proceed to the cottage for the above purpose. shortly after

he have set off, Alice be inform that a poor woman be desirous

of speak to she; and on order she to be show in, she be less

surprised than embarrassed to recognise in the tearful applicant her

cottage hostess, the wife of the culprit, Jack Hargrave. the result of

the interview may be easily foresee. Alice descant on the greatness

of the crime commit, Mr. Coverdale’s virtuous indignation against

the offender, and the consequent difficulty of persuade he not to

prosecute they. Mrs. Jack bring forward, in reply, the baby and a

flood of tears,--arguments so unanswerable that Alice, having kiss the

one, and all but join in the other, dismiss the afflicted matron,

having renew her pledge of exert her whole influence in favour

of the prisoner. it be with a feeling akin to desperation that she

determine to plead she _protégées_’ cause the moment Harry should

return, certain that if she again allow her ardour to cool, she should

never have courage to enter upon the subject to he. accordingly, as

soon as he have finish give she an account of the clear and able

manner in which Markum have detail the proceeding of the eventful

night on which the affray have occur, she began:--



“I, too, have have rather a try interview; the wife of one of the

man who have be take up on suspicion have be here--a frail,

delicate-look, young creature, scarcely more than a girl, with the

dearest, sweetest, little baby imaginable. I do so wish you have see

it!”



Harry mutter a reply, which, though scarcely audible, convey the

impression that he be perfectly content without having have ocular

demonstration of its infantine perfection; and Alice continued--



“yes, I wish you have see both mother and child--its sweet, innocent

look, and the poor girl’s tear, would have plead her cause well

than any argument of mine can do, your kind heart could never have

resist they.”



“plead her cause,” repeat Coverdale; “that mean, because her husband

and his accomplice have be so obliging as to destroy my game, and

murder, or half murder, as the case may prove, my head keeper, she

consider it my duty to support herself and family, I suppose; she

have bring this irresistible baby as a safe dodge to work upon your

feminine susceptibility; and, with thorough woman’s logic, she have

persuade you to look upon she as a suffer innocent, and upon I as a

tyannical oppressor. now confess--be not this the truth?”



“no, really it be not,” reply Alice, eagerly. “I own I think you, from

your passion for field-sport, take rather an exaggerated view of the

crime of poach; but I quite feel as you do, that wound poor Markum

be a cruel and cowardly act; still, revenge it upon this family will

not benefit he nor ourselves.”



“I don’t wish the people to starve, of course,” return Harry, moodily,

“though I should imagine the young woman and her brat can scarcely have

get through all the game in her larder yet. I should not mind starve

on hashed hare and broiled pheasant’ leg myself for a week or two;

however, if the poor girl really be in want, I have no objection to your

relieve she, but do not be impose upon, darling, that be all that I

mean to say.”



the kindness of her husband’s manner, and the good-natured way in which

he appear willing to support the family of the man who have injure

he, serve alike to remove Alice’s fear, and to lead she to overrate

the extent of her influence with her husband; so, lean her arm on

his shoulder, while with her other hand she smooth back his cluster

hair, she continue, “what a good, kind boy it be, though it do growl

sometimes. but now, to show you that my _protégée_ be not seek to

impose on I for the sake of obtain money, I will tell you that her

petition be for quite a different object, and one creditable alike to

her feeling as a wife and a sister: she want you to act as only a

high and generous nature like your own would be capable of act--she

implore you to pardon her husband and her brother.”



“to do what!” exclaim Harry sharply, a dark shade come across his

feature.



“to let off two of the man who be engage in this unlucky

business--her husband and her brother--not to prosecute they, I mean,”

 return Alice, remove her hand from her husband’s shoulder and

prepare to “hold her own,” in the dispute she foresee impend.



“and their name:” inquire Coverdale.



Alice repeat they.



“as I expect,” resume Coverdale; “the man who fire the shot and his

accomplice, who, more guilty than himself, urge he to do it. now, ask

your own good sense, Alice, and reflect a moment before you answer. even

be I willing, can I in common justice let these fellow off?”



“oh, yes!” exclaim Alice, without a moment’s deliberation; “it be

so great--so noble to forgive an injury! revenge be but a mean, petty

feeling, after all.”



“an admirable reason for shake hand with an individual who have

knock you down,” return Coverdale, “but none whatsoever for

screen two malefactor from the just punishment of their ill-deed;”

 then, lapse into the magistrate, he continue, “you mistake the whole

scope and intention of our penal code, my dear Alice. we do not punish

offender as an act of revenge upon the individual, but in order to

benefit society by deter other from commit a like crime;

thus, lay aside personal feeling, I should be do an injury to the

community at large, by refuse to prosecute these fellow. you see this

clearly, do you not?”



Alice’s reasoning power do see it, and have see it all along, but

Alice have also see the poor wife and the meritorious and seductive

baby, and she care “fifty thousand time” (as she herself would have

express it) more for they than for the community at large; so find

that the argument be go against she, she, woman-like, adroitly

shift her ground. “accord to your reasoning, there would be no

room for such a quality as mercy,” she begin; “stern, inexorable justice

would condemn every criminal, no matter what extenuate circumstance

there might be; in each case punishment must follow sin, as effect

follow cause. I, for one, should be very sorry always to be judge by

such a cruel rule.”



“oh, if you’re go to put german metaphysical sophistry in the place

of english common-sense, I’ve no more to say about it,” return Harry,

gruffly; “only it seem to my simplicity that punishment always do

follow crime in this world, as soon as it’s find out. if a brat steal

the sugar, its mother slap it; if a schoolboy prig apple, the master

flog he; if an apprentice bolt with the till, the law transport he;

if Jack murder Tom, the hangman stretch his neck for him:--and serve

’em all right say I; it would be a precious deal bad world to live

in if it be not so, to my thinking.”



Alice pause to consider the justice of this remark--we will follow she

example!









CHAPTER XXIX.--HOW to make HOME HAPPY.



Mrs. Coverdale, resume the matrimonial discussion break off at the

end of the last chapter, thus pursue the argument by which she hope to

induce her husband to let off her poach _protégé._



“in the present case the innocent must suffer with the guilty. I see no

justice in ruin a poor family by imprison or transport the only

member who be able to work and support it.”



“the say member should have think of that himself,” return Harry;

“if he have be work and support his family, he would have be

safe from transportation, like any other honest man; but as he prefer

to steal my game and shoot my keeper, he thereby deprive his family of

the pleasure of his inestimable society; it be he, therefore, who have

bring this evil upon they, not I; and when I consent to your relieving

their necessity out of my pocket, I think I be do, to say the least

of it, as much as any reasonable woman ought to expect of I.”



despite her prejudice in favour of the seraphic baby and its

interesting mother, Alice feel the truth of her husband’s reasoning;

but she have boast of her power too confidently, and pledge herself

to exert it too deeply, to retreat; so, perceive that argument would

avail her nothing, she be oblige to fall back upon woman’s last

resource--personal influence, and strive to win from Harry’s affection

that which his reason have deny she. a dangerous experiment, pretty

Alice! and one in which, if your philosophy do but go deep enough to

enable you to discern it, you would perceive success to be a great

evil than failure, for it would argue culpable weakness in he on whom

you have to lean for support through life. but Alice be by no mean in

an ethical frame of mind at that moment, and care only for obtain

her point by any mean which occur to she; so, draw a stool close

to Harry, she meekly seat herself at his foot, and look up into his

face with her large implore eye, begin coaxingly, “Harry, dear, be

you quite, quite determined to say no?”



an affirmative bend of the head be the only reply.



“but if I make it a personal request,” she continue, lay her soft

cheek caressingly against his hand; “if I ask you to forgive these man

for my sake, and so afford I the exquisite pleasure of make this poor

woman happy? oh! you will not refuse I. if you do, I shall think you do

not love I. come, you will say yes.”



Poor Harry! he be sorely perplexed. have it be any personal

sacrifice--even a pledge to give up hunting or shooting--which she

require of he, he would gladly have yield, in the true and deep

tenderness towards his wife which his late self-examination have arouse.

but the serious thought which a review of his past error have call

forth, while they point out to he how he have fail in his duty to

she whom he have vow to love and protect, also prove to he that where

Alice be incline to act wrongly, or foolishly, he be bind to save

she even from herself; and his clear, good sense instantly tell he that

this be a request which she ought not to have urge, since to grant it

would necessitate a sacrifice of principle on his part. accordingly, he

replied--



“alice love, listen to I; this be not a mere matter of personal

feeling, or I would yield to you without a moment’s hesitation, but it

involve a question of right and wrong. I could not refuse to prosecute

these man without diffuse an amount of moral evil amongst the whole

of my poor tenantry, which year of the most careful supervision would

fail to eradicate. the utmost I can promise you be, that the culprit

shall have every opportunity afford they of clear themselves;

and if, as I be convince, that prove impossible, every palliate

circumstance shall be bring forward and allow its full weight. I

have already give you my free permission to assist the poor woman and

her child, and more than this you cannot expect I to say.”



“but I do, or rather I _do_, expect you to say more,” return Alice,

with flash eye and glow cheek; “I expect you to say what I

would have say to you, if you have appeal to I thus--that there be

nothing, even if it be life itself, that I would not give up for your

sake. but I see how it be, you do not really care for I, or, if you

do, man’s love be not like woman’s, it be merely the excitement of the

pursuit that interest you--the prize once attain become valueless

in your eye: in fact, love, which make the entire joy or sorrow of a

woman’s life, be to man but a superior kind of sporting--more engrossing

than a foxchase, or than hunt a poor stag to death, simply because

the game be of a high order.” she pause to give vent to a sob which

she be unable entirely to repress, then continue in a sarcastic tone

of voice: “however, mighty hunter as you be, I do not intend to give

you the satisfaction of be in at my death; I have too much of the old

Hazlehurst spirit about I to break my heart for a man who do not love

I. there be a _quiet way_, as you call it, of arrange these affair:

you have your own pursuit and amusement, henceforward I shall have

mine. you need not dread my again attempt to interfere either with

your pleasure, or your graver occupation. I have have too severe a

lesson on each point to forget it readily. but I expect you to exercise

the same forbearance towards I. from this day forth we each follow our

own line!” and, draw her shawl over her shoulder, with an imperious

gesture, as of an offended queen, Alice sweep out of the room, leave

Harry in a frame of mind which may be more easily imagine than

describe.



a complete change, which might have be date from the above

conversation, appear to have take place in Alice Coverdale. instead

of shrink, as she have hitherto do, from society, she rather court

it than otherwise--order the carriage, and visit the different

family in the neighbourhood, without consult Harry on the subject,

or seem to care in the slight degree whether he accompany she or

not. at first this conduct on his wife’s part occasion Coverdale the

great uneasiness; but, after a time, see that she be amuse and

interested by the new acquaintance she thus form, he begin to hope

that good might perhaps come out of evil, and that the intimacy then

commence might afford source of last pleasure when the feeling of

pique which have lead she to seek they should have long since die away.

and so the time glide on, work its usual change in man and thing

as it pass away.



Mr. Gouger having venture one day to commit himself to the rash

assertion that Markum be sink rapidly, and could not possibly

survive the week, from that hour the gamekeeper begin to amend, and have

sufficiently advanced in his progress towards recovery to be able

to appear and give evidence in person, when Jack Hargrave and his

accomplice take their trial at the next assize. so unmistakeably be

their guilt bring home to they, that they be each sentence to seven

year’ transportation, and would probably have have fourteen allot

to they, but for the thorough good faith with which Harry redeem his

promise to Alice that every extenuating circumstance should be clearly

place before the jury. indeed he labour so strenuously to impress

this point upon the counsel for the prisoner, that the learn brother,

entertain a proper degree of professional scepticism in regard to the

purity of human motive, immediately settle, to his own satisfaction,

that Jack Hargrave must be a natural son of the late Admiral Coverdale,

commend, with his die breath, to his nephew’s especial care and

protection. Alice receive the news of the verdict with great _sing

froid_, merely remark that she have feel certain all along that it

would be so; but when she have gain the privacy of her own chamber, she

indulge in a hearty flood of tear, occasion as much by what she be

pleased to consider her husband’s inhumanity, as by her compassion for

the poor woman and her transcendental baby.



as these latter individual exercise no further influence over the

destiny of our principal _dramatis personæ_, we may as well, ere

we finally take leave of they, add the information that Alice (having

support they much well than Jack Hargrave have do in his good

day), at the expiration of two year send they out at her own expense

to join that worthy, who, reform by seasickness and the amenity of

convict discipline, have obtain a ticket of leave, by reason of which

privilege he be enact the part of a penitent bullock-driver, to the

admiration of all right-minded settler in Australia.



the month of May have begin to temper with a dash of sunshine the fine

old English east wind of April, which annually sow their share of

the seed of consumption in the glorious british constitution--Harry

Coverdale have cease to oppress the brute creation, leave fox and

pheasant to increase and multiply by antagonistic progression--and all

London be flock to the Royal Academy Exhibition, to see a great many

very original portrait of gentleman, who scarcely look the character

after all--when one fine morning Alice receive a letter from the modern

Babylon, in Mrs. Crane’s handwriting. having eagerly peruse it, she

exclaimed,--



“Kate have write a most kind and press invitation to we to come and

stay with they; Mr. Crane wish it as much as she do.”



“or as much as she order he to do rather,” mutter Coverdale,

_sotto voce_.



“of course you can have no objection to my accept it,” continue

Alice; “for myself, at all event?”



“be not I invite?” inquire Harry, gravely.



“yes, certainly; only I do not know whether you could tear yourself

away from your dearly beloved dog and gun.”



“and you be willing to have go without I?”



“I do not wish to be any tie upon you,” be Alice’s reply, though she

colour slightly, and turn away her head as she speak. “you remember

our compact; I be a great advocate for free will.”



“between husband and wife such a question ought never to arise,”

 rejoin Harry, seriously but kindly; “there should be complete

unanimity. I hope you have forget all that folly.”



“I never forget unkindness,” be the cold reply; “but I see you be

go to favour I with a speciman of your ‘quiet manner,’ and as I be

not in the humour for a scene or a lecture, you really must excuse my

leave you;” and as she speak she rise to quit the apartment.



for a moment Harry’s eye flash, then a look of pain pass across his

feature, and, take his wife’s hand, he lead she back to the sofa on

which she have be seat, say gently, but reproachfully,--



“why will you misunderstand I thus? you wish to accept your cousin’s

invitation?”



Alice bow her head in token of assent.



“then write and tell she we shall be happy to do so; I shall be ready

and willing to accompany you at whatever time you and she like to

arrange together.”



“oh, that be very nice and kind of you!” return Alice, delight at

get her way so easily; “I think you be go to be cross and

disagreeable, as--as you sometimes be.”



“as usual, you be go to say,” rejoin Harry; “speak your thought

honestly, whatever injustice they may do I. but if, in future, instead

of condemn I unheard, you be to admit the possibility--nothing

more--of my be willing occasionally to sacrifice my wish to your,

it might save we both considerable pain and misconception; recollect

this, and reflect upon it quietly and calmly.” so say, he place his

wife’s writing-table before she, find she a footstool, and leave the

room.



as the sound of his retreating footstep die away in the distance,

Alice feel decidedly penitent, and wish she could unsay all the sharp

thing she have utter at the beginning of the conversation; but this

be a frame of mind too uncomfortable to last long, and so she console

herself by the reflection that if, on this particular occasion, she have

do her husband an injustice, it be his conduct at other time which

have lead she to do so. it be unfair to blame herself for the natural

effect his selfishness and unkindness have produce upon her mind; she

be sure there have be a period, before she be so rudely awaken from

her “love’s young dream,” when she have give he credit for possess

every noble, heroic, and tender quality under the sun: it be not

her fault that she could think so no long--people must take the

consequence of their own misdeed. and so, console herself with these

and many like argument, and magnify the mote in her husband’s eye,

and ignore the beam in her own, Alice talk herself into her

former frame of mind, and sit down to write her acceptance of Kate’s

invitation, convince that if her husband have say “yes” on this

occasion, he would say “no” on every other.









CHAPTER XXX.--INTRODUCES a lordly GALLANT.



that day week see Alice, Harry, and Celeste (a little pert _soubrette_,

whom Alice have bring back from Paris with she), on their way to the

railway-station at H--------; a groom and a couple of saddle-horse

(without which Harry could not support the burden of a London life)

having precede they by a slow train. as Harry have a great horror

of be too late, and have flurry and bustle Alice to such a degree

that, if she have not be the most good-natured little woman in the

world (except in matter connect with the feeling), she would

assuredly have lose her temper, of course they be at least a quarter

of an hour too soon, and be force to promenade up and down beneath a

brobdignagian glass roof, open at each end, and enjoy the large supply

of draught afford by this ingenious compromise between indoor and

out of door. having pace up and down the platform for some ten minute

or so--lose Celeste and the trunk, and find they again--and narrowly

escape violent death from wild luggage-barrow, urge by reckless and

excited porter, neatly bind in green corduroy, and number like

the lot in a saleroom,--the train by which they be to fly to London

crawl up ignominiously at the tail of a strong-minded cart-horse,

which a heroic but unclean supernumary conduct in the way he should

go. just as Alice have take her seat, and be implore Harry to join

she before a dreadful green dragon of a locomotive engine (which have

be get up its steam, and take in its fuel, and wet its

whistle, and otherwise perform its awful toilet in a neighbouring

cavern, whence it issue look as vicious, and dangerous, and eager to

burst in a tunnel, as a furious steam-devil could do) should get at

he and do he a mischief, a tall, elegant-look young man, who be

seek for an unoccupied place, suddenly exclaimed--



“I beg pardon, but surely I have the pleasure of see Harry--a--that

be--Mr. Coverdale?”



“a true bill, sir,” reply Harry; “but just at present you’ve all

the pleasure to yourself, for I must honestly confess that I do

not recollect you; and yet--no--yes--why, it cann’t be little Alfred

Courtland?”



“as for the ‘little,’ I must leave you to judge for yourself; the

copy-book tell we that ‘all weed grow apace,’ and I’m afraid I’m

a shocking example; but Alfred Courtland I most certainly be, and

delight to meet an old acquaintance--if an urchin in the under-school

dare pretend to have be on such a footing with one of the sixth form.”



“Little Alfred Courtland, six foot high, and cultivate whisker!

wonder will never cease,” resume Harry, meditatively: “but be you

go by this train? jump in here, man, and I’ll introduce you to my

wife. Alice, this be Alfred--I beg his pardon, but I cann’t remember

he’s not a little boy still--_Lord_ Alfred Courtland. you remember Arthur

Hazlehurst, my _fidus Achates_, don’t you, Courtland? my wife be his

sister. ticket! well, here they be. what a suspicious generation these

railway official be! anybody would suppose they have be accustom

to deal with thief and pickpocket all their life, instead of honest

englishman. but I hate the railroad, root and branch, that’s a fact;

they’ve ruin the breed of horse in this country.”



while Harry run on in this style, Alice have time to observe her new

acquaintance more attentively. he appear very young, scarcely above

nineteen or twenty. his figure, though tall and graceful, be slight

and boyish; his head be small and well set on, and his pale, delicate

feature be shade by a profusion of fair curl hair; while his

bearing and appearance be singularly refined and aristocratic; or, as

Harry afterwards observe, “he look thorough breed, every inch of

he.” his expression be good and amiable; but a want of firmness and

resolution about the line of his mouth belie the promise of intellect

afford by his high, smooth brow, and bright, speak eye.



“and what be you do with yourself?” inquire Coverdale, after sundry

mutual acquaintance have be talk over, and the reminiscence

usual between old schoolfellow run through; “be you at either of the

university?”



“yes, I’m a Cantab,” be the reply; “but scarcely more than nominally

so, for during my first term I get a tumble into the cam, boat--dine

at Ely in my wet clothe, and be reward for my carelessness by an

aguish low fever, which I be only now recover from; so I be order

to be perfectly idle and amuse myself--a prescription which I be afraid

agree but too well with my taste and habit.”



“and find country ingredient too mild, you be go to town to try

and get a strong dose there, I suppose?” inquire Harry.



“you must be a wizard,” be the reply. “the fact be, my people have

winter abroad, and chiselborough become so dull the moment the hunting

be over, that I find _ennui_ be bring my ague back again; so

hold solemn conclave with the apothecary and my valet, we yesterday

decide, _nem. con_., upon a couple of month’ sojourn in the modern

Babylon.”



to this piece of intelligence Harry vouchsafe no further answer than

a shrug of the shoulder, by which significant gesture he intend to

telegraph to his wife his opinion as to the wisdom of trust the young

gentleman to his own sapient guidance amidst the shoal and quicksand

of a London season. at this period the dragon, which have be draw

the train very quietly and peacefully, suddenly give a prolonged scream

(by courtesy term a whistle), pant violently, hiss a good deal,

and have by these manœuvre “blow off” its superfluous steam, it

kindly postpone burst for a short time, and condescend obligingly

to stop at the Tearem and Smashingly Junction, without demand any

immediate sacrifice of human life. Coverdale and Lord Alfred instantly

jump out (although perfectly aware that they should be oblige to jump

in again at the expiration of three minute and a quarter), and,

after the fashion of impatient male humanity, which, as Harry somewhat

paradoxically observe, “cannot stand sit,” begin stamp up and

down the platform as though a legion of black-beetle, or some such

entymological freebooter, have creep up their trouser’ leg, and they

be strive to dislodge they. some operation, however, which be go

on under one of those queer kind of shed peculiar to railway-station,

which give one an idea of a child’s toy magnify, attract their

attention, and cause they to discontinue their amusement. after gaze

earnestly for a few second, Harry exclaimed,--



“they’ll never do it so, never! there, do you see, he’s stand right

before he, drag at his head, and yet expect the poor animal to

go on; the man must be an idiot! yes, of course, hit the poor thing for

your own fault, and frighten he, so that you’ll be able to do nothing

with he. ah! I think so; they’ll have an accident directly, the

fool! as if there ben’t a quiet manner of do these thing. hold

my great coat, Alfred; I shall be back in two second.” and suit the

action to the word, he toss his coat to his companion and run off.



“where _have_ he go to?” inquire Alice, disconsolately, from the

window of the railway-carriage.



“to assist a stupid groom to put a very fine horse into one of the

horse-box,” be the reply. “he say he should be back in a minute.”



“now, gentleman, take your place; the train’s go to start--take your

place,” vociferate an individual, who look like a very oddly-dress

soldier, but who be the railway-guard.



“oh! where can he be? we shall start without he!” exclaim Alice in

dismay.



“I’ll go and look for he,” rejoin Lord Alfred, good-naturedly.



“if you would be so very kind,” return Alice, her lovely eye

sparkle with gratitude.



“well not, sir; only lose your own place, without find the

gent--train’s agoin’ to start. I must shut the door,” grumble a cynical

porter.



“pray keep it open till the last moment!” exclaim Alice, draw out

her purse, while Lord Alfred, disregard the porter’s advice, dash

off on his mission.



“be I allow to give you anything?” continue Alice, timidly, as a

vague suspicion of the illegality of bribe railway porter flash

across she.



the man look up and down the platform, and perceive no informer

near, do not commit himself by word, but partially close the door,

so as to conceal the action, hold out his hand, with the palm turn

suggestively upwards. as his finger close over the half-crown which

Alice, with a strong idea that she be commit an indictable offence,

place within his grasp, an angry and imperative voice call out, “now

then, shut that door there!” and in spite of Alice’s remonstrance, the

porter be about to obey, when, breathless with run, Lord Alfred

spring into the carriage, the door be slam to, a bell ring

furiously, the dragon give a short, pert scream of delight at get

its head, and the train start. unheede, in fact scarcely hear

Lord Alfred’s mild remonstrance that he believe it be reckon

dangerous to put one’s head out of the window of a railway carriage,

Alice immediately commit that folly, and be reward for her

imprudence by see, just as the train be get to its full speed,

Harry rush distractedly on to the platform, shake his fist at the

retreating carriage, and then, watch in hand, stride up to the

station-master, and evidently afford he a speciman of his quiet

manner. with a feeling half way between an inclination to laugh and

a disposition to cry, Alice resume her seat, and, under pretence

of arrange her veil, take a glance round the carriage. her only

companion, besides Lord Alfred Courtland, be a species of prize old

gentleman, who having spend his life hitherto in grow as fat as the

nature of the case admit, be evidently resolve to guard against the

possibility of his shadow become less, by devote the remainder of

his existence to the duty of eating, drinking, and sleeping, which

latter accomplishment he be then display to the admiration of all

lover of that science of which honest Sancho Panza so fervently bless

the inventor. having mentally sum he up in the definition “wretche

old thing,” Alice next take a survey of her new friend, and decide that

he have such a good, innocent, child-like expression of countenance,

that young and handsome as he be, she would not have mind even if the

“wretched old thing” have not be present to play _chaperone_ in dumb

show.



“how very provoking for Mr. Coverdale to lose the train, and all through

his good-nature, too,” begin Lord Alfred; “I see the affair as well as

he do, but it would never have occur to I to interfere.”



“nor to any one else except Mr. Coverdale,” return Alice, scornfully;

“his devotion to horse and dog be quite exemplary.”



“as a pattern or as a warning?” inquire Lord Alfred, favour she with

a look of intelligence for which she be scarcely prepare.



“you be laugh at I,” she say; “but I will honestly confess that

it be rather try to see Mr. Coverdale place himself and I in a

ridiculous, if not actually an embarrassing situation, merely for the

sake of a horse.”



“it be a very _fine_ horse,” observe Lord Alfred, meditatively.



“and therefore the worthy animal of the two--thank you for the

compliment, my lord,” be the slightly pique reply, which of course

produce a carefully veil but teasing rejoinder; and with such-like

light _badinage_ do they beguile the time, until having rush for

some distance over acre of turnip, stubble, grass-land, and other such

agricultural territory, change as by some pantomimic agency to the

roof of house, with elegant _parterre_ of chimney-pot, they be

surprised to find they have reach the London terminus.



the cessation of movement having rouse the prize elder from his

meritorious slumber, Alice wait until, with many snort and grunt he

have arouse his leg (which be evidently each enjoy a separate and

independent nap of its own) and toddle off upon they, ere she inquire

in rather a forlorn tone, “and now I wonder what be to become of I?

would you kindly ascertain when the next train will be in?”



Lord Alfred make the inquiry, and obtain the cheer intelligence

that the next train which stop at the Tearem and Smashingly Junction

would arrive in exactly two hour fifteen minute and a quarter, at

which time, as nearly as Alice could calculate, the Crane butler would

be remove the fish and soup.



“it be impossible that you can wait here all that time, my dear Mrs.

Coverdale!” exclaim Lord Alfred. “what will you like I to do for

you? you must tell I exactly what you wish.”



“you be very kind,” return Alice, feel much incline to get into a

fuss at the oddness of the situation which thus force she to rely on

a handsome young man, with whom she have be acquaint some two

hour. then submit to her fate with a feeling of desperation,

she continue, “first give I your arm, and conduct I to the lady’

waiting-room; and then if you would be so kind as to look for Celeste,

my maid, and--really I be ashamed to trouble you, my lord, but there

be some trunk she ought to find, and she cann’t speak a dozen word

of English intelligibly; and--how you’re to recognize she I cann’t tell;

really how Mr. Coverdale could----”



but before she could finish her accusatory sentence, Lord Alfred,

anxious to distinguish himself in his new capacity of squire of dame,

have disappear. in less time than Alice have deem possible, he

return with Celeste and a bundle of shawl and wrapper on one arm,

and carry a carpet-bag with the other.



“my mission have be accomplish with the most signal success, I

flatter myself: and now I hope your difficulty be end, my dear Mrs.

Coverdale; Celeste and I have find _all_ the trunk. fortunately, my

brougham be here, and I need scarcely add, entirely at your service.”

 see she hesitate, he continue, “don’t be alarmed about the

propriety, I have be too well drill in such matter by my sister

to intrude where I be not want.”



“really your lordship be most kind,” exclaim Alice, all her scruple

vanish before his good-nature and consideration. and there be

nothing for it but to take his arm (relinquish somewhat hastily by

Celeste when she discover that it be a _Milor Anglais_ with whom

she have make so free) and allow he to put she into the well-appoint

brougham, Alice do so with an interesting succession of smile and

blush which make she look most dangerously pretty. thereupon the two

hundred guinea horse, which be so thoroughly stuff with oat that it

might almost as well have be a corn-bin, and which, be an animal of

the high breeding, have evince such an amount of disgust and terror

at the hiss, snort, whistling, and other low habit of the steam

dragon, that nothing but the strong sense of propriety and a very

severe curb-bit could have keep it from run away, stand on its hind

leg like a Christian, vindicate its transcendentalism by salaam

like a Turk ere it resume its quadrupedal attitude, and finally set

off, at about the rate of fifteen mile an hour, with its head and tail

as erect as if some invisible giant be attempt to lift it up by

they.









CHAPTER XXXI.--SPIDERS and fly.



“my dear Kate, I think your cousin, Mrs. Coverdale, have just drive

up; and yet I don’t know. be it likely, or, as I may say, probable, that

she should arrive in a brougham?”



“with a high-step horse, and a coronet on the panels?--scarcely, I

should imagine.”



the speaker be Mr. Crane, who have grow rather less like a

scaffold-pole since we last be favour with his society, and Horace

D’Almayne, who appear quite himself and quite at home. attract by

their remark, Kate join her husband at the window.



“it cann’t be they,” she say, “there be no luggage;” but, as if to

contradict her remark, at the moment she cease to speak a cab

dash into Park Lane with a _fair_ amount of imperial, cap-case,

portmanteau, carpet-bag, and other female travel _miscellania_,

and draw up behind the brougham. as it stop, a tall, handsome young

man spring out, and open the door of the brougham, offer his arm to

Alice, and conduct she up the step most carefully.



“why, that surely cannot be Mr. Coverdale; or, at least, if I may

be permit to say so, he have become singularly thin and--and

youthful-look, if it be,” bleat Mr. Crane.



“no, that be not Harry Coverdale,” return Kate, wonderingly, “nor do I

see anything of he either!”



“if Mrs. Coverdale have lose her husband, really she have find a most

attractive substitute--a--it almost seem one of the case in which such

a loss might be consider a gain,” lisp D’Almayne, in so low a

tone that Mr. Crane, who be nearly as slow of hear as he be of

understanding, do not catch the remark. “really quite a touching

farewell,” he continue, as Alice, ere she enter the house, shake

hand most cordially with her young cavalier; “and the gallant, gay

Lothario jump into the brougham (which, coronet, high-step horse,

and all, evidently call he master) and be lose to our admire gaze.”



at this juncture a fat and rosy butler (who look as if he have be

bring up by hand upon port wine, and have remain faithful to it ever

since) fling open the door, and announce Mrs. Coverdale.



throw off, for once in her life, all coldness and reserve, Kate

embrace her cousin warmly, and, hold she by both hand, lead she to

the sofa.



“my dear child,” she exclaim, “how delightful it be to see you once

again!”



“but if I may be permit,” begin Mr. Crane, “if I may be allow to

inquire, what have you do with--or perhaps I should rather say--what

have become of our good friend, Mr. Coverdale?”



“and how come you in a brougham with a coronet upon it? and who be

that handsome and distinguish-looking young exquisite whom you have

inveigle into play courier--eh, Mistress Alice?” inquire Kate,

archly. “I expect to find you a pattern wife, and to have your example

hold up for my imitation twenty time a day; but I have alarm myself

very unnecessarily, it seem.”



“don’t tease, dear,” be the reply; “it be all the fault of that silly

husband of mine: he get out at one of the station, and seduce by the

attraction of a restive horse, contrive to be out of the way when the

train start, and so I be force to do the good I could for myself.”



“which theory you reduce to practice by select the handsome young

man you could find as a _cavalier servente_,” return Kate, laugh.

“but who be your friend? I hope he be come to call upon you!”



“oh, yes, he mean to call--to-morrow I think he say. I’m glad you

consider he handsome: it’s always satisfactory to have one’s taste

approve of by one’s friend; and I honestly confess I admire he

particularly.”



Mr. Crane’s countenance, during this speech of Alice’s, be wonderful to

behold; the intense surprise with which he listen to the beginning of

it gradually change to the deep disgust as she continue, afford

such a clear index to his thought that Horace D’Almayne turn away

to hide an irrepressible smile, which Kate perceiving, observe with a

slight shade of annoyance.--



“and now, having mystify we thoroughly, be kind enough to tell we who

the gentleman really be, and how he come to offer you his brougham and

his service.”



thus appeal to, Alice be oblige to confess that, in point of fact,

there be nothing wrong or romantic in the adventure from begin

to end--that Lord Alfred Courtland be an old schoolfellow of her

husband’s, who have travel in the same carriage with they, and who have

naturally do all he could to save she from be inconvenience by the

effect of Harry’s stupidity, on which she dwelt rather more at length

than Kate approve of,--that young lady have a very keen perception of

right and wrong, although she by no mean always act up to the light

thus afford she.



some few hour later Harry arrive, very anxious about his wife, and

decidedly crest-fall and penitent, and bear all the quizzing which

fall to his share with most exemplary patience; although any attempt

to excite his jealousy in regard to Lord Alfred Courtland prove a dead

failure, his reply be that “he be always a very good little boy, and

that he do not see much difference in he except in height.”



when the Coverdales go up to dress for dinner the follow dialogue

ensued:--



“how well your cousin Kate be look,” observe Harry; “the pomp and

vanity of this wicked world appear to agree with she; now she have

grow a little stouter, she really be a splendid woman.”



“yes, she appear in well health,” return Alice, slowly, “but--”



“but what?” inquire Harry. “a woman’s ‘but’ be like the postscript

to her letter; it unsay all she have say before. come, out with this

_arrière pensée_, as that puppy D’Almayne would call it. by-the-way, he

seems regularly domesticate here. I wonder old Crane like it; I should

not, in his position, I know.”



“I wonder Kate like it,” return Alice; “however, my ‘but’ have nothing

to do with the fascinating horace. I be go to say that although Kate

look well, yet she have a listless, weary expression of countenance,

which give I the idea that, with all her rich and splendour, she be

far from happy.”



“the same be a result rather to be expect than otherwise, when

a lovely and talented young female see fit to espouse an elderly and

feeble-minded old scarecrow,” rejoin Harry, make frantic dive

into his portmanteau, and fish up patent bootjack, miraculous

razor-strop--everything but the dress-neck-tie he be in search of.



“I don’t believe they see anything of Arthur,” continue Alice,

reflectively; “I ask Kate, and she seem to know nothing about

he--such friend as they use to be at one time--it’s very odd!”



“I don’t see the oddness, myself,” return Harry, speak through

his dressing-room door, which stand ajar; “there be a great difference

between feel spooney about a pretty cousin, when you’re live in the

house with she, and have nothing well to do, and dangle after she

to the neglect of your business, when she live at one end of London and

you at the other--when, moreover, she’s married to a dreadful old muff,

antiquate enough to be her father, and slow enough to be the father of

every fool in the kingdom. I think it’s easily account for by

prose mean, without adopt the poetical hypothesis of a romantic

attachment--two fond young heart blight, and all that ‘keepsake’

style of business; besides, Arthur’s a great deal too good a lawyer

to fall in love; it’s only idle fellow like myself who commit such

folly.”



“you must go and call on Arthur to-morrow, and you will soon perceive

by his manner whether he be averse to come here; but mind you be very

careful not to let he see that you suspect anything; I be quite sure he

would be most sensitive on such a point,” observed Alice, in a tone in

which you would caution a schoolboy against play with gunpowder.



“keep your advice for you own benefit, most sententious Alice, see

that you be the suspecting party, and that such an idea would never

have occur to my unassisted reason,” be Harry’s rejoinder; and the

dinner-bell at that moment ringing, the conversation cease.



the next day, however, Arthur put an end to the controversy by make

his appearance in Park Lane soon after luncheon. although no one allude

to the circumstance, it be the first time he have set his foot in Mr.

Crane’s house, or indeed see Kate since her marriage. he look pale

and over-work, and there be a restless excitement in his manner,

which Alice’s quick eye at once discover. beyond this, however, there

be nothing which tend in the slight degree to confirm she in her

suspicion. he apologise quietly and naturally to Kate for not having

call oftener, adduce business as a good and sufficient reason for

his remissness; then, turn to Alice, he inform she that she could

not have choose a more unfortunate time for her visit to London, at

least, as far as he be concern, as he be oblige to start the next

morning for Naples, be send out by the Foreign-Office on an affair

of some importance, which, if he could bring the matter to a successful

issue, might tend to his ultimate advancement. Kate, on the contrary,

appear nervous and ill at ease, and probably feel that for once

she could not rely on her self-command, take an early opportunity of

quit the room, leave the brother and sister _tête-à-tête_.



“Alice, you be change,” exclaim Arthur, as the door close on she

whom he have once so deeply love, towards whom he now feel as we can

only feel towards those whom we have admit into the inmost recess

of the heart, and who have avail themselves of the privilege to

profane and make desolate the sanctuary, “you be a girl, you have

become a woman; have matrimony produce the alteration?”



“yes, I suppose so,” be the rejoinder. “you know one cann’t remain a

child always; the reality of life be sure to find one out soon or

later, and I be a mere baby in the way of the world when I marry.”



there be a spice of regret in the tone of this remark, which do not

escape Arthur’s quick ear and keen intelligence, and he hasten to

reply--



“you mean more than you say; why, surely, Alice, with such a husband you

must be perfectly happy; it be impossible that it can be otherwise.”



as he speak, he fix his dark eye questioningly upon she. unable

fairly to meet his gaze, Alice turn away her head, as she reply,

with an effort at careless gaiety--



“don’t alarm yourself, most romantic of barrister; there be no

Bluebeard’s closet at Coverdale, nor do Harry turn into a skeleton,

or anything else but his bed, at twelve o’clock at night. he be just the

thoroughly good fellow (that be the term you man delight in) he always

be, and devote to----



“his wife!” interrupt Arthur.



“well, I be go to say dog, gun, and horse,” return

Alice; “and I’m afraid I must adhere to my text, unless you prefer

fiction to fact.”



she speak jestingly; but the line which care, and think, and

intellectual exertion have already trace on Arthur’s brow deepen, as,

after a pause, he murmur, half in reply to Alice, half in soliloquy--



“I be disappointed, deeply disappointed; it ought to be so different!

I--I wish I be not go abroad to-morrow; and yet I _could_ not be a

frequent visitor in this house!”



the last word be inaudible, though, by one of those intuition which

often compensate for the inefficiency of our physical power, Alice

divine his train of reasoning, and with subtle generalship divert the

attack, by carry the war into the enemy’s country, as she replied--



“do not puzzle your brain about I and Harry; we jog on very serenely

together, now we have find out each other’s peculiarity.”



“but you never _have_ any peculiarity, either of you,” interrupt

Arthur, positively; “except that Harry be the fine, noblest, manly

fellow going, and you be a good, simple-hearte, sweet-temper little

girl. what do you mean by peculiarity?”



“never mind we,” continue Alice, not heed his interruption; “I want

to know something about you. you say I have change from a child into

a woman, but you have turn from a young man into a middle-aged one

during these last six month; you be either ill or unhappy, or work

yourself to death--all three, perhaps.”



“oh, you be fanciful, and not use to the pale face of we Londoners,”

 return Arthur.



“you cannot put I off in that manner,” continue Alice, pertinaciously;

“people do not look ill and careworn without some cause for do so.

how be it, pray, that you never come here? so fond as you use to be of

Kate, too! I expect to find you regularly instal as _l’enfant de

famille_. do you know I begin to have my suspicions----”



“hush!” interrupt Arthur, in a low, stem voice; “whatever you may

suspect, never refer to this subject again, there be some sorrow in

life for which there be _no_ remedy; these must be endure and struggle

with in silence, for so only _can_ they be bear. if you would not give

I pain, forget that this idea ever occur to you.”



as he speak his pale face flushed, and his lip quiver with the emotion

he strove, but be unable entirely to conceal.



“forgive I, dear Arthur!” exclaim Alice, whilst tear of ready

sympathy glisten in her eye; “I speak carelessly--foolishly: indeed,

indeed, I do not mean to give you pain! but you be not angry with I?”



as she speak she lay her hand caressingly on his shoulder and glance

up in his face with a beseech look, which would have melt the most

flinty-hearted stoic. Arthur draw she to he, and kiss her smooth

brow, in token of forgiveness, ere he replied--



“before we quit this subject, never to resume it, let I say this much

to you: in this matter I have nothing to reproach myself with; as far as

I have be able to see what be right, I have act up to it. this be

my only comfort. that I have suffer much, I will not attempt to deny;

but I be thankful to say the blow, though severe, have not paralyse I.

the sunshine of my life may be destroy for year, perhaps for ever,

but my vigour and energy be leave I, and I will yet make myself a name,

and win myself a position that the mere possession of wealth can never

bestow. now, forget that this conversation ever take place.”



as he speak the door fly open, and Harry and Lord Alfred Courtland,

having encounter each other at the club, make their appearance

arm-in-arm, like a pair of well-grow siamese twin, and Alice be

dispatch all in a hurry to put on her “thing,” to be take to a

private view of the annual exhibition of the Society of Amalgamated

amateur in Water-colour, whom Harry irreverently paraphrase as the

“Amalgamated Muffs;” a definition the truth of which a close inspection

of the effort of those mild and amiable caricaturist do not tend to

disprove. as they stroll up and down the room, wait for Kate and

Mr. Crane, who have promise to join they, Lord Alfred,--on whose arm

Alice be lean, and who have be rattle on with great volubility,

and in the high possible spirits,--suddenly observed--



“I do find myself such a complete country cousin in London, that really

it’s quite ridiculous! I meet all sort of celebrity, and don’t know

one of they by sight. now, for instance, do you see that pair of young

exquisite lounge elegantly along, like a couple of self-enamour

sleep-walker, and dress like beatific vision of dandy, rather

than mere sublunary fop? I’m sure I’ve meet the young of they

somewhere--he with the _petite moustache noire_, which be so

irresistible that I should certainly cultivate a pair myself, if I do

not feel morally certain that my prejudiced progenitor would cut they,

and I, off with the same shilling.”



“in fact, cut off his _h_eir because you would not cut off your,”

 pun Coverdale. “but in regard to your beatific swell, I fancy Alice

can enlighten you as to the patronymic of one of they, if she choose;

he be a very particular friend, to say nothing more, of her. she only

marry I because she fail in captivate he.”



Alice reply to Lord Alfred’s expressive look, which ask as plainly

as word could have do, “be this _all_ jest, or be there a small

foundation of fact for it to rest upon?”--“If that have be my only

reason for accept my romancing husband, I should have remain Miss

Hazlehurst still; however, I plead guilty to know Mr. D’Almayne,

as he happen to be an intimate friend of Mr. Crane, the gentleman who

marry my cousin Kate, and in whose house we be now stay.”



while they thus chat, the follow conversation be be carry

on in French between the subject of their remark and his companion, a

showily-dress man, some half-dozen year old than Horace D’Almayne,

with handsome feature, but a worn, dissipate look, which involuntarily

prejudice one against he. he speak with a thoroughly foreign accent,

and the animate gesture with which he seek to elucidate his meaning

also tend to prove he be not a native of this country.



“the plan have be work out,” he continue, refer to some subject

with which D’Almayne appear acquaint, “and with _his_ name as

director, and £1000 ready money to pay clerk, and establish the concern

on a respectable foundation, the affair will go charmingly; John Bull

shall buy our share and hand we his money, and in six month’ time,

with that and”--here he sink his voice--“the club in J-------- Street,

we may set fortune at defiance.”



“mind you be careful about keep our connection with the club

secret,” return D’Almayne, almost in a whisper; “we be not in Paris,

remember; and the slight suspicion that we play, would be fatal to

your hope of induce man of capital to join the other affair.”



“do not fear, _mon cher_; I know my game,” be the reply. as he speak,

his eye fall upon the Coverdale party, and hastily indicate Lord

Alfred Courtland to his companion, he continue, “do you see that

striple? he be point out to I last night as a pigeon worth

plucking, and easily handle; he be a young _milor_, very soft, and what

you call ‘green.’ you must get introduce, and bring he to ‘the club.’”



“the boy be not of age yet,” return D’Almayne, “and english father

never pay gambling debt; so you must not hope for large gain from

he.”



“he can sign bill and post-obit I presume,” rejoin his companion,

with a sneer laugh; “but the people he be with be regard you as

if they be of your acquaintance--be it so?”



“decidedly,” be the reply. “I will effect the introduction you desire

at once, but as soon as it be over you must find an opportunity of

withdraw; I will join the party, feel my way cautiously, and you

shall see Milor Courtland’s childish face in J-------- Street before a

fortnight have pass. _Allons, mon cher._”



having offer two finger to Coverdale, and three to his wife,

D’Almayne glance towards Lord Alfred with a supercilious look, which

seem to express, “I perceive you, but on account of your extreme youth

and inexperience, be wholly indifferent to the fact of your existence;”

 at least so his lordship interpret it, and be immediately seize with

an eager desire to know the man who could thus afford to look down on

he.



“introduce I to your friend, will you, Coverdale?” he say; “I must

get he to give I a few lesson in dress and deportment; he really be a

second Brummell.”



“he really be a conceited, empty-head puppy,” return Coverdale,

_sotto voce_, “and it’s little good you’ll learn of a jackanape like

that; but I suppose if I don’t introduce you, somebody else would--so

come along.” then place his hand on his shoulder, and urge he

forward, he continued--“D’Almayne, here’s my friend, Lord Alfred

Courtland, wish to be introduce to you: he think it his duty to know

every well-dress man in London, and you’re so _facile princep_

in that line--so transcendently get up--that he’s die to ask your

tailor’s address, and the length of tick he allow.”



“you’re so oblige as to laugh at I, Mr. Coverdale, because I cannot

reconcile myself to your English Schneiders, and still patronise Blin

_et Fils_, in that paradise of tailor, Paris; but--ar--really you be

uncivilised in this particular, and require reform in your coat more

than in your constitution, which, glorious as you consider it, you be

always alter. do not Lord Alfred Courtland agree with I?” and as

he make this appeal, Horace D’Almayne simper, to show his white tooth,

stroke his moustache, and await a reply.



Ere Lord Alfred have find word to imply his admiration of Horace’s

taste, without pay he an actual broad and un-mistakeable compliment,

Harry put his idea to flight, by exclaiming--



“listen to a word of common sense, Alfred, my boy. man make coat--if

you can properly call a tailor a man--but coat can never make man. you

may dress an ass up in the grand lion-skin going, but you can make

nothing of he but an ass, nevertheless. in fact, I never believe a

man’s a man till I’ve see he with his coat off; then if he can use his

fist as a man should, I believe in he.”



“aha! I comprehend; ce monsieur refer to your english science of the

box. very clever science be the box; I be acquire he of a professeur,

who keep a restaurant, what you call a public-house, in Smissfiel.”



as D’Almayne’s companion thus speak, Horace seize the opportunity of

introduce he, which he do as follows:--



“allow I to make you acquainted with my friend, Monsieur Adolphe

Guillemard, a gentleman connect with the financial interest in

Paris, and with that of Europe generally.” then, in a stage whisper, he

added--“He be educate in Rothschild’s house.”



so Harry bow, and Lord Alfred bow, and Alice incline her head

in rather a stately manner, because she do not approve of Monsieur

Guillemard’s rove eye; and Monsieur Guillemard bow and scrape, and

lay his hand on his waistcoat, where his heart ought to have be, and

abase his unappreciated optic, and appear profoundly touch, and

anxious to weep on the bosom of society at large; and Mr. Crane, who

at that moment come up in his wife’s custody, not make allowance for

foreign manner, think he be in a fit. then Monsieur Guillemard draw

out his watch, and find he have an engagement at the Bourse, as he

be pleased to call the Stock Exchange; and so take leave of his new

acquaintance, squeeze both the yellow kid hand of his _cher_ Horace,

and with short, jaunty footstep, as of a male ballet-dancer, quit

the spacious gallery, sacred to the noble effort of the Amalgamated

amateur. and when he have depart, of course his friend begin to talk

he over. D’Almayne draw Mr. Crane aside, and relate to he wonderful

anecdote of his (Guillemard’s) skill in foresee political event

and their consequence, and the splendid hit he have thus make in

stock-jobbing for himself, and other who have wisely avail themselves

of his talent, and what Baron Rothschild have say and thought of he;

until Mr. Crane begin to imagine he an incarnation of Mammon, and

yearn to fall down and adore he on the spot. for, be it observe,

parenthetically, that Mr. Crane, albeit nominally a member of the

Established Church, be verily and indeed a worshipper of a certain

golden calf, to whose likeness he have for year strive earnestly,

and not unsuccessfully, to assimilate himself. and Harry remark

confidentially to Alice, Kate, and Lord Alfred, that he be prepared to

bet a pony that Guillemard be neither more nor less than a “leg,” and

that whoever have many dealing with he would be safe to put his or her

foot in it--which sentence sound like nonsense, but be only slang.

and Lord Alfred laugh, and reply that Harry say so because he be

jealous of the superior cut of Monsieur Guillemard’s garment. Alice

agree perfectly with her husband, which, Kate remark, be the most

original feature of the whole affair--an observation intend for a mild

and playful jest, but at which Alice blush, and Harry suddenly became

engross by a spirited sketch, in very water-colour, of Ophelia as she

appear when drown, which, accord to the talented representation

of Miss Appela Brown, H.S.A.A., be remarkably jolly, and slightly

inebriate--next to which hang a portrait of Miss Brown herself, seat

at her easel, her pre-raphaelite countenance beam with mingled talent

and astonishment on the picture grow beneath her gifted brush--a

compound expression, at which, as the subject be some demi-god, or

other mythical celebrity, in heroic muscular proportion strongly

develop, and nothing else, we can scarcely feel surprise. then the

whole party devote their serious attention to the performance of

the amalgamate one, and be reward by behold many fearful and

wonderful thing. there be “young gentleman take from life,” and

transport by amalgamate magic into the region of romance--an

_un_likeness of Snook’s ruddy face be affix to Hamlet’s velvet

body, or Mary Ann Jones’s very _retroussé_ profile head Joan of Arc’s

steel bodice, and a select squadron of twelve french soldier in green

hunting-coat and fancy hat and feather, prepare to “_mourir pour la

patrie_” to any extent which the say Mary Ann might require of they.

then there be landscape with gamboge foreground, pasture comical

cow of shape and colour unknown to zoology; and middle distance,

gloomy with indigo tree, and cast-iron rivulet purl rigidly over

wild rock, suggest by bald place, show the naked paper through

a severe application of sepia and neutral tint. ferocious battle be

there also, design by gentle girl, who have never witness so much

as a street row, wherein gallant Henri Quatre-like party, with slim

waist, feminine complexion, and white wave plume, slaughter

strong man in funny dress, and prance over their dead body with the

most heroic magnanimity and indifference. then there be Mount Vesuvius

during an eruption, which, to judge by the colouring, must have be the

eruption attendant on scarlet fever; and Mont Blanc well iced, show

the _mer de glace_ (the most difficult mare to mount on record, as “we

know who” would say), and the last batch of proselyte from the Egyptian

Hall slide serenely down on their haunch, as wolf be _report_

to do, only the proselyte appear to have get the “advantage” of the

wolf, by reason of their coat-tail. scripture piece, too, have some

of these rash amateur perpetrate, wherein “daughter of Babylon”

 appear like the _corps de ballet_, and king, prophet, and

patriarch have evidently find their prototype in Mario, Lablache,

and Tamburini--a fact which afford Horace D’Almayne an opportunity of

observe that it be charming to perceive in England the amiability of

the Muses; as Apollo, the divinity of painting, instead of be drive

to rugged nature for material, or, bad still, compel to fall back

upon his own power of invention, be obligingly supply with they by

Melpomene and Thalia; which same he and Mr. Crane think a very smart

say--the former because he have make it himself, the latter because he

do not understand it.



as they stroll on through the gallery, Kate take an opportunity, when

Mr. Crane have relinquish her arm, in order to adjust his great-coat

more to his satisfaction, to lag behind a few pace, glance at

D’Almayne as she do so, who immediately join she.



“I have make the inquiry you wish,” he say in a low tone, “and I

be truly glad to be able to assure you your sympathy have fall on a

deserving object; the poor woman be as she represent herself--a widow,

with a family of young child depend upon she for support, and her

poverty be extreme.”



“many thank for take so much trouble,” return Kate, in a tone of

voice more cordial than she generally use towards her companion; “and

now tell I how good I can assist they.”



“I have a plan, but can scarcely give you the detail here; when would

it be agreeable to you to”--(here his eye rest for a moment on Mr.

Crane, contend with a button-hole)--“to resume the subject, and give

I your opinion on my scheme?”



Kate reflect a moment, during which she struggle with an instinctive

feeling, and deem it reasonless, conquer it, then replied--



“if you should be disengage at eleven o’clock to-morrow, and would look

in, I should be very much oblige to you.”



while this conversation pass between Kate and D’Almayne, they have

be themselves the subject of observation to a party of stranger,

who, come probably from the country, have not yet attune their voice

to the requirement of London sightseeing. accordingly, the follow

remark be distinctly audible to those for whom, of all other, they

be not intend.



“what a lovely young woman!” observe Mater Familias; “I suppose the

mustachioed gentleman be she _futur_.”



“she don’t look over love at he, if he be,” grumble Pater F.



“perhaps that be because her father (regard Mr. Crane) be so close,

and do not approve of the match,” suggest Sarah Jane, the eld

daughter, to Louisa Anne, her sub----



“_Au contraire_,” remark the intelligent London cousin, a clerk in

the Ignorance and Delay Office, who be popularly suppose to

know everything and everybody; “the old boy be a rich Manchester

cotton-spinner, and the young lady his wife; she marry he for his

tin, and half London be rave about her beauty.”



“poor thing!” mutter Mater Familias, who, for fifty-two, be

unusually romantic--“poor thing, how I pity she!”



while listen to these agreeable remark, D’Almayne have keep his eye

steadily fix upon an amalgamate catalogue, desirous not to add

to Kate’s embarrassment; but at length, surprised at her silence and

immobility, he venture to glance towards she, and be alarmed to

perceive that she have turn pale to her very lip, while she grasp

the brass rail, which be place to protect the picture, convulsively,

in order to save herself from fall. any one with less tact than

D’Almayne would, in officious eagerness to assist she, have make a fuss,

and cause she to become the subject of general attention; but Horace

know well how to turn the situation to account; hand she a chair,

he say quietly--



“the heat have make you feel faint; sit down for a moment, and perhaps

the feeling may pass off.”



as Kate hasten to follow his suggestion, she glance towards he,

to read in his feature whether he also have overhear the conversation

which have affect she. whether his subtle intellect have lead he to

divine her intention, and he be enact the character he consider

most likely to tell with Kate, or whether he be merely obey a

natural impulse, we do not attempt to decide; suffice it to state that,

when she look at he, he be scowl after the amiable family, whose

conversation have cause the embarrassment, with so angry an expression

of countenance, that a fear seize his companion lest he should be about

to do something indignant and foolish, which might attract attention

to she, and produce the scene she dread. a moment’s reflection on

his cautious, prudent character, would have prove to she the

unreasonableness of such a fear; but she speak without allow herself

this--



“what be you go to do?” she say, in a hurried whisper: “you _can_

take no notice of--of----;” and unable to find word to express she

meaning, she pause in confusion. D’Almayne finish her sentence for

her:--



“----Of those people’s ignorance of the usage of society? no, I be

not so inconsiderate; pardon I that I allow you to see my just

indignation, but for the moment I be completely carry away by

feeling. now,” he continue, “if you can make the effort, let we join

the other; no one have, as yet, observe your indisposition.”



by way of reply, Kate rise and take his proffered arm.



“get they away from this place,” she say, hurriedly; “I shall suffocate

if I remain here long.”



Horace bow assent, and after exchange a few indifferent remark with

Alice and Lord Alfred Courtland, turn to Mr. Crane, observing--



“will you forgive I for plead the cause of one of your new

carriage-horse? the coachman tell I it have a slight cough; and it

will scarcely tend to get rid of the ailment to wait too long in this

pierce east wind.”



“no, indeed,” cheruppe Mr. Crane; “and a horse that cost a hundred and

thirty pun (he mean pound!) must not be injure, even, if I may be

allow to say so, to please the lady.” and having speak, straightway

he fall into a fidget; so that, in less than two minute, the noble

production of the Amalgamated Amateurs become as a dream of the past to

our _dramatis personæ_.



on reach the street, with his wife hang on his arm, Mr. Crane, ere

he place she in the carriage, thus address his domestic--



“why, coachman, you never tell I one of the horse have a cough.”



as he speak, Kate, perfectly understand that the horse’s cough be an

invention of D’Almayne’s, to enable they to get away from the gallery in

accordance with her wish, involuntarily glance towards he. but

where manœuvring and _finesse_ be require, Horace be quite in his

element. catch the attention of the servant (whom he have himself

recommend) by a fictitious attack of the malady under which the

quadrupe be suppose to labour, he, by an almost imperceptible

contraction of the eyelid, telegraph his wish, ensure their

fulfilment by suggestively tap the silver head of his cane, to

express that in that metal should his compliance be reward; so Mr.

Crane be glibly inform that his horse have suffer under a bronchial

affection for about the space of four day, more or less; but that

he, the coachman, having apply an invaluable specific, know only to

himself, have not consider the matter sufficiently serious to trouble

his master withal;--for which reticence he bear meekly Mr. Crane’s

peevish rebuke, console by the expectation of five shilling the next

morning from Horace D’Almayne.



the polished boot of that good young man trod upon rose rather than

granite, as he amble down Pall Mall; for, by mean of those trifle

which make the sum of human thing, he have achieve a great and

almost unhope-for success--he have succeed in establish a private

understanding with the young and beautiful wife of the millionaire!









chapter XXXII.--A glimpse at the GREEN-EYED MONSTER.



having console himself by a canter in Rotten row, for the minor

martyrdom he have undergo in his pursuit of the fine-art, as

misrepresent by the Amalgamated Amateurs, Harry make the good of his

way to Park Lane. as he enter, a note be hand to he by the pompous

butler, who take the opportunity to inform he, in a voice husky with

the bee’s-wing, from which his throat be never entirely free, that

“dinner would be serve in a quarter of an hour.”--“Then I’ve no time to

lose,” be the reply, and without look at the note, Harry dash

up stair, three step at a time. on reach his room, however, and

find that Alice’s toilet be by no mean in an alarming state of

forwardness, he recover his composure, and open the note; it run as

follows:--



“on my arrival here two hour ago, I be surprised and embarrass by

hear that you and _your bride_ be stay in the house. have I be

aware of this fact, I need scarcely tell you I would have delay make

my appearance until your visit should have end. but, although I know

you have marry a connection of Mrs. Crane, such a probability never

occur to I. however, it be not likely that, mix in the same

grade of society, we should pass through life without ever again

encounter each other; and I be still weak enough to dread our first

meeting, and to wish it over. I know your generous nature, and feel

the utmost confidence that the past will remain a secret between we. it

will, perhaps, be well--easy for we both, not to pretend to meet

as stranger. an accidental travel acquaintance will sufficiently

account for our know the same place, people, &c. for your own sake,

as well as mine.



“I implore you to be careful--I have never forget your advice, and

have strive to act upon it--but mine be a rebellious nature. destroy

this note as soon as you have read it.



“Arabella.”



with stern compress lip and knitted brow, Harry peruse this

mysterious epistle, and when he have finish it, crush it in his hand

and throw it on the fire with a gesture of impatience.



“your letter do not seem to please you,” observe Alice; “do it come

from a dun, or be there a screw loose (don’t I get on with my slang!) in

the stable or the kennel?”



absorb in thought, Harry make she no reply, until, surprised and

slightly annoyed at his silence, she resumed--



“have the mysterious epistle stricken you dumb, or have we become so

thoroughly matrimonial, that you don’t consider it worth while to

answer your wife when she ask you a question?”



“eh! what? I beg your pardon, dear, the letter? no it be not from a

dun. I never be prey upon by those vampire, thank Heaven; ‘out of

debt, out of danger,’ have always be my motto,” reply Coverdale,

rouse from his reverie.



“if it be not from a dun, whom be it from then?” continue Alice,

pertinaciously.



“you be singularly curious all of a sudden,” rejoin Harry; “all

I shall tell you about the matter be that the note refer to a

disagreeable affair which happen three or four year ago, and which I

have hope be entirely pass and forget.”



“and having raise my curiosity thus, do you actually mean to say that

you will not gratify it far?” inquire Alice.



“as you can have no good reason for ask, and as I have a very good

and sufficient one for keep my own counsel, I be afraid I must leave

you in ignorance,” be Harry’s tantalizing reply.



Alice glance at his face, and read there that he be in earnest,

and mean to act on what he have say, pout like a spoilt child who have

be refuse some coveted plaything, while Coverdale betake himself to

his dressing-room in a “who-the-deuce-would-have-think-of-she-turn-up!”

frame of mind, from which he have by no mean recover when, with

his wife, still mildly vindictive, hang on his arm, he descend to

the drawing-room.



there they find Mr. and Mrs. Crane, and a lady whom Kate introduce as

her old and particular friend, Miss Crofton. having bow to Alice, Miss

Crofton turn towards Harry, observe to Kate, as she do so--



“I have never have the pleasure of meeting _Mrs_. coverdale before; but

Mr. Coverdale and I be old acquaintance; when I be travel in

Italy with the Muirs. Mr. Coverdale be also indulge his taste for

the fine-art, and we encounter each other at several point of the

route.”



as she speak she hold out her hand to Coverdale, who, after a moment’s

hesitation, and with a slight accession of colour, just touch and

immediately relinquish it, say, in a cold but polite tone of

voice--



“do you know whether the Muirs be in England now, Miss Crofton?”



as the person address remark his look and tone, she press her lip

together so forcibly that every trace of red vanish from they; but

repress all other sign of emotion, she reply to his question. then

take a seat next Alice, she begin cultivate her good grace with

a degree of tact and talent which evince her power of shine in

society, and deserve more success than it appear to meet with.



Arabella Crofton be a handsome woman of thirty, look young than

her age. she be tall, and her figure be fully develop without be

actually _embonpoint_. her hand and foot, although proportion to she

height, be beautifully model, and the former unusually white and

soft. in feature she resemble Kate, so much so that she have more

than once be mistaken for her former pupil’s eld sister; but the

_expression_ of the two face be totally dissimilar. in Kate Crane

a fiery passionate nature be keep under control by an equally strong

degree of pride, and an amount of self-respect which serve she in place

of a high principle; in Arabella Crofton lie conceal even a great

depth of passion, but its sole antagonist be an intellect keen, strong,

and acute, though not of the high order, and a determination of

will and fixity of purpose which, while it lead she straight towards the

object she seek, render she somewhat unscrupulous as to the mean by

which it be to be attain; and as the mind usually write itself more

or less legibly on the countenance, so do the expression differ in Kate

and her late governess. still Miss Crofton’s be a face to attract and

rivet attention, a face which exercise a species of fascination over

those who behold it, so peculiar that it be not easy to define it.

as you gaze upon it, you feel that you be in the presence of an

intelligence of no common order, but of whose nature, hope, fear,

wish, and design, you be entirely ignorant--nay, in regard to which

you could not decide whether the good or evil principle predominate. in

this sense of power with which she impress other, together with the

uncertainty how it might be direct, lie the secret of much of Arabella

Crofton’e influence. Alice, not be metaphysical, do not attempt to

define the sensation with which her new acquaintance inspire she; have

she do so, it might have appear that she have form much the

same estimate of her manner and appearance as that with which we have

furnish the reader. but if Alice do not moralize, she arrive at

strong and definite conclusion without that process, for before she have

be half an hour in Miss Crofton’s company, she feel morally

convinced that she should hate she, and that it would turn out that the

_ci-devant_ governess either have do, or be about to do, something

which would completely account for and justify this sudden animosity.



during dinner, a note arrive from Lord Alfred Courtland, offer

Alice and Harry seat in his opera-box, which offer, after a few polite

speech to and from Mr. Crane, in his (in?) capacity as master of

the house, be accept. as they drive to the theatre, the follow

conversation pass between the husband and wife, the lady of course

begin it.



“what a detestable woman that Miss Crofton be! I’m sure I shall never

be able to endure she. I see now where Kate’s fault come from. Miss

Crofton have teach she to be worldly-minded, and ambitious, and all

sort of horrid thing which she never use to be; and the creature be

an old acquaintance of your, too! do you know she well--intimately?”



“eh? yes! I see a good deal of she at one time. how slow this fellow

drive, we shall lose the overture!” be Harry’s reply, which, if he

intend thereby to change the subject of the conversation, prove a

dead failure, for Alice continued:--



“oh! then you be not mere acquaintance, as she try to make out! I

think she ben’t speak the truth. well, and do you like her?--I

dare say you do, for I feel sure she be in love with you; indeed I

think she be still, by the way she cast down those great rolling eye

of hers whenever you say a word to she. I declare I feel quite jealous.”



Coverdale pause for a moment, ere he reply: “my dear Alice, you speak

thoughtlessly, but you do not know how such remark annoy I--fault I

have, and more serious, one than until lately I be at all aware of;

but to suppose that since I first see you, I have ever devote one

minute’s thought to any other woman breathing, would be to do I a foul

injustice.” Alice perceive, from his manner of speak, that her vague

suspicion have really pain he, and have no other ground for

they but an instinct which she confess to herself to be utterly

unsanctione by reason, she determine to confess her sin and obtain

absolution. this be in many case a tedious and difficult operation, but

when individual be on those easy and agreeable term which sometimes

last so long as a year after marriage, the process become greatly

facilitate. thus, by a little graceful and appropriate pantomime, Alice

cause it to be understand that she feel deeply penitent, and in a state

of mental self-accusation only to be allay by a remedy consist (as

some light-minded jester have phrase it), like a sermon, of “two head

and an application.” when this specific for female grief have be duly

administer by Harry, peace be for the time restore, and the evening

pass away most harmoniously in every sense of the word.









CHAPTER XXXIII.--TELEMACHUS and MENTOR.



the Opera-house be very full and proportionably hot on the evening

when Coverdale and his wife visit it (it be the _début_ of the

since famous Signora Bettimartini), Alice, unused to London gaiety,

and uneasy from the suspicion she could not contrive to banish,

acquire a headache, which, when she go to bed, prevent she from

fall asleep. thus, be anxious to court without loss of time

nature’s sweet restorer, of course she choose the most vexatious and

exciting topic she could select as a subject of thought, and begin to

speculate on all the evidence she could call to mind in regard to her

husband’s relation, past and present, towards Arabella Crofton, who,

as the reader must have perceive, be just at that especial epoch poor

little Mrs. Coverdale’s _bête noire_. the first circumstance she could

recollect to form the initial link in her chain of evidence, be Harry’s

inquiry about she when Alice casually mention her name during the

halcyon day of their honeymoon. in this conversation, Harry have

confess to a previous acquaintance with Miss Crofton, and when press

far, add that he know no good of she, or word to that effect. his

manner, Alice remember, be so peculiar that her curiosity have be

at once excited, or as she mentally put it, that “naturally she feel she

husband ought immediately to have tell she everything about it--_she_

have no concealment from he, she be sure.” follow up this train

of thought, another instance of this unkind and unflattering want of

confidence occur to she--the mysterious epistle which he have receive

that very afternoon, which have annoy he so much, and about which he

have refuse to afford she any explanation; and here a new idea flash

like an infernal inspiration across her brain--could that note be in

any way connect with Miss Crofton’s arrival? “yes! it must be so.” she

remember when they enter the drawing-room, and she have feel surprise

at find a stranger there, Harry seem to take it as a matter of

course: good reason why, he know it previously--this hateful woman, this

detestable creature, Arabella Crofton, have write to he privately,

inform he of her arrival! oh! she see it all; and how she would try

to wean his affection away from his poor wife--his poor, neglect,

betray wife! and succeed most likely--man be such fickle, wicked

thing; and then it would break her heart, _that_ there could be no

question of and she should die in the course of a year--in six

month, very likely, for she ben’t at all strong though she have a

colour--consumptive people always have brilliant complexion--think of

her poor aunt Kitty! and Harry would be sorry when it be too late,

perhaps. and so, draw a vivid picture of her repentant husband

grieve over her untimely decease, she cry herself to sleep, bedew

with her tear the “fickle, wicked thing,” calmly slumber at her

side; who straightway dream that, be out hunting, and ride

a young thorough-breed, he have charge a brook, and that his horse,

refuse it, have pitch he head foremost into its rapid water.



a month soon elapse--the London season be at its height. everybody

have be everywhere, and be go again; Grisi and Mario have arrive,

recover from sea-sickness and british catarrh, and “surpass

themselves” in their favourite character. a mob of costly equipage

jostle each other round Hyde Park every afternoon; carriage-horse,

deprive of their sleep o’nights, begin to grieve coachman’s heart

by reveal the position of their rib; young lady from the Country

dance away their rose and their _embonpoint_; man whose book for the

Derby be at all “shy” tremble in their patent-leather boot; the glory

of the lilac in the square have depart; water-cart make unpleasant

canal of the principal thoroughfare; the Honourable Mrs. Windsor Soape

have present her young daughter at the last drawing-room, and try

without success to stuff she down the throat of several eligible

eld son; Lady Close Shaver have inveigle an hundred and seventy

unfortunate into her hot drawing-room, bore they with Signor

Violini’s scientific rendering of Beethoven’s sonata in a b C minor,

poison they with bad ice and bad Champagne, and turn they out

to grass upon lobster salad, of which the principal feature be the

unaccountable absence of lobster: these, and many other misery,

attendant on the “joy of our dancing day,” have be gladly suffer

by the fanatical votary of the Juggernaut of Fashion, and still the

coverdale linger within the precinct of the modern Babylon. Lord

Alfred Courtland having receive a summon to join his family at

Leghorn, have refuse to obey it on the plea of ill health, back by

a physician’s opinion, which cost one guinea, and be worth----! well,

really, in this case it _be_ worth something, for it save Lord Alfred

a lecture, and he dislike be lecture, even for his good--silly

young man! so he stay in town, do as other folk do, and hope

thereby to become a man of fashion; but, as he only act like other

people, and do nothing very clever, or very foolish, or very wrong, he

by no mean succeed in obtain the reputation he covet. with this

consciousness of failure before his eye, he one night lounge dismally

out of his stall at the Opera, and be proceed with deject step

along the lobby, when he suddenly encounter Horace D’Almayne, well

dressed and well pleased with himself than ever.



“well meet, my lord; I be just wish for an agreeable companion,” be

his complimentary salutation. “I be naturally a sociable animal; if you

have no well employment, will you take pity on I for an hour or so?”



deeply impressed with such unexpected condescension, and overcome by

the transcendant cut of D’Almayne’s waistcoat, nothing remain for Lord

Alfred but gratefully to consent; which he accordingly do. link his

arm in that of his companion, D’Almayne continued:--



“you be look _triste, ennuyé_; have Grisi develop a cold, or

Cerito a corn? be it opera or ballet which have thus bore you?”



“neither one nor the other,” be the reply; “though even opera cease to

excite after one have grow accustomed to they.”



“yes! that be true; except to an educated musician” (and D’Almayne

look as if he humbly trust that he be equal to Mendelssohn, at the

very least), “I can conceive they grow tedious; but,” he continue, “you

should seek some more exciting amusement: mix in clever, witty society;

do thing--see thing; in fact, enjoy life as a young man with such

advantage of person and of station should do.”



“it may seem easy to you, who have achieve a reputation in the _beau

monde_, and can command any society you please, to accomplish this; but

it be the reverse of easy for a young man in these day, even if he have

a handle to his name, to persuade people that he have anything in he; in

fact I think a title stand rather in a young fellow’s way on enter

London life; people have somehow take to connect the idea of a lord

and a fool, until I believe they begin to think the term synonymous!”



“what a frightfully democratic opinion for one of your order to

promulgate!” return D’Almayne, smile at the disconsolate tone in

which Lord Alfred speak; “really you ought to have be bear on the

other side of the Channel; but I think I perceive your difficulty: you

do not care to be admit into society merely for your rank, but wish

to achieve a distinctive social reputation for yourself; be it not so?”



“yes! you have express my idea exactly; a great deal well than I

could have do myself,” be the reply. “and now tell I in what way be

this desirable consummation to be effect.”



“nothing be more easy. in the first place you require self-confidence;

let people see that you think yourself a fine fellow, and they will

begin to think so too. in the next place, take a decide line of some

kind, and adhere to it steadily; but, in order to be able to do so, be

careful, ere you select it, that it be in accordance with your natural

disposition and taste.”



“good general maxim,” return Lord Alfred; “and now to apply they to

the particular instance.”



D’Almayne pause for a moment ere he replied--



“if you really wish I to constitute myself your mentor, you must allow

I more opportunity of enjoy your society than I have hitherto

possess, and then, from time to time, I dare say I may be able to give

you a few hint which you may find practically beneficial; and as there

be nothing like make use of the present occasion, what say you to

allow I to introduce you to a kind of private club, where I and a

few of my particular set sometimes meet after the Opera, and while away

an hour or two with a hand at whist or écarté, or exchange our idea

on the topic of the day over a game of billiard; the stake be,

of course, suit to the measure of our purse, my own be an

uncomfortably shallow one. we be close to the entrance, shall we turn

in?”



after a moment’s hesitation, the result of an indefinite notion that he

be about to do something wrong, Lord Alfred consent; and D’Almayne

knock at the door of what look like a good private house. the portal

unclosed, and immediately shut again by some mysterious agency, for,

when they enter, no domestic be visible; and they proceed along

a passage to a second door cover with red baize, with a glass eye,

place Cyclop-like in the middle of its forehead, through which a human

face observe they for a moment, then disappear, and the red baize

door open and admit they of its own accord, as the outer one have

set it the example. follow his companion up a flight of stone stair,

at the top of which yet another baize door with a cyclopian optic

present itself, Lord Alfred Courtland hear the sound of laugh

and conversation, and in another moment find himself in a large,

well-light apartment, round which be disperse sundry small table,

at which be seat, in group of three or four, from a dozen

to fifteen man, all of whom be recruit exhausted nature with

Champagne, pine-apple ice, or more substantial viand, if their taste

incline they thereunto. place himself at an unoccupied table,

D’Almayne inquire in his most insinuating tone--“Champagne, Claret,

Johannisberg--what be your pet vanity, my lord?--_c’est affreux_, the

inefficient ventilation of that Opera-house. I be positively famish

with thirst, and must drown my enemy before Horace be himself again.”



“having obtain the privilege of consider you my mentor, I cannot

do well than avail myself of your valuable taste and experience in

the selection of a beverage,” return Lord Alfred, fall into his

companion’s humour with that dangerous facility which be at once his

bane and his great charm. so Champagne and ice, and biscuit, all

first-rate of their kind, be bring and discuss; and during the

demolition thereof, one or two intimate of D’Almayne, faultless in mien

and manner, lounge up, and be introduce to his lordship, and drank

wine dreamily, and talk smart nothing with a sleepy wittiness as of

inspire dormice; and otherwise exhibit symptom of that life-weary,

all-to-piece condition which very young man believe in as the _ne plus

ultra_ of modern dandyism; and Lord Alfred’s heart leap within he

as he think that now he have at last really begin “life,” and be in

a fair way to become a man-about-town. such wonderful being be we,

_ætatis_ nineteen!



when a man be thirsty nothing be easy than to drink a bottle of

Champagne without know it, perhaps even till the next morning;

I never hear of the delusion last long. whether Lord Alfred

Courtland drink more or less than a bottle on the occasion in question,

history relateth not, but certainly, when he rise and stroll into the

billiard-room, he felt considerably exhilarate, and eager to

achieve something “fast,” which might tend to impress his incipient

“about-townishness” in the mind of his fashionable acquaintance. thus,

hear the rattle of dice in a further apartment, he, to D’Almayne’s

surprise and amusement, declare billiard a bore, and whist “slow,” and

“vote” for something with a little more fun in it. so, “Dante-like,”

enter the infernal region, they very soon “know a bank whereon”

 much “wild _time_” have be waste, and an immense crop of wild oat

sown;--and off which certain proprietor have reap many golden sheaf,

while the sower themselves have gain only experience, teach they

how to take care of their money, about the time when their money be

all go, which must have be more improving than consolatory to the

“clean-out one.” then first upon Lord Alfred’s youthful ear fall

the command, diabolical in its persuasive eloquence, “_Faites le jeu,

monsieur!_” then timidly, and with feeling akin to those of mediæval

youth who, in the good old feudal time, sign uncomfortable compact

with the evil One, which never turn out satisfactorily for they even

in this world, do Lord Alfred stake his first guinea, and unfortunately

lose it. we say unfortunately, for have he win, and so come, see, and

conquer, he might have listen to the appeal of conscience which

just then be strive to make a coward of this neophyte man about

town; but, as matter stand, he feel a stern necessity to vindicate the

_sing froid_ with which he could support a run of ill luck; and play

again--win, double his stake--win; then, against D’Almayne’s advice,

stake his winning on “_le rouge_,” and that colour prove successful;

and then the gambler-spirit come upon he, and he play with a fierce

eagerness, and drink more Champagne, and play again, until two hour

later D’Almayne almost force he away from the table, and take he

home, flushed and excited, a winner of one hundred pound! poor boy! as

he leave that haunt of sordid vice and idle folly, he believe that he

have do something clever, and spirit, and manly, and long for the

next evening, when he might again distinguish himself; but could he have

foresee half the consequence of this, his first step in evil, or the

sorrow he be thereby bring upon true heart that love he, he would

have shrink from again cross the threshold, as though it be indeed

that of the hell which in their unseemly jest man term it.



rise late the next morning, he be inform that a gentleman be

wait to see he, and on enter the sitting-room, find Horace

D’Almayne in an easy-chair and an elegant attitude.



“I be anxious about you, _mon cher_” (they have grow wonder fully

familiar over their Champagne), “you appear so much excited last

night,” he begin, uncross his graceful leg, clothe in a seraphic pair

of _blin et Fils chef-d’œuvres_.



                   “sure such a pair be never see!”



“you seem so carry away by your enthusiasm that I think you would

not sleep, and thus venture to call at this unreasonable hour to see

how you be get on.”



“very kind and friendly of you, I’m sure,” return Lord Alfred, quite

overcome by such unhoped-for condescension on the part of his model

Mentor. “I suppose I do get rather excited, but I’m all right again

this morning,--at least I shall be,” he continue, as a dizzy swimming

in the head oblige he to grasp a chair-back for support, “as soon as I

have have a cup of coffee.”



“or if I might suggest, a bottle of Seltzer-water with a suspicion of

Cognac in it, be a much more efficient substitute: allow I to brew for

you;--may I ring the bell?”



receive the permission he seek, Horace act accordingly, and

when the servant appear, desire he (on a glance from Lord Alfred,

delegate all authority to he) to bring a bottle of Seltzer-water,

brandy, and a lemon. possess of these _desiderata_, he commence

shred off two or three delicate little spiral circle of lemon-peel,

like yellow watch-spring, then drop these into a brobdignagian

tumbler, warrant not to run over under any severity of effervescence,

he add thereunto a liqueur glass full of the pure (and strong)

Cognac. unwire the Seltzer-water, he allow it to draw its own cork

(for thus, under his skilful control, do the operation appear to be

perform), and, force it to explode into the tumbler, he present

the beverage, foam wildly, to Lord Alfred, who, at the risk of

immediate suffocation, drink it off in that rabid condition, and

providentially survive, declare himself greatly benefit by the

treatment. having thus re-invigorate his patient’s exhausted frame,

D’Almayne proceed to perform the same friendly office by his mind, and

very good counsel do he bestow upon he--only that his advice have

this peculiarity, viz., that whilst in word he recommend Lord

Alfred Courtland to bend his step in a northerly direction, that young

nobleman feel an unaccountable conviction that by proceed due south,

he should raise himself in the estimation of his Mentor and of all other

man of spirit. thus he hear, with a complacent smile, that D’Almayne

be surprised at the manner in which he have carry all before he at

the gaming-table on the previous evening; that every one imagine he

to be an old hand at such matter; and one individual, who be generally

suppose to make a very decent living by gambling, have declare his

conviction that Lord Alfred play on a system, and a deucedly clever

system too!--At all of which D’Almayne appear alarmed and uneasy, and

assure his friend that it be a very dangerous talent for a young man,

and that it would be a great relief to his mind if Lord Alfred would

promise never to go there again; to which his lordship reply by

light a cigar, hand the box to his mentor, and ask he whether

he consider he such an irreclaimable muff as not to be able to win

or lose a matter of a hundred pound without make a ninny of himself.

declare himself innocent of any such disrespectful innuendo, D’Almayne

also light a cigar (it be impossible in these piping time to

do anything without plenty of puffing), and these new ally grow

loquacious and confidential; but with this difference, that Lord Alfred

give his confidence, and Horace obligingly receive the sacred deposit.

thus, after a fair amount of the horticultural cruelty, clepe “beat

about the bush,” have be commit, that good young man be make

acquaint with the “secret sorrow,” which, as the reader be aware, be

with much success perform the part of the “worm I’ the bud” to Lord

Alfred’s “damask cheek.” as soon as Mentor thoroughly understand

the state of the case, which he do in an incredibly short space of

time--tact be so strongly develop in he that it almost amount to

intuition--he follow the advice of Polly in the “Beggar’s opera,” by

“ponder well” before he venture to prescribe for the complaint

of his Telemachus. having sit with bent brow until his cigar be

exhausted, he fling the end into the grate, smooth his beloved

moustache, and then speak oracularly:--



“you see, _mon cher_,” he begin, “you be take to the _rôle_ of a

_flâneur_, what you call a man-about-town, full early for an Englishman;

thus, the chief thing you want be self-confidence, without which a man

can neither do proper justice to himself nor to his position. now it

seem to I the good thing for you would be to get some pretty woman

of good station to take you in hand; you must try and establish a

flirtation with somebody.”



“_Cui bono?_” inquire Telemachus; “the governor would never stand I

marry for--oh! not for the next five year!”



“marry before you’re one-and-twenty! my dear fellow, what can have

put such a frightful idea into your head!” exclaim Mentor, aghast at

the supposition. “no, no; marriage be the last thing I should dream of

recommend, except quite as a _dernier ressort_. for which reason,

I be about to add, that the good practice to set you at ease with

yourself, and therefore with other people, will be to devote your

attention to some pretty and fashionable married woman;--there! don’t

look so awfully scandalize; of course I only mean a sentimental

and platonic affair--just enough to excite and interest you into

self-oblivion. when you once forget your _ipsissimus ego_--when, as that

pun friend of your, Mr. Coverdale, would say, you cease to mind

your _I_--all your anxiety in regard to popular opinion will vanish,

and you will soon find that with your face, figure, address, and

position, Lord Alfred Courtland will become the admired of all admirer.

and that remind I that Mrs. Coverdale would be just the person for

that purpose;--she be very pretty, move in good society, and, _entre

nous_, be smite with you already!”



“but really--of course I don’t set up to be any well than my

neighbour,” stammer the poor boy, colour at the possibility

of be suspect of such slow attribute as good feeling and right

principle, and yet unable entirely to silence the prompting of his

well nature;--“of course I don’t set up for a saint; but Harry

Coverdale be an old friend and schoolfellow, and one of the good

creature in the world; I should not like--that is, I really

couldn’t--but, I beg your pardon, I don’t think I exactly understand

your meaning.”



“I don’t think you do,” return D’Almayne, his sarcastic tone

express such unmistakable contempt that Lord Alfred actually wince

as if in pain.



“I don’t think you have the faint glimmer of my meaning. you don’t

suppose I intend you to order a chaise and four, and run off with pretty

Mrs. Coverdale to the continent, do you? my idea be much less

alarming, I can assure you! _par exemple_--your friend Harry be a

physical force man; he be a mighty hunter, a dead shot; he love only

his dog and his horse; but require a Joe Manton to ensure he good

sport, and a pretty wife to sit at the head of his table: Mrs.

Coverdale, on the other hand, have a soul--read Tennyson, feel she

husband’s neglect, and pine for some one who will appreciate she and

sympathize with she; you, in the kindness of your heart, pity she, and

know you can afford she the consolation of congeniality, obligingly

make up for her good man’s deficiency; therefore, you read poetry with

she, explain the obscure passage which neither she, you, nor any one

else can understand; her mind repose on your superior intelligence; she

trust you, and confide to you important secrets,--the exact age of her

dear female friend, whom she suspect of design upon your heart, the

dress she be go to wear at the next fancy ball,--and eventually, with

heighten colour and avert eye, the history of that ring with the

turquoise forget-I-not, together with a biographical sketch of the

noble giver--show how he live pathetically, and die in the odour of

heroism, fight at the head of his regiment in the Punjaub, the centre

of a select circle of slaughter foeman; which latter confidence may be

consider as the latchkey to the fair lady’s heart, ensure you

admittance at all time and season.”



“and having attain this agreeable position, how long do you expect so

pleasant a state of thing to last, and what be to be the end of it?”

 inquire Telemachus.



“oh! until she have got rid of her romance, and you of your diffidence;

by which time you will have grow mutually tired of each other, and the

London season will have come to an end,” be mentor’s oracular reply.

Telemachus muse, light a fresh cigar, and muse again. he like the idea,

have a faint suspicion it might be wrong, but be quite sure it would be

very pleasant. mentor, think this a promising frame of mind in which

to leave his pupil, would not weaken the force of his argument by vain

repetition, so make an engagement to meet again in the evening, and

depart. and while _les petite moustache noire_ wound female

heart as he pass down courtly St. James’s Street, the spirit of the

good young man, their wearer, glow within he, and--



                        “as he walk by himself,



                        he talk to himself,



                        and thus to himself say he!”



“ha! ha! Milord Courtland, you be mine--your purse, your credit, your

influence--all be mine! but what a child it be! what a baby! _sacré!_

at his age I be win twenty pound a day at billiard in New

Orleans!--And you, Harry Coverdale, _mon ami_, I will teach you to watch

I with black look when I be converse with _la belle millionaire_;

you have well attend to your own wife now--young, pretty, and

neglect! _Le petit_ Alfred have a fair game before he, if he have but

wit to play it--yes! all go as it should! fortune fill the sail!

there be a cool head and a steady hand at the helm: _vogue la galère!_”









CHAPTER XXXIV.--CIRCE.



in this “tight little island,”--of which as a whole we be all so

proud, although it afford ample occupation for its public in grumble

at its institution, _viâ_ its _Times_ newspaper--the only season of the

year when fog be not, and every day do not resemble a “washing-day”

 on a large scale, the only period in fact when the country be endurable,

be the early summer. thus the educate class, whose well-balance and

carefully develop mind enable they to arrive at sound conclusion,

and whose well-store pocket render they free to come and go

untrammelle by pecuniary consideration, have bind themselves by the

law of the tyrant Fashion to spend June and July in London, where they

simmer in hot room, when they should be in bed and asleep, until all

the goodness be boil out of they--which new “theory of evil” beg to

offer to the notice of Miss Martineau, and all other speculative

mind anxious to elevate humanity by substitute earthly nonsense for

heavenly revelation. but however you may brick she up and smoke-dry she,

nature will assert herself, and, turn with disgust from oats at 40s.

the quarter in a mahogany manger, pine for green meat and a canter over

the spring turf. so a compromise have be effect between town and

country amusement, and horticultural _fête_ have be devise to

afford parboil fashionable breathe time between their round of

dissipation, together with a gentle reminder of the “pleasure of the

plain,” which they be sacrifice to their craving for unnatural

excitement. horticultural _fête_ be bring about in this wise: early

in the inclemency of a british spring, while London be shiver over

its fondly cherish fire, that noun of multitude perceive in the first

column of its _Times_ a notice that member of the Horticultural Society

may obtain ticket at privileged price until some specify day;

thereupon All-London write to its particular friend the M. H. S. for

an “order,” and the member vouch by implication for All-London’s

standing and respectability--into which he have probably go no deep

than its coat--All-London besiege the office of that floral autocrat,

Dr. Lindley, and clamour for ticket, cry “Give, give,” and

insatiable as the daughter of the horse-leech. have at length obtain

its desire, All-London button up its great-coat and wait timidly but

eagerly for the first Horticultural. but the London season be an outrage

upon, and an insult to nature, and nature take her change out of the

first Horticultural; it be a pour wet day, Chiswick become Keswick,

and the Duke of Devonshire’s ground, yield to hydraulic pressure,

cease to be dry ground any long. Dr. Lindley... we have not the

pleasure of that gentleman’s personal acquaintance, but we can imagine

Dr. Lindley feel disappointed and... express it. then All-London

exchange its greatcoat for a paletot, and look forward with a timid

anxiety to the second Horticultural, which be in June enjoy the

advantage of April weather, and be only showery, so the bold

quarter of London go, from the Herbert Fitz-tip-top, careless of the

bronchial tube of their serve-man and carriage-horse, down to the

Robinson Joneses, safe in the immunity of a hack brougham, driver, and

horse--a long-suffer trio, so accustomed to wait in the rain, that

use have become a second nature to these amphibious hireling. our

enterprise pleasure-seeker come back ere dewy eve, and say that,

consider the fact that flower willn’t blow out of door in cold

weather, and that the gravel be a swamp, and the turf a morass, the

tent very hot, and the east wind very cold, and that there be

nobody there except a few dreadful people, who really ought not to be

anywhere--(Mrs. Robinson Jones be actually push up against Mr. Cutlet

and his rib, her own butcher, who make a clear £2000 a-year, while

genteel Robinson Jones scarcely average £1500 at the Bar; but what

do that signify?)--and that the female Quarter-of-London have get the

ridiculous sol of its little french shoe wet through in five minute,

and have feel a tightness at its chest ever since; allow for these

and several other slight drawback, it really be not such a complete

failure after all! but even english weather have its bright side;

and, content with take the shine out of the first two, on the third

Horticultural _fête_ the sun seems resolve to come out strong, and,

set parasol at defiance, imprint his burn kiss on the pale

feature of all the pretty woman in town, like an ardent old luminary as

he be. and All-London, find that it really be a beautiful day,

put on its good bib and tucker, and take its wife and daughter to

Chiswick. where the road be water they be very muddy, where they

be not water they be dusty; and as the dust stick to the carriage,

and the dust stick to the mud, and the horse get first very hot

go there, then very cold wait there, and the pole of every

other carriage invariably run through the back panel of the vehicle

immediately precede it, coachman be not, as a general rule, fond of

the third Horticultural; but nothing _can_ please everybody, and

these Flower-show “please the lady” (to quote Mr. Crane’s favourite

phrase), and that be the great point after all. it be probably with

a view to “please the lady” that Mr. Crane have think proper to

invest capital in half a dozen horticultural ticket--see that his

own horticultural taste be confine to drink Sherry-cobbler in

an arbour, whenever such a privilege be vouchsafe to he, and his

knowledge limit to the capability of discriminate between a cabbage

and a cauliflower. the weather having be such as we have describe it

during the first and second _fêtes_--on both which occasion Mr. Crane

bewail the useless expense into which his gallantry have seduce he,

with a truly touching degree of pathos--these ticket remain unused

until the third and last flower-show, when “the face of all nature

look gay,” and “bright Phoebus” obligingly condescend to “adorn

the hill,” the ex-cotton-spinner and his spouse, Harry Coverdale and

Alice, together with Arabella Crofton, avail themselves of five of

they--Horace D’Almayne quietly pocket the sixth in a fit of mental

(and physical) abstraction. they be to start at a quarter before two,

as Mr. Crane always prefer be early on all occasion; but at a

quarter before two, when the carriage draw up to the door, Alice be

not ready, and moreover it be Alice’s own fault that she be not ready;

and thus it fall out. Lord Alfred Courtland play the flute well for so

young a man, and an amateur; since he have be in town, a talented

professor instruct he in this art, who be an exile patriot--that be

to say, he and several other ardent young man have attempt one fine

morning to take their “Fatherland” away from the gentleman in

possession, and give it to the secret-blood-and-bone-united-brother

band--the same be a pet name by which they see fit to call

themselves. what they would have do with their fatherland, if they have

get it, neither do they, nor do any one else appear to have the least

idea; but this difficulty of dispose of their country be fortunately

spare they, as their enterprise consist simply of a stroll along the

principal street of their native city, in company with a drum and a

little red flag, bear the cheerful device of a skull and cross-bone,

with the motto, “death to Tyrants!” which stroll continue until they

accidentally encounter a company of soldier, who convey they--drum,

flag, and all--to the state prison, where they be detain, until it

be discover that they be eat their head off, the authority

exile they, to save their keep. Herr Hildebrand Tootletoot-zakoffski,

one of this devoted band, have bring his polish sorrow and his german

flute to England, and between they both manage to make a much more

comfortable income than tyranny have hitherto allow he to enjoy under

the mildewed institution of his own blighted country. for the rest he

be a mild little man, addict to converse on music and patriotism

with a sort of washy sentimentality, which enable he to pass as an

individual of refined taste and cultivate mind with those who do not

look beyond the surface; personally he rejoice in a complexion as of

bad putty, and an amount of heroic beard and moustache which would have

stuff a chair-cushion very comfortably. and be such as we have

describe he, Herr Hildebrand--an acquaintance of and introduce by

Horace D’Almayne, who, in his multifarious occupation, may have be a

band-brother, for aught we know to the contrary--have suggest to Lord

Alfred Courtland the great advantage it would be to he in his, the

professor’s, talented absence, if he, Lord Alfred, could find any

amiable pianiste of his acquaintance, able and willing to play duet

with he, to “improve his time;” and as he say this in the presence of

and immediately after a _tête-à-tête_ with Horace D’Almayne, it really

be scarcely necessary for that judicious mentor to suggest to his

lordship pretty little Mrs. Coverdale, although to guard against

mistake he do so. thus Alfred Courtland and Alice have play a good

many duet in Park Lane; and on the morning in question, luncheon be

announce in the middle of one of these interesting performance half an

hour soon than usual, to guard against the possibility of anybody’s

be too late, Alice, feel by this time quite at home in her

cousin’s house, coolly tell Lord Alfred to come down and partake of the

mid-day meal, as she be resolve to finish the duet after it be over,

before she go to dress, and if they make haste she be sure there be

plenty of time. but time unfortunately be one of those stubborn fact

with which it be impossible to take a liberty without suffer for

one’s rashness; and although the latter part of the duet be rattle

through with a costa-like rapidity, which elicit from his breathless

lordship an acknowledgment that “it be the pace that kill,” yet when

all the rest of the party be assemble, Alice be only half dress.

then, as be his willnot on such occasion, Mr. Crane fall into a fretful

fuss, and trot up and down the room, and make everybody fidgety and

uncomfortable, especially Harry, who be provoke with Mr. Crane for

be annoy with Alice, and with Alice for having give he cause for

annoyance.



“there be a quiet way of arrange the matter, my dear sir,” he say;

“let those who be ready start in the barouche, and I will wait and

drive Alice in the mail-phaeton.”



“yes, and then we shall never meet at the garden, and never all come

away at the same time, and my arrangement will be completely subvert,

and everything will go wrong,” whine Mr. Crane. on this Harry run up to

hasten Alice, and Alice, who be attire herself at express speed, be

cross, and snub he out of the room, and he rejoin the company in

the drawing-room with compress lip and an angry flush on each cheek;

and Arabella Crofton favour he with a glance of intelligent pity,

which, if it be intend to soothe his wounded spirit, fail in its

effect most signally. after the lapse of an awful ten minute, by the

expiration of which period Mr. Crane be on the verge of tear,

the culprit Alice make her appearance, look very pretty, but not

altogether as penitent as might have be desire; but as she say in a

cheerful tone that she “really be quite distressed at having keep they

all wait,” we will hope she feel more than she allow to appear.

then arise a debate and confusion of tongue and opinion as to how

the party be to divide. Harry offer to drive the phaeton, Mr. Crane

having privately hint that such an arrangement would meet with his

approval,--who be to accompany he? Harry suggest his own wife,

mean to treat she to a gentle reproof on the road for her want of

consideration in having keep a whole party wait merely to finish a

silly duet with that boy Alfred Courtland. but Kate disapprove of this

arrangement--perhaps because she have begin to suspect that the Coverdale

couple do not always in “their little nest agree,” and have read in

Harry’s flash eye warn of a perturb spirit. whether Alice’s

conscience lead she to the same result we do not pretend to decide, but

for some reason she second her cousin until she discover that by

do so Arabella Crofton would be her substitute, by which time the

affair be settle beyond her power of altering. her annoyance would

have be sensibly diminish, however, if she could have know that

the arrangement be if possible more distasteful to her husband than to

herself, but unfortunately there be no _clairvoyant_ at hand to afford

she this desirable intelligence. having hand up his companion, and

do all that his chivalrous nature teach he be due from a gentleman

to _any_ woman entrust to his care, and nothing far, Harry

gather up his rein, place himself by Miss Crofton’s side in the

phaeton, and sit bolt upright, drive off with an unapproachable

expression of face, which indicate, as plainly as word could have

do, his resolve not to advance beyond monosyllable until they reach

Chiswick. but Harry be in such matter no match for the astute woman of

the world who sit beside he. apparently fall in with his humour she

lean back in the carriage, and the only sign she give of her

presence be an occasional sigh, which escape she, as it appear,

involuntarily. before they have proceed far, however, they encounter

the peripatetic theatre of that inconvenient humourist, dear old

Punch, with his private band pop-go-the-weasel like an harmonious

steam-engine; whereof the horse (the identical pair which have run away

with Harry and Alice in the early spring-time of their courtship, and

which Mr. Crane still retain, although he carefully avoid

drive they himself)--preferring probably a more classical style of

music--begin to express their disapprobation by plunge violently,

nearly dash the phaeton against a coal waggon, a catastrophe which

nothing but the most consummate skill on the part of their driver could

have avert. as Coverdale succeed in reduce the rebellious steed

to order, he could not help involuntarily glance at his companion to

ascertain how the incident have affect she. she be lean forward,

her attitude and the expression of her feature indicate excitement and

interest rather than terror, while her fine eye, dilate and sparkle

with a more than ordinary lustre, be fix upon his countenance with

look of unmistakable admiration. courage, or as he would have term it

“pluck,” especially in a woman, where he consider it as an “additional

attraction,” while in a man it be simply a _sine quâ non_, always

delight Harry Coverdale; and, be as innocent and natural as a

child, he could no more help express his sentiment, than he could

exist without inhale vital air.



“well, I never do see such nerve in a woman!” he exclaim; “why you

look pleased rather than frightened! not that there be any danger,

except of damage Mr. Crane’s near hind wheel. they don’t bit these

horse properly, and that white-nosed animal haven’t the tender mouth

at the good of time.” and as he speak he administer a smartish

cut across the ear as a practical comment on the delinquent’s oral

insensibility.



“you be such a good whip,” be the reply, “and it always interest I

to see brute force control by skill, energy, and strength of will.

you guide these fiery horse with such a calm sense of power, that I

could never feel afraid when you be drive I.”



Miss Crofton be decidedly a clever woman; if there be one thing on

which in his secret soul Harry pride himself, it be on his driving;

and this practical compliment, stand as it unfortunately do in

somewhat marked contrast to his wife’s feminine dislike of certain

contention with “queer temper” horse, which have at odd time come

in for a speciman of Coverdale’s “quiet manner,” appeal to his

weak point--he be mortal, and it touch he, and at the touch his

taciturnity vanish, and straightway he begin to confide to his

dangerous companion all his most secret thought and feeling in regard

to----bitting hard-mouthed horse. it seem an unlikely topic for

Arabella to make much of, and yet she allow he to run on, listen

with a smile of pleased attention; for though his talk be solely

equestrian, yet it serve as well as any other subject to melt away the

icy barrier behind which Harry have hitherto entrench himself, and thus

effectually defend himself against all attempt at a renewal of the

former intimacy which appear to have exist between they. having

explain completely to his own satisfaction the advantage which in the

instance under consideration would be gain by drive “brown muzzle”

 up at the “cheek,” and the white-nosed horse in the “low-bar,”

 together with copious note, descriptive and explanatory, and

voluminous annotation and reflection on this momentous question, Harry

metaphorically resume his seat amid continue cheering, and Arabella

Crofton rise in reply. of course she start on horse, to which she

soon attach carriage, by mean of which she in an incredibly short

time contrive to ride back to Italy, and find Harry stand it well

than she expect, she continue in a voice indicative of deep but

repress feeling--



“ah! that be a strange, strange summer we pass there! and yet, now I

can calmly look back upon it, there be many happy hour, bright, sunny

little bit, to set against the deep shadow of such a life as mine,

time when I enjoy the privilege of your friendship, before”--and here

her voice faltered--“before I forfeit that and everything, even my

self-respect, by my own mad folly!”



she pause in emotion, and her companion reply in a kind, frank

manner,--



“why distress yourself by revive a disagreeable reminiscence?” (as

he use the word a slight shudder seem to convulse she, and a look

of pain, but not the pain of contrition, flit across her handsome

features)--“an affair which I have, as I promise you, practically

forget, which I should never again have enter upon with you, and in

regard to which my lip be seal to every other live creature.”



“you be kind and generous-hearted, as you ever be,” be the

rejoinder, “but I cannot forget so readily”--here she pause, sigh

deeply, then continued--“I be so glad to have have this--this

conversation with you; your manner have be so cold and stern, I be

afraid you have repent of your promise that if we ever meet again it

should be as friend.”



“well, you see,” return Harry, in an embarrassed tone, “you see

circumstance have change with I since the time to which you refer;

and I think--in fact, you yourself say in that note it would be

well--I assure you I mean nothing unkind, why should I? as long as

you----” and here, having be on the point of “put his foot in it,”

 as he mentally paraphrase his colloquial _étourderie_, Harry pause

in confusion, actually blush in his generous fear of wound his

companion’s feeling. having relieve his embarrassment by give that

unfortunate scapegoat, the white-nosed horse, one more for himself, he

resumed--“And now let I ask you whether you approve of the wife I have

choose?”



Harry make this inquiry, not because he feel particularly anxious

to learn Arabella’s opinion of Alice, but because he want to say

something, and this be the first idea which occur to he, thus the

moment he have speak he wish the speech unsay. Miss Crofton hesitate

for a moment ere she reply, in a slightly constrain tone of voice--



“your choice do your taste credit; for, in her style, Mrs. Coverdale

be singularly pretty, and I can imagine her very attractive--when she

please.”



“you speak as if she have not please, in your case,” rejoin Harry,

smile at the unmistakable emphasis with which the concluding word have

be speak. Miss Crofton smile also; then with a melancholy expression

she replied--



“in my anomalous position in life, I be too well accustomed to slight

to feel a moment’s annoyance at such trifle.”



“but it annoy I though,” return Coverdale, fire up with the

indignation all generous nature feel at the idea of indignity be

offer to any one in a dependent situation. “I be surprise at such

want of right feeling, or even common courtesy, in Alice! she cannot be

aware of the impression her manner have make on you. I shall speak to she

about it.”



“do not think of such a thing!” exclaim Arabella, hastily; “it be

folly in I to mention it:”--she fix her eye on his face, and read

there that his resolution be unchanged, she lay her hand gently on his

arm, and continue. “listen, and I will tell you the whole truth: womanly

instinct, I suppose, make your wife dislike I from the first moment she

be introduce to I. I have try in vain to conquer her dislike,

and we now, by a sort of tacit consent, avoid each other; be you to

interfere in my behalf, it would be of no avail; on the contrary,

it would increase the evil, and, pardon my saying, might lead to a

disagreement between you; for, I may be mistake, but I have fancy

Mrs. Coverdale appear a little impatient of control sometimes--I hope I

be mistaken.”



she wait for a reply; but Harry, not be able to deny the charge,

and not choose to assent to it, remain silent, and she, rightly

interpret his reserve, continued:--



“in that case, I implore you, do not dream of advocate my cause. be

I to be the occasion of any difference between you, it would render I

most unhappy.”



after a moment’s silence, she added--



“I be so much interested when I hear you be go to be marry, and

hope, nay pray, that you might be as happy as I would--would always

have you. I be grieve to think that Mrs. Coverdale should not fully

appreciate the prize she have draw in that most uncertain of all

lottery, marriage; but I feel sure she will learn to understand you

well, and all will come right: you be evidently much attach to she,

and that be the case, she _must_ love you.” then in a low tone she

added--“_You_ be not one likely to love in vain.”



what reply, if any, Harry would have make to this speech, will never be

know, as at that minute they enter the line of carriage set down

at the gate of the Chiswick Gardens, and Coverdale have enough to occupy

he in prevent his excitable horse from commit a breach of the

peace. whether or no the phaeton groom be an observant man we cannot

say, but if he feel the degree of amiable interest usually display by

domestic servant in the affair of their superior, he must have be

strike when mentally contrast Mr. Coverdale’s manner of hand Miss

Crofton into and out of that open carriage by an immense accession of

cordiality, for which he be probably more puzzled to account than we

trust the reader find himself.









CHAPTER XXXV.--FLOWERS and THORNS.



“we have somehow contrive to lose sight of the barouche,” exclaim

Coverdale, after look up and down the line of carriage in vain; “I

expect they must have escape we when that white-nosed horse shy at

Punch; I fancy I know which way they have turn, but I must have go

down a wrong street--poor old Crane will be in fit--I wonder what we

have well do?”



“what I should suggest be to walk slowly backwards and forward inside

the gate, and watch for their arrival,” return Arabella, wish in

her secret soul that one of the barouche-horse might have fall dead

lame, or that any other catastrophe, not involve injury to life or

limb, might have befall the rest of the party.



after parade up and down with most laudable perseverance for nearly

half an hour, during which time the crowd grow thick and thick,

and everybody arrive except the party they be in search of, Harry

suddenly exclaimed,--



“you’ll be tired to death with all this pushing and squeeze; they must

have come some short way, and get here before we; let we go on to the

conservatory, we shall meet they there, I dare say.”



when they reach the conservatory, however, they find the crowd so

dense that to attempt to discover their miss friend would have

involve a difficulty, beside which that popular definition of a forlorn

hope, “look for a needle in a bottle of hay,” would have sink into

comparative insignificance. there be a couple of chair near the exit

from the conservatory, from which a lady and gentleman rise as they

approach.



“suppose we take possession of those seat,” suggest Arabella, “and

watch the people as they come out; I must honestly confess I be both hot

and tired.”



“I sympathise in the first adjective,” return Harry, take off his

hat to allow the air to cool his heated brow; “I’ve walk up hill

through heather on the moor for six hour at a stretch, and not be

so warm as this; but then I must own I be in well condition; one eat

too many dinner in London, don’t you see, and cann’t get exercise enough

to keep a fellow in work order.”



having make a suitable reply to this and sundry other thoroughly Harry

Coverdale-ish remark, Miss Crofton turn the conversation by asking--



“pray, be that Mr. D’Almayne a particular favourite of your?”



“not a bit of it,” be the unhesitate reply; “rather the other thing,

in fact. I consider he a confounded puppy; and have what you lady

call a presentiment that some of these day I shall be oblige to give

he a lesson which he will not forget in a hurry.”



“then you also have observed--” begin Arabella.



“I have observe nothing in particular,” interrupt Harry, quickly;

“but I know this, if I be old Crane I would not have an insufferable,

ridiculous, young fop dangle about my house every day, and all day

long.”



“I think it be silly and imprudent in Kate to allow it,” return

Arabella, “and I venture to tell she so, but she do not take the hint

kindly, and I have not attempt to recur to the subject. I be afraid

her marriage have not improve she; I really believe since I speak to she

she have be kind to Mr. D’Almayne than before; he and his insinuate

young friend, Lord Alfred Courtland, have almost live in Park Lane this

last week.”



“_his_ friend!” exclaim Harry, “little Alfred be my friend--he and I

be at school together--that is, he be at the bottom when I be at the

top; I introduce he to D’Almayne myself, and now I wish I have leave it

alone; oh, there’s no harm in little Alfred--besides, I never hear he

speak a dozen word to Kate Crane.” a meaning smile pass across his

companion’s handsome feature, but she only said,--



“I be sorry he be your friend; I be afraid Mr. D’Almayne be a dangerous

acquaintance for so vain and weak a young man.”



“Alfred be no fool, though perhaps firmness be not his strong point,”

 return Coverdale; “vain perhaps he be--all handsome boy be, I

suppose. but why do you say you be sorry he be my friend?”



Miss Crofton be silent for a minute, then in a timid and hesitate

voice replied,--



“you will be angry with I if I tell you my reason for dislike Lord

Alfred’s constant visit; you will doubt what I say, and impute to I

all kind of false and evil motive for say it.”



“go on,” return Harry, in a low, stern voice, “you have say too much

for I to rest satisfied not to hear more--tell I _all_ you know or

suspect; but take care--if, as you say, you value my good opinion--that

you speak only the simple truth.”



thus urge, Miss Crofton proceed cautiously to relate, that much as it

grieve she to say anything which might cause he pain or annoyance,

she would not disguise from he that she feel convinced Lord Alfred

Courtland be deeply smite with Alice, and that his frequent visit

to Park Lane be the result of his admiration--that, moreover, Horace

D’Almayne be evidently do his good to nurse what have be a mere

boyish fancy into a warm and strong feeling; of his motive she

be unable to judge, but of the fact she be certain; she believe,

moreover, that he possess a strong and daily increase influence over

the young man.



“and Alice?” inquire Coverdale, with flash eye, “what of Alice?

beware how you tell I that she encourage this misguided, foolish boy!

for by heaven, if you do, and it should appear that you have misjudge

she, I should be tempt to inform she and all the world the reason

which have induce you to invent such malicious calumny!”



“you wrong I by your unkind suspicion,” be Arabella’s calm reply, “as

much as you wrong yourself by an ungenerous threat which you would be

incapable of executing; it be not for I to judge Mrs. Coverdale one way

or the other. I have satisfy my conscience in warn you; I leave

you now to examine and observe for yourself, and test the truth of my

statement--but of one thing I be certain, Horace D’Almayne have some deep

scheme _in petto_, and that he be an unscrupulous adventurer, clever

enough to render he a most dangerous associate for any one--a person to

beware of, in short.”



“if I become convinced he be put young Alfred up to any such

rascality as you imagine, I’ll break the scoundrel’s neck for he!”

 growl Coverdale, in a tone like the rumbling of distant thunder.



as he speak some one touch he on the shoulder, and look round, he

be more surprised than pleased to see the object of his kind intention

stand behind the chair on which he be seat. how long he might have

be there, or how much of their conversation he might have hear, it

be impossible to tell; but so convinced be Coverdale that D’Almayne

have be play the eavesdropper, that he be on the point of inquire

what amount of information he have thus acquire, and especially whether

he have clearly understand the fate that await he, if he be really

incite “little Alfred” to make love to his wife, when D’Almayne, who

possess a womanly predilection for always have the first and last

word, began--



“pardon I if I interrupt what appear a most interesting conversation,

but I have be hunt all over the garden for the last half-hour

to find you. Mr. Crane imago you have elope with his phaeton and

horse, and Mrs. Coverdale be so completely _au désespoir_ at the

loss of her husband, that even Lord Alfred Courtland’s attention be

powerless to console her;--really, Miss Crofton, it be too cruel of you

to seduce Benedick from his allegiance to his Beatrice--you might be

content with enslave we poor bachelor!”



this speech be not particularly palatable to Arabella, and she would

probably have pass it over in contemptuous silence have she not glance

at Coverdale; but, perceive by his flash eye and quivering lip that

he be so angry that he literally dared not trust himself to reply,

she hasten to prevent anything unpleasant occur between they, by

observe in her usual calm, slightly sarcastic manner--



“it be like Mr. D’Almayne’s policy to screen himself by throw the

blame on the injure party. we have be roam up and down like

restless ghost, hunt for Mrs. Crane and Mrs. Coverdale for the last

half-hour--ever since we arrive, in fact, until I grow so tired, that

out of compassion Mr. Coverdale allow I to sit down and rest.”



“one word, Mr. D’Almayne,” interrupt Harry, regardless of an imploring

look and gentle pressure of the arm from Arabella Crofton, “you make a

joke (for I suppose you do not wish I to consider you speak seriously)

about my wife a minute ago; now I’m a quick-temper fellow--touchy you

may call it, upon some point, and this happen to be one of they; so

to prevent anything disagreeable, I tell you frankly _I don’t like such

jokes_--you understand?”



Horace _do_ understand; he glance at Harry’s face. the handsome mouth

be sternly compress--the small, well-cut nostril quiver, and the

large dark eye flash with the anger he could scarcely restrain, his

tall form be draw up to its full height--his broad chest dilate,

and the muscle stand out on his stalwart arm until their shape become

visible beneath the “Zephyr Paletot;” altogether, Coverdale do not look

just then the kind of man with whom it would be pleasant to quarrel: so

D’Almayne, deeming “discretion the well part of valour,” smile, and

say something which might mean anything, and convey a clear idea of

nothing, in his most fascinating manner, and then pilot his companion

to the spot where he have agree on a rendezvous at a certain time with

the Crane party. they have not yet make their appearance, however, and

D’Almayne (who, since Harry give he the “caution” convey in his last

speech, have evince a marked desire to keep on good term with, and

out of arm reach of, so dangerous an acquaintance), guess their

whereabouts, volunteer to go and fetch they.



“pray do not quarrel with that man,” urge Arabella, as D’Almayne

quit they; “you be as little his equal in scheme and manœuvring,

as he be yours in strength and courage, and for this reason he be more

to be dread than if he be a very Hercules; do not lose your temper

with he, for by so do you will put yourself in the wrong and play

his game; come, be guide by I in this matter; believe I, my only

object be to secure your happiness.”



as she speak, she look up in his face with such an expression of

interest, not to say affection, that Coverdale, whose anger at the bad

be always a very evanescent affair, feel an impulse of pity for she,

which appear in the softened tone of his voice, as he replied:--



“don’t be afraid; I’m not go to give he his desert at present, and

I’m very sorry I speak harshly to you just now; but I know Alice to

be so good, and true, and pure--innocent and spotless as a child (by

heaven, the slight blow to my faith in she would drive I mad!), and

the mere mention of that foolish boy suppose she to be a fit recipient

for his romantic sentimental nonsense, make I lose my temper: but you

need not fear my do anything hasty. I shall, as you advise, observe

Alfred Courtland, and if, as I feel certain, his attention annoy Alice,

I shall speak to he seriously and kindly (I know the boy have a good

heart, and that it be D’Almayne who have set he on this business, if he

_be_ set on it); then, find I be aware of it, his fancy will die a

natural death; but I have little expectation that my preaching will be

require. Alice’s indifference will work the good cure.”



as he speak, the Crane party come in sight, Kate and her husband lead

the van, closely attend by Horace D’Almayne; while, at some little

distance behind they, linger Alice on the arm of Lord Alfred

Courtland. as they come up, he be address she in an earnest,

plead manner. Alice appear thoughtful and _distraite_, but the

moment her eye fall upon Harry and Miss Crofton she start, colour

up, and turn to her companion, say in a hurried, eager tone--



“such constancy and perseverance, my lord, deserve rewarding,” and as she

speak she give he a rosebud she carry in her hand, which he fasten

in his button-hole with an expression of eager delight.



Alice’s word and action be neither of they lose upon her husband or

his companion.









CHAPTER XXXVI.--ARCADIA in the NINETEENTH CENTURY.



it be popularly assert and believe that everything have two side

to it. even a plum-pudding have an inside and an out; and that romantic

malady, clepe “love unrequited,” although at first sight it appear an

entirely one-sided affair, often demonstrate its bilateral capability

by prove a much less heart-rend business than be imagine, when

the lapse of time enable one to discern the bright side of the picture.

the Crane expedition to the Horticultural Fête form no exception

to this law of nature:--thus, at the moment when Harry, like Hamlet’s

unfortunate papa, be have poison pour into his ear, and be

gradually work himself up to the bolster-scene-in-Othello pitch,

Alice, that pleasant little Desdemona, unconsciously amuse herself with

Cassio, Lord Courtland, emulate Dr. Watts’s “busy bee,” by flit

from flower to flower, laugh at very small joke, and altogether

conduct herself with great levity, and in a singularly undignified

manner--at least, so Mr. Crane think; and as he be say to be make of

gold, his opinion ought to have partake of the value of that precious

metal. but Mr. Crane have never quite forgive Alice for not appreciate

his many excellence, and be disposed to judge she harshly. after a

time, however, when the novelty of the scene begin to wear off--when

Alice have review the content of Howell and James’s, Swan and Edgar’s,

Redmayne’s, and other ruination shop, on the fair form of the

lady of the land--when she have “oh-how-beautiful-ed” and

“isn’t-it-lovely-ed” the flower to her heart’s content--when she have

hear, and long to dance to, the Guard’s band, suddenly a dark

vision rise to her mind’s eye--her husband _tête-à-tête_ with that evil

mystery, Arabella Crofton, obscure the sunshine of her spirit; the

rose-colour spectacle through which she have behold Vanity Fair fall

off; the serpent have enter in; and, for Alice Coverdale, Chiswick be

Paradise no long. thereupon she decide that Lord Alfred be a silly,

tiresome boy, and worry she with his childish nonsense; that Mr. Crane

be a fractious old idiot, who ought to be shut up in an appropriate

asylum; that Kate look bored and tired, which she do not wonder

at; that Horace D’Almayne be fitter for the Zoological than the

Horticultural Gardens, and deserve to be cage with the chimpanzee

without loss of time; and, finally (forget their separation have

result from a caprice of her own), that Harry be very unkind to stay

away from she in that way, with that hateful creature, Arabella Crofton,

whom she be sure he like after all, though he do pretend to treat she

so coldly.



then people begin to push and crowd, and dress become tumble; and

D’Almayne having leave the party to look for Harry and Miss Crofton, Mr.

Crane mislead they, and they fall into difficulty, and be very hot

and uncomfortable; and Alice quite pine to meet her husband, whose

sturdy arm would have support she, and whose tall figure and broad

shoulder would have force a way for she through the crowd. next, Lord

Alfred begin to tease she to give he a flower from her bouquet, and

get snub for his pain; until Horace D’Almayne, return, make

his report, viz., that, after much toil and trouble, he have at length

discover Miss Crofton and Mr. Coverdale, seat together in a

shady corner, apparently absorb in some deeply interesting topic

of conversation. this information, tally so exactly with her bad

fear, and find poor little Mrs. Coverdale both vex and tired,

very nearly produce a burst of tear, to avoid which pathetic

display she do that which the unfortunate first Mrs. Dombey fail

to effect--viz., she “make an effort,” and become, not exactly herself

again, but Alice Coverdale as she appear when enact the heartless

coquette. and this she do, poor child! not from a want, but from a

superfluity of heart. so, seek to read her truant husband a practical

moral lesson on the iniquity of charioteere dangerous damsel, in

common with whom he possess mysterious antecedent, she afford Lord

Alfred a “material guarantee” of her favour, in the shape of the flower

he have covet; and having thus firmly rivet his chain, ostensibly

pet and make much of her captive. this conduct on his wife’s part be

by no mean calculate to soothe Harry Coverdale, pain, ruffle,

and excite by his conversation with Arabella Crofton; and, without

reflect on the prudence or politeness of such a proceeding, he leave

his late companion to take care of herself, and stalk with stately

step, as of an offended lion, up to Lord Alfred Courtland, observe, in

a tone of dignified irony--



“I be much oblige to your Lordship for take such _extreme_ care of

Mrs. Coverdale, but will now relieve you from any further trouble on her

account: take my arm, Alice.”



Lord Alfred, strong in the possession of his rosebud, feel inclined to

resist, and murmur something about its be a pleasure rather than

a trouble; while Alice be just determine to support she swain, when

luckily she happen to read in Harry’s flash eye symptom of the

approach of an attack of his “quiet manner,” so hastily disengage she

arm, she place it within that of her husband, say, as she do so--



“I be not go to let this truant escape, now that I have catch he.

he deserve punishment--so I shall inflict my society upon he for the

rest of the afternoon, unless,” she add, with a glance which bewitch

Lord Alfred more completely than before, “I should find any stringent

necessity to exercise my feminine prerogative of change my mind.”



“your friend Mr. Coverdale’s method of relieve you of your fair charge

be more vigorous than polite, _mon cher_,” remark D’Almayne to Lord

Alfred, who, feel he be _de trop_, have leave the wed pair to their

own device. “however, I think I have obtain a clue, which I have only

to follow up, to arrive at a discovery which will help you on with

your pretty little lady-patroness, by render she more the _femme

incomprise_, and neglect wife than ever.”



“indeed!” be the reply; “what a clever fellow you be! I certainly owe

Coverdale one, for his manner to I just now be anything but nice. tell

I, what have you discover?”



“well, it seem nothing very remarkable at first; but many a large and

goodly oak have grow from as small an acorn. listen--the immaculate

Harry Coverdale have a private understanding with that dark-eyed gipsy,

Arabella Crofton; they be a great deal more intimate and confidential

in a _tête-à-tête_, than they allow themselves to appear in general

society. I must try and learn what pass between they in Italy, and

I think I can do so with very little trouble. I see a man in town

yesterday, Archie Campbell, who marry one of the Muir girl, with whom

the fair--or rather the dark--Arabella live as governess, when they

try to exchange their Scotch brogue for the _lingua Toscana_. she

go to Italy with they, and there meet Harry Coverdale--that I know as a

fact; for additional particular, I shall apply to the said Archie.”



“then do you think--do you conceive--do you mean to imply, in fact, that

Mr. Coverdale be attach to this Miss Crofton?” stammer Lord Alfred,

colour, as though he, and not Alice’s husband, be the suppose

delinquent.



“you always put thing into such plain word, _mon cher_; it be a

foolish habit, and the soon you can divest yourself of it the well,”

 be D’Almayne’s reply; “probably the mighty Nimrod, in flirt with

Miss Crofton, mean no more harm than you do by your platonic attachment

for his pretty wife. nevertheless, if such should prove the fact, and

you gently insinuate the same to _la belle Alice_, the chance be that

she will be kind than ever, to evince her gratitude for your having

render her jealous of her husband--not that you seem to require any

help--I see where that rosebud come from, _coquin_; but now you may, if

you will, render I a service; find your way to the entrance-gate, and

wait till my friend, Monsieur Guillemard, make his appearance--probably

you will find he wait there already--and having discover he,

bring he here.”



as the obedient lordling stroll away on his mission, the indefatigable

Horace gather a rose; then approach Kate Crane, he lisp in his

most dreamy and affected style--



“I’ve be search everywhere to find a rose of that peculiar tint

which might harmonise and yet contrast well with your dress; at length,

I be charm to say my effort have be successful. Mr. Crane, will you

favour I by present this rise to Madame? come through your hand,

I feel sure it will be accept.”



“no, positively; that be, really it will be much more fitting--if I may

be allow to say so--that, as you have be so obliging as to find it,

you should yourself present it. Mrs. Crane will, I feel convinced, be

happy to acknowledge your politeness, by accept a flower offer--if

I may be permit to say so--with such propriety and respect.”



D’Almayne appear about to avail himself of the permission which Mr.

Crane thus graciously accord he; when suddenly draw back, he

exclaim, “excuse I one minute; the thorn be so very sharp, I be

afraid to hand it to you without some protection against them;”--then,

take a slip of paper from his waistcoat pocket, he wind it round the

stem of the flower, and fix his eye with a meaning look on those

of Kate, he give she the rose. having do so, he begin talk to Mr.

Crane; and soon contrive, by a judicious selection of topic, chiefly

connect with the Stock Exchange, to engross that zealous Mammonite’s

attention. as soon as his wife perceive this to be the case, she

unroll the paper from the stem of the rose, and, glance at it

hastily, perceive the follow word write in Horace D’Almayne’s

neat hand: “give I five minute’ conversation--I will make the

opportunity, if you will avail yourself of it.” instantly crush it

in her hand, she rush into conversation with Arabella Crofton, on the

merit and demerit of certain new annual; which subject, skilfully

manage, last she until Lord Alfred Courtland return, arm in arm

with Monsieur Guillemard, well get up, more jaunty, and in yellower

kid glove than ever. this vivacious foreigner be instantly capture

by Horace, and desire to explain, “as he alone could do,” the peculiar

advantage of that famous investment in Terra Cotta preference bond,

as Mr. Crane have an odd £10,000 lie comparatively fallow--only at

three-and-a-half per cent--which he would be glad to put out well. so,

foolish avarice and clever roguery amble off together. then D’Almayne

contrive to dispatch Coverdale and his wife to look at a wonderful

speciman of the _Hypothetica Screamans_, and to saddle Lord Alfred with

Arabella Crofton, although that smite young aristocrat would have

prefer to have trot mildly about after Alice, like a pet lamb.

have dispose of these supernumerary, he as a matter of course

offer his arm to Kate, who have quietly acquiesce in his arrangement,

and follow at such a judicious distance that, although they still

belong to the party, in effect they enjoy all the advantage of a

_tête-à-tête_.



D’Almayne be the first to break silence. “this be most kind,” he say,

“and lead I to hope that you be at length beginning to understand

I--to perceive that my only wish be to act the part of a true friend

towards you. I have a conviction that I owe a duty to you, for I

often reflect with pain how large a share I have in bring about your

marriage.”



at these word Kate give a slight start, and her colour deepen: not

appear to observe these sign of agitation, her companion resume:



“you may not be aware that it be by my advice that Mr. Crane

transfer his attention from your cousin (whose affection for Mr.

Coverdale I perceive would oppose an effectual barrier to his wish)

to yourself:--my object in do so be twofold. Mr. Crane have show

I much kindness and attention; he be anxious to marry some one

whose presence would invest his home with an air of distinction and

attractiveness which his wealth could never bestow. the moment I behold

Miss Marsden, I feel that no one could do so more efficiently. thus,

from an impulse of gratitude towards Mr. Crane, I persuade he that it

would be in every way a most suitable and desirable match, and induce

he to make such an offer to Mr. Hazlehurst as should neutralize any

objection that gentleman might have have to your occupy the position

he have destine for his daughter. again mistake, in great measure,

both your character and that of Mr. Crane, I believe you would have

suit each other far well than I fear be the case: I fancy you

ambitious, and that the power which wealth would bestow would render you

not only content, but happy; while I trust marriage would develop in

Mr. Crane trait of generosity and tenderness of which I now be force

to confess his nature be incapable. have I guess this soon, I need

scarcely add, the respect and admiration I have always experience for

one so gifted as you be, would have prevent my advocate the match.

all that now remain for I be to compensate, as far as it be in my

power to do so, for any little failure in tact (believe I they be

nothing more) of which my excellent friend, Mr. Crane, may be guilty;

and I speak thus honestly and openly, in order that, appreciate my

motive, you may place full confidence in I, and thus enable me,”--and

here he sink his voice almost to a whisper--“to assist you in bear

the burden which I have unconsciously help to place upon you.”



“I must believe you mean kindly by I,” be Kate’s reply; “but you be

aware that, with I, deed tell well than word. have the application

be make?”



“yes.”



“and with what result? but I fear I need scarcely ask.”



“not a favourable one, I regret to say. Mr. Crane see Mrs. Leonard,

hope, I fancy, that she might have learn some tiding of her

husband; but when he become aware of the object of her visit, he not

only refuse to assist she, or to do anything for her child, but grow

irritated, reproach she with what he term her husband’s infamous

conduct, declare he have lose thousand of pound by his negligence, and

wound up by threaten that, if she ever set foot in his house again,

he would give she in charge to the police. when I visit she, I find

she in tear, and utterly heart-break by this failure of her last

hope.”



“you must go to she again,” exclaim Kate, eagerly; “tell she you

have mention her necessity to a lady of your acquaintance, who be

willing, and, thank God, able to assist she; give her money; find out

what she most require; devise some plan by which she may be enable to

support herself and educate her child. oh! if I can save this poor

family from ruin, it will be some little----” she check herself

abruptly, then continue: “Mr. Crane be most liberal to I, and allow

I more than I have the least occasion or desire to spend on myself--so

do not let they want for anything. and oh! be most careful--you say she

be a lady, poor thing!--be most careful not to wound her feeling. you

do not know how shrinkingly sensitive poverty make nature that be at

all refine.”



“I fear Mr. Crane’s word, speak, I dare say, under a very just feeling

of annoyance, both pain and irritated she,” return D’Almayne. “she

naturally draw a strong line between the fact that her husband have

be imprudent and unfortunate, and the insinuation that he have be

criminal. Mr. Crane, I grieve to say, appear to doubt the truth of

her statement, that Mr. Leonard be ignorant of his partner’s intend

flight and defalcation.”



“ungenerous! cruel!” murmur Kate, carry away by her excitement, and

forgetting, or perhaps at the moment scarcely heed, the fact that

D’Almayne’s quick ear be eagerly drink in these acknowledgment of

the estimation in which she hold her husband.



“I be most anxious to save you all trouble in this matter,” resume

D’Almayne; “but it would be a great satisfaction to I, and relieve I

of a responsibility for which I be scarcely fit, if you would not

object to visit Mrs. Leonard yourself: she be already most anxious to

see and thank the kind benefactress to whom I have inform she she be

indebted. be you once to talk to she, you would perceive the gentle

yet strong nature we have to deal with; you would learn her hope,

fear, and prospect, from her own lip, rather than through such

an unworthy interpreter as myself; you would see the interesting

children;--may I hope that you will consent?”



Kate pause--consider; but her answer demand a fresh chapter.









CHAPTER XXXVII.--A CONCESSION, and a “PARTIE QUARRÉE.”





the question we leave Kate Crane consider in the last chapter she

decide thus:--



“I should like to visit Mrs. Leonard,” she say slowly. “I feel the

truth of all you urge--but there be difficulty in the way; Mr. Crane

would greatly disapprove of such a proceeding on my part.”



“he need never know it,” suggest D’Almayne, in a voice little above a

whisper.



“he need not,” return Kate, calmly, “but I have since my marriage make

it a point of conscience never to do anything which I should object to

Mr. Crane’s hearing of; I still consider the rule a good one, and be

disinclined to break through it.”



“do not your sensitive conscience,” rejoin D’Almayne, “lead you to

refine rather too much, until, adhere to the form of goodness, you in

a great degree lose the substance, and thus, by a chivalrous scruple of

never disobey your husband, miss an opportunity of do real

good, by which you would neutralise the injury which Mr. Crane’s

_peculiarity_ may otherwise inflict upon this unfortunate family? I

think, if you reflect on this for a minute, your excellent sense will

convince you that your amiable but romantic scruple be fallacious.”



Kate do reflect, and apparently her conviction assume the shape

D’Almayne have predict, for she reply in a less assured voice than

that in which she have formerly address him--



“Mr. D’Almayne, you have speak more honestly and openly to-day than you

have ever do before, and I will treat you with equal frankness. you

be acquaint with Mr. Crane before I have ever hear his name; you

appear to know he well; you have allude generally to his good point,

and have point out his weak one with equal talent and perspicuity. I

neither admit nor deny your statement--but, in the individual instance

before we, I believe that you be right. you have be very kind in this

matter; you first introduce this poor Mrs. Leonard to my notice; you

have since take much disintereste trouble on her account; you possess

great tact, and have divine the happiness it afford I to assist

those who, from misfortune and poverty, have fall from the rank of

gentlewomen;--therefore, in this matter, I feel you have a claim to work

with I; for the first time, therefore, I will repose confidence in you.

I wish to visit this poor lady--how be I to accomplish it without my

husband’s knowledge?”



Horace D’Almayne have win his point, Horace D’Almayne be happy! yet he

do not clap his hand, neither do he hurrah wildly, nor dance a lively

measure around Kate Crane, whom he believe he have circumvent in a

different manner; but he force his imperturbable countenance into an

expression of philanthropic benevolence and gratitude, and arrange with

Mrs. Crane a plan by which, during her husband’s daily worship in the

temple of Mammon his god--an edifice more familiarly know in the good

city of London as the Stock Exchange--she should visit unfortunate Mrs.

Leonard, and witness with her own eye how justly the prince of this

world (who be identical with the monarch of a low kingdom still)

distribute his subject’ property.



about this time all the member of this disunited party assemble, and

jointly and severally end their day’s enjoyment (?) by return home

tired, deject, and suffer more or less from that ailment which

defy those guinea-pig, “the faculty”--an ailment as rife in St.

James’s as be cholera and smallpox within the precinct of St.

Giles’s--an ailment which, thank to those bitter curse, the form,

ceremony, requirement, and prejudice of society, afflict and hang

heavily on many an honest man and love woman--an ailment indigenous

even in our glorious constitution, and which have as many _aliase_ as

shape, the spleen, _ennui_, but true name of all, the _Heart-ache!_



“_Ogni Medaglia ha il suo reverso_,” there be no rule without its

exception! Horace D’Almayne be the exception to this particular

rule--he be not trouble with heart-ache, because, in the metaphysical

sense of the word, he do not possess a heart; but nature have make it up

to he by give he a very clear head, and thus it reasoned:--



“yes, my pretty Kate, _tout va bien_; you have grow civil, almost

kind--not yet affectionate, but that be to come. yet she be clever;

doubt, suspect me!--what child woman be, even clever woman; once

appeal to their feeling, their impulse--bah! their reason lie captive

before you--they be puppet in your hand. _ah! c’est bien drôle cette

petite existence ici bas!_ for the rest, all go well; the beautiful

Kate shall compromise herself--the millionaire shall open wider his

purse string--the bank win for I--the little Alfred play my game--_courage,

Horace!_ thy star be in the ascendant, you will die a rich man

yet!”



*****



the morning after the Horticultural Fête, Coverdale suggest to his

wife that they have, in his opinion, spend sufficient time and money in

the gay metropolis, and that agricultural and manorial duty call he

to the country forthwith; but Alice plead so earnestly for only one

week more of dissipation, with Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s _soirée

dansante_ at the end of it, that Harry could not find it in his heart

to refuse she. Scarcely have he yield the point, when a letter arrive

from Tom Rattleworth, Magistrate, and Master of Fox-hound, to inform

he that, owe to the baneful influence of a certain grand seigneur in

the neighbourhood, it be propose to enclose a common and turn a

road, which would destroy a favourite fox cover, and give Coverdale

half-a-mile far to drive to the near railway-station--that the

matter be to be decide at the next meeting of Magistrates--that he

(Thomas) have strive tooth and nail to get up an opposition, in which he

have be tolerably successful, and that he consider it only require

Coverdale’s presence to prevent the evil altogether. thus urge, Harry

have but one course to pursue, viz., commend his wife to Mrs. Crane’s

safe custody, and start for Coverdale Park forthwith, promise to

return in time for “Lady Tat. Trott.’s benefit,” as he be please

to term it. Alice at first oppose his going, but when she find the

question resolve itself into one of these alternative, either that

she must let he go alone, or give up her ball and accompany he, she

opposition cease. so Harry pack his carpet-bag and depart--and

the hour roll by on their patent noiseless wheel, until the time

appoint for that notable solemnity, Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s

_soirée dansante_, arrive.



on that day Lord Alfred Courtland invite to a quiet dinner, at his

comfortable bachelor lodging, Horace D’Almayne, Monsieur Guillemard,

and a youth who, because he be in every particular Lord Alfred’s exact

opposite, be an especial crony of his.



Jack Beaupeep, _ætatis_ twenty-five, be a clerk in a public office

with a salary of £150 per annum, on which, by mean of his talent,

he contrive to live at the rate of----anything under a thousand. as,

however, we shall not have very much to do with he in the course of

this history, we will spare the reader further detail by sum up

his character in the two expressive word, “fast” and “funny.” everybody

know a fast, funny man; and his be a bad case of the complaint. at

a quarter to eight, P.M., on the day in question, this excellent young

buffoon of private life betook himself to Lord Alfred’s lodging, and

find himself first in the field, look around with a practised eye

for the good mean of turn the situation to comic effect. first he

perceive a valuable statuette of Venus, as she appear before the

discovery of the art of dress-making, for which his innate sense of

propriety lead he to improvise a petticoat, by mean of a doyley and

a small portion of the red tape of old England, purloin from her

Britannic Majesty’s store that morning, and secrete by the delinquent

for any possible exigency of practical jesting. having attire this

young lady to his satisfaction, he obligingly bestow on she a real

Havannah cigar, which, thrust through an opening leave by the sculptor

in she clench hand, with the end rest against her ambrosial lip,

resemble a speaking-trumpet, and give she that “ship-ahoy!” kind of

appearance with which early engraver be pleased to endow Fame. he

then write and water on the pedestal of the statuette thus embellish

a label, bear the inscription, “_Eugénie_, Empress of the French,”

 murmur to himself, “delicate little compliment to the illustrious

foreigner who be come.” next he avail himself of a pair of

boxing-glove; “unearthing,” as he term it, the roll insert in

two of the dinner napkin, and substitute for they these elementary

instructor in the noble art of self-defence; and, lastly, espy the

cruet-stand, he have just time to reverse the content of the pepper and

sugar caster, and confuse _all_ the sauce, when to he enter Lord

Alfred Courtland.



this young nobleman’s appearance have considerably change since first

we have the pleasure of describe he. by abstruse study, and unflagge

attention to the saying and doing of man-about-town, he have acquire

many noble attribute--he could lounge and dawdle, and walk with a

pert yet lazy roll in his gait, as of a tipsy dancing-master, or of a

cock-sparrow afflict with sciatica; he could lisp as though his very

tongue be too about-town-ish to speak plain, unadulterate English;

he could make play with his eye half shut, like a timid girl, or stare

with they offensively wide open, like an insolent coxcomb, though he be

not quite perfect in this last manœuvre as yet. also, his clothe be

large and loose enough for himself and half another man-about-town

besides; and he have a bunch of baby’s toy, model in gold, dangle

from his watch-chain--lilliputian house furniture, and a gun, and a

sword, and a pistol to match, and a little man in armour with impossible

feature, accompany by a horrid little skull of the same after his

decease, with two of his little golden marrow-bone cross under it, as

if they be say their prayer; there be likewise a ridiculous fish,

which wag its tail, and a fox’s mask, as it be “know” to term the

physiognomy of that astute quadrupedal martyr; the whole to conclude

with a limp and jointed Punchinello, or Tomfool, as a _pendant _(in

every sense of the word) to the fool of large growth who wear these

childish absurdity. thus attire and adorn, Lord Alfred Courtland

withdraw one white hand from a pocket of his liberal trouser, and,

lay it on Beaupeep’s shoulder, with a want of energy, general

lassitude, and fish-out-of-water-ishness of manner, which do he

infinite credit, drawl forth--



“ah! my dear fellar! this be very good of you, to come at such short

notice!”



“not at all, not at all,” be the brisk reply, for Beaupeep do not go

in for, or revere, the all-to-piece style, but rather make it a theme

for playful jesting; “when I get your invite, I just scribble off

a line to Palmerston to say I’d dine with he to-morrow instead of

to-day.”



Lord Alfred quietly raise his eyebrow, while, nothing abash,

Beaupeep continued--



“it’s very jolly to be on those term with a man like ‘Pam.,’ and I

consider it quite sufficient recompense for my unwearye devotion to my

public duty.”



“it really willn’t do with I, my dear Jack,” interrupt Lord Alfred, in

a tone of affectionate remonstrance; “reflect how long we’ve know each

other!”



“by the way,” recommence Jack, ignore the interruptional rebuke,

“talk of ‘Pam.’ put I in mind of the Foreign Office, which, not

unnaturally, lead to the inquiry of who may be the illustrious ‘Mossoo’

who be to make our fourth to-day?”



“Monsieur Guillemard! oh, he be a very gentlemanly and intelligent

Frenchman, and a particular friend of Horace D’Almayne’s.”



“but _what_ be he?” continue Beaupeep, pertinaciously; “be he a noble

political exile, or a _perruquier_ from the _Palais Royal_, who cann’t

meet his liability? do he gain a frugal living by impart a

knowledge of his native tongue in six lesson, at half-a-crown each?

or----”



“Hush! here he be,” interrupt Lord Alfred, as a smart rat-tat-tat at

the house-door announce an arrival; “he have something to do with the

fund, and the financial interest, and the Rothschilds, and all that

mysterious pound, shilling, and pence business, in regard to which I

have, I be afraid, no clearly define idea.”



“except to spend ’em first, and make your governor shell-out

afterwards, you lucky beggar you!” be the plainly audible aside, as the

servant announce Monsieur Guillemard and Mr. D’Almayne.



after the ceremony of introduce the volatile Jack to the new comer

have be perform, that individual immediately attach himself, and

devote his conversation to Monsieur Guillemard, whom he persist in

address as “Mossoo le Comte,” and whom he seem to imagine just

catch in some very foreign country indeed, and ignorant of the simple

english manner and custom; a delusion to which that gentleman’s

limit acquaintance with Bindley Murray’s, or, indeed, any other

british grammar, lend some slight colouring.



“I think I observe, Mossoo le Comte, that you come in a Hansom cab?”

 remark Jack.



“yer, we promenade in a ver handsome carb, a handsome hor also; you

shall drive some much more handsome hor in your street than with we,”

 be the reply.



“the native british cab be a great and noble product of the liberal

institution of this free and happy land,” return Jack, oratorically;

“if an Englishman choose to walk, an enlightened legislature not only

allow he to do so, but provide he with a granite pavement to walk

upon; if he choose to ride, the legislature have a cab await his

slight wink--a mere contraction of the eyelid, Mossoo le Comte,

obtain for the weary Englishman a luxurious vehicle, a swift and

steady horse, and a skilful driver, prepare to convey he one mile

in any conceivable direction, for the trifling outlay of sixpence

sterling.”



“with the advantage of study the _patois_ of Billingsgate in for the

money, when the cabman return thank for his fare,” add D’Almayne.



Jack Beaupeep favour he with a glance of inquiry which, if it have

be frame in word, would have run thus--“Are you a knave or a fool?”

 apparently decide in favour of the former hypothesis, he resumed--



“the additional attraction to which you so perspicuously allude, my dear

sir, involve yet another striking peculiarity--viz., this driver,

who so carefully conduct you through the crowded thoroughfare of our

colossal metropolis, be no servile hireling, no parasitical serf to

crouch at your foot, but a man, sir--a freeborn Briton--with as much

vest right in ‘Rule Britannia’ as yourself. Sir! when a dissatisfied

cabman allude to my eye and limb, I open widely those asperse

optic, proudly draw up those vituperate limb, and rejoice that he and

I be fellow-countryman!”



“my dear Jack, we’re not upon the husting; we have none of we the

slight intention of come in for anywhere; and dinner have be

serve for the last five minute,” suggest his host, mildly.



favour he with a melodramatic scowl, which, at “Sadler’s Wells” or

the “Victoria,” would, in theatrical parlance, have “bring down the

house,” Jack exclaimed--



“be it thus a haughty aristocracy strive to trample on the honest poor

man! it be not well in ye, my lord, and before an illustrious foreigner,

too; alas, my country!”--then perceive that Guillemard be regard

he with a glance which evince extreme doubt as to his sanity, that

D’Almayne be look supercilious, and Lord Alfred annoy at his

absurdity, Jack experience the proud conviction that he have attain

his object--viz., to astonish, confuse, and discomfit everybody.

having do so, he drop the heroic, and condescend to make himself

agreeable after the fashion of ordinary mortal, which, as he be really

clever and well-inform, he succeed in do to a degree that, in

great measure, efface his previous misconduct from the recollection of

his associate. he preface his reformation, however, by contrive to

seat Guillemard by one of the boxing-glove napkin, a manœuvre which

elicit from that perplex foreigner the exclamation, “_Mais que

diable!_ vot shall zie be?” and a reprove “Jack, you idiot, how can

you!” from Lord Alfred, who be equally amuse and scandalise at his

friend’s absurdity. but a Frenchman’s tact be seldom long at fault;

and by the time Guillemard have extricate the boxing-glove from its

envelope, he continued--



“_ah, je comprend_, I apprehend! Monsieur Jacques Pipbo! _il est

gai, il est farceur_, he vos play vot you call von practicable joke,

_n’est-ce-pas, Milor?--bien comique!_ ver fonney, ha! ha!”



so, harmony be establish, they eat, drank, and be merry;

Champagne, Moselle, Rhine wine, french wine, wine with name we know

but cannot pronounce, wine with name we do not know and could not

spell if we do, be produce, and do justice to, during dinner and

dessert; and then they quietly settle down to Claret at 80s. the dozen,

which taste well, as they agree, out of tumbler; Fribourg’s fine

cigar also make their appearance and be not neglect; and for some

time these four lord of the creation enjoy life undisturbed. but

frenchman seldom sit long over their wine. D’Almayne have too many

scheme, which require a cool head to carry they out, to venture to

inflame his brain with the juice of the grape; and by ten o’clock Lord

Alfred propose a hand at piquet, to while away an hour or so, until

it should be time to adjourn to Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s ball,

to which Mentor and his pupil be invite; so Guillemard and his

host begin to play, Jack Beaupeep and his companion watch they,

and bet half-crown on the vary chance of the game. at first,

fortune seem inclined to befriend Lord Alfred, for he win three time

consecutively; and Jack, who, as he observe, be resolve “to back

the thorough-breed colt,” realise capital to the amount of

seven-and-sixpence.



“_ah! bah!_ Horace, _mon cher!_ you shall bet wis I _contre moi-même!_

I cannot play for a so little stake, he do not agree wis I!”

 exclaim Monsieur Guillemard, toss down the card pettishly.



“let we double they, Monsieur,” begin Lord Alfred, eagerly; “I be just

go to propose it when you speak; nothing be more _ennuyant_ than

play for inadequate stake.”



“_Mais oui!_ you have reason, my Lord. Horace, _mon ami_, mix I _de

Veau sucrée_ wis a Ouinam Laque ice in he; I have thirst; he make hot

this evening.”



“not a bad idea, only I’ve a well one,” rejoin Lord Alfred; “brew

some Sherry-cobbler, Jack; ring the bell, and order the material: it’s

your deal, Monsieur Guillemard.”



Sherry-cobbler be _not_ a safe thing to play piquet upon, especially

when your opponent confine himself to _eau sucrée_. Lord Alfred lose,

grow excited, double the stake again and lose, treble they and win,

then play on recklessly against a run of ill-luck, until D’Almayne

interfere.



“it be twelve o’clock, Alfred, _mon cher_; we shall be late for Lady

Tatt.’s.”



“----Lady Tatt.!” be the uncomplimentary reply; “I shall not go.”



D’Almayne lean over he, and observe in a whisper, “you forget _la

belle Alice_ be expect you,” draw the card from his reluctant hand.



rise sulkily, Lord Alfred walk with a slightly unsteady step to a

writing-table, take pen and ink, and hastily trace a few word, hand

the paper to Monsieur Guillemard--it be a cheque for £500!



“ring for the brougham, D’Almayne,” he continue; “Monsieur Guillemard,

you must give I my revenge at an early opportunity; good night,

Jack;” then turn away with a laugh, as he perceive that youthful

legislator, who have “go in” for Sherry-cobbler rather too zealously,

fast asleep on the sofa, he retire to his dressing-room to remove, as

far as he be able, the outward effect of wine and excitement.



as he quit the apartment, D’Almayne, after a hasty glance at the

“use up” Jack, draw Guillemard aside, and speak French, say in an

eager whisper, “you be much too precipitate, and will ruin everything;

what could persuade you to win so large a sum from he at one sit?”



“you conceive it that I be too impressed! _Regarde!_ one give to I this

_billet_ at the dinner-table,” be the reply.



hastily snatch it, D’Almayne read as follows:--



“---- Street, Eleven, p.m.



“Prince Ratrapski, the russian nobleman, have be play deeply; have

have a run of unparalleled luck, and _break the bank_; unless you can

come by £500 immediately, there will be an unpleasant exposure, and

D’Almayne and yourself will be, before morning, the tenant of a

debtor’s prison, with



“your devoted,



“Le Roux.”









CHAPTER XXXVIII.--SOME of the joys of our dancing day.



Lady Tattersall Trottemout live in the Brompton and Kensington region,

and know everybody. her deceased papa have walk into Manchester

some fifty year since, with a good head on his shoulder, and

fourpence-halfpenny in his breech-pocket. be tired with his walk,

he sit down in Manchester, and rest there for the space of forty

year, during which time, by a process peculiar to that city, his

fourpence-halfpenny grow into an hundred and forty thousand pound. unto

he be bear, in lawful wedlock, one only daughter, the subject of the

present brief memoir, who, on his retirement to “t’ Oud Churchyard” (as,

in his Lancashire dialect, he be accustom to denominate his final

resting-place in the burial-ground of the Collegiate Church), inherit

the fourpence-halfpenny and its compound interest; with which, when

her mourning for her father be end, she purchase Sir Tattersall

Trottemout. this noble baronet, who be by no mean worth the price

she give for he, have be essentially a fast man, and have run through

everything he could lay his “blood-red hand” upon--his own fortune and

the fortune of several of his relation include--and when they be

all go and spend, he run through his reputation; which last “rapid

act” do not take he long, as that “bubble” be not as “wide as a

church-door, nor deep as a draw-well,” when he begin upon it. thus,

find himself under a cloud and in difficulty--the only thing he

have yet encounter which he could not run through (the good old day

of “pink” one’s tailor instead of pay he be unfortunately

past)--Sir T. T. feel that his time be come, and that he must prepare

his mind for another--that is, a married--life. so, _ætatis_ forty-five,

he go into dock, dye his hair and whisker, purchase a new set

of tooth, lay in a stock of patent leather boot, and run down to

Manchester to captivate an heiress. the respectable owner of the

enlarge and embellish fourpence-halfpenny have, at that epoch, be

about one year _under_ the turf which his future son-in-law have be

_on_ for above twenty; and his orphan daughter, of sweet nineteen,

be immediately smite and wound by the aristocratic appearance and

distinguish manner of the break-down title blackleg who seek

her... fortune. she, be then a simple-minded, honest girl, absurd

as it may appear, love the creature; and, despite the advice of several

kind-hearted, strong-head, fearfully vulgar old man, who be her

trustee, guardian, legal adviser, &c. &c. (policeman, so to

speak, appoint by the lamented deceased to prevent his develop

fourpence-halfpenny being prematurely reduce to its pristine element),

this young lady vow she would marry Sir Tattersall Trottemout--and do

so. but, as the baronet’s talent for run through any amount of

cash be rumour even at Manchester, the ancient policeman tie up the

fourpence-halfpenny so tightly that nobody could manufacture duck

and drake with it--not even Sir Tat. Trott.: so, after a few abortive

attempt, that ornament to his order give up his evil course, and

settle down quietly on cigar, brandy and water, and whist with

half-crown point--a notable example of the reformatory power of

matrimony. his lady-wife go through the usual agreeable process of

awake from “love’s young dream,” and discover that, after the

manner of Caliban, she have, in her simplicity,--



                   “make a wonder of a poor drunkard,”



she, like a sensible woman, resolve to put up with her bad bargain,

keep her husband in respectable order, and create or discover some fresh

interest in life for herself. in accordance with this determination, she

restrict the marital cigar and brandy and water to certain definite

limit; test several phase of London society; and then take her line,

and choose her associate accordingly. be an intellectual woman, and

have literary taste up to a certain point, she affect the society

of artist of all class, and in every department of art. thus, at she

_soiree_, you might meet literary man of various specie: historian,

novelist, journalist, critic, _et hoc genus omne_; painter,

sculptor, musician; the lead actor of the day, male and

female,--in fact, all the celebrity whom the London season delighteth

to honour. but, know that talent require an intelligent audience,

Lady Tattersall Trottemout associate a certain proportion of the

_profanum vulgus_ to worship her collect divinity. her party,

therefore, soon became note as the most agreeable of their kind; and to

one of these meeting, in which dancing be to be the chief feature of

the evening, be our friend in Park Lane invite. Harry have promise

Alice that, if it be possible, he would return to escort she to

this notable gathering; however, on the appoint evening, ten o’clock

arrive, but no Coverdale. Alice be rather frightened and considerably

annoyed, but Kate persuade she that there be no just cause for alarm;

and so, leave a note for Harry, beg he to join they, if he should

arrive in time to make it worth while to do so, they proceed to the

“spacious mansion” of Lady Tattersall Trottemout.



for some time, little Mrs. Coverdale be sufficiently amuse by

observe the appearance, manner, and custom of the various

notability, as they be point out to she by no less a personage

than her hostess, who, attract by the simple beauty of her new

acquaintance, and the evident pleasure and interest she take in all

that be go on around she, actually devoted to her ten minute of

the valuable time in which, on such occasion, a clever mistress of the

house be expect, and actually contrive, to say and do something

civil to an hundred and fifty human being, all prepare to magnify

any accidental neglect into an intended slight, and to resent it

accordingly. but, ere ten minute have well elapse, an illustrious

stranger arrive, who be so intensely foreign that he could not be

prevail upon to speak or understand any language of which the deep

philologist present be able to make head or tail, and who, in his

consequent bewilderment, have seat himself on the music-stool, with

his back towards the key-board of the pianoforte--thereby establish a

complete blockade of that harmonious and indispensable instrument, which

no representation in French, german, or italian, could induce he to

relinquish: so a breathless female aide-de-camp, in flaxen ringlet

and white muslin, hurry up to report this frightful dilemma to

the commandress-in-chief, who, with the great presence of mind,

dispatch she to summon Count Cacklewitz, the young hungarian patriot,

who, it be generally believe, could speak everything, even his

own language, and then hasten in person to raise the siege of the

piano-forte. Alice, thus deserted, fall into the hand of a tall, gaunt,

blue woman, rejoice in a red nose and a long fluent tongue, who begin

to talk high art to she, and confuse she about transcendentalism and

Carlyle,--_the_ Oxford Graduate (viz., Turner’s single and singular

disciple, wonderful Mr. Buskin), and pre-Raphaelism,--the meaning of

Tennyson, when he condescend to be obscure (for he _can_ write real

poetry, which “he who run may read” and feel),--and of the dark

Brownings, and Macaulay and the romance of history, and many other

hackneye pseudo-literary topic of the day, until our unlucky little

heroine lapse into that state of mental incapacity usually describe as

not know whether one be stand on one’s head or one’s heel. then

begin vocal music, which mercifully silence Alice’s strong-minded

persecutor; and a rather raffish baritone gentleman, who want shearing

dreadfully, and be all voice, eye, and feather, like a lean bird,

accost a singularly hard-feature, middle-aged german lady, as “oh!

thou belove one!” to which she make an appropriately tender _soprano_

reply; and the company listen with much forbearance, for quite ten

minute, to the united affection of this interesting couple, detail

to an accompaniment now rapturous, now pathetic, at the end of which

period they both suddenly exalt their voice, bellow their love at

each other in one final outburst of sympathetic insanity, and subside

into a refreshing silence. then a young lady in a pink sash inform

the company that her brain be on fire, her heart consume, and her

digestive organ generally in a state of spontaneous combustion, because

her fatherland writhe in the grasp of tyrants--“tra la, tra lira

la!”--which unpleasant state of affair be much applaud by hairy

exile, with microscopic washing bill, which they never pay, and a

monomania in regard to freedom, which they never obtain, but which have

keep they in hot water (the only water they patronize) from their youth

upwards. lastly, a very mild young gentleman of England excite himself

about some “Rivar! rivar! shine rivar!” into which pellucid stream he

keep put his foot “deep and deep still,” until every one be so

sorry for he, that the whole party appear on the verge of hysteric,

and be force to conceal their emotion behind fan, flounce

pocket-handkerchief, and white-gloved hand. then the votary of

Terpsichore stand at ease upon their light fantastic toe (except in

the case of tightly-shod martyr), and polking be the order of the

night--at which period Alice look about and wonder what have become

of Lord Alfred Courtland, who have say a great deal on the subject of

the delight he expect in dance with she, and have engage her hand

for the first polka.



now, whether any strictly moral reader, with that bad opinion of poor

human nature which very strict morality usually induce, have decide

that “every woman be at heart a rake,” and believe our little

heroine about to prove herself a “dreadful creature,” and transfer she

affection from her lawful husband to her unlawful admirer, we do

not know; but if any reader have set his (or her) heart on such a

consummation, we be sorry to be oblige to inform he that he be

mistaken. Alice consider Lord Alfred a good-natured agreeable boy,

whose conversation serve to amuse she, and to whose society she have

become accustom; she would a thousand time rather have talk to

Harry at any time, but Harry be not always attainable--indeed, the

chance be generally against she see anything of he from breakfast

till dinner-time, and then Lord Alfred become a very good and safe

substitute.



but the first polka be over, and a _valse à deux temp_ follow

it, neither of which Alice dance, and still no Harry, no Lord Alfred

appear; and in despair she be oblige to say yes to a heavy cornet in

the Life-Guards, who be big enough to eat she, and polke like a

polite young elephant. glad to escape without be squeeze to death

or trample under foot by this ponderous young warrior, Alice have just

find a seat, when D’Almayne and Lord Alfred lounge in; the latter

immediately join she, and claim her promise to dance with he; but

Alice be tired and bored, and feel that it be in some degree owe

to he that she have become so, and that he ought to have be there

soon, she reply coldly--



“I promise to reserve the first dance for you, my lord, but the first

dance have be over some time, and several other have follow; I do

not feel disposed to dance at present.”



of course, Lord Alfred endeavour to excuse himself, and when Alice

decline dancing, say, “very well, then he should sit still too--all

the night, if she please, for he certainly should not dance with any

one else.” so, after she have tease he until he very nearly lose the

little good temper which the event of the early part of the evening

have leave he, she take compassion on he, and dance with he twice

consecutively; but when he urge she to do so a third time, she refuse;

and on his press she, tell he plainly, that as her husband be away

she feel bind to be more than usually particular, and that it be not

_étiquette_ to dance the whole evening with one gentleman; at which

rebuff his lordship be pleased to take offence, and lead she to a

seat, he bow and leave she. desert by his lady-love, and swindle

out of his money by his pseudo-friend, this victimise young nobleman

look about for his protector and adviser--at once patron and

parasite--Horace D’Almayne, but for some time without success; when at

length he do discover he, he be engage in such an earnest private

conversation with some gentleman unknown, that Lord Alfred feel it

would be ill-breed to interrupt they; accordingly, he lounge through

the room, resist several introduction to “great heiress” and

“lovely girl in London,” all declare to be die to dance with

he, wander listlessly into the refreshment-room, drink a tumbler of

Champagne and sodawater, and be think seriously of turn sulky and

go home to bed, when D’Almayne seize he by the arm, exclaiming--



“Alfred, _mon cher_, where have you hide yourself? I’ve be hunt

for you for the last half hour. why have you leave _la belle_ Coverdale?”



“oh, yes! that be good! look for I, indeed, when I pass you twice

close enough almost to brush against your elbow, and you never even see

I, so engrossed be you plot treason with some party unknown,” be

the captious reply.



“Ungrateful! when it be for your interest I be exert myself,”

 return D’Almayne, reproachfully; “but you do not explain why you have

quit _la belle_ Alice; you really be not sufficiently attentive; no

pretty woman like to be neglect.”



“she’s a little fickle, heartless coquette, and I’ll let she see that

I’m not so completely her slave as she appear to imagine,” answer

Lord Alfred, snappishly, at the same time fill his glass with

Champagne; “she refuse to dance with I more than twice because it

be not _étiquette_, and she wish to be extra particular because

her husband be not here. I don’t think he’d overwhelm she with his

attention if he be, unless he mean to alter very much. no: the fact

be, she be out of humour, and choose to vent it on I; it would just

serve she right if I be to go home, and leave she to her own device.”



“do nothing of the kind, _mon cher_; but listen to I, and--excuse I,

but don’t drink any more Champagne, or you’ll do something absurd; your

comic friend brew that Sherry-cobbler too strong. go quietly back to

the Coverdale; try and persuade she to dance, but if she refuse,

show no annoyance, and get she to allude again to her husband: then

carelessly and incidentally, as if you have no design in what you be

say, suggest that she would scarcely be so particular, if she

know what a naughty boy he have be in Italy, and having excite she

curiosity, tell she the following little anecdote.”



as a bevy of man enter the refreshment-room at that moment, D’Almayne,

link his arm with that of Lord Alfred, lead he aside, and make to he

a communication, the nature of which will appear in the due course of

this history. Lord Alfred seem surprised, and, to his credit be it

speak, even pain, by the information thus afford he; and when

D’Almayne have conclude, his auditor remain a minute or so bury in

thought, then he ask abruptly--



“you be _sure_ there be still some clandestine understanding between

they--you be quite certain?”



“I be as certain as a man can be of any clandestine proceeding to which

he be not a party,” be the reply; “you be aware of what I observe

on the occasion of the Horticultural Fête. I now relate to you the

antecedent; you be no long a child, but sufficiently a man of the

world to draw your own deduction.” the adroit flattery on the weak

point tell: faith in truth and honour would argue a want of knowledge of

life; so with a slight laugh, assumptive of an omniscience in evil, he

reply, “I be willing to give he the benefit of a doubt, if it be

possible; but, as you say, the thing be clear enough; and now, how be

this to advantage I?”



“do you ask?” be the surprised rejoinder; “I think you tell I just

now that the cruel fair one have snub you, by throw her duty to

her husband at your head; so it occur to my simplicity that this

information, properly apply, would prevent a recurrence of such

rebuff.”



“but surely you would never have I tell _she_, and her own husband the

hero of the adventure!” expostulate Lord Alfred.



“listen, _mon cher_, one moment,” be D’Almayne’s reply, speak in a

low, impressive voice; “I do not wish you to follow _any_ particular

line of conduct; I have no interest to serve, no desire to gratify, by

your doing or abstain from anything; but when you tell I you desire

to gain such and such a social position, and ask my advice as to the

good way of attain your wish, I, as your friend, point out the

mean to you--it be for you to judge whether they be such as you choose

to employ. you must now excuse I: I see some old acquaintance of mine,

to whose memory I be anxious to recall myself.”



“then you really advise I to tell she!” exclaim Lord Alfred, seize

D’Almayne’s arm in his eagerness and indecision.



“I really advise nothing of the kind, _mon cher_,” be the reply; “I

have already caution you against that abrupt plain-speaking of your;

you _should_ divest yourself of that rustic habit. you could scarcely

sin more deeply against good taste and good breeding than to go to _la

belle_ Coverdale, and bring a rail accusation against her husband,

nor could you divine a plan more certain to frustrate your hope

and wish; but if, grieve over her misplaced confidence, you

philanthropically incline to hint to she that he be scarcely the

immaculate ascetic her imagination depict, _c’est tout autre chose!_

and now you must excuse I;” and as he speak, he gently free his

coat-sleeve from Lord Alfred’s grasp, and regard he with a

half-sarcastic, half-compassionate, but wholly irritate smile, he

turn and quit the spot.



thus leave to his own reflection, which be none of the most agreeable,

Lord Alfred pause for a few moment in indecision; then, with a hand

tremulous from excitement, again replenish his glass, toss down the

Champagne, and return to the dancing-room.



during her admirer’s absence, Alice have, for want of some more

interesting occupation, be converse with Arabella Crofton, use

all her skill to try to elicit some particular of her acquaintance with

Harry in Italy, in which endeavour she have be most adroitly foil

by the quiet self-possession of the _ci-devant_ governess, who tell she

most readily all she do _not_ care to learn, and nothing that she do.

as Lord Alfred approach, an individual be introduce to Miss Crofton,

who desire the honour of her hand for the next polka, which desire

that young lady obligingly gratify, thus afford his lordship an

opportunity of seat himself by Alice, of which he instantly avail

himself.



“it be never right to believe in a fair lady’s nay,” he begin, “so I

have return to afford you an opportunity of confess your change of

mind with a good grace; come, they be just go to begin a new polka,

let we take our place.”



“if lady do always change their mind, I be go to be the

interesting exception which prove the rule,” be Alice’s reply.



“how provokingly and unnaturally obstinate you be to-night, Mrs.

Coverdale! you pretend to be fond of dancing, and yet, because I ask

you, you resolve to sit still!”



“I have already tell you my reason,” rejoin Alice; “in Mr. Coverdale’s

absence I do not choose to dance the whole evening with any one

gentleman.”



“what a pattern wife you be!” be the reply; “you give up your own

amusement, and destroy all my pleasure, out of regard for the ghost of

a scruple, which I dare say have never enter Mr. Coverdale’s brain;

really, the patient Griselda be nothing compare to you.”



Alice be annoy by his pertinacity, and, consider this speech

impertinent, be about to repeat her refusal in term which would have

enlighten his lordship very considerably on these point, when it

flash across she that he might have take rather too much Champagne;

and the idea having occur to she, his flushed face and excited manner

confirm it. have sufficient like for he to wish to prevent he

from make himself ridiculous, she good-naturedly resolve to engross

his conversation herself, and, aware of what she conceive to be the

true state of the case, not to take offence at anything he might say,

intend to read he a lecture on the following day. in accordance with

this resolution, she replied--



“I consider it a great compliment to be compare to the patient Grisel,

more particularly as I be not of opinion that she and I have very many

quality in common. by the way,” she continue, seek to change the

subject, and take the first idea that occur to she, “what do you

think of the lady whose chair you be occupy? I have never ask your

opinion of Miss Arabella Crofton.”



the question be a most unfortunate one. Alice’s continue refusal to

dance with he have annoy Lord Alfred, and wound his vanity; the

reason of her refusal be her absurd devotion (as he consider it) to

her husband; and now she, as it be, hold the cup of revenge to his

lip by the question she have ask he. up to this point his well

nature have struggle with the temptation successfully, but now it have

acquire an additional strength, and overcome he.



“I wonder you should care to know _my_ idea on the subject,” he say;

and as he proceed to work out Horace D’Almayne’s suggestion, his

tone and manner unconsciously assume a resemblance to that excellent

young man’s sarcastic and suggestive delivery: “Miss Crofton be merely

a recent and very slight acquaintance of mine; you should apply to Mr.

Coverdale--_he_ could tell you many much more interesting particular of

her history than I be able to communicate, if he be willing to do so.”



all temptation to do thing foolish or wrong be orthodoxly suppose

to come from the Prince of Darkness; if it be so, the fact speak very

highly for the intellectual capacity of that sable potentate, as the

say temptation invariably adapt themselves in a most wonderful manner

to the various weakness and inconsistency of our nature. thus,

as Alice’s speech have, unintentionally on her part, appeal to Lord

Alfred’s lead foible--vanity, so, in turn, do his reply re-act upon

Alice’s vulnerable point--jealousy of Arabella Crofton, and consequent

curiosity as to her former relation with Harry Coverdale. accordingly,

forget time, place, propriety, even her doubt in regard to the

perfect sobriety of the person she be address, in the overpowering

interest of the question, she ask, hurriedly--



“why do you say that? to what do you refer? have Mr. Coverdale ever tell

you anything on the subject?”



Lord Alfred smile at the effect which his hint have produce; though,

when he mark his victim’s eager eye and trembling lip, his good

feeling make one last appeal, and he half resolve to leave D’Almayne’s

communication untold. have he be completely himself, the good

resolution would have be form and adhere to; but he have “put an

enemy into his mouth to steal away his brain,” and be no long able

to control his impulse; so, by an effort, he silence the voice of

conscience, and replied--“I shall break no confidence by tell you why

I suppose Mr. Coverdale well ‘up’ in Miss Crofton’s previous history

than I be, for he never mention her name in my presence; indeed, now I

come to think of it, it be a subject he always studiously avoid; but my

information relate to certain romantic passage say to have occur

in Italy.”



“in Italy!” exclaim Alice, aghast at this apparent realisation of all

her vague fear and suspicion. “go on,” she continue, impatiently;

“I can listen to no hint asperse my husband’s character; if you have

anything to say against he, do not insinuate it, but speak out plainly

and honestly.”



“really, you mistake I,” be the reply; “I have no accusation to bring

against Mr. Coverdale: but your question recall to my mind an anecdote

which I hear lately, and I be amuse at your require information

from I which your own husband be so much well able to afford.”



“and what be this remarkable anecdote? pray let I have the benefit of

hear it, my lord,” rejoin Alice, in vain try to look and speak

in an unconcerned manner.



“really I think I have well not tell you; you lady be apt to be a

little jealous sometimes without reasonable cause. ‘where ignorance be

bliss,’ you know----” he pause with a tantalise smile, then see

from Alice’s manner that she be not in a humour to be trifle with, he

continued--“Well, I see you mean to hear it, so I may as well tell you

at once--not that there be anything very wonderful to tell. you must

know that, some three or four year ago, Miss Crofton, be then

young and handsomer than she be now (she be not _my_ style, but many

people consider she vastly attractive still), be live as governess

with a family of the name of Muir, and in that capacity accompany they

to Florence. John Muir, the eld son, be an old college friend of Mr.

Coverdale’s, and meet by chance in Switzerland, they join force,

and spend two or three month at Florence, make occasional excursion

into the adjoining country. everything progress with cheerfulness and

serenity in this italian Arcadia, until one fine day the eld Miss

Muir elope with an individual who represent himself as a Neapolitan

count, and prove to be merely either valet or courier to the same. this

break up the party, and Mr. Coverdale take his leave; but scarcely have

he be go twelve hour, when, lo and behold, Miss Crofton, who have

be much blame for not having look after the elope-with young lady

more closely (I suppose she be look after somebody else), suddenly

disappear. after hunt about Florence in vain, Pater Familias Muir

somehow obtain a clue to the lady’s whereabouts, follow which he

reach a village some thirty mile distant, where he discover Miss

Crofton, and, if my informant do not err, Mr. Coverdale also. whether

it have be his intention to place she in that position now so much

more worthily fill, or whether he propose an arrangement of a less

permanent character, history telleth not; suffice it to add, as the

book say, that the eloquent representation of Pater Muir induce the

lady to return with he to Florence, whence he instantly dispatch

she to England under some safe escort, while Mr. Coverdale pursue his

onward course to Turkey and the East.” he pause, but as Alice make

no reply, merely conceal her countenance behind a voluminous fan,

somewhat small than a peacock’s expand tail, he continued--“Such

be the _historiette_ relate to I; but scandal-monger be so give

to exaggerate, that I dare say it be not half true, so do not _worry_

yourself about it, my dear Mrs. Coverdale.”



this consolatory codicil be add because his lordship hear, or

fancy he hear, a sound analogous to a repressed sob proceed from

behind the fan, and this pseudo-profligate young nobleman carry a very

tender heart under his embroider waistcoat.



on receive this confirmation of she bad, nay, more than her bad,

fear, Alice’s first impulse be to give way to a flood of tear--an

impulse so strong that, unable entirely to check it, the sob which Lord

Alfred have partially overhear be the result. the story chime in with

her jealous suspicion so exactly, that it never for a moment occur

to she to question the truth of it; on the contrary, it would have

require the clear evidence of its falsehood to make she disbelieve

it. have by a great effort repress her tear, her next impulse be

to prevent any one, especially Lord Alfred, from perceive how deeply

his intelligence have affect she. accordingly she turn to he, and

reply in as careless a tone as she could summon--



“a very pretty bit of scandal, truly; and, as you say, worth as much, or

as little rather, as scandal usually be; however, the tale have serve to

amuse I and put I in a good humour; so, as you seem to have set your

heart upon another dance, I suppose I must exercise my woman’s privilege

in your favour, and change my mind. they be go to waltz--shall we

begin?”



Surprised and delight at the success of his experiment, and almost

inclined to attribute supernatural wisdom to Horace D’Almayne, Lord

Alfred hastily offer his arm to his enslaver, and in another minute

they be whirl round the room in all the giddy excitement of a rapid

waltz. while the dance be still proceed, a tall, strike-look

man enter the room, and shade his eye from the unaccustomed

brilliancy of the light, carefully scrutinise the dancer, until his

glance fall upon the figure of Alice and Lord Alfred, when a shade come

over his handsome feature, and lean his shoulder against the side of

a doorway, he remain with his eye track the evolution of two of

the figure glance before he. after he have remain motionless for

some minute, absorb in his own thought, which be, apparently, of

no over-pleasant nature, a gentle touch on the arm arouse he, and,

look round, he perceive Arabella Crofton. she be about to address

he, but by a warning gesture he silence she, and she remain stand

silently beside he until, in a low, stem voice, he ask abruptly--



“how often have she be dance with he?”



“three time, I believe; but I assure you--”



“hush!” continue Coverdale in the same stem, impressive voice, which

be just above a whisper; “I want fact, not comment. have she dance

with any one else since he have be here?”



“not that I be aware of,” be the reply. “she dance with a young

guardsman before he come.”



“and since?”



“they have be either dance or talk together, except for about ten

minute, during the last two hour.”



Coverdale make no reply, but his lip become more sternly compress,

and the shade on his brow grow deep, until the dance conclude, then

muttering--



“this must not go on: I shall make she come away”--he strode across the

room to where (her late partner bend gracefully over she, and talk

about nothing with the deep _empressement_) his wife be seat.









CHAPTER XXXIX.--ARABELLA.



on perceive her husband, Alice start, and, between surprise

and anger, her cheek assume a hue more resemble that violent and

unsentimental flower the peony, than the blush-rise, to the use of which

our minor poet be so strongly addicted. this blush which, with all

his trust in and affection for his wife, Harry could scarcely fail to

misinterpret, do not tend to impart any great degree of cordiality to

his manner, as he thus accost her:--



“I scarcely expect to find you still here, so late as it be; but I

only reach Park Lane within the last half-hour. there have be an

accident on the line, and our train be delay between two and three

hour. you look flushed and tired. you’ve be tempt she to dance too

much, I’m afraid, Courtland. I see the carriage wait as I come in. I

should think you must have have enough of this nonsense, Alice! what say

you to come away? I’ve lot of news to tell you from home.”



“I’m afraid your budget must wait a little long. I’m engage to Lord

Alfred for the next dance, and intend to fulfil my engagement; so you

have well submit to your fate quietly, and provide yourself with a

partner,” be Alice’s cool reply.



“Courtland will excuse you, I be sure,” urge Harry; “come away, if for

no well reason than that I wish it.”



“an all-sufficient one in your autocratic eye, I dare say,” be the

flippant rejoinder; “but the barrel-organ remind we too constantly

that ‘briton never shall be slave,’ for I to think of sacrifice my

freedom to all your imperious fancy. come, my lord, they be go to

wind up with Sir Roger de Coverley; let we take our place.” so say,

Alice accept the proffered arm of her _cavalier servente_, and walk

off with he, leave her husband to struggle against his rise anger

(which in she then frame of mind she see and disregard) as good he

might. a severe struggle it be, and one in which nothing but his deep

love for she, and fear of compromise she by word or deed, could have

render he successful. by a powerful exercise of self-control, he

contrive to avoid any outward manifestation of his feeling; and after

watch Alice and her partner for some minute, with flash eye and

an aching heart, as they hurry through the boisterous evolution

of that romp dance, he wander listlessly through the room, now

partially desert, seek some spot where he might be alone with

his troubled thought, and avoid the necessity of reply to the

commonplace of society, to which, at that moment, he feel himself

completely unfit. having pass through the music-room, he find

himself in an elegantly-furnish boudoir, which at first sight he

believe to be untenante, and, fling himself into an easy-chair,

lean his head on his hand, and give way to painful reflection. after

remain in this attitude for several minute, a sound resemble a

sigh catch his ear, and, hastily look up, he perceive Arabella

Crofton.



“be you here when I enter?” he inquire.



“yes; I be stand in the recess of the window, and the curtain

conceal I. I should have speak to you, but as I perceive you be

preoccupy, I be afraid to disturb you, and do not intend to move

until you have leave the boudoir, but your ear be so quick that you

detect I. I wish,” she continue, in a timid, falter voice, “your

brow do not wear so deep a shade, or that I be in any degree able to

remove it.” as she speak; she draw near to he, and lean her arm on

the back of the chair on which he be sit.



kindness and affection be never so much prize as when we have suffer

injustice at the hand of one we love. word cannot console at such a

moment: but sympathy--the conviction that another heart feel for and

with we, be able in some degree to do so. whatever fault arabella

Crofton might possess,--and that they be neither few nor light no one

be well aware than Harry Coverdale,--the truth and strength of her

regard for he he do not doubt. deeply, fondly, earnestly as he

love his wife, he must have be more than mortal have he not perforce

contrast the levity (to use the mild term) and unkindness of she

on whom he thus lavish his whole treasure of affection, with the ready

sympathy, the watchful tenderness of one who, if she have be all evil,

nay, if she have not possess in some degree unusual generosity of

character, might have hate he with a strength proportion to the

regard she now appear to feel towards he. man be constitutionally

deny the relief which the gentle sex derive from tear; but if, when

a woman would weep, a man of deep, strong feeling can be sufficiently

soften to give vent to his sorrow in word, the effect be somewhat

analogous. Harry’s heart be full to overflow, and Arabella’s

well-time sympathy cause the torrent of his grief to burst forth.



“why do she try I thus!” he say; “it be, it _must_ be, mere want of

thought; she _be_ wilful, I see it, as clearly as I see and know that

it be my culpable neglect which first make she so; but this be a hard

punishment for even so gross a fault! if she know how her cold look and

hard word pain I--how it grieve, destroy I to be force to deny

her anything--to feel it my duty, as I perceive it to be now, to oppose

her slight wish! and then to see she do thing which may give

those who do not know her truth and purity as I do, occasion to slander

she--Arabella, it madden I!” he press his hand to his forehead to

still its throbbing; but when his companion appear about to attempt

to console he, he resume, abruptly--“Don’t speak; you cannot defend

she--her conduct admit of no defence, and I will not hear she blame!

neither can you advise I; as far as action go, my course be clear--I

shall take she out of town tomorrow; and as I cannot have it out with

that scoundrel D’Almayne, or the weak, ungrateful boy he be ruin,

without compromise she, I must postpone the day of reckon with

they--it will come soon or later, that be all clear enough; but that

be not the point”--here word fail he, and cover his eye with his

hand, he relapse into his former gloomy silence.



Arabella Crofton be a woman of strong passion, and naturally of strong

impulse also, but these she have learn in great measure to control;

thus her manner be usually quiet and collect, and she both speak and

act accord to a rule lay down by herself for her own guidance, and

tend towards some definite end. but when, as in the present instance,

she be actuate by any overpowering feeling, she be for the moment

completely carry away by it, and would act for good or evil, as the

impulse which control she be a right or wrong one, even in direct

opposition to her own plan and intention. she dislike Alice

most heartily, and she have many--we cannot say “good,” but

sufficient--reason for do so; yet she sympathise so strongly with

Harry’s grief at the idea that his wife be encourage the attention

of Lord Alfred Courtland, that--believe, as she do honestly, Alice

to be merely amusing herself, possibly for the sake of annoy her

husband, but evidently not from any deep feeling for her admirer--she

could not help try to comfort he.



“do not afflict yourself so deeply,” she say; “I cannot bear to see you

suffer thus! believe I, you think too seriously of this matter; Mrs.

Coverdale be only amuse herself with this foolish, infatuated young

man. I be as certain as if I be in her confidence that she do

not really care for he; the very openness with which she accept his

attention prove that it be so; as soon as she have leave the gaiety

and frivolity of town, she will forget his very existence.”



“she may forget _he_,” be the bitter reply; “but will she ever forget

the cause which have drive she to encourage he--which have force she

to seek amusement in all these heartless gaiety and folly? will she

ever forget the time when, pursue my own selfish pleasure, I leave

she, day after day, alone--she who have always be accustom to live

in a cheerful family, will she ever forget my neglect, and restore to

I that love without which life have no long a charm for I--that love

which I once possess, and which, God help I! I fear I have alienate

for ever!”



“yes, she will,” be the eager reply; “if she ever love you, she love

you still; real, true love never die: it would be well for some of we

if time could efface feeling!”



the evident emotion with which she utter these last word touch

Harry’s kind heart, and, regard she with a look of pity interest,

he rejoined--



“Poor Arabella! you too have have much sorrow to contend with; and no one

can lament more deeply than I do the share I have have in increase

it. mine be a strange fate!--love that I cannot return be lavish and

waste on I, and the only affection I pine for, I have alienate by my

own rash and inconsiderate conduct!”



she stand by he as he speak, in the excitement of his feeling he have

take her hand and clasp it in his own. at this moment two figure,

which have be pause at the door of the boudoir, pass hastily on--by

the rustling of the dress, one of they be evidently a woman.



“but now hear I once more,” he continue, raise himself, and

regard she kindly but steadily; “I be sorry, very sorry, to find that

you have not yet overcome--however, we will not allude to that--if at

any time you want a _friend’s_ advice or assistance, apply to I: my

purse, I need scarcely say, be always at your command; in fact, as I be

well-off, and you unfortunately be not, I think it be an over-refine

though generous scruple, which prevent you from allow I to assist

you as I might and wish to do. why do not you remember and strive to

follow my advice? you be still in a dependent situation quite unworthy

of you; while you have talent and power which, if you would employ

they in some straightforward, honest avocation--instead of form

plan and seek object of, to say the least, questionable

advisability--would secure you a respectable and comfortable position.

think of all this, dear Arabella, and then apply to I, as to an old

friend, to advance you fund to carry out my idea in any way which

seem to you most advisable.”



for a moment she remain silent; then bend over he, so that her

ringlet mingle with his dark curl hair, she murmured--



“you be good, and kind, and generous, as you ever be; and--yes, I

_will_ strive to make myself worthy of your friendship; if I fail, you

know my impulsive, passionate nature, and you will pardon, not condemn

I; for my _great sorrow_, you now know how to pity I! you say you

intend to leave London to-morrow, and I think it will be wise in you to

do so--perhaps we may never meet again, and so, my dear, dear friend,

farewell!”



he have retain her hand, and she return his cordial, warm pressure;

then, by a sudden impulse, she stoop, press her pale lip upon his

high, smooth brow, and--be go.



Harry follow she with his glance as she leave the room.



“poor thing!” he murmur, “she have many high quality; and such a

life as she lead must be a complete purgatory to her proud, impetuous

disposition; I hope she will fall into good hand, and--and keep out of

my way. Alice evidently dislike and suspect she, and nothing I can say

be likely to lessen the feeling. now for take my poor, dear, naughty,

foolish, little wife home, and lecture she. she seem angry with

I; because I do not arrive in time to accompany she to the ball, I

suppose--as if I could prevent railway-train from break down!--ah,

it’s wretched, miserable work all of it!”



having arrive at this cheerful conclusion, Harry rise and proceed in

search of his wife.



in the meantime, the country-dance being end, Lord Alfred have offer

his arm to his partner, and propose a stroll through the room--a

proposition to which Alice, who, in her present state of feeling, be

anxious to do anything rather than hasten the inevitable _tête à tête_

with her husband, consent. as they pass a group who be gather

round a clever copy from one of the great work of some old master,

D’Almayne approach Lord Alfred, and, make some light remark to

screen his real object, find an opportunity to whisper to his pupil--



“take she to the door of the boudoir, and detain she there to look at

the picture in the anteroom for a minute; there be a _tableau vivant_

inside the apartment which will interest she deeply!” partially guess

his meaning, Lord Alfred execute the task with so much tact and skill,

that all this by-play be completely unnoticed by Alice, and when

they reach the door of the boudoir, which stand ajar, she stop

to examine a picture, in perfect unconsciousness of any plot or

contrivance; as she do so, the follow sentence, speak in tone of

deep emotion, fall upon her ear:--



“_love that I cannot return be lavish and waste on I, and the only

affection I pine for, I have alienate by my own rash and inconsiderate

conduct!_”



the sound of the voice be all that Alice require to enable she to

decide that the speaker be her husband: and a hurried glance prove to

she that his speech have be address to Arabella Crofton, her rival,

as she have long suspect she to be--a fact in regard to which she now

receive the assurance of her own sense.



Harry’s speech could bear but one interpretation: the “love waste

on he which he could never return,” be her own--his wife’s! the

“affection he pine for, and have alienate by his rash and inconsiderate

conduct,” be that of Arabella Crofton, the “rash conduct” he be so

bitterly repent--his marriage. yes, she see it all, and feel that for

she there be no long such a thing as happiness in this life. now that

she know, that she have hear from his own lip, that he no long love

her,--nay, that he have transfer his affection to another,--she feel

how all important, how essential it have be to she--existence without

Harry’s love to brighten it, would be like the universe without

sunlight--cold, dark, desolate.



poor little Alice! she have act very wrongly; she have be self-willed,

petulant, unjust, and disobedient to her husband; but if suffer could

atone for sin, the bitterness of that moment might have expiate graver

offence than those of which she have be guilty. her first idea be to

get away from the spot: lose as he be to she, Harry should never say

she be a spy upon his action. she turn to communicate her wish

to her companion, and see his eye fix on her face with a peculiar

intelligence which she have never observe before, and in an instant the

thought flash across she that she have be bring there by design;

and, without allow time for reflection as to the advisability of

make such an accusation, she exclaimed--



“you know they be there, and bring I on purpose to see they, and so

to destroy the happiness of my future life! what have I ever do to you

to deserve this at your hand!”



utterly take aback by this direct and unexpected attack, Lord Alfred

colour up, stammer something unintelligible, and at last attempt

to screen himself behind the equivocation that he do not know Mr.

Coverdale be in the boudoir.



“if you do not know it, you suspect it,” be the reply; “your

feature be more honest than your word, my lord, and betray you.”



greatly confound at this most unexpected result of his scheme, Lord

Alfred vow, and protest, and attempt to clear and defend himself,

but in vain. the shock Alice have receive have couch her mental vision,

and, turn a deaf ear to his excuse, she sternly desire he to

take she back to Mrs. Crane immediately; and then preserve an offended

silence, so that his lordship be glad to take she at her word, and lead

she back to the drawing-room, in which the Crane party have ensconce

themselves.



“Kate, let we get home--I be weary to death; somebody say the

carriage be wait.”



the word be commonplace enough, but something in the tone in which

they be utter cause Mrs. Crane to regard her cousin attentively,

and her quick eye soon discern that there be something amiss. “Alice,

be anything wrong, dear? you be not ill?”



“yes! no! my head ache--only let we get away!” be the reply.



“but some one tell I that Mr. Coverdale have arrive; where be he?--you

will wait for he?” return Kate, alarmed and surprised at Alice’s

unwonted agitation.



“he will come when he like; he--have find some friend of his, I

believe,” murmur Alice. “_only_ let we get away!” she add, in so

implore a tone that Kate, convince some _contre-temp_ have occur,

dispatch Mr. Crane in search of Miss Crofton, and, take leave of

Lady Tattersall Trottemout (who think they have resolve to spend the

night there, naturally deplore their “run away so early”), repair

to the cloakroom. here the other, include Harry Coverdale, join

they, and in another quarter of an hour they be safely house in Park

Lane.



thus end Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s _soirée dansante_; but its

consequence continue to influence the life of those whoso fortune we

be trace, for many a long year.



nothing pass between Coverdale and Alice in reference to the scene we

have just describe until the next morning, when, before they go down

to breakfast, Harry observe abruptly, “Alice, it be my particular wish

that you should go down to the Park to-day: can you be ready to start by

the four o’clock train?”



“yes,” be the unexpectedly acquiescent reply; then, after a moment’s

pause, “what reason be I to give Kate for leave she so suddenly?”



astonish at such a ready consent where he have expect strong

opposition, if not an actual refusal to comply with his desire, Harry

look steadfastly at his wife, but her face be turn away, so that he

could not read its expression. “my true reason I will explain to you at

some time when we can talk the matter over coolly and quietly,” be

the reply; “the reason I wish you to give your cousin--which be a good,

true, and sufficient reason in itself, although not the only one

by which I be actuate--be, that your sister Emily have receive an

invitation to stay with a friend of her, which Mrs. Hazlehurst be

anxious she should accept, think she require change; but emily

very properly refuse to leave her mother. I dine there the day before

yesterday, and hearing of the dilemma, propose that you should take

Emily’s place for a fortnight or three week--I be not wrong in make

such an offer, be I?”



“no; I shall be very glad to see and be of use to dear mamma,” be the

reply.



“I should have tell you all this last night,” continue Coverdale, “but

for reason I will not enter upon at present.”



he wait for some comment on his speech, but he wait in vain; Alice

continue to add the finish touch to her toilet, until, be

completely equip, she quietly observe, “it be time to go down, I

think; the breakfast bell will ring directly;” and, suit the action

to the word, she depart, leave her husband to follow when he

please. Kate be surprised to hear of their sudden determination to

leave town, and sorry to part with they; but their reason for so do

be such a plausible one, that she could urge nothing against it. she

see that there be something more--that neither Harry nor his wife be

at their ease; but Alice keep her own counsel so closely that all Kate’s

endeavour to win her confidence be futile, and she be oblige to

content herself by suppose that it be a mere matrimonial breeze which

would blow over, as such affair usually do, without any very serious

consequence result from it.



Coverdale Park be reach without adventure, and appear as cool,

and calm, and happy as the country usually do to the eye of

fashion-weary Londoners; and Harry, unaffectedly delight to escape

from the uncongenial atmosphere of a crowded city to his home,--which he

love with his whole heart,--forgot, in the pleasure he experience, the

amount of Alice’s misdemeanours, and be only anxious to be reconcile

with she, and to assure she of his perfect and entire forgiveness. but

since the previous evening a change--for which he could not account, and

which begin to render he very uneasy--have come over Alice, she be

no long irritable and petulant at one moment, yet amuse and

light-hearted at the next, but a settle gloom hang o’er her brow, which

indicate sorrow rather than anger; and although she have never allow

he to surprise she in tear, her eye bear unmistakeable trace of

weeping. their _tête-à-tête_ dinner pass off heavily enough: as they

sit moodily over their dessert, Harry observe, “the evening be most

lovely--come out and take a stroll.” he speak kindly, almost tenderly,

and as Alice look up to reply to he, her eye fill with tear;

hastily check they before they could be observe, she agree. her

husband carefully place a shawl over her shoulder, bring from the

hall her garden bonnet, and, draw her arm within his own, they walk

on for some distance in silence. at length Harry observe, “Alice, dear,

you seem downcast and unhappy--why be this? surely you cannot regret

that hot, miserable, artificial London? you must be glad to get back to

our own dear, quiet home again?”



“I do not in the least regret London,” be the reply; “on the contrary,

I be glad to be once more in the country again.”



“then why this gloomy manner?” urge Coverdale; “I may have be a

little annoyed with you at time lately, but I be quite prepared to

believe it be mere thoughtlessness on your part; in fact, I never

consider it anything else. I feel sure when you come to reflect

seriously on the matter, you will yourself see that your conduct be

a little injudicious; and, in that case, believe I the affair be from

this moment forget and forgive.” Harry pause for a reply, but

for several moment none be forthcoming; at last, his patience be

exhaust, he inquire in a tone of surprise, “Alice, do you hear what

I be say?”



“I beg your pardon,” rejoin Alice, start, “I be _not_ attend

properly at that moment; you be blame I for something, be you

not? I be very sorry--what be it?”



as she speak, Harry glance towards she to discover whether she have be

really too much pre-engross to attend to he, or whether she merely

affect to have be so for the amiable purpose of provoke he;

decide in favour of the first hypothesis, he resume: “I be say,

my dear Alice, that although your flirtation with that foolish boy,

Alfred Courtland, have cause I some uneasiness--because people dare

to remark on it, unluckily not in a way that I could take up--yet that

I be convince it be merely thoughtlessness on your part, and be

anxious to forgive and forget it.”



if he have expressly try to rouse Alice from the state of gloomy

depression into which she have fall, Harry could not have devised

mean more effectual than the speech he have just address to she. with

flash eye she hear he to the end, then inquire: “and pray who

have dared--(you may well use the word!)--who have dare to accuse I of

flirt? but I need not ask,” she continue, bitterly; “no one but

Miss Crofton would have venture to asperse your wife’s character before

you--from no one else would you have listen to such a falsehood--no

one else could have induce you to believe it!”



astonish, and, if the truth must be tell, somewhat confound at

have the table thus turn upon he, Harry exclaim, “Alice, what

do you mean? what be you talk about? have you take leave of your

sense all of a sudden?”



“if I have I should scarcely be surprised,” be the rejoinder; “but I

know only too well what I be say, and the cause I have to say and

believe it; however, I do not want to reproach you, that would do no

good; but--but--know what I know--” an hysterical sob choke she

voice--“it be too hard that _you_ should accuse _I_ of flirting”--and

here, utterly overcome by her feeling, she burst into a paroxysm of

weeping. wholly confound at this unexpected result of his very

mild remonstrance, which have be intend more as a judicious way of

forgiving Alice’s misdemeanours than as a reprimand, Harry lead she to

a seat, and then use his good endeavour to console and bring she to

reason; but in vain, nor be it until she be fain to stop through sheer

physical exhaustion that her tear cease; by which time, what between

bodily fatigue (she have not be in bed until between three and four

on the previous night, or rather morning, could not sleep then, and have

accomplish a railroad journey since) and mental agitation, she be

so completely wear out that even Harry, who be not usually too

clear-sighted on such point, perceive this be not a fitting

opportunity to continue the discussion.









chapter XL.--DEEPER and DEEPER still.



on the afternoon of the day after that on which she return home,

Alice be to go to the Grange, and take her sister’s place as companion

to Mrs. Hazlehurst. during the morning, Harry be occupy with

his bailiff and the farming account, but he make his appearance at

luncheon. when that meal be conclude, and the servant have quit

the room, he begin gravely, but kindly--“Alice, dear, I do not wish to

distress or annoy you, but, before you leave home, I must once again

refer to the conversation of last night. I know not who have couple

my name with that of your cousin Kate’s friend, Miss Crofton, nor what

falsehood they may have coin to blacken my character in your eye;

but, since I have know you, I have never attempt to deceive you on

any point; and I tell you now, on my honour as a gentleman, that nothing

ever have pass, or be in the small degree likely to pass, between

myself and that young lady, calculate to cause you the slight pain

or even uneasiness. do this satisfy you, or, if not, can I say or do

anything that will?”



“yes!” exclaim Alice, her face flush with eagerness as the idea

strike she; “promise to tell I exactly all that pass between you and

she in Italy!--promise I this; show I that you be willing to confide

in I; trust to my affection to forgive you, should you tell I anything

you think may displease I, and I will, on my part, try to forget my own

conviction that--that--in fact, that you do not love I as I believe

you once do. tell I all frankly, and there may yet be happiness in

store for we both.”



she pause, breathless with emotion, and fix her large eye on her

husband’s countenance, as though she fain would read his very thought,

await a reply; but for a minute none appear likely to come.

Coverdale, push back his hair, rub his forehead, and evince

unmistakable sign of annoyance and perplexity, at length rouse

himself by an effort, and, in a constrain, embarrassed tone of voice,

replied--



“ask I anything but that: I be under a solemn promise never to mention

the fact you desire to learn; I cannot break my word even to regain

your affection.”



“I will ask nothing more of you,” return Alice, in a tone of

deeply-wound feeling; “it be foolish to ask that--I might have know

you would refuse to answer I; and it be bad than folly to fancy you

care to retain my affection! and now let I go home to mamma; thank

God, I may yet be of some use and comfort to she, and, at all event,

I know that _she_ love I--oh! that I have never leave she!” and,

disregard Harry’s exclamation, “Alice, hear I! indeed you mistake--”

 she hurry out of the room.



her husband remain motionless until her retreat footstep become

inaudible, then, spring from his chair, he begin pace up and down

with hasty stride, while his idea arrange themselves somewhat after

the follow fashion:--



“well, I’ve make a pretty mess of it now, and no mistake! of all thing

in the world for she to have fix upon--to want to know about Arabella;

and poor Arabella have behave so nicely and kindly too in this affair!

I _cann’t_ tell she! besides, there’s my promise--come what may I’ll keep

my promise; but I be an unlucky dog as ever live! ah! I never ought to

have marry, that’s the whole truth. woman don’t seem to understand I,

and I’m sure I don’t understand they; whether I’m stern or whether I’m

kind it all turn out alike, and all wrong. poor, dear, little Alice!

she be make herself just as miserable as she have make I; and, for the

life of I, I don’t know how to say or do anything to mend matter! I

must leave it to time, I suppose. perhaps her mother may talk she into

a happy frame of mind. I be glad she be go back to the Grange; I

think I’ll leave she there for a short time--home influence may soften

she, and induce she to judge I more charitably. I’m certain it’s all my

own fault, somehow! she be as sweet-temper as an angel when I marry

she.” he continue to pace the room, and after some moment a new notion

seem to strike he. “I wonder whose be put these idea about

Arabella into her head,” he resume; “somebody have be tell she

about the Florence business, that’s clear--lie most likely, and in

order to set she against I. that man D’Almayne, I mistrust he--he’s

play a deep game of some kind; and his manner to Kate Crane I

disapprove of strongly. if he have be meddle--if he have dare to say

or insinuate anything against I to Alice, by heaven, I’ll--I’ll--no, I

could not trust myself to horsewhip he, at least not just yet, I should

kill the scoundrel. I’ve a great mind to run up to London, when I’ve

take Alice to the Grange, and try and find out something about it;

but I willn’t be hasty--I _must_ not! the interest at stake be too

important--Alice’s happiness for life, to say nothing of my own,

which be bind up in her, depend upon how I behave for the next few

month--no; I willn’t act rashly or hastily, nothing shall induce I to do

so!”



of all the high and solemn mystery that enshroud the spirit-life

none be more inscrutable, yet invest with a deep and more vital

interest, than those apparently irreconcilable paradox--predestination

and free will. our possession of this latter attribute be a tenet hold,

and carelessly acquiesce in, by Christians of every denomination; yet

how little do we realise or estimate its practical importance! it be

impossible to reflect, even for a moment, on so vast a field of thought

without elicit idea at once salutary and impressive. nor can we

fully recognise our obligation as responsible being until, in trace

the fortune of some follow-creature, of whose path through life our

limited power enable we to perceive only the dim and shadowy outline,

we see how what appear trifle--make a right use of, as they should

be, or abuse, as they too often be--influence a lifetime here, and,

fearful thought, determine an eternity hereafter! in thing spiritual,

as well as in thing material, cause govern effect; and the law which

regulate consequence be equally stringent and immutable in both case,

although in the former they be not so easily traceable. still, to

the earnest, careful, and patient observer of the mysterious way of

Providence, suggestive glimpse be afford, aid by which he may

reason from thing see to thing unseen. thus, remark how some

strange train of event result from a single act which we may long have

feebly propose to perform, but the execution of which we have delay

from day to day, until some unexpected excitement have quicken our

resolve into action, we may legitimately argue that these event have

be, as it be, wait for the touch which be to set the train in

motion; that if that motive power have be apply soon, the same

result would have be proportionably hasten; and that if it have

never be apply at all, the history of event would have bear a

different record. we be so fearfully and wonderfully constitute, and

the dealing of the Creator with his creature be so complicated and

inscrutable, that we know not what great event may hinge upon our

slight action. the avalanche lie in all its dread sublimity,

apparently as immovable as the mountain-side it rest on; the careless

foot of some chamois hunter dislodge a stone--the spell which enchain

the destroyer be break--with the velocity of the whirlwind the mass

descend, crush and overwhelming all before it--and heart-rend

memory be all that remain to bear witness of some once prosperous

village and its inhabitant.



one, who see all clearly where we but blindly and feebly catch a ray of

light, pray for his executioner in these remarkable words--“Father,

forgive they, _they know not what they do!_” idea such as the foregoing

be calculate to inspire feeling of awe; but, if they be true,

they should not be put aside because they give a solemn view of our

responsibility; when, moreover, rightly consider, they teach an

important practical lesson--namely, never to neglect what appear to be

little duty, or carelessly to fall into little sin. it seem but a

little duty to extinguish a fallen spark; yet that spark may kindle a

fire which may consume a city, which, save for that accident, might have

endure for century. it seem but a little sin to utter a playful jest

on some serious subject; but that jest may inspire a doubt which may

injure a waver faith, and endanger a soul’s salvation. some may deem

these remark misplace in a work of fiction; but if it be a novelist’s

endeavour to depict truly the various phase of human life, nought that

truly affect the spring of human action can be foreign to his subject.



the evening of Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s party be not the first

occasion on which Harry Coverdale have bestow good and sound advice on

Arabella Crawford, but never before have it produce the desire effect.

now, however, a new impulse spring up within she--she would conquer she

hopeless, selfish, sinful love for he, and strive to render herself

worthy of his friendship, and win at least his esteem; but how should

she begin practically to work out his advice--how attempt to render

herself independent--what duty lie most directly in her path? her

intention be honest and sincere, and that morning’s post bring

an answer to her question. a female relation whom she have hitherto

neglect, be take seriously ill, and write wishing, but scarcely

expect, she to come to she immediately. this lady be old,

uninteresting, and in straiten circumstance; to go to she be an act

of unmitigated self-sacrifice, and in Arabella’s then frame of mind

this be its great attraction. Kate Crane be sorry to part with

she, although the short time they have pass together have suffice to

convince she of the disagreeable fact that her dear friend no long

suit she as she have do in her schoolgirl day. there be a very

simple reason for this, although Kate do not at once perceive it:

Arabella Crofton be at an age when the mind and body having reach

maturity, if they do not remain stationary, yet alter so gradually, that

the change be almost imperceptible; she be, therefore, much what she

have be four year previously. Kate, on the contrary, have advance from

a girl into a woman; and her intellectual power have not only

develop until they be now in every respect superior to those of she

_ci-devant_ governess, but her taste have be form on a well and

purer model, and her natural instinct be of a high and more refined

character. thus, Arabella be constantly jar against and annoying

Kate’s sensitiveness by thought, word, and deed; and she feel that a

gulf have grow up between they, which would effectually prevent her

friend’s society from afford she the comfort and support she have

hope and expect. Arabella be much too quick-sighted not to have

perceive the effect this feeling have produce upon Kate’s manner,

although she be ignorant of the cause. thus, the parting between the

friend--for, from old association, friend they still be--be by no

mean so painful as under other circumstance they might have consider

it.



leave to her own device, Kate bethink she of the expedition to visit

Mrs. Leonard, which Horace D’Almayne have propose to she on the occasion

of the horticultural _fête_, but which she have never yet find an

opportunity to accomplish. Mrs. Leonard’s history be a distressing one.

her husband have be partner in a north country bank, at which Mr. Crane

usually keep a considerable account. on one occasion, when his balance

there exceed even its usual limit, a junior partner suddenly

abscond to America, take with he so considerable a sum that the

bank be oblige to stop payment, and Mr. Leonard find himself a ruin

man. in his adversity, his mind became engross by one fix idea,

which almost assume the character of a monomania--viz., that it be his

mission to trace out his late partner, and recover the money with which

he have make away; this notion prey upon he until one morning he, too,

suddenly disappear, leave a letter to inform his wife that he have

set out in search of the delinquent, and that she would hear nothing

more of he until he have succeed in his object. on inquiry it appear

that he have take a berth in an american packet, which have just sail,

and, beyond that, all trace of he be lose. consequently, his family

have fall into actual poverty, which, day by day, assume a sterner and

more hopeless character. a gentleman well verse in the detail of Mr.

Crane’s early acquaintance with Mr. Leonard (who, before Mr. Crane have

amass the fortune he now possess, have several time advance he

money, and in a measure, therefore, contribute to his success in life),

advise Mrs. Leonard to apply to he for assistance; and, be

aware how much the _millionaire_ be guide by the opinion of Horace

D’Almayne, suggest that she should make her first application through

he: in which appeal the fertile brain of that good young man perceive

matter which might be make profitable to the furtherance of his design,

and re-arrange his hand, so as to take in the new card thus place

within his reach.



the plan which D’Almayne have settle with Kate be this:--she be

sit for her portrait to an artist friend of Horace’s, to whose

painting-room she go twice a-week; D’Almayne propose to send away the

carriage and servant, when he would have a hire brougham in readiness

to convey she to the obscure suburb in which Mrs. Leonard’s poverty

compel she to reside; he would meet she on her arrival there, and

introduce she to Mrs. Leonard; she could then return to the artist’s,

whence her own carriage could again fetch she and convey her home. Kate

dislike all this clandestine contrivance; but, consider the end of

sufficient importance to justify the mean, she be unable to devise any

less objectionable scheme, and so reluctantly consent. she reach she

destination without adventure. the dwelling occupy by Mrs. Leonard be

situate in one of the labyrinth of small, unwholesome street which

lie between Islington and Pentonville, and contain a description of

house too good, or, more truly speak, too expensive, for the very

low order to reside in, and yet so confined and comfortless that

it appear incredible that any person, accustom to even the ordinary

requirement of respectable life, can tolerate they. D’Almayne be

wait in readiness to receive she, and, offer she his arm, lead

she up the narrow step and into a miserable parlour, some eight foot

square, with the same elaborate and coxcombical politeness with which

he would have conduct she across the receiving-room of a duchess. Mrs.

Leonard be a singularly gentle, lady-like person, evidently wear down

by her continued struggle to support herself and family, which

consist of two boy and three girl, the eld son and daughter be

respectively fourteen and fifteen, whence their age decrease down to

a little pale thing of four year old, whose juvenile rose could not

bloom for want of purer air and more nutritious diet. to they, with the

great tact and kindness, do Kate proceed to enact the character of

guardian angel; and, ere she have be half-an-hour in the house, have

completely win all their affection, from the poor mother, who begin

to see light break in upon her darkness, to the olive-branch of

four--whose vision of unlimited sugar-plums bade fair to be realise.

ah! it be easy to buy golden opinion of the poor and needy in this

world: generosity, _i.e._, judiciously dispose of superfluous cash, be

a virtue strangely overrate. the widow’s mite be an offering for which

one can feel respect, even with a well-fill stomach; but that shrine

for an Englishman’s heart must be indeed empty, ere he can thank dive

for his crumb. but, when Kate smile brightly, and speak kindly and

tenderly as she open her purse-string, what wonder that the inmate

of that house of mourning be ready almost to worship her beauty and

munificence? nay, in the excess of her gratitude, poor Mrs. Leonard so

laud Horace D’Almayne for the sunshine he have cause to fall upon the

“frost of her despair,” that this excellent young man really begin to

believe himself to have be actuate by pure philanthropy, and wish

he have not, from disuse, entirely lose the power of blushing. so _he_

talk, and _she_ talk, and _they_ talk, and be all very much

pleased with themselves and with each other; and Kate Crane turn to

depart, with her purse and her heart equally lighten by this most

satisfactory visit. D’Almayne, enrapture alike with the success of his

scheme, and with himself for having so cleverly devise and execute the

same, lead Kate to her brougham with nearly as conspicuous a display

of gallantry to the lady, and admiration of himself, as that which

distinguish Lord Bateman’s proud young porter on the memorable

occasion of his playing gentleman usher to the fair Sophia. having

place she in the brougham, hand her parasol (why do lady take

parasol about in carriage, where there be not the most remote chance

of their be require?), and a shawl, and a carriage-bag full of

elegant rubbish, and smirk to show his white tooth three time--once

for each article--he receive as a reward a kindly smile (for Kate

really feel oblige to he for the opportunity of do good which he

have afford she), which he receive with a look of deferential ecstacy,

and the brougham, with its fair occupant, drive off.



on a sordid pallet, in the garret of the house opposite to that in which

Mrs. Leonard reside, lie a man who, having live wickedly, be then

die miserably: stricken with remorseful terror at the near approach

of death--inevitable, fearful, retributive death--gate to the stern,

inexorable Future, when he would be weigh in the balance and find

wanting--he have wish, poor wretch! to undo some of the evil he have

commit, and so send to a rise young barrister, then get up

evidence in a dispute peerage case, to confess to he the forgery of a

name in a parish-register and other iniquity, the knowledge of which

would materially strengthen the cause of the young lawyer’s client. the

interview, a most painful one to any man of feeling, be conclude;

and, having take copious note of the die forger’s confession in the

presence of a competent witness, soothe the miserable be with

such comfort as human sympathy could suggest, and promise to send

the clergyman who his patient and gentle persuasion have induce he

to receive, the young barrister leave the house at the moment D’Almayne

hand Kate Crane to the brougham. why do the strange turn first red

then pale? why do he clench his fist till the nail dig deep into

the flesh? why do he make a hasty stride forward, then, with an

exclamation, half curse half sob, as hastily draw back, and screen

himself in the shadow of the doorway until the carriage have drive off?

he start because he have see the woman he once love well than

his own life--the woman he have strive to forgive and forget, and have

succeed in accomplish neither the one nor the other--leave a shabby

house in a disreputable suburb, whither she have be in the society of

a notorious libertine! he clench his fist and stride forward from an

impulse of rightful indignation, which make he burn to annihilate

the scoundrel who stood triumph in his villainy before he: but he

check himself as the bitter remembrance flash across he that

_he_ have no claim on she which could give he a right to interfere,

although--and this, even at that moment, be the most painful thought

of all--another had!--who be evidently incompetent to fulfil the

sacred trust which he have undertake. so, with old wound thus cruelly

re-open, Arthur Hazlehurst, heart-sick and weary, return to his

chamber, ponder many thing, both of this life and of the life to

come.









CHAPTER XLI.--ADVICE GRATIS.



it be a dreary thing when much of life seem still before we, and a

dark, unfathomable future lie between we and the grave; it be a bitter

thing to sit alone and ponder on the day to come, and discover

no bright spot in the darkness--discern no kind hand to beckon we

forward--hear no friendly voice to council and encourage we in the

battle of life; it be an uphill task to struggle through existence

without an object on this side the tomb--a hard and cruel lot to hope

for nothing until death shall have change hope into fruition! to live

in order to fit oneself to die be the duty of every Christian, but to

live for that alone require a far high degree of spirituality than to

lay down one’s life for the faith: the stake and the axe of persecution

be tender mercy compare with the chronic martyrdom of such a

life-long sacrifice.



some such gloomy thought as these pass through the overwrought brain

of Arthur Hazlehurst as, late in the night after Kate’s visit to Mrs.

Leonard, he fold up the last document of which he have make himself

master relative to the dispute peerage case in which he be retain.

the evidence of which he have that day become possessed would, he feel

certain, ensure his client’s success, in which event his own career

would in all probability be a prosperous one, and fame and fortune

become his; but how worthless do these appear, now they could no long

be share with she he love! until the incident of that morning have

so powerfully affect he, he hope that he have in great measure

eradicate this affection, which his good sense enable he to perceive

could only be a source of grief to he: but the pain he have then

experience effectually dispel the illusion, and he be fain to

acknowledge that, strongly as he condemn her conduct in sacrifice

his deep and true regard to (as he deem it) a desire for wealth and

the pomp and vanity of fashionable life, he yet, despite his reason,

love she as he feel he never could love any other woman; and the

think that through her husband’s neglect and incompetency she

be expose to the insidious advance of such a character as Horace

D’Almayne weigh upon he, and grieve and irritate he until he could

endure it no long. “come what may of it, I will see she and warn

she; she shall not be lead on by that scoundrel without know his true

character!” he exclaim, rise and hastily pace the room. “for what

purpose could she have accompany he to such a neighbourhood as that?”

 he continue, musing; “he may possibly have get up some plausible lie

to induce she to do so, merely to compromise she in the eye of her

husband--such a scheme be not unlikely to have occur to his subtle

brain. yes, come what may, I will see she to-morrow; and, unless she be

indeed lose to all well feeling, I will rouse she to a sense of duty,

and thwart that scoundrel’s design. if her husband should learn my

interference, I care not; because, in his incapacity, he neglect the

sacred trust he have undertake, that be no reason why I should stand

tamely by and see she sacrifice; no--I will save she in spite of

herself! this shall be my revenge for the happiness which she have

blight. God grant my interference may not prove too late!”



his mind occupy with such thought as these, Arthur Hazlehurst pass

a sleepless night, and the first moment he could tear himself away from

business on the follow day, he betake himself to Park Lane. Kate

be from home when he arrive; but having notify to the servant his

intention of await her return, he be show into the drawing-room,

where he find a tall, fashionably-dress young man stand in a

disconsolate attitude by the fire-place, to whom he make a slight

inclination of the head, heartily wish he at Jericho, or any other

locality equally remote from Park Lane; then, take up a book, he leave

he to his own device. thing remain in this thoroughly english and

unsociable state for about ten minute, towards the end of which period

the fashionable young man, having stare hard at Hazlehurst, grow first

interested, then excited, and finally the spirit move he, and he

spake:--



“I beg pardon--a--really I don’t think I can be mistake--a--very

absurd, I’m sure, if I be--but I be at school with one Arthur

Hazlehurst--and--”



“and I be he,” be the reply; “but you have the advantage of I; for I

be at school with some four hundred boy, and, to tell you the honest

truth, it do not at this moment occur to I which of they you may have

be.”



“yet Alfred Courtland have to thank you for such slight skill as he may

possess in the noble art of boot-cleaning, brush clothe, and

fry sausage; besides early lesson in the demolition of oyster and

porter--enforce by example rather than precept,” be the rejoinder;

and, the unsocial ice of Old England be thus break, the _ci-devant_

school-fellow talk on until they grow quite intimate. at length, Lord

Alfred look at his watch, be silent and _distrait_ for a minute or

two, then begin in a timid, hesitate voice, “I be wait here to see

Mrs. Crane; but, I don’t know--that is, I feel as if I could tell you

all about it quite as well; you can do what I wish well than she

could; and I don’t think you’ll be angry with I when I’ve make you

understand the affair.”



“suppose you come to the point, and try to do so at once,” reply

Arthur, anxious to get he away, if possible, before Kate’s return.



“well, you see, my dear Hazlehurst, I wish you haven’t be abroad, and

then you would have understand it all so much well; but since you go

away--though, by Jove, now I come to think of it, I see you here one day

when Coverdale and your sister first come to town--deuce odd I don’t

make you out then; but if I recollect, you go away just as I come

in--” and thus ramble on, he give a true, though by no mean a full

and particular account of his intimacy with the Coverdales, continue:

“your sister be very kind to I, and take so much trouble about our

duet. she piano, and I do a little in a mild way on the flute, you

know, and we be great friend, and get on very serenely until the

other night, when I be fool enough to do, or rather to say, something

which make she angry--a good right she have to be so; but the fact be,

I’d have some man dine with I, and we drink a lot of wine, and then

sit down to card, and I lose my money and my temper, and in this frame

of mind I meet Mrs. Coverdale at Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s ‘let off,’

and she snub I--I dare say I deserve it, but I don’t like it; and,

as my evil genius would have it, a man I know relate to I a tale in

regard to her husband’s flirtation with a pretty governess in Italy,

and to tease she I, like a fool, must need go and repeat it to she; and

she take it more seriously to heart than I have expect, and be angry

with I, and--but I see you be get impatient--”



“not at all, not at all,” return Arthur, who, preoccupy with his own

care and anxiety, and nervous in regard to the approach interview

with his cousin, scarcely hear or understand half Lord Alfred be

say, and be only desirous to get rid of he before Kate should

arrive; “no; it’s merely a legal habit I’ve fall into of try to

bring people to the point with as little delay as possible. yes; I

quite understand--Alice tell her husband of your flirt with a pretty

governess, and he say something which offend you.”



“no; it be _i_ who tell the story,” interrupt Lord Alfred, aghast

at the state of confusion his auditor appear to have fall into, and

from which he immediately endeavour to extricate he by commence a

long explanation.



oblige in self-defence to attend, Arthur soon find out that Lord

Alfred’s object in his ill-timed confidence be to ask he to convey his

apology to his sister, whenever he might be write to she; whereupon,

consider the whole affair a mere silly, boyish punctilio, he

replied--



“if you’ll take my advice, my Lord, I should say, get a sheet of

rose-scented paper and a diamond-point pen”--(a sheet of foolscap

and a goose-quill would be more appropriate, be his mental

commentary),--“and sit down and write your penitence to the fair lady

yourself. Alice must be greatly alter for the bad if she do not

grant you a ready pardon.”



“but do you really think--” begin Lord Alfred, in remonstrance.



Arthur cut he short--“I don’t _think_ about it, my dear Courtland; I

feel as certain of the result as if I have already see her answer. do

you suppose I don’t know my own sister, man? but, to come to the point,

here’s her address;” he draw a card from his pocket, hastily scribble

a few word, then hand it to Lord Alfred, continue, “and the soon

you go to your club and write the letter, the soon will your mind be

at ease.”



puzzle, confused, half-alarm and half-pleased with the new idea thus

force upon he, one thing alone seem clear to the bewildered

young nobleman, viz., that for some reason unexplaine his old new

acquaintance be desirous of getting rid of he; and, not have yet

sufficiently acquire the habit and feeling of a man-about-town to

be utterly regardless of the wish of other, he shake Arthur’s hand,

promise to act upon his advice, and depart.



he have scarcely be go five minute when a thunder knock at the

house-door announce that its mistress have return, and ere Arthur have

time to do more than spring to his foot, Kate, attire in the rich

and most become out-of-door costume, enter. as she perceive who

be her guest, she start, and her colour go and come rapidly; but

recover herself by a powerful effort, she advance towards he, and,

extend her hand, observed--



“you be such an unaccustomed visitor, that I could scarcely believe my

eye. when do you return from the continent? I be afraid you expect

to find Alice here, but she and Mr. Coverdale leave I some day since.”



“I return the day before yesterday,” be the reply, “and find a note

from Coverdale, inform I they have leave town; my visit here to-day be

to yourself.”



as he utter the last word, his voice unconsciously assume a sterner

tone, and a shade come across his care-wear feature. an idea suddenly

flash into Kate’s mind, and in a voice which sufficiently attest she

alarm, she exclaimed--



“something be the matter! I be sure of it the moment I see you. _you_

would not come _here_”--(she unconsciously emphasize the word in

italics)--“unless such be the case. what be it? I be strong, I can

bear it--be my father worse?--dying?”



as she speak she sink into a chair, and, fix her eye upon his face,

await his reply.



“you alarm yourself unnecessarily,” he say calmly, almost coldly; “I be

the bearer of no ill tiding: that I have an object in visit you I do

not deny; whether you will consider it a justifiable one I know not;

I regard it in the light of a duty, and therefore, even at the risk of

pain and offend you, it must be perform.” he pause for a reply,

but as Kate remain silent, he continue: “your brother be mere boy,

your father a confirm invalid; circumstance lead I to doubt whether

your--whether Mr. Crane be aware of the character of a person who be,

I be grieve to find, a constant visitor at this house; and I therefore

conceive I have a duty to discharge to one whom I have know from

childhood--one in whose welfare an irrevocable past, which cannot be

forget while memory remain, force I to interest myself. Kate, I

be here to warn you against the insidious advance of that heartless

profligate, Horace D’Almayne!”



as he speak, he fix his eye upon she with a searching glance. Kate

colour, draw herself up haughtily, and appear about to make an angry

reply; check the impulse almost as it arise, she answered--



“I be bind, and indeed most willing to believe, you mean kindly by I;

I will therefore explain to you that which I would not have condescend

to explain to any other man live--that I merely admit Mr. D’Almayne’s

intimacy to oblige my husband, who have become so accustomed to his

society and service, as to consider they indispensable. Mr. D’Almayne

may or may not deserve the harsh epithet you apply to he; but if you

be aware of any circumstance seriously affect his character, it be

to Mr. Crane you should mention they, not to I.”



for a moment Arthur remain silent, then press his hand to his

forehead, he murmur inaudibly, “she can actually stoop to deceit!--is

such a change possible!”



surprise and hurt at his silence, Kate resume: “why do you not speak?

you look at I as if you doubt my assertion!” unheede her question,

Arthur still continue to regard she with an expression in which grief,

surprise, and disapproval, contend for the mastery. at length he say,

in a low deep voice, which cause a shudder to pass through the frame of

his auditor--



“I have suffer much on your account, but such pain as this I never

think to experience!--Kate, you once say you have never attempt to

deceive I--can you say so now?”



“I be at a loss to understand you,” be the reply; and as she grow angry

at what she deem unmerited insult, her self-possession return, and

she speak in her usual cold, hard tone of voice. “I can only repeat what

I before state, that I allow Mr. D’Almayne’s intimacy merely to oblige

my husband. from your manner you still appear to doubt the fact--may I

ask why?” Arthur pause for a moment, then, with an eager and excited

voice, he exclaimed--



“Kate, hear I! I have not take this step lightly, or without due

consideration. I seek not to refer to the past, though that past

be never absent from my memory; but you may imagine it cost I some

resolution to come here to-day, when I tell you that I have rather have

see you lie dead before my eye, feel towards you as I feel

one short year ago, than behold you surround by the luxury of

wealth--know as I do that you have obtain they by the sacrifice

of all that be lovable in woman, by sin against all your good and

noble impulse, by forfeit all that render life aught but one

weary, endless round of care and duty! to look on you as you be

now--to read, as I can read, in every feature of your countenance,

which, though a seal book to other, I have study too long not to

decipher at a glance, trace of that desolation of heart which you have

prepare for yourself--to see you thus, and to know that I be powerless

to help you, and that you must sustain the burden of such an existence

unaided, be to I bitter pain, and I have avoid this house as though

it be plague-stricken. but as I sit through the long hour last night,

strive to weigh dispassionately the past and the present, I arrive at

the conclusion that even yet I owe you a duty, and I come here to-day

actuate only by a desire to warn you, and to save you from a fate, to

contemplate the mere possibility of which inspire I with horror. I

come, regardless of my own feeling, forgetful of my wrong, to do you

a benefit; and now you close your soul against I, and receive I

with hard word and cold look! Kate, I have not deserve this at your

hand!”



“but, indeed--believe I you be mistaken,” reply Kate, eagerly; “I

appreciate and thank you for the interest you still take in one who, as

you truly say, have forfeit every claim on your regard; but your fear

and suspicion be groundless--the intimate foot Mr. D’Almayne have

attain in this house be merely a natural consequence of the trust Mr.

Crane repose in he. why will you not believe the truth of what I tell

you?”



“because it be impossible for I to do so without doubt the evidence

of my own sense,” be the stern reply. “if you require any further

reason for my scepticism it be this: I be in -------- Street,

Pentonville, at two o’clock yesterday!”



“and if you be,” rejoin Kate, with flash eye, “you see nothing

to justify you in entertain such a cruel and unjust suspicion of

one whom _you_ should have be the last to believe likely to sacrifice

_anything_ for love; and whom you might have know well than to

deem an easy prey for the first self-confident libertine who should

condescend to display his butterfly attraction in her presence. I

consider that you have insult I deeply--so deeply as to relieve I

from part of the weight of self-reproach with which I have hitherto

deplore the injury that by my choice of a career I have inflict on

you. you say it pain you to enter this house; I now therefore beg

you to leave it, and will esteem it a favour--the only one I desire of

you--not to enter it again until--yes! until I send for you!”



as she speak she rise hastily, and ring the bell. astonish at the

effect of his speech, and for the moment overpower by her vehemence,

Arthur stand speechlessly regard she. then rouse himself by an

effort, he say in a low, deep voice, that, tremble with suppress

emotion--



“remember the word you have speak! I shall need no second bidding; I

will not enter this house, nor will I see your face again, _until you

send for I!_ and since you thus drive your good friend from you, and

encourage your bitter enemy, may God protect you! and when you see

and repent of your error, may he bless you also!”



as he utter the last word, he seize his hat, hurry from the room,

and ere Kate could sufficiently recover herself to attempt to stop he,

she hear the house-door close behind he: and then the proud woman’s

haughty spirit fail she, and murmuring--“I shall never see he

again--never, never!” she bury her face in her hand, and weep

bitterly.









CHAPTER XLII.--L’EMBARRAS DES RICHESSES.



the reader, if that noble myth who rule the destiny of we poor writer

be possess of an average amount of memory, will recollect that on the

evening when Lord Alfred Courtland entertain Jack Beaupeep and friend

at his comfortable bachelor lodging, a gentleman then first mention,

bear the euphonious patronymic of Le Roux, convey to Monsieur

Guillemard the startling intelligence that the Russian Count Ratrapski

have break the bank in J-------- Street. how, although immediately after

receive this news, Horace D’Almayne have proceed to Lady Trottemout’s

_soirée_, and, accord to his willnot, make himself universally

agreeable, and transact a more than usual amount of mischief, by

bring about the most serious disagreement which have yet occur

between Harry Coverdale and Alice his wife, it must not be suppose that

the intelligence do not interest he. on the contrary, it appeal to

he in his weak point--the pocket; for in that gambling establishment

(of which D’Almayne be part proprietor) have he invest his little

all, and the loss incur by the good fortune of Count Ratrapski

swallow up every farthing he have in the world, leave he nothing but

his debt and his talent to live upon. this position, however, by no

mean possess the charm of novelty for our excellent young friend; on

the contrary, as it be a favourite theory of his--which he never lose

any opportunity of reduce to practice--that it be the duty of those

who have money to support those who have not, he rather prefer be

insolvent; and, paradoxical as it may appear, consider himself good

off when he be bad off--for then he be oblige to exert all his

energy to ensure that some purse well fill than his own should

relax its string to provide for his necessity.



thus, on the very day on which Arthur Hazlehurst have his unsatisfactory

interview with Kate Crane, the husband of that proud beauty meet by

appointment, at an office not far from the Royal Exchange, Monsieur

Guillemard,--Mr. Vondenthaler, a belgian capitalist,--Mr. Bonus Nugget,

a man well know upon ’Change,--the Hon. Captain O’Brien,--and last,

though not least, Horace D’Almayne. Mr. Crane having seat himself,

after undergo the ceremony of introduction to Mr. Vondenthaler, who

be the only member of the party unknown to he, D’Almayne open the

proceeding by observing--



“well, gentleman, I be glad to tell you that everything be progress

as we could wish, and that my previous calculation, which I have the

honour of lay before you at our last meeting, appear likely not

only to be verify, but exceed. Mr. Vondenthaler inform I that

the application for share from the principal foreign merchant be

incessant; and Mr. Nugget and Captain O’Brien will tell you the same in

regard to their own connection. be it not so, Captain?”



“indeed, and it be, thin,” reply the gentleman thus accost, who

possibly, from his having mix so much with the aristocracy of Europe

generally, speak with a strong irish accent. “Bedad, sir, the way they

come tumble in be perfectly astonishing; ’tis, upon I conscience!”



“the only thing that remain then, before we proceed to issue the share

and receive deposit, be to decide how many we shall allot to each

director _ex officio_, and how many you gentleman may desire to retain

for--your friend,” observe D’Almayne, glance expressively towards

Mr. Crane as he speak.



“in regard to the share to be hold by director, I would suggest five

hundred,” begin Mr. Crane.



“_Das ist gut_; dat shall be he,” mutter Mr. Vondenthaler.



“I’ll not object to that same,” exclaim the Captain, “if you leave

a thunder wide margin for the share we may retain for our friend;

for, to be plain with ye, gentleman, my good friend in the world,

and that’s terence O’Brien, mean to go in for this business in real

earnest; and if I cann’t invest capital that will take five figure to

write, bedad I’d rather be out of it altogether.”



“ten thousand, which I presume be the sum you hint at, Captain O’Brien,

could not I think be object to,” observe Mr. Bonus Nugget, as if

£10,000 be a mere cab-fare.



“_Mais oui_, we will all demand so much as he, he be so small;

_n’est-ce pas, mon cher?_” interpose Monsieur Guillemard, favour

Horace D’Almayne with a grimace indicative of the tender affection.



“if I might be allow--if I might venture to suggest,” begin Mr. Crane,

timidly, “I would propose that, at so early a stage in the affair, no

limit should be place to the number of share the director may hold.

I be, ahem! a--myself I be a man who have be tolerably fortunate in my

commercial speculation, and might be dispose--in fact, I may say I

be dispose--to embark an amount of capital considerably above the sum

lately mention by Captain O’Brien.”



“Sir! your sentiment do you honour! Sir, I’m proud of your

acquaintance; you’re not one to do thing by half, I see. I like plain

speak--the speculation’s a davlish good speculation, or you would

not find such man as Mr. Vondenthaler and my friend Bonus Nugget in

it. we’re go to give our valuable time and trouble to work the thing

ship-shape; and bedad, sir, if we’re not to profit by it, I’d jist like

to know who should!”



“yes; that be all very well for you, O’Brien,” observe Mr. Nugget,

speak with an air of authority; “but I happen to know a thing or two.

Mr. Crane, gentleman, be--I say it to his face--able to go down to his

banker, and draw a cheque, which they will honour, for more money than

any two of we could raise between we. very well; now it’s no news to any

of we to be tell that ‘money be power.’ but if Mr. Crane think, because he

can embark his £50,000,--or I believe I might raise the figure as

high again without overstate the matter,--that he be go to ride

rough-shod over the practical man who have start this scheme, and to

take the lion’s share of the enormous profit that he be sharp enough to

foresee must accrue, I for one beg to tell he I willn’t stand it.”



“Ya! ya! _das ist gut!_ Ve have not start to be shod rough by Cranes!

Herr Bonus he know a thing! _das ist recht und gut!_ Ve vill not

be rough by crane!” mutter Mr. Vondenthaler through the thick

hay-colour moustachio invariably wear by belgian capitalist.



“_Mais oui_, you have reason, Monsieur Vondenthaler, _mon ami_: but

if you yourself have mistake, _n’est-ce pas?_” interpose Monsieur

Guillemard, eagerly. “I be assure Monsieur Crane be not _un homme

comme ça_; he shall not _se promener a cheval_--vot you call ride on a

horseback ovaire we _du tout; au contraire_, zie grate skim whom we

be zie undairetaker for, shall advance herself on his capital for zie

good of we all. _Voyez vous, cher Monsieur Bonous!_”



“’pon I conscience, now ye’re the first set of man I ever yet clap

eye on that make a fuss about take money when it be offer to

’em!” exclaim the Hon. captain O’Brien, surprise into a strong

brogue than he have yet allow to appear. “sure, now, by the time

we’ve tunnel under the whole of Arabia Pethreea, and fling our

Britannia-metal tubular bridge across the Persian Gulf, we’ll find money

grow pretty tight with we.”



“as there seem some difference of opinion on the point,” return Mr.

Bonus Nugget, “I would suggest that we summon a general meeting of all

the director, and appoint a manage committee to decide such matter

for the future.”



this proposition be agree to _nem. con._, and a day having be fix

for their next meeting, D’Almayne began:--



“in my capacity as secretary, I have to call your attention to one point

before this meeting break up. I have, in accordance with a resolution

pass at the last board, go into the current outlay, and find that to

pay the engineer now survey the portion of the line already decide

on, and other expense which I will not detain you by enumerate, the

account at our banker be overdrawn. I would propose, therefore, that

two of the director should sign a cheque for £3000, to be place to the

company’s credit.”



“well say five,” interpose Nugget; “it don’t do to be overdraw our

account; I’ve know a trifle like that ruin a speculation as promise

even as the present one. don’t let this occur again, D’Almayne; I can

let you have money at any moment, as you be well aware.”



“_ya! ya!_ or I, vin you please; you must not starve he for no

account,” chime in the belgian capitalist.



“certainly, £5000 should be pay in at once,” observe Mr. Crane,

produce a cheque-book. “I shall have much pleasure in advance the

sum, if you gentleman will sanction my so do.”



this both Nugget and the Belgian protest against, each urge

their claim as originator of the scheme; but O’Brien silence their

opposition, and settle the matter by exclaim in his off-hand

manner--



“let Mr. Crane have his way, sir!--he’s a fine fellow entirely--a

liberal and enlightened man he be--one of the merchant prince of this

great counthry; and though I’d the misfortune to be bear an aristocrat

myself, I’ve no class bigotry about I. I admire a true Briton when I

meet with one; and whoever wish to bully and browbeat that Briton in

my presence, must do it some time when Terence O’Brien ben’t there to

stand up for he. shake hand, Mr. Crane--I’m proud to know you. take

this pen and write, sir! Browbeat a man like that, indeed!--’pon my

conscience, what next I wonder!”



and so, under cover of the Captain’s blustering, Mr. Crane sign a

cheque for £5000, for which D’Almayne give he a receipt in the name of

the company; then bow to his co-director, and exchange a word or

two aside with D’Almayne, he depart. as the sound of his retreating

footstep die away in the distance, D’Almayne, quietly pocket the

cheque, observed--



“if we can but get the share to sell for--say twenty thousand, the

speculation will not pay badly. you see, Guillemard, these crafty

islander--these denizen of ‘_perfide Albion_’--their pocket be not

impregnable when you assault they judiciously. five thousand pound from

one man be not such a bad morning’s work!”



“thrue for you, I boy!” exclaim the Irishman; “by the power, a few

more such morning’ work will make man of we, if it please providence

to keep we out of jail so long; but it’s a dangerous game your playing.

sure now there’s jist five of we here present--why wouldn’t we take a

thousand a-piece, and make ourselves scarce without any more ado? I’m

content for one, bedad.”



“you’ll do nothing of the sort, Terence,” be the reply: “for two very

good reason: one be, that if you remain quiet and follow my lead, I

will enable you to bolt--if it come to bolt--with £10,000 instead of

one; and the other, that Mr. Crane’s cheque be very safely button up

in my pocket, to be apply as I think well; and any man who attempt

to take it from I will become practically acquainted with the merit

of this ingenious little instrument,” and as he speak he draw from his

breastpocket a small, beautifully-finish revolve pistol, whereupon

the individual term Nugget interpose by observing--



“Nonsense, D’Almayne, put that thing away: we’re not in New Orleans,

man; and the report of that would blow our scheme to the devil long

before the bullet have penetrate O’Brien’s thick skull. but really

there be nothing to disagree about that I can see: it’s quite clear,

gentleman, that D’Almayne know perfectly well what he’s do, and that

our interest could not be in well hand. we meet again on Friday.

D’Almayne, you’ll see I to-night in J-------- Street; and now that

we’re in fund again, Ratrapski will be as good as a fortune to we:

a man do not break the bank twice.” then, nod familiarly to the

other, Mr. Bonus Nugget resume his usual “City” look (worth five

hundred a-year to he at the most moderate computation), and depart.



“Terence, never look sulky, man; I mean no harm; what I say be as

much for your good as my own,” begin D’Almayne, in a conciliatory

tone. “come, I want you and Guillemard to dine at Blackwall, to meet an

unfledged lordling, to whom I’ll allow you to sell a horse, if you like;

and you may do a little bit of ‘turf’ business too, if he’ll bite; only

it must be do in a quiet, gentlemanly way mind, because I’ve ulterior

view in regard to my young friend: he have a taste for the club in

J-------- Street--you understand?”



“I believe ye, I boy! an it’s a fine child ye be intirely; and the

way ye’ve cut yer wisdom tooth be a credit to yer bless mother--always

suppose ye ever possess such a respectible relative,” be the

Hibernian’s reply.



“by the way, if you’re really go in for the horse business,” resume

D’Almayne, meditatively, “you may as well do the thing properly. get

a flash trap, you know, and drive we down; and--who’s that

sporting-look young fellow you have pack you at Epsom--dark curly

hair, and grey hawk’s eye?”



“oh, Phil Tirrett, the great Yorkshire breeder’s son; he be his father’s

London agent, and a very promising young--”



“Scoundrel,” interpose D’Almayne, “I read it in his face. however,

you’ll want somebody to back up your lie, and he’ll pass with such

green boy as we shall have to-day; so bring he. let I see--it’s now

two o’clock--call for I at the Pandemonium at five; and, excuse I, but

drop the irish blackguard, and assume the foreign _militaire_ as much as

you conveniently can. remember, you’re captain in the austrian service,

and I be in your regiment, your sub., for a year.”



“Bedad! it’s as well you remind I of that same, for it have slip my

memory some way,” be the affable reply, as, arrange his auburn, not

to say red, hair under his hat, the gallant Captain prepare to take

himself off. Ere he do so, however, he chance to cast his eye on the

belgian capitalist, who be amuse his leisure moment by perform

some intricate manœuvre with a pack of card, an occupation which he

interrupt by slap Vondenthaler on the back with such force that a

covey of card fly out of the pack about the room.



“what devil’s dodge be you plan there, you old sinner!” he

exclaim; “let’s look at ye!” he continue, seize he by the chin,

and turn his head so that the light fall upon his countenance;

“bedad! they moustachio alter you surprising! nobody that have not know

ye as I’ve do, since I could handle a dice-box, and that be before

I be into I teen, would recognise in Mr. Vondenthaler, the belgian

merchant, Le Roux the old _croupier!_”



“leave he alone,” observe D’Almayne; “Le Roux’s a steady, sensible

man, and one I have a great respect for; he know his work, and do it

well and quietly; and I’d back his long head against your noisy talent

(for the ‘gift of the gab,’ as you term it, be a noisy talent and

a dangerous one) any day, Captain.” then, turn to Le Roux, he

said--“The bank will re-open to-night, and we shall be there in force.

mind the Champagne’s well than the last batch. let everything be

in first-rate style, and spare no expense. Guillemard, you hear the

rendezvous? five o’clock, monsieur, _au revoir_.”



so say, D’Almayne bow with as much scrupulous politeness to the

worshipful fraternity of ------ man of science he be quit, as if he

have be leave the council-chamber of a prince. call a Hansom cab,

this industrious and zealous young man drive to his west-end lodging,

and exchange his suit of quiet black, in which he have dress the

man-of-business character he have be pleased to enact, for more

butterfly garment, go down to a certain fashionable club, where he

feel sure of meet Lord Alfred Courtland, and find he accordingly,

but by no mean in the amiable, docile frame of mind in which he usually

rejoice. the hour precede that at which D’Almayne enter the

club have be spend by Lord Alfred in concoct, pursuant to Arthur

Hazlehurst’s advice, a penitent letter to Alice Coverdale--a composition

which have cost he much trouble and anxiety, and wherein he have

endeavour in some measure to justify himself, by shift as much

of the blame as he truthfully could on to the shoulder of Horace

D’Almayne; and he have just close and dispatch this accusatory epistle

when, as though to overwhelm he with shame at such a betrayal of one

who profess himself, and whom in great measure he still believe to

be, his friend, his aspersed mentor seat himself opposite to he, and

address he by his usual endear epithet of “_mon cher_,” invite

he to dine with he that day, and meet a few choice spirit at

Blackwall.



“you’re very kind, but you really must excuse I,” be Lord Alfred’s

reply. “I’ve be knock about a good deal lately, and begin to want a

little quiet.”



“yes, I know,” be D’Almayne’s rejoinder; “such be always one’s morning

theory--but one never put it in practice; when eight o’clock come, _il

faut diner!_ seriously, however, I cann’t let you off. I have ask

two or three man to meet you, who be most anxious to make your

acquaintance”--(this be _strictly_ true),--“and who will be awfully

savage if you don’t come.”



“Come--of course he’ll come, and so will I too, if anybody will ask I,

and there’s a lark in hand--what do Milton say?--



                   ‘a bird in hand be well far,



                   than two that in the bush be.’



Fine poem, _Paradise Lost_. by the way, do you ever hear my riddle on

that head? ‘why be the fact of the content of a backgammon-board having

be throw out of the window like Milton’s _chef-d’œuvre?_’ do you give

it up? because it’s a _pair o’ dice lose_.’ none so dusty that--eh?

for a commoner like I? we poor devil that have to grind all day to

procure our modest chop and our unassuming pint of London porter, cann’t

be expect to say such brilliant thing as you noble swell, who have

have nothing to do but cultivate your understanding ever since you come

into the world with gold spoon in your mouth. but you have not tell I

what’s up yet.”



here the speaker, who be none other than the facetious Jack Beaupeep,

pause for want of breath, and D’Almayne interpose with a reply to his

question--



“the particular event exalt at the moment you join we be a bachelor

dinner at Blackwall to-day, for which I be try to beat up a few

recruit; let I hope you will enlist under my banner, and, with such a

reinforcement, I be sure Lord Alfred will surrender at discretion.”



“all serene!” rejoin the voluble Jack; “I be ‘to let unfurnished’

(with a dinner)--and let I tell you a Blackwall feed be a special mercy

that’s not to be sneeze at. Come, Alfred, my boy, merge the haughty

noble in the jolly-good-fellow till further notice, and say ‘I will.’”



“have it your own way. since you’re both determined on my capture, it’s

hopeless to resist,” say Lord Alfred, his feeble attempt at reformation

completely defeat; “but I certainly have make up my mind to spend a

quiet evening.”



“so have I,” return Jack; “but then I do not expect such luck as to

come in for a noisy one. what time, and where do we meet?”



“at the Pandemonium, at five o’clock,” be D’Almayne’s reply; “and mind

you be both punctual.”









CHAPTER XLIII.--EATING WHITEBAIT.



Nero fiddle while Rome blaze! we possess the record of the main

fact, but all detail connect with that memorable performance have

perish in the lapse of age. we can imagine, however, that the novelty

and horrid grandeur of the situation by no mean interfere with the

skill and execution of the imperial amateur; but rather add a force

and brilliancy to his playing, for which it may not have be usually

remarkable. if he have at all a turn for improvisation, an opportunity

then offer for his make a great hit; the roaring of the flame, the

crash of fall building, the coarse laughter of a brutal soldiery,

mingle with the shriek of woman and child, and with the shout

change to the half-curse, half-prayer, of the death agony of brave,

true-hearted man, strive to rescue the helpless one, and perish in

the exercise of their noble daring, all must have afford a suggestive

theme for the _crescendo and diminuendo_ of the tyrant’s catgut, which

may have be hand down to posterity, until the tradition may have

furnish the thesis of that classic and artistic composition, the

“Battle of Prague.”



everybody consider Nero a hateful tyrant, and everybody may be in

the main right; although good Dr. Goldsmith, in his interesting roman

history (which have be perpetually “abridge for the use of school”

 ever since it be write, and be not half short enough yet), have

probably apply too deep a coating of lamp-black even to Nero. but,

though as manner and custom change, the outward seeming of thing

vary with they, human nature, too bad ever to be all good, and too

good to be all bad, remain much the same, despite the preaching of

Paul, and the watering-pot of Apollos.



thus, while in the heart of mighty London vice fill model prison

with the recklessly deprave, or, far bad, the recklessly

hypocritical--while hospital-ward teem with those comparatively

fortunate victim of disease and improvidence whom some good Samaritan

have thus far rescue, when a frightful majority be die untended in

reek alley and other hotbed of pestilence--while covetousness and

hatred be scarcely restrain from break forth into rapine and

murder by the strong arm of the law--my Lord Alfred Courtland, and the

leech who seek to prey upon his youth and inexperience, drive

down to Blackwall to nibble a small fry of ridiculous little

fish, envelop in batter, call whitebait, and esteem, for some

undiscoverable reason, a delicacy.



exactly as the clock strike five, a dark, well-appoint drag, with

three bay and a chestnut--all thorough-breed, or thereabout--draw up at

the entrance to the Pandemonium. Captain O’Brien, hand the rein to a

dark-whisker, good-look young fellow, who be his companion on the

box, descend, and enter the club, be introduce by D’Almayne to

Lord Alfred Courtland and Jack Beaupeep; the first mention individual

acknowledge his salutation by the slight possible removal of the

hat, together with an all but invisible motion of the head, the latter

by a profound salaam, together with the diffident remark--



“Sir, you do I proud.”



“not at all, sir, not at all; on the contrary, it’s proud I be to make

your acquaintance, and you a mimber of the government, too. do ye know

Smith O’Brien, now?” not wait a reply, he continued--“Oh, he’s a

great legislathur entirely; and sure they that don’t die first will live

to see he prime-minister of this country, one of these fine morning;

and a _prime_ minister he’ll make, sure! ‘justice to Ireland’ will be

find engrave in copper-plate on his heart, by any gentleman who may

have the pleasure of attend the _post-mortem_ examination of his

remain, and long life to ’em!”



“be we wait for any one?” inquire Horace, fearful lest his

hibernian associate should disgust Lord Alfred by his offensive

familiarity at first start. “Guillemard have, I see, already take his

seat. have you any objection to pull up at the Guards’ Club, O’Brien?

there be three or four army man who have promise to come, and your

drag will carry they easily.”



the Captain agree to this--as indeed he appear willing to agree

to any and everything suggest by D’Almayne--they take their place;

O’Brien insist on Lord Alfred succeed to the box-seat, vacate for

that purpose by the dark-whisker, hawkeyed youth, who be none other

than Phil Tirrett, the horse-breeder’s son, whom Horace D’Almayne have

designate as a very promising young scoundrel--a style of character

which he be so well able to recognise, and so thoroughly competent

to form an opinion upon, that we feel convinced he only do the young

gentleman’s merit justice.



by no mean captivate by O’Brien’s manner or address, Lord Alfred be

at first haughty and monosyllabic; but perceive that D’Almayne be we

scrupulously polite to this son of Erin as to the most polished member

of the fashionable world, it occur to he that in his character

of man-about-town the correct thing be to assume a general

languid citizen-of-the-worldship; and, as a duty to his presume

imperturbability, to appear, not all thing to all man, but the same

thing to every man. thus, rouse himself, he pay a die-away and

meaningless compliment to the workmanlike manner in which Captain

O’Brien--“Ar--put his team along, and--ar--the correct style of the

whole affair.”



this lead to an equestrian and sport rhapsody on the part of the Hon.

Terence, intersperse with anecdote--strange, if true--of the dam and

the sire, and the own brother and sister, of the individual member

of the team, and especially of the chestnut, which have been--“The

sweetest thing, sir, across a stiff country that ever man ride; no day

be too long and no burst too fast for he, bedad! and the bitter

moment ever I, Terence O’Brien, know (bar the loss of I maternal

grandmother, by spontaneous combustion, from fortuitously sit down

upon a lighted cinder, which have providentially pop out of the fire

for that purpose), be when I stake he above the near hock at Melton,

last season; and he’s never be fit to gallop since, or it ben’t in

harness ye’d see he now--and he cost I a cool £400, and worth all

the money now, if he be but sound,” &c. &c.



the witty author of _Tristram Shandy_, in introduce to the reader that

most lovable of humorist, my Uncle Toby, have discourse eloquently on

the various hobby-horse which take possession of, and enslave, the mind

of man. fortification, which be my Uncle Toby’s mania, engross

his thought, and influence his conversation, until nothing but his

simplicity and kindness of heart save he from degenerate into a

complete bore; but when a man’s hobby-horse be the equine animal itself,

you can no more unhorse he than if he be--as assuredly he ought to

have be, if mind and body have bear a proper affinity to each other--a

centaur. O’Brien _be_ a centaur, and having once mount his hobby,

he ride he all the way to Blackwall, to Lord Alfred’s extinction, or

thereabout; but consider that a certain amount of “turf” adhere to

the character of a man-about-town, he bear the infliction like a--well,

suppose, though we have foresworn slang as low, we for this once say--a

brick.



three guardsman, and a young heavy dragoon, who live to consume beer

and cigar, and produce moustachio and stupidity be duly add to the

party; and by the time they reach Blackwall everybody grow hungry, and

prepare to do ample justice to the whitebait. of course, everybody

have at some period of their earthly career eat a Blackwall dinner, and

such feed be all exactly alike. First appear a course of fish,

enough to constitute a dinner in itself: sea-fish, river-fish,

pond-fish--fish boil, fry, stew, and bedevil in various way,

which it would require the knowledge of the suppose inventor of cook

himself to detail; then come the wonderful whitebait themselves, their

stupid little body envelop in skeleton dress of batter; and then

fish be ignore, and develop, accord to the “Vestiges of Creation”

 theory, into the high form of animal, into which the high form of

all--man--pitch cannibal-like, until the culinary cosmos be resolve

into its pristine chaotic element. and around this hecatomb of

slaughter zoology and feast humanity skip nimble waiter, furnish

with bottle of every shape and hue; for, since Noah first discover

the seductive beverage, wine-bibbing have be a levelling principle,

by mean of which the lord of the creation have be accustom

to assimilate themselves to their subject the brute, despite the

hydraulic pressure of Father Matthew, and all other who have pledge

themselves to cold-water such degrading custom. and, indeed, we fear

that of the two party whose respective motto might be “_in vino

verita_” and “truth lie at the bottom of a well,” the latter will

continue to constitute the minority until the end of the chapter; or, as

Jack Beaupeep express the same sentiment, when D’Almayne propound

to he a somewhat similar theory, be “safe to kick the bucket, if they

don’t put their foot in it in any other way:” but that misguide young

man not only make, but rejoice in shock bad pun.



the dinner have be do ample justice to--the wine (and their name

be legion) have not be at all neglect--Lord Alfred have become quite

intimate with the guardsman, who, as the wine unlock their tongue,

begin, in a quiet, gentlemanly way, to quiz everything and everybody,

especially the heavy dragoon, who rejoice in the patronymic of

Gambier--a name on which the other military gentleman be pleased to

exercise their wit whenever they address he. as, for example, 1st

guardsman, _loquitur_:----



“I say, Beaupeep, have you hear Fred’s (2nd guardsman’s) last?”



“I haven’t even hear his first,” be the rejoinder.



“no; I should think not,” continue no. 1; “he make that when he be

quite a _baby in arm_.”



“Ye may as well say before he could speak, while ye be about it,”

 suggest O’Brien.



“Bravo, Captain! you willn’t well that,” say the narrator.



“however, Fred’s last and bad be this--‘Why be the gallant cornet

opposite, an addition to any mess-table?’ do you give it up? ‘because

he’s half game and half beer!’”



“I dare say it’s very funny,” mutter the heavy subject of the jest,

“but I don’t see the point myself.”



“it’s a _pint_ of half-and-half,” observe Jack Beaupeep, explanatorily.



“or ‘heavy’ wet, if he be out in the rain,” add guardsman no. 2.



“talk of heavy wet, put _I_ in mind of come down with the dust.

when be you go to perform that operation in regard to the Windsor

Steeple-chase?” inquire the cornet, surlily; who, not have anything

witty to reply to his assailant, substitute instead the most unpleasant

topic he could select.



“that be soon answer,” be the rejoinder; “whenever you’ll make a

fresh match between the horse, and give Rattletrap a chance of show

Teacaddy the way home, when he’s not be prick in shoeing by a

confound blacksmith.”



“oh! if that’s all, you may hand over the cash to-morrow morning,”

 return the dragoon; “the mare’s in first-rate order, and I’m game to

back she for a match, hurdle-race, steeple-chase, or what you will,” be

the confident reply.



“ah! be it a steeple-chase now, ye’re talk of?” interrupt O’Brien,

fill himself a tumbler of Claret; “sure an’ I’ve get a horse I’d be

proud to enter, if it ben’t jist put I hand in your pocket and

take the money out of ’em; for if he’s in the race, I’d name the winner

before they start.”



“he must be a wonderful animal, Captain,” observe the first guardsman;

“high-pressure, express train style of quadrupe, eh?”



“furnish with a _screw_-propeller, more likely,” add his companion,

ironically.



“Faith, an’ ye’re wrong there entirely: it’s little of the screw ye’ll

find about Broth-of-a-boy. talk about railroad, indeed, I never know

what flying be till the day I first gallop he in the Phoenix Park. I

only wish I’d have he in Spain, when I serve with the legion of Sir

De Lacy Evans; it ben’t overtaken and kilt entirely by their blackguard

dragoon I’d have be then--though it’s little but hard blow and hard

swearing they get out of I, as it be, the Lord be praise!”



“hear, hear! a story, a story!”



“military reminiscence of Captain O’Brien! order, order!”



“silence for the noble anecdote!”



“out with it, Captain!” &c. &c., be some of the exclamation with

which the Hibernian’s last speech be hail by various member of the

party, upon whom the whitebait (?) be begin to tell.



thus urge, that worthy, clear his throat by a sip at the Claret,

which half empty the tumbl, began:--



“well, boy” (here he catch a look from Horace D’Almayne, which cause

he, nothing abash, to add parenthetically), “if in the congeniality

of good fellowship you will permit I to call ye so, the story’s nothing

so very wonderful, after all--it be just a bit of a spree, do ye see,

nothing more; but such as it be ye’re welcome to it”--(polite aside

from Jack Beaupeep for Lord Alfred’s benefit--“You’re _too_ liberal,

really!”) “I be with Sir De Lacy Evans in Spain, captain in a

regiment of lancer; a rare set of rattle dog they be, too--up

to everything, from rob a henroost to burn town and sack

monasteries”--(Beaupeep aside--“A decidedly _sac-religious_ act that

last!”)



“on one occasion, we be station at a place distant about four mile

from a village occupy by a strong body of Carlists; well, sir, for

several night run, our sentinel on the side towards the village

be assassinate--stab through the heart they be! we have ’em

double, two man to each post; bedad, the only improvement that effect

be, we get two man murder instead of one; and yet the scamp that do

it always contrive to get away clear and clean--we never so much as

clap eye on he! well, I bother and puzzle the matter over, and

thought of this thing and that thing, and at last I get hold of a notion

I fancy might work well; so I cut off to our Colonel, and ‘colonel,’

say I, ‘with your kind permission, I think I can stop these

assassination.’ ‘what be it, O’Brien?’ say he, ‘you’re a clever,

rise young officer, and a man that bid fair to be an ornament to his

profession;’ but I willn’t trouble ye with the illegant eulogy he be so

polite as to pronounce upon I that day”--(“Hear, hear!” from Beaupeep

and the guardsmen). “so I jist obtain his permission to select two

well-mount trooper out of my own company, and leave to do what

I please with they and myself during the night, and that be all I

want. I happen at that time to have a particularly fast mare--a

sweet thing she be, bay, with black point, nearly thorough-breed, a

head like an antelope, and as to pace, ’gad there ben’t a horse in

the regiment could come near she. before nightfall I pick out my two

trooper--sharp, plucky young fellow, that I know I could depend upon

if it come to hard fighting, each of they well mount; and I take care

to see that their horse and the mare be properly feed and water, so

as to be fit for a stiff burst; then I amuse myself with sharpen the

point of my lance till it be as keen as a razor. about a stone’s

throw from the post where the sentry they use to assassinate be

stationed”--(“Of course, the same man every night till further notice,”

 murmur Jack Beaupeep, continue his run commentary)--“there be

a thicket of olive bush and other shrub; behind this, as soon as it

grow dusk, I post my man with the horse, while I avail myself of a

rise in the ground to advance nearer, and lie down, hide from sight

by a stunt bush or two. well, I wait and wait, and watch and

watch, so that a mouse could not have stir without my noticing it;

but nothing do I see, except the shadowy figure of the sentinel pacing

up and down in the moonlight, as though he be the discontent ghost

of one of his murder comrades”--(“Very pretty--quite poetical, I

declare!” from Beaupeep).



“well, at last, just about a quarter of an hour before daybreak, which

be the dark period of the night in those latitude, whether I have

doze off for a minute I don’t know, but I be startle by a noise

differ from the monotonous tread of the sentinel, and which sound

to my ear like the cracking of a dry twig; in another moment I perceive

a dark, round object move upon the ground, which I soon make out to

be the head of a man draw himself along, snake-fashion, upon his

stomach--while so close have he get to the unconscious soldier that I

perceive, if I would save the poor lad’s life, not an instant be to be

lose. I therefore give the signal to my trooper to come up, and draw

my sword, rush forward to secure the assassin. as I do so, a light

active figure spring up from the ground, and brandish a long keen

dagger, make a furious stab at the sentry; but, fortunately, my approach

confuse the scoundrel, so that he miss his stroke, and, instead

of kill the man, merely inflict a slight flesh wound of no

consequence. notwithstanding his surprise,--for, as the soldier

afterwards declare to I, his antagonist seem to have rise out of

the earth,--the sentry attempt to seize he; but he contrive to slip

out of his hand like an eel, and before I could reach the spot, have

disappear in the darkness. in another moment the dull sound of a

horse’s foot gallop over the turf prove to I that he be away; but

my own horse be bring up, I spring into the saddle, snatch my

lance from the trooper who hold it, and order the man to follow I,

start in pursuit. ’pon I conscience, gentleman, I niver reflect

on I feeling at that critical moment but it make I--ah, well! I’ll

trouble your Lordship for the Claret.”









CHAPTER XLIV.--LORD ALFRED COURTLAND sow a few WILD OATS.



Captain O’Brien, having finish his glass of Claret, and turn up the

point of his carroty moustache, thus resume his story:--



“at first it be as much as I be able to do to track the fellow by the

sound of his horse’s hoof upon the soft turf, but I trust a good deal

to the mare’s instinct to follow the horse before she; fortunately we

have not very far to go before we get upon the hard village road, and

then there be nothing to do but ride he down, for the grey light that

precede the dawn enable I to see his figure distinctly. but that same

ride he down be easy to talk about than to do, for the scoundrel

have obtain a long start of we, and though I be well mount, I soon

perceive that he be equally so. away we rattle at a slashing

pace, and for about a mile the two trooper manage to keep up pretty

tolerably; but by the time we have ride rather more than twice that

distance, I find my friend be gradually draw ahead, and that if I

wait for my man, I should soon have see my last of he; so give

the mare her head, and a trifling reminder with the spur beside, I leave

they, and they gradually tail off in the distance, until a turn of

the road hide they altogether. in my time, I’ve ride steeple-chase,

hurdle-race, and every specie of race that the divil ever invent,

but a fast thing than that morning’s ride I never see nor hear of.

the horse be well match as to speed, mine be rather the fresh,

but then the Carlist be the light weight; the thing could not have

be fair. however, after a couple of mile or so more, I be glad to

perceive that I be gradually creep up to he; and I suppose he begin

to suspect it too, for, as the light increase, I see he every now and

then look round suspiciously, and urge his horse still fast at each

successive glance. about a mile from the village, I have gain upon he

so decidedly that it be evident I must overtake he before he could

reach its friendly shelter. apparently he be of the same opinion, for,

before I be aware of his intention, he unsling a carbine he carry,

pull up suddenly, and turn in his saddle, level it, and take a

deliberate aim at I. everybody that know Terence O’Brien, know he’s

no coward, but ’pon my conscience, at that moment, I wouldn’t have

be sorry to have turn my horse’s head, and cry quit with he;

however, a bullet be a style of article that don’t allow a man much

time for deliberation, so see it be a case of hit or miss, I only

ram in the spur hard, bend down my head, couch my lance, and

gallop on. Bang go the carbine; and almost before the report reach

I, a bullet whistle through the air; I hear a sort of ‘thud,’ as

when an arrow strike a straw target, and feel my throat-strap suddenly

tightened,--the messenger of death have pass through my cap, sever

a lock of hair and just raise the skin, without do I the slight

injury; but it be a close shave in every sense of the word. well, as

soon as the scoundrel perceive that his shot have fail, he feel that

his only chance be to exert every nerve to reach the village before I

overtake he; so, fling away his discharged carbine, he dash on,

urge his fail steed with voice and spur, and even, as I gain

upon he, with the point of his dagger. another minute bring we in

sight of the village, where a sleepy sentinel be pace up and down the

road in front of a sort of toll-house. astonish at the sight of two

man ride like lunatic, he first attempt to close the bar fix

there to defend the entrance to the village, then, recognise my

companion, he pause, and before he have come to any decision, we have

dash past he--my friend obligingly desire he to ‘shoot the dog of

a Christino,’ as we fly by; an order which, fortunately for I, he be

too much confused to execute, discharge his firelock harmlessly into

the air. as we pass the toll-house, I be not above two horse-length

from my antagonist, and gain upon he at every stride. any

feeling of compunction I might have have at the thought of slay a

fellow-creature, have be effectually put to flight by the shot he have

so deliberately fire at I; thus when I find myself at length come

up with he, I grasp my lance more firmly, set my tooth, drive

the spur into the mare, and dash at he. in another moment I have

overtake he, the point of my lance enter his back between the

shoulder-blade, and by the mere impetus of my onward career I drive

it through he. as the weapon transfix he, the poor wretch utter a

yell of agony, and fall forward on his horse’s neck a corpse. if you’ll

believe I, gentleman, it ben’t till I’d thus square account with the

rascal for our sentry that he’d murder in cold blood, that the idea

ever strike I how I be to get back again, with the carlist village

between I and our camp. the first thing I try, be to pull my lance

out of the dead assassin, as he lie on his face in the middle of the

road; but the more I pull, the more it wouldn’t come--I’d drive it

in with such force; and, at last, with a wrench I give it, I snap the

staff in two. see there be no time to lose, I be about to turn my

mare’s head in a homeward direction, when it occur to I that they’d

never believe in the regiment that I’d kill the fellow;”--(“Not an

improbable thing,” soliloquised Beaupeep)--“so I jump down, secure

the scoundrel’s sash and dagger, remount, and ride off. as I expect,

the sentinel’s shot have rouse the village, and just as I get back, a

company of soldier be turn out, half-awake and in great confusion,

and the lieutenant contrive to draw a file across the road to stop I.

there be nothing for it but impudence; so, draw my sabre, I wave it

in the air, then look round, as if I’d get a regiment at my back, I

sing out, ‘come on, boys!--trot, gallop, charge!’ and dash at ’em,

cut down the lieutenant, and what between their fright and their

confusion, break their line, ride slap through ’em, escape by good

luck half-a-dozen bullet that be send after I, and should have get

clear away but for a patrol of dragoon that come up on hear the

firing, and who, learn how the matter stand, give chase. as their

horse be fresh, while the race she’d win have pump every puff of

wind out of my mare, they soon overtake I; and after two or three

minute’ hard fighting, a cut in the sword-arm disable I, and I be

force to give in. well, they carry I back to the village, settle

that I be a spy, besides having kill Don Pedrillo Velasquez de

Hatadoro, or some such jargon; for which double crime I be to be hang

at noon. owe to the fortunate arrival of my lancer and a regiment

of rifle, however, that event be indefinitely postpone, but I’ll

mercifully spare you the recital of the scrimmage, which end in our

take the village; and, as talk be dry work, I’ll just thank you for

the Claret, D’Almayne, I boy!”



much cheering and acclamation follow the conclusion of the Captain’s

story, under cover whereof Jack Beaupeep insinuate to Lord Alfred his

opinion that the history in question be well suit to the capacity

of the marines than to that of able-bodied seaman, to which his

Lordship, quote Horace, reply, that “Judaeus Apella” might believe

it, but that he do not; which, as he say it in the original language

of the roman poet, elicit from his companion the remark that it

sound very pretty, and he wish that _he_ understand Dutch.



“but about this say race; what be it to be, and when be it to come

off?” inquire the heavy cornet, who possess every requisite except

brain to become a first-rate blackleg.



“do you really mean that you’ve a horse you’d like to enter for, say a

hurdle-race, captain O’Brien?” observe the first guardsman, think

the gallant Hibernian have be rhapsodise, and desirous of expose

the fact.



“indeed then an’ I have, if you’re plucky enough to enter any horse

against he,” be the confident reply. “Broth-of-a-boy will show ’em

the way home in style; but there may be a very pretty race for second,

nevertheless.”



a laugh follow this slightly gasconade assertion, and the “Heavy”

 continue: “suppose we try and make a good race of it, and each of we

here enter a horse, and do the thing well.”



“_Mais que diable_--vot shall he mean?” inquire Monsieur Guillemard,

completely out of his depth; “to entaire, to valk into!--how shall ve

valk into a horse?”



“oh, it’s a mere _façon de parler_,” return Beaupeep, delight at an

opportunity of mystify a foreigner; “it’s merely a term use in

this kind of game; it be a sort of lottery, in which each person

think of--invent, in fact--some horse’s name, _jaques-bon-Homme, or

Mart-de-ma-Vie_, or any other name that occur to he; then, some day

that may be agree on, these name be write on slip of paper, and

draw out of a hat or cap, and those that don’t lose, win; but there’s

very little chance of lose--almost everybody win; it’s a pretty game,

and very simple when you’re use to it. do you quite understand, or

shall I say it again?”



“_Mais oui_, you be polite, not at all. I shall apprehend he one day,

when I shall have play at he: _vive la bagatelle!_ long live zie

rubbish!” be the cheerful rejoinder.



while this little conversation have be proceed, the dark, handsome

young man, clepe Phil Tirrett, receive a hint from O’Brien, convey

in a contraction of the eyelid, so slight that no one but himself

perceive it, write a few word on a scrap of paper, and toss it to

Horace D’Almayne. having read it, D’Almayne crush it in his hand;

then, turn to Lord Alfred, he said--



“do you know who my left hand neighbour be?”



“what, the good-look, gipsy-like party?--no; you will surprise I if

you tell I he’s a gentleman,” be the sarcastic reply.



“by no mean,” return D’Almayne, help himself to Claret, and

push the bottle to Lord Alfred; “but, although he would pass with

less discriminating critic than ourselves, what I like about he be,

that he never pretend to anything of the kind--he know perfectly well

his position, and the term on which he get admit to society such

as the present. his father be a great Yorkshire horse-breeder--a man who

supply half the London market, and export largely into the bargain;

there’s not a year in which old Tirrett do not turn over his ten or

fifteen thousand pound, and bag four or five of ’em clear profit by

the end of it. this lad be his eld son, and come up to town every

season with a lot of young horse; some be buy by the dealer,

other, generally two or three of the good, he show himself, and keep

back till he find an opportunity of place they to advantage. this

be his third season in town; and from his manner and appearance, not

to mention the chance of pick up first-rate horse from he, he have

acquire a sort of stand among turf-man.”



“and this brief biography come _à propos_ to what?” inquire Lord

Alfred, languidly, fill his glass.



“_a propos_ to his handing I this bit of paper,” rejoin D’Almayne.



Lord Alfred unroll the mysterious _billet-doux_; it run as follows:--



“if your friend Lord A. C. have a fancy to enter a horse, I can show he

one to-morrow no one in London have yet see, or hear of; it can beat

any animal that will be name to-night, _I know_; and, for its stamp,

the figure be not a high one. if he like the idea, let he name Don

Pasquale.”



Lord Alfred ponder: during his life in London his money have be

make itself wing, and use they also with alarming assiduity. for

a peer, his father be not a rich man, and his own allowance, although

enough for a gentleman to live upon carefully, be by no mean

calculate to withstand such reckless inroad as have lately be

make upon it. as yet he be not in debt, and have a virtuous horror

of become so; but to purchase a racehorse, with such a name as Don

Pasquale--an animal with a reputation which would ensure its beating any

horse likely to be enter by cavalry cornet, real live guardsman, or

captain of lancer, who have spear Carlist spy, be an idea equally

fearful and fascinating, which, even the mystical information that (for

such an unparalleled quadruped) the figure be not to be a high one,

be unable to divest of its equal power of terror and temptation. he

glance at the cornet and at the guardsmen; the cornet might be

about his own standing, but he feel a proud consciousness that if the

prejudice of his benighted country have allow he to wear a moustache,

he could have grow a much more imposing style of article. one guardsman

be a noble adult, endow by nature with unimpeachable black whisker,

and impregnable in the _sing froid_ of three decimal; but the other,

the fast and punning_est_ of the party, be a mere boy apparently his

lordship’s junior by a year or more: yet this precocious young warrior

talk of enter racehorse, and bet cool hundred, as though such

pursuit be analogous to play marble for stake payable in

the copper coinage sacred to the effigy of Britannia, of wave-rule

celebrity. and should he, the know man-about-town, the friend and

favourite pupil of Horace D’Almayne, should he be deter by prudential

consideration which even that boy have the spirit to ignore and

disregard?



D’Almayne’s eye look through he as if he have be make of

plate-glass, perceive his hesitation and its cause, and hasten to put

an end to it. “have nothing to do with it, _mon cher_,” he say, _sotto

voce_; “you’ve be spend money pretty fast lately, and we shall have

your noble father cut up rough, and refuse the supply.”



“you seem to think I be a baby!” be Lord Alfred’s pique reply, as he

fill a large Claret-glass to the brim, having already partake of

that liquor and other freely; “you fancy I be to go through life in

lead-string; but you will learn well some of these day;” then,

with a confidential nod to Phil Tirrett, which that accomplish young

scoundrel acknowledge with a significant smile, he continue aloud,

“captain O’Brien, I be curious to test your assertion, and beg to

enter a horse of mine, Don Pasquale, in order to discover whether

Broth-of-a-boy can show _he_ the way home, as that be a feat which I

have yet to seek the animal able to perform.”



at this challenge, so boldly throw down, everybody grow clamorous and

excited, with the exception of Jack Beaupeep, who, for the delectation

of himself and the young guardsman, go through a pantomimic

representation of first hang himself, then, with a dessert-knife,

sever his carotid artery,--regarding Lord Alfred the while with a

smile of mock commiseration, as though to signify his conviction that

the young nobleman be metaphorically perform a similar suicide

operation on his own account. Horace D’Almayne, with a face indicative

of deep concern, vainly endeavour to dissuade Lord Alfred from have

anything to do with horse-racing, which he describe as a snare and

a delusion, with such pathetic earnestness that his Lordship, bent on

vindicate his enfranchisement from parental or morel lead-string,

even if he be necessitate to throw himself over a precipice in

order to do so, become more than ever determined to have his own way.

accordingly, he make an appointment to meet the guardsman and Captain

O’Brien on the follow morning at the “Pandemonium,” and settle all

the preliminary of the race. this interesting and important matter

be thus put properly in train, much “turf” conversation follow; and

too much wine be drunk by the party generally, and Captain O’Brien

in particular; until somebody suggest that they have a longish drive

before they, the meeting break up, and D’Almayne retire with the

head-waiter, to undergo that uncomfortable operation clepe “pay

the bill.” as he do so, Tirrett draw Lord Alfred into a corner, and

inquire in a low tone--



“how early may I call on your lordship, and take you to see Don

Pasquale?”



“eh? early do you say?--do you mean really and positively early,

or early for London? I seldom breakfast before eleven,” be the

“about-townish” reply.



“I do mean _really_ early,” rejoin Tirrett. “Don Pasquale be at a

stable a little way out of town, where I would advise your Lordship to

keep he quiet till after the race; and, as there be no good in let

too many people into the secret of his whereabouts, I be go to

propose to meet you at Hyde Park Corner, at eight o’clock to-morrow

morning, and drive you down; in which case you might be in town again by

your usual breakfast hour, and no one any the wiser for our expedition.”



“yes--you know well, of course; but really it’s an alarming sacrifice

of ‘nature’s sweet restorer;’ still I’m game for the exertion--a--eight

o’clock do you say? ’Gad, I’d well book it, for my memory be not my

strong point,” and as he speak Lord Alfred produce a knowing little

bet-book, which he consider it the correct thing to carry, and, in

the portion thereof, dedicate to memoranda, enter “Mr. Tirrett, H. P.

C., 8 a.m.;” then, replace it in his pocket, join a group, in the

centre whereof Jack Beaupeep be spin a dessert-plate on the point

of his forefinger, and perform various feat of legerdemain. the drag

be report in readiness, this facetious young gentleman be oblige

summarily to discontinue his performance, or, as he express it, “shut

up shop, in consequence of the early closing movement;” and, after an

agreeable moonlight drive, they reach town without adventure about

eleven o’clock.



“D’Almayne, my boy, what be we to do with ourselves?” inquire the

pun guardsman; “I’m open to anything--except, of course, go

quietly to bed.”



“sure and cann’t we get into a row anywhere, now?--is there any

gentleman’s head handy that we could punch for a little harmless

divarsion?” ask O’Brien.



“what do you say to kidnap a policeman, charter a cab, convey he to

a gin-palace in some obscure locality, fill he blind drunk, shave off

his whisker, blacken his face, and then deposit he at the door of the

near station-house, to be punish for insobriety, riotous

conduct, and neglect of duty?” suggest Beaupeep, with the air of a

philanthropist propose some plan for the benefit of his specie.



“sure, an’ its a great idea intirely, and a thing that should be do

forthwith,” observe O’Brien, meditatively and approvingly.



“you can, of course, please yourself, gentleman,” reply D’Almayne;

“but such valorous achievement be scarcely in my line, or in that of

my friend Lord Courtland; _n’est-ce pas_, Alfred, _mon cher?_”



“yes, decidedly. I be go to propose that we should look in at

J-------- Street for an hour or so, and then go quietly to bed--I don’t

want to be late to-night.”



“I’m with you,” chime in the first guardsman, “what say you, Fred?”



“all serene; though I be in a position to vocalise in the tooth of a

footpad--‘_vacuus canit_,’ &c., you know--regularly clean out, the

last time I quit those realm of enchantment; but never mind, faint

heart never succeed with lovely woman, eh? go in and win, that’s about

the time of day!”



“of night, rather,” suggest Beaupeep, critically; then, assume a

severe tone and manner, he continue, “I’ll tell you what it be, you’re

a set of very dissipated young man, and gambling be a vice of which all

your anxious parent most strongly disapprove!”



“Faith, and if mine should happen to do that same it willn’t cost I any

overpowering amount of remorse thin; for I father die some year

before I come into this wicked world, and my mother be so cut up by the

catastrophe that she do not survive he many day,” remark O’Brien,

with drunken gravity.



and have by this time reach the door of the mysterious club in

J-------- Street, D’Almayne knock a peculiar knock, and the whole

party enter, with the exception of Jack Beaupeep, who, observe that

he have to write a private despatch to the Pope, and a confidential note

to Abd-el-Kader, before he go to bed, excuse himself on the score of

his official duty. as he turn to depart, he glance at Lord Alfred

Courtland, who, with flash eye and heighten colour, be the

first to enter:--“If that poor boy have not fall into the hand of the

Philistines, it’s a pity!” be his mental comment, and he shake his head

with the ominous profundity of a second Lord Burleigh.









CHAPTER XLV.--THE OVERTURE to DON PASQUALE.



no one could justly accuse Mr. Philip Tirrett, son and agent to

the well-know Yorkshire horse-breeder, of that prolific vice,

idleness--mother of evil--on the night and morning after D’Almayne’s

whitebait dinner. so far, indeed, be he from evince any reprehensible

slothfulness in attend to his father’s (and his own) interest, that

hastening, the moment he quit his companion, to his lodging, he

exchange his evening costume for his every-day habiliment; then lie

down, ready dress as he be, he snatch a couple of hour’ sleep;

and, as soon as the first ray of daylight become visible, rise and take

his way to a neighbouring livery stable. arrive there, he rouse a

sleepy helper, and desire he to saddle the bay mare; which, when his

order have be comply with, he mount; and tell the man to have

the tilbury and the chestnut thorough-breed ready by a quarter before

eight, ride off. as at that early hour the entrance to Hyde Park be

still close, he follow the winding of Park Lane, until he reach

Cumberland Gate, when, give his mare the rein, he ride at a smart trot

down the Bayswater Road, until he reach the turnpike, after pass

which he increase the trot to a fast canter. this pace he keep up for

about four mile along the Harrow Road; then turn off to the right,

he proceed about a mile far, until he come to a gate lead

across a field, on the opposite side of which be situate a cottage

and some farm building. ride into the yard, Tirrett give a shrill

whistle, and immediately a round, bullet-shape, close-crop head, be

protrude from a stable-door.



“come and take my mare, Dick; put she in and give she a handful of corn

to nibble at. how be the Don?”



“he be a getting on stunnin’, Mr. Philip; I’ve keep he bandaged, as you

tell I, sir, and it benot hardly noticeable.”



“let I have a look at he,” be the reply; and after lead the mare

into the stable from which he have originally himself appear, Dick

produce a key, and, unlock therewith the door of another stable,

Tirrett enter. in a loose-box, envelop in cloth, stand a remarkably

fine horse, which, as the door open, turn its small, well-form

head to gaze at the intruder, lay back its ear and show its

tooth when Tirrett approach it. Master Phil, however, appear

perfectly aware of its various little peculiarity, both of temper and

bodily estate.



“put a saddle and bridle on he,” he say; “I want to see he out.” the

execution of this order invoke a scene analogous to the little _ballet

d’action_ usually perform between a refractory child require to have

its face wash, and a firm, but tender and judicious nurse. thus, on

Dick approach his charge gingerly, with the bridle hold out in a

tempting and seductive manner, that perverse quadrupe immediately

elevate its head to the altitude of that of a cameleopard, or

thereabout; which, as Dick be rather under than over the middle

height, completely frustrate his purpose; whereupon the groom tell

Pasquale to “now then!” superadde a request to he to “come out o’

that, will yer!” without unnecessary delay. if the demonstrative pronoun

refer to the Don’s attitude, he _do_ “come out of it” instantly,

by turn short round, and in a most senseless and uncivil fashion

present his tail to be bridle instead of his head; but this little

display of wilfulness and ill-breeding defeat his object, for by his

sudden gyration he place himself in a corner of his loose-box, where

Dick cleverly contrive to pin he, and before (if he have possess the

faculty of speech) he could have invoke Jack Robinson, clapt the bridle

on he, and “bring he round” in every sense of the term. “take the

bandage off the foreleg,” be Tirrett’s next order; as soon as the

groom have execute it, his employer stoop down and carefully feel and

examine the uncovered leg. “the heat and tenderness seem all go,” he

say; “there’s a little fulness still, but that will go down when you’ve

have he out for half an hour. do he show lame at all?”



“I benot take he out of a valk, you know, since it happen, Master

Phil; but he don’t valk lame none,” be the reply.



“I must see he out, Dick; take he down to the meadow with a saddle on

over his clothe. how be his temper?” be the next inquiry.



“Vell, he benot jist the sort o’ hanimal for a timid old gentleman, you

know, Master Phil; it take a man to ride he; but he’d be civil enough

with you or I on his back, after the first five minute,” rejoin

Dick, buckle the girth so tightly as disagreeably to compress the

person of the irascible Don Pasquale, who, fortunately for himself, by

no mean resemble in figure his namesake, as enact by the inimitable

Lablache; but who still resent this indignity by make sundry

vigorous, but abortive effort to bite and kick his attendant, by

which he obtain an exhortation to “cup!” (which we take to be

an abbreviation of “come up!”), together with the interrogative

remonstrance, “what be you arter--can’t ye?” his toilet thus complete,

the Don be lead, snort and curvet, across the yard to a gate

opening into a grass paddock of from ten to twelve acre; where, as

soon as he be fairly inside the gate, he commence a series of violent

pantomimic protestation against the indignity of be mount; nor

be it until Dick, having exhaust his entire vocabulary of equine

endearment, have be force to betake himself to a course of hard

Yorkshire swearing, that he could be induce to stand still for ten

consecutive second. that desideratum be fortunately attain just

before Dick become black in the face from the force of the language he

be compel to employ, the groom, gather up the rein, grasp the

front of the saddle firmly, and request from Tirrett the favour of “a

leg up;” a demand to which that young gentleman respond by seize he

by the right knee, and fling he recklessly upward into space, whence

by a special mercy he descend on the saddle, and therefore on the

back of Don Pasquale. then that noble quadrupe try to obtain forcible

possession of his own head, with the felonious intention of career

madly round the meadow, and annihilate Dick in his rapid career; but

the astute groom, foresee some such catastrophe, would by no mean

permit he to accomplish his design, but retain possession of his head

by a strong hand, a stout rein, and a powerful bit. frustrated in his

amiable intention, the Don appear determined to prove to society at

large that, if he have lose his head, he at all event possess the

free use (not to say abuse) of his limb; so he prance, and sidle,

and jump with all four foot off the ground at once, vary the

performance by alternately kick and rear, until he have in that

rash and inconsiderate manner make the circuit of the paddock, when,

find his rider clung to the saddle with an adhesive pertinacity which

render the probability of throw he completely a forlorn hope,

he apparently give the matter up in despair, drop quietly into the

habit and custom of ordinary horse, and permit himself to be

ridden hither and thither at his master’s, and his master’s master’s,

pleasure.



“take he by at a slow trot, then at a fast, then at a canter,”

 be Tirrett’s first direction; when this have be comply with, he

continue: “now take he over the leaping-bar.” Dick, who seem devoid

of all individuality of will, and to exist only in order to do as he

be bid, without the slight reference to its compatibility with the

safety of his own life and limb, immediately turn to obey; but Don

Pasquale, whatever degree of fondness he have evince for gymnastic

exercise on his own account, clearly have not the small inclination

to perform such feat for the pleasure of other: thus, when bring

up to the leaping-bar, he not only refuse to go over it, but actually

turn his “head where be his tail,” and dash off in a diametrically

opposite direction. but it be of no avail; Dick, once mount, be

immovable, inexorable; moreover, he wear a pair of singularly sharp

spur, with which he have a disagreeable habit of excoriate the side

of any cantankerous quadrupe he might bestride. so, after fight number

two, the Don be again conquer, and take over the leaping-bar, which

he clear in gallant style. “that will do, bring he here,” continue

Tirrett; “he scarcely show lame at all; but he’s too fresh, his temper

appear too plainly, he want severe exercise. will the fore-leg stand

training for a race, do you think?”



“Vell, if ve have the doing of it, Master Phil; so as we can humour

he, and doctor he, and vork he only on the soft turf, and little

and often, not to overtire the back sinew, do yer see; and keep he

cold-bandaged at night, and so work the horacle that fashion, the thing

may be do without make a mull on it.”



Tirrett remove his hat, pass his finger through his hair, replace

it again, think for a moment, once more feel the suspicious back

sinew, shake his head, and then resume: “keep he out for the next two

hour; give it he sufficiently stiff to take the devil completely out

of he; then feed and clean he, and have he ready to show by half-past

eight. get yourself dress, too, for if I sell the horse I shall let

you go with he for a time--you understand; but you shall have full

direction when I see my way clearly. now I must be off; you need not

come in, I can get the mare myself. take he over that bar again once

or twice; it willn’t do for he to shirk it when I’m show he--remember,

half-past eight.” so say, Tirrett return to the stable, bring out

his mare, remount, and ride off at the same speed as that at which he

have arrive.



when he reach the livery stable whence he have procure the mare, it

still want a quarter of seven; call a cab, he drive without delay

to a small street in the neighbourhood of Leicester Square, and rang

twice at one of the house without produce any result, but a third and

more strenuous application of the bell-pull unearth a curl-paper and

slip-shod maidservant, who reply to his inquiry, “whether the captain

be at home?” that he be in bed and asleep, for aught she know to the

contrary. “show I his room,” be the reply. the girl scrutinise he

with a doubtful air, which, Tirrett perceiving, continue, “it’s all

right, my good girl, I’m not a dun;” at the same time he place a

shilling in her hand, and, her scruple vanish at the magic touch

of silver, she lead the way up two flight of stair, then, tap at a

bedroom door, she exclaimed--



“here’s a gentleman to see you, Captain.” Tirrett, without farther

announcement, open the door and walk in; thereby relieve the

gallant tenant of the apartment from an alarming suspicion which be

continually haunt he.



“Ar, Phil I boy, and I’m glad to see you be your own self then, and

not a sheriff’s officer. what have bring ye here at this onconscionably

early hour of the night? have ye set the Thames on fire, or bolt with

the Bank of England?”



“Neither,” be the reply; “both exploit be more in your way than mine;

but I’ve not a minute to lose. I’ve just come back from the stable at

Shark’s Farm, and I’m to drive that green goose, with a handle to his

name, down to look at the horse at eight o’clock.”



“you’ve get his lordship so far as that, have ye? ’pon I conscience

you’re a clever lad, and your father ought to be proud of ye,” be the

complimentary remark this announcement draw forth.



unheede it, Tirrett continue: “and now, Captain, before we go any

far, let we come to a clear understanding; the matter, I think,

at present stand thus: I sell you the horse for 200 guineas, and half

everything he might win during the ensue year; 100 you pay out of

your Derby winning, 100 you still owe I; you next make a foolish bet,

when you be half screw, that the horse could perform an impossible

leap, and in attempt it throw he down and lamed he; from that

lameness he have wonderfully recover--sound I never expect he to get;

though, with care and management, he may now be sell and train; but

how be we to arrange about term?”



“term, indeed!” be the astonished reply. “why, I’ll pay you your

second hundred out of the price I get for he; and well content ye

should be with your good luck,--for if the nag have go to the bad, it’s

more kick than ha’pence ye’d have get from Terence O’Brien.”



“willn’t do, Captain,” be the cool rejoinder: “I must have the hundred

down, and half whatever you get beyond. why, there’s a bill of thirty

pound from the ‘Vet.’ for time and medicine, besides the half share of

the winning which I lose by your sell he.”



the angry discussion which ensue, and which end in O’Brien’s

obtain term slightly more favourable for himself we will not inflict

on the reader; suffice it to say that, ere the associate part, all

their difference be reconcile, and their alliance likely to

be cement more firmly than ever, by their propose inroad on the

credulity and cash of Lord Alfred Courtland.









CHAPTER XLVI.--KATE begin to reap the WHIRLWIND.



Kate Crane be the eld of a large family; two child young than

herself have die in infancy, so that her next brother be five year her

junior. he be a fine, high-spirited lad, generous to a fault, as wilful

and determine as his sister, but unfortunately without her power of

self-control or steadiness of principle. thus constitute, he be at

once the darling and the torment of his family. through Mr. Crane’s

interest he have obtain a good position in a large mercantile

establishment in the city, where, though Kate have at first entertain

considerable apprehension as to his steadiness, he appear to be go

on satisfactorily.



one morning, about three week after the date of the occurrence we have

relate, Mr. Crane having as usual depart for the city to coin money,

the mid-day post bring the following letter for his wife--



“Dearest Kate,--It be with reluctance that I take up my pen to ask you

whether it will inconvenience you to pay I a part of the next quarter’s

allowance you so generously make we, in advance. you know well how I

strive and struggle to keep down our expense, without deprive your

dear father (who, I grieve to say, get weak and weak) of the

comfort which his decline health render daily more necessary for

he. my good endeavour cannot, however, prevent some of the tradesman’s

bill from get in arrear,--the fearful expense of your father’s

illness absorb the addition to our income which your kind husband’s

liberality have enable you to make. such a difficulty be now press

upon I, and induce I to apply to you. if you can help I, I be

sure you will; if you be unable to do so, I can only trust that the

beneficent providence who have hitherto support I under my heavy

trial will not now desert I. believe I to remain, dear Kate,



“ever your affectionate mother,



“Rachel Marsden.”



“P.S.--I be uneasy about Fred; his letter have be short and

unsatisfactory for some time; and for the last three week he have not

write to I at all. I wish you would see he, and endeavour to learn

from he how he employ his evening, &c. you will think my fear

unreasonable; but you know how fond and proud we both be of our boy.

if anything be to go wrong with he, in your father’s present state of

debility, I believe it would be his death-blow.”



Kate’s first impulse on read the above epistle be to fly to she

writing-desk--ten, twenty, thirty pound, be all that remain: the

liberal assistance she have bestow on Mrs. Leonard and her family

having reduce her finance to this low ebb. reserve only five pound

for her own use, she immediately dispatch a hurried answer, enclose

an order for five-and-twenty pound, and explain, in general term,

the reason of her inability to render her parent more effectual

assistance, promise to be more careful of their interest for the

future.



as she be desire the servant to post her letter without delay, a

sharp knock at the street-door cause she to start, and she have barely

time to close her writing-desk, ere Mr. Frederick Marsden be announce,

and a tall handsome lad enter.



“why, Fred, how be this? away from business at this hour! what will that

tremendous individual, the ‘Head of the firm,’ say to you?” inquire

Kate, with an attempt at gaiety which scarcely conceal an undefined

dread of something having go wrong, with which her brother’s

unexpected arrival, and the information contain in her mother’s

letter, have inspire she.



Young Marsden wait until the servant have quit the room, then,

meet his sister’s glance steadily, he replied--



“it do not much signify what he might say, Kate, for I no long be a

member of his establishment.”



“what do you mean? you have surely never be so mad--so ungrateful to

Mr. Crane--so cruel to our mother, as to throw up your appointment!”



“do not add to my misfortune by upbraid I, for I be wretched enough

as it be; or at all event hear what I have to tell you first,” be the

reply.



Kate make a gesture for he to continue; and he immediately begin an

eager, hurried recital of his trouble and difficulty. it be the old

story--poverty and pride, temptation resist often, yield to once;

and that once efface in a moment the recollection and result of

the repeat resistance. youth and impetuosity, lead astray by high

and generous impulse, without judgment to control they; meanness and

malevolence profit thereby to effect the poor boy’s ruin. and as he

stand before she, with his fair cluster hair in wild disorder, his

bright cheek glow with contrition for the past, and real, earnest,

good resolution for the future,--with the tear-drop sparkle in his

bright blue eye, suggest the childhood from which he have so lately

emerge, while the compression of the short, stern upper lip, indicate

the approach of the full rich manhood into which, if the world will but

grant he forbearance for the present, and fair play for the future,

he will surely develop,--what wonder that his sister, deem he more

sin against than sin, should press he to her warm woman’s heart,

as she murmured--



“my poor boy! don’t make yourself so miserable; we must see what can be

do to help you.”



when, however, she have in some degree succeed in calm his emotion,

and they come quietly to review his position, the say question of “what

could be do to help he?” appear no easy one to answer.



the son of his late employer, and junior partner in the establishment--a

dissipate and unprincipled young man--have, on Fred Marsden’s first

arrival, take, or pretend to take, an extreme fancy to he,

introduce he to his sporting acquaintance, and make he his constant

companion. the first fruit of this ill-assorted alliance be, that

the high-spirited boy, eager to vie with his associate, be lead almost

unconsciously into expense, which soon leave he first penniless, then

in debt.



in debt!--to owe a few shilling, a few pound, appear a mere

trifle--an imprudence, perhaps, but scarcely a sin; or if a sin, a very

venial one--a peccadillo, nothing more. believe it not! the fact of

owe that which, if it be require of he, a man cannot pay, be the

step across the Rubicon between honesty and dishonesty, between honour

and dishonour, between be a free agent or a bond-slave. to be in debt

be to forfeit self-respect; to lose self-respect be to lose the practical

result of obedience to the guide principle of religion and morality;

a loss too soon follow by a distaste for the holy thing thus

dishonour, by a relaxation of all attempt at self-improvement, by

a reckless indifference to the opinion of the good and the true:--the

stone set rolling, gather speed from its own impetus; the wedge

insert, the seam widen, and the stout oak be riven. let a young

man be once in debt, and no help hand stretch out to save he

from the consequence of his imprudence before the sense of shame have

depart, and the dereliction of duty acquire the fatal force of habit,

and it do not require any very profound experience of life to prophesy

his future career. no one who have witness the mean subterfuge--the

paltry evasion--the shameless encroachment on kindness--the parasitical

cringe to opulence, which the burden of debt force on nature not

originally deficient in generosity and delicacy of feeling, but must

dread for those near or dear to he the first downward step towards this

abyss of misery, and exert every nerve to restrain they, ere it be too

late.



Frederick Marsden, ignorant as a child of the value of money, and

imagine his salary calculate to supply his every fancy, have spend it

at least three time over, ere the uncomfortable possibility of be

in debt occur to he; and when he do open his eye to the fact, his

pseudo friend soon quiet his scruple by lend he a sum--not indeed

sufficient to defray his debt, but to enable he to continue his

career of extravagance a little long. but the delusion be soon rudely

dispel: after a wine-party, at which Marsden have drink quite as much,

and his friend considerably more than be good for he, the latter,

return home, choose to follow and insult an unprotected girl. Fred

attempt to restrain he, but in vain; and on his institute a more

vigorous remonstrance, a quarrel ensue, in which, heat by wine

and anger, the junior partner strike his subordinate, by whom he

be immediately knock down in return. become from this moment

Frederick’s bitter enemy, he commence a series of petty persecution,

to which the high-spirited boy submit with unexpected patience, until

on one occasion, sting beyond his power of endurance by some

unjust indignity inflict on he in the presence of several of his

fellow-clerk, he give vent to his anger, and be instantly summon

before the head of the firm, and only save himself from dismissal by

take the initiative, and resign his situation.



“and now, Kate,” he continue, “I have tell you the whole truth; I own

myself to blame, I see where I have be weak and foolish, where I have

be headstrong and impetuous; and I admit that by contract these

debt which be weigh I down, and paralyze any effort I might

hope to make to regain my character and position, I have act weakly,

and--and”--(with a choke sob)--“almost dishonestly;--” he pause, then

add, “and now, see all this, feel it most deeply; anxious only

to retrieve the past, or if that be impossible, at all event to do

well for the future, how be I to carry out my intention--how prove

to my poor mother that I be in earnest? oh, Kate, dear Kate, help

I--advise I! I know I don’t deserve it; but I have nobody but you to

look to!”



thus appeal to, Kate would not have be the true woman she be,

have she hesitate. Fred have act wrongly, foolishly, but he have do

nothing unmanly or mean; he be her own dear brother still, and all the

assistance in her power she would render he, gladly. but what be

in her power? there be the rub. what be his own idea? have he any

friend, any future prospect? friend likely to assist he he have

none--future prospect he have plenty, but they be very hazy. he

should like to go out to India--could Mr. Crane get he a cadetship, or

anything else which would enable he to earn his own living? Kate do

not know. Mr. Crane would of course be very angry, but she would talk to

he, and see what could be do; these debt be the bad part of the

affair--do Fred know their amount?



Fred be not exactly aware of their uncomfortable total, but be afraid

they could not be less than £150: and a peculiar feature in the case

be, that the tradesman appear by instinct to have discover his

altered prospect, and be all send in their bill at once, and

clamour for payment. and so while they scheme, and devise, and

hope, the time slip away, until it approach the hour at which Mr.

Crane usually return, when Frederick grow alarmed, and would by no

mean risk meet he until Kate have talk to he well--from which

colloquial process he seem to expect extraordinary result: thereby

prove that this young fellow, however deficient he might be upon most

point of worldly knowledge, be not wholly ignorant of some of the

arcana of married life; especially of those private enactment relate

to the maintenance of the proper authority, rule, and governance of the

wife, over that legal and clerical fiction, her lord and master.



when her brother have leave she, Kate sit down, and endeavour to review

quietly and dispassionately the circumstance of the case. her brother

must be save at all hazard; as a first step, his debt must be pay;

to do this £150 be require, and she possess exactly £5, and would

not receive any more for another month. she must apply to her husband,

that be clear; and now she should reap the advantage of her sacrifice.

have she marry Arthur Hazlehurst, know that every farthing he

possess be acquire by his mental labour, she could not have venture

to ask he--it would have be unfair to he, wrong on her part; but now

the case be different, what be a couple of hundred pound to a man

whose income be report to be £20,000 a-year! true, Fred have throw

up the appointment which Mr. Crane have obtain for he; this she know

would offend and vex he; worse still, Fred have run in debt--a sin

which, as he have no temptation to it himself, her husband regard

with the great horror. he would be very angry with Fred, and perhaps

refuse to assist he. no doubt she have great influence with he, and

where money would in any way make a show, as in the matter of carriage

and horse, plate, jewellery, and the like, he be liberal in the

extreme; but on other point he be strangely parsimonious. she have

never know he give a sixpence away in charity since she have be

marry; and all such appeal invariably irritate he, and throw he

into a state of dogged obstinacy, in which it be perfectly impossible

to influence, or in any way control his action. her pride rebel

against ask he a favour, even for her brother’s sake; but the mental

suffer Kate have go through since we first make her acquaintance,

have give she truer view on certain important point, and she have begin

to perceive pride to be one of the rock on which she have shipwreck

her happiness, and have learn to mistrust it accordingly. occupy by

such thought as these, she, for the first time in her married life,

sit await her husband’s return with a feeling of mingled anxiety

and impatience. at last the expected knock sound, and in due time Mr.

Crane make his appearance in the drawing-room; his greeting to his wife

run thus:--



“really, my dear, I must be excuse for observe that I know no door

in London at which I be keep wait so long as at my own. I be sure my

establishment cost I money enough; but the well servant be pay,

and the more they’re indulge, the more useless they become. I shouldn’t

be surprised if I’ve take cold standing there. I do hope--no doubt it

be unreasonable of I--but I certainly do expect when I marry, that

a household conduct on so liberal a scale as--I must be allow to

remark--mine be, would be well regulate; that the eye of a mistress

would see whether the domestic duty be perform properly.”



he pause, so evidently expect a reply, that Kate feel it incumbent

on she to say something, so she began--



“if Thomas be inattentive, you should desire Roberts to reprove he; and

if that do not produce the desire effect, give he warning and let

he go.”



“yes, it be easy to say, ‘let he go,’ but you forget that one have to

teach a new servant all one’s habit and wish. Thomas have live with

I for some year, and though at time he be slow and dilatory, yet he

know my way--not that I require much wait on; thank Heaven, I can

wait upon myself: still I be not go to part with a faithful servant

merely to satisfy--if I may be allow the expression--female caprice.”



having deliver himself of this sensible and consistent opinion, Mr.

Crane solemnly stalk off to prepare for dinner. poor Kate! she have

by this time become acquainted with her husband’s small and dreary

peculiarity, and she perceive, from his fretful, irritable manner,

that something have occur to disquiet he in the course of the

morning. it be clear that this be no favourable moment in which to

make her appeal; and yet time press. she trust the dinner would

produce a tranquillising effect on he; and she must choose a favourable

opportunity, while he be sit over his wine, to introduce the

subject of her brother’s trouble and indiscretion.



Mr. Crane re-appear with a gloomy brow; he have be oblige to wash

his hand in cold water--the hot be a perfect sea of black. “why be

his thing not put out for he to dress:” Kate believe they have be;

unless she be very much mistaken, she have see they lay out in his

dressing-room. “what, his dress shoe?” Kate do not remember to have

see the shoe. “no! he should think not; the shoe be what he be

particularly allude to--they be not put out: on the contrary, it

take he quite five minute to hunt for they. but it be always

the case--few thing as he require, those few be certain to be

neglect;” and in this strain do he bewail himself, until, to Kate’s

inexpressible relief, dinner be announce.



without be exactly a _gourmand_, Mr. Crane take a deep and solemn

interest in his dinner, the cooking of which he criticise with equal

acuman and severity. on the present occasion he help himself to soup,

and taste the first spoonful with an air of anxious inquiry. as he

become aware of the flavour, his countenance fall, and the shadow on his

brow darken.



“have you taste that compound, Mrs. Crane?” he ask, in a tone

indicative of deep but tragic feeling.



“it’s rather salt, be it not?” return Kate.



“rather salt! it’s brine, make with sea-water, I’m certain such a

deleterious mixture as that be sure to disagree with I: the way they

dress my food in this house be undermine my constitution--bring

I to my grave! I’m certain of it! Roberts, take that down to Mrs.

Trimmins, and tell she I cann’t touch it; and mind such stuff as that

do not come up again. that’s the way money be waste in this family;

that woman get the good and most expensive material, and then, just

because she have not to pay for they herself, go and spoil they by her

unpardonable carelessness--it’s too bad!--oyster sauce. my dear Kate,

you’ve give I no sound now!”



“really,” rejoin Kate, colour with annoyance, and make vigorous

but fruitless poke at the cod with the fish-slice, “really, I’m afraid

there be no sound with this fish.”



“no sound!” repeat Mr. Crane, in a high, whimpering falsetto;

“codfish and no sound! the only part, as Mrs. Trimmins know; that I

care about! serve up a codfish without sound! no, really this cannot be

allow to go on; there’s no man care less about his eating than I do!

take it away, Roberts, I shall not touch a bit. a crust of bread and

cheese, if it be but clean and wholesome, be all I require; still, when

I do sit down to a dinner, I like to have that dinner fit to eat. as a

bachelor, I put up with such annoyance; if they spoil one’s dinner,

one dine at one’s club for the next week, and so give the cook a hint,

which render she more careful; but I own, when I marry, I do hope

that these thing might be remedie; that while I be out, work

hard from breakfast till dinner-time, to provide fund for all these

expense, the eye of a mistress might have be apply to an occasional

inspection of her household; and that her husband’s comfort would have

be a fitter study for an amiable and domestic character, than the

immoral and pernicious writing of german and french novelist. take

that horrible joint up to your mistress, Roberts, and bring I the

cutlet and Tomata-sauce. I should have think Mrs. Trimmins might have

know by this time how much I dislike a great coarse leg of mutton;

but I suppose your rural taste lead you to prefer it to a more refined

style of cookery, in which case I must only request that your favourite

dish may always be place at your end of the table; I declare the

sight of it be enough to destroy my appetite, and make I quite

uncomfortable!”



“don’t you think there may be a little fancy in that?” return Kate,

as cutlet and Tomata-sauce at last fill Mr. Crane’s mouth, and stop

his grumble monologue; “I cannot help think good roast meat must

contain more nourishment, and for that reason be more wholesome than

make dish.”



a struggle between his rise anger and his descend food having

occasion a fit of choking, which do not tend to increase his general

amiability, Mr. Crane, as soon as he be sufficiently recover,

continued--



“unless it may be for the sake of contradict I, my dear, I cannot

conceive--ugh! ugh!--I cannot conceive why you should imagine it

possible you can form a judgment about the matter; with such a strong--I

may say Herculean--digestion as you be gift with, how should you

guess how these thing affect a delicate organisation like mine? you can

doubtless eat these fearful leg of mutton with impunity; but be you

to eat the leg of a horse--as I verily believe you could--that would be

no argument in favour of diet I on dog’s-meat. I know you think I

fanciful; your more robust temperament do not enable you to sympathise

with the difficulty my delicate, sensitive digestion subject I

to--ugh!”



“the well way will be to give the housekeeper a general order never

again to send a leg of mutton up to table,” return Kate; “I have

no especial predilection for the joint, and can dine quite as

satisfactorily on anything else.”



“no, my dear; I beg you will give no such order. I be not of such a

selfish disposition as to wish the dinner order merely with a view to

my like and dislike; neither be it my desire to curtail any of your

enjoyment, however much I may regret that they be not of a more

refined or intellectual nature;--have your leg of mutton as you have

be accustom to have. I dare say there will always be bread and

cheese or cold meat in the house; thank Heaven, I be not particular,

anything simple and wholesome--give I some wine, Roberts; no, the

Burgundy, only half a glass--simple and wholesome doe for I. Roberts,

desire Mrs. Trimmins to take care that she provide a liberal supply of

leg of mutton for her mistress.”



“really, Mr. Crane, you mistake I; I have no particular preference for

leg of mutton, I assure--” begin Kate.



Mr. Crane raise his hand deprecatingly, and check she in mid speech.



“quite enough have be say on this subject,” he interpose, severely;

“these endless discussion weary I. I come home tired and annoy with

the care, and anxiety, and fatigue of business: and when I seek for

quiet and repose in the bosom of my family, I be meet by these frivolous

and vexatious complaint, my dinner make a trial to I, and my digestion

upset, my constitution undermine, and my comfort in my home--my

domestic comfort, Mrs. Crane--entirely destroy! however, one word

shall end this matter; if I be to be subject to these ebullition

of--I be afraid I must say, a fretful and dissatisfied temper, I dine at

my club in future.”



and having thus work himself up into a mild, childish, and ineffectual

rage, Mr. Crane continue to growl at his wife and harass the servant

until dinner be over, and the domestic have depart. and then come

out the cause of this agreeable episode in Kate’s married life--the

_bundelcundah_, East Indiaman, have go down at sea, all hand have

perish, and £40,000 worth of cargo, the property of Jedidiah Crane,

have go down with they!



tear for their love and lose one dim the eye of the widow

and orphan of the gallant seaman who have sink in the _bundelcundah_;

mother weep as memory recall some bright young face, glow with

health and youthful daring, which now lie pale and swell in the depth

of mighty water; girl, with blanched lip and hollow eye, grieve for

the lover whom they should behold no more till the sea should give up

its dead, in an agony of speechless anguish, to which the sorrow that

can find vent in tear would have be a merciful relief; and Crane,

the _millionaire_, fret over the loss of his £40,000 with a grief

as lively and earnest as any of they--for “where the treasure be, there

shall the heart be also.”



during all this scene her brother’s difficulty be never absent from

the mind of Kate Crane, but she feel that this be not the time to

bring they forward, and keep silence. do the idea occur to she how

differently she would have feel have Arthur Hazlehurst be the person

to whom she have desire to confide her trouble? let we hope not, for her

heart be full enough without it.









chapter XLVII.--A glimpse at the CLOVEN foot.





“so he will not do anything for I?”



“nothing, my poor boy!”



“and you ask he--press he very much?”



“don’t speak of it! I actually stoop to implore he; I do my duty by

you thoroughly; I keep down my rebellious heart, though it throb

as if it would burst. I tell he of your youth, your penitence, and I

entreat he to befriend you.”



“and he still refuse?”



“he say money be ‘tight’ in the city, and that he have none to waste on

an ungrateful boy who do not know its value.”



“I be not likely to learn it practically now, unless by try how I

can live without it. I have just five shilling leave; though as I be in

debt, I cannot honestly call those my own,” be the bitter reply. there

be a pause; then suddenly raise his head, Frederick ask abruptly,

“Kate, have you get any money?”



“never be anything so unfortunate!” be Kate’s answer; “I have be

at a good deal of expense lately in assist a distressed family; and

yesterday, just before you come, I receive a letter from mamma, tell

I she be press for money in consequence of poor papa’s illness, and,

except five pound, I send she every farthing I have.”



as she thus destroy his last hope, her brother spring to his foot,

and begin to pace the room with hurried stride. at length he exclaim,

“I’ll not stay here to beg or starve--I’ll enlist in a cavalry regiment;

I’m quite six foot now, and ride under nine stone; I should not wonder

if they’d take I in the Lifeguards or the Blues.”



Kate’s only reply be by a mournful and dissentient shake of the head,

and Frederick continued--



“what! you don’t think it gentlemanly to enlist as a private? well, it

_would_ be a bore, have to associate with the common man--not that

I’ve any false pride about I, but a gentleman cann’t help be a

gentleman, and I own I should feel out of my element. I have it--I’ll

work my way out as a sailor to Australia, and go to the gold-field--eh?

gold be what I want you know. I’ll dig up enough to pay my debt, and

keep a decent coat on my back for a year or two, and then I’ll come

home, and be a credit to you yet--why willn’t that do?”



“think of our poor mother, Fred; it would break her heart! she be so

wrap up in you--have always love you the good of all her child;

think of all she have upon she now--you would not add to her distress! oh

no, you must give up all such wild thought, it would be too cruel!”



as she speak the boy pause in his impetuous walk, and murmur, “I

shall break her heart any way, miserable wretch that I be!” he fling

himself on the sofa, and give vent to an outburst of mingle shame and

contrition.



Kate’s unhappiness at witness his grief--which she could soothe,

indeed, but of which she be powerless to remove the cause--may readily

be imagine. having after a time succeed in subdue his extreme

sorrow, of which unavaile self-reproach form the sharp sting,

Kate give he three out of her five pound, to provide for his immediate

necessity, and dismiss he, promise to take advantage of any

symptom of relent which Mr. Crane might evince, again to press she

suit; and the poor boy depart, in some degree re-assured by hope

of which, even as she expatiate upon they, she perceive the probable

fallacy.



as soon as he have quit she, she sit down and fall into a train of

gloomy and bitter reflection. this wealth that surround she, of what

use be it in her trouble? none! she could not convert it into money to

save her brother; and its possession have harden the heart of he to

whom she should naturally turn for assistance--her husband! and as she

pronounce the name, an involuntary shudder come over she. she have sell

herself to a man she despise, for the good of her family; sell herself

to save they from the curse of poverty; and now, at her utmost need, her

self-sacrifice prove unavaile--the money she require be deny

she--her earnest pleading be disregarded,--the evil she dread have come

upon she in its bitter form, and she be powerless to avert it. be

it for this, then, that she have stifle the voice of affection in her

heart--be it for this she have throw aside the priceless love of Arthur

Hazlehurst, and embitter his life and her own by so do? and now the

harrowing doubt which, from the first hour in which she have conceive

the project of marry Mr. Crane, to this moment in which the

conviction of its fruitlessness be force upon she, have never cease to

haunt she, recur with redoubled vigour. in so act, have she indeed

deceive herself?--had she, instead of perform an act of generous

self-sacrifice, commit a sin against her well nature, for which she

have no justification, and of which she be now pay the bitter

penalty? as she think it over, the conviction force itself upon

she, more and more strongly, that she have rebel against the decree

of Providence, and seek to free herself and her family from the cross

he have see fit to lay upon they, by unlawful mean; that, blind by

the proud and haughty spirit which precede a fall, she have do evil

that good might come: she have sow the wind--what wonder that she should

reap the whirlwind! it be a cruel discovery to make now, when it be

too late to remedy the evil; but, fortunately, Kate have a strong brave

spirit for good, as well as for evil; and though this new aspect in

which she regard her past conduct occasion she the deep remorse,

though it display her fault of pride and overweene self-confidence

in their bad and most repulsive aspect, yet she do not shrink from

the scrutiny, but honestly sit in judgment on herself; and where,

weigh herself in the balance, she be find want, she recognise

the deficiency, and unhesitatingly acknowledge her transgression. yes!

she see it clearly, now it be too late--in the deep, earnest, tender

affection of Arthur Hazlehurst, Heaven have bestow upon her an

inestimable blessing, which she have no right to cast from she. by so

do she have inflict the bitter wound man can receive, on he who

thus have give she his all of love--a wound which time indeed may heal

superficially, but which continue to throb and bleed internally while

life remains;--that death-blow to hope which the heart receive, when

the conviction be force upon it that the idol enshrine in its inmost

recess be unworthy of such holy sanctuary.



well, she have choose her lot, and must abide by it; repine be bad

than useless; all chance of happiness she have forfeit by her own act;

but there still remain to she the possibility of resignation, which,

persevere in, might produce contentment. could she gain that, and the

self-approval of her own conscience, life might become endurable after

all. but, to obtain this, one path alone be open to she--the rigid path

of duty. she have do Mr. Crane sufficient wrong in marry he without

affection, and for the sake of expediency: if she could not love and

honour he--as at God’s holy altar she have falsely swear to do--she

could at least obey he, and strive to render his life as easy and

comfortable as in her lay: she would alter her cold manner towards he;

she would refrain from the covert sarcasm which lurk under every

word she have hitherto address to he, and which so thinly veil the

contempt she feel for he, that occasionally even his dull perception

penetrate it. oh, how as the clear light in which she now regard

her past behaviour fall upon each separate fault and error, do she

abhor herself! with what bitter tear of unavaile contrition do

she bewail the thought, word, and action, which could never be

recalled!--unavailing contrition! yes, unavaile as regard the

irrevocable past, but the past only, for there be one who witness she

true penitence, who have declare, in his gracious mercy, that “a break

and contrite heart he will not despise.”



how long she thus sit, review and grieve over her past error, and

form good resolution for the future, and implore strength from

above to enable she to carry they into effect, Kate Crane know not; but

she be startle from her reverie by a knock at the house-door; and ere

she have time to banish the trace of her late emotion, a light footstep

bound up the stair, and Horace D’Almayne enter. assume as

compose a manner as she be able, she began--



“you be an early visitor to-day, Mr. D’Almayne; so early, indeed, that

Mr. Crane have not yet return from the city.”



“I be aware of that fact already, my dear Mrs. Crane, having part

from my good friend scarcely an hour since, when I leave he engage at

Lloyd’s, go into the detail of his loss on the unfortunate

East Indiaman. I be on my way to visit a friend in Belgravia, when a

circumstance occur which induce I to alter my destination, and take

the chance of find you disengage; in which case I venture to hope

you would allow I a few minute’ conversation.”



rather surprised at his mysterious manner, though by no mean so much so

as if she have be unacquainted with his habit of make a mountain of

any molehill he might happen to stumble upon, Kate motion to he to be

seat, resume her own chair, and wonder what be to come next.



probably read as much in her expression, D’Almayne began--



“you will at once understand why I have thus presume upon my privilege

as an old friend, when I tell you that I have just meet, and have a long,

and I hope not entirely profitless, conversation with your brother.”



“with Fred!” exclaim Kate, colour with mingled surprise and

annoyance, for D’Almayne be about the last person to whom she desire

to confide her family trouble.



D’Almayne read her thought.



“your brother,” he say, in a tone expressive of wounded feeling, “your

brother, entertain no unkind suspicion of my friendly interest,

unhesitatingly confide to I the dilemma in which his inexperience have

place he, and which his want of knowledge of the world have magnify

into something much more alarming than it really be. so I obtain his

permission to speak to you on the subject, promise, if he would allow

I to do so, that between we we should very soon devise mean to relieve

he from his difficulty.”



“I’m afraid then you have only prepare a fresh disappointment for

the poor boy,” return Kate. “do he not tell you that he have already

apply to I, and that I be so unfortunate as to be unable to render

he any effectual assistance?”



“surely a word from you to Mr. Crane would remove all difficulty?

believe I, you be the only person who could for a moment doubt the

effect of such an appeal;” and, as he speak, D’Almayne fix his dark,

pierce eye upon she, as though he would read she very soul.



for a moment Kate look down in confusion and annoyance; then she

spirit rise, and calmly return his glance, she replied--



“my brother, no doubt, wish to spare I pain, by conceal from you

that I have already apply to Mr. Crane; but that, irritate against

poor Fred, and vex by the loss of this ship, my husband refuse my

request.”



smart under Mr. Crane’s unkindness, anxious and unhappy about she

brother, provoke at Fred’s imprudence in admit Horace D’Almayne to

his confidence, yet cling to the hope that her companion’s tact and

knowledge of life might devise some mean of extricate her brother

from his difficulty, Kate forget her usual caution, and speak eagerly

and hastily.



D’Almayne glance at she as, with flushed cheek and sparkle eye, she

own her vain appeal to her husband’s liberality--never have he see she

look so lovely; he have always admit her statuesque grace, but now the

statue have become animate, and her beauty appear to his fascinated

vision enthralling, entrance; while the absence of the reserve she

usually maintain towards he mislead he and throw he off his guard.

thus, utterly sceptical as to the existence of female virtue, urge by

the impulse of his warm southern blood, and deceive by his experience

of foreign society, he conceive the moment for which he have so long

wait and scheme have arrive; gamester-like, he resolve to stake

all on the hazard of a die; and, turn towards she, while his voice

tremble with an emotion which for once be not feign, he exclaim

passionately--



“I have witness long and silently, though that silence have proceed

from an effort of the strong self-control, the mean-spirited and

selfish conduct of the cold-hearted, witless _imbécille_ to whom it be

your misfortune to be ally; I have see also, with sentiment of the

warm and most vivid admiration, the heroic endurance with which

you have bear his insult--the gentle tenderness with which you have

strive to conceal his fault--the noble generosity with which you have

impoverish yourself to atone for his selfish parsimony. I have see

all this with feeling of the deep indignation towards he--of the

warm, the most devoted admiration towards you. I have perceive

the low, sordid spirit of the one--the beautiful angelic nature of

the other; and I have afflict myself with a vain remorse when the

reflection that I be a weak, blind instrument in bring about this

incongruous, this most abhor union, force itself upon I--night

after night have I lain sleepless, indulge in these sombre

reflection. at length a thought, an idea, an inspiration, as it be,

flash across my brain, like lightning through the darkness that

overwhelm I. the law of man change, it say; they be weak, vain,

frivolous; a breath can make, a breath can alter they; but the law of

Heaven be immutable--write on human heart, whence death alone can

efface they. in the stillness of night a voice say, ‘look within; read

your own heart; what do you find write there? be it not that a

strange, sweet, yet mysterious sympathy attract you towards she--link

you to she? do not an intuition teach you she every thought and wish?

when she smile, do not an ecstatic joy pervade your frame? when she

suffer, do you not suffer also?’ I recognise the truth, delightful yet

exquisitely painful; but I put it away from I. I say, ‘our path in

life diverge--the joy of such soul-communion be not for I--I be alone

in life!’ but I watch you; I see your unhappiness increase; you

require a friend--again the voice address I; it say, ‘be that

friend;’ and I come, and do the little I be able to aid you. I be of

use to you, and for the time I be happy. once more, this day, when your

brother confide in I, the voice speak, ‘go, Horace,’ it exclaim,

‘she require you.’ it have not deceive I; I find you pale, deject,

trace of tear on your silken lash, sorrow mark in every line of

your speak countenance--in every _pose_ of your graceful figure; and

with flash eye and burn cheek you tell I of your wrong. again,

at this moment, the voice address I: ‘it be in vain to strive.’ it

cry, ‘you cannot silence the utterance of the heart; they may be

repress for a time, but they will make themselves hear. listen to

their dictate now. she who be part of your soul be unhappy: she seek

affection, and be repel with insensate coldness; she require a mind

capable of appreciate and reciprocate her own, and be meet by feeble

incapacity; she ask for common justice--common courtesy, and encounter

sordid illiberality, fretful churlishness. oppress by her dismal fate,

she sit alone and weep. and shall this continue?--no! break through

the trammel of dull conventionality, and let heart speak to heart; tell

she of your ardent sympathy--of your tender devotion; ask she to permit

your boundless love to compensate for the effete indifference of her

despicable partner.’”



up to this point Kate have be so entirely take by surprise, and so

carry away by the vehemence of D’Almayne’s address, that she could

scarcely collect her idea sufficiently either to comprehend his meaning

or to attempt to check he; when, however, encourage by her silence, he

exchange his german sentimentalism for the plain speaking contain in

his last sentence, Kate’s indignation could no long be restrain, and

she cut he short by exclaiming--



“do not far degrade yourself or insult I, Mr. D’Almayne, by

continue to address to I language which I should have think you have

know I sufficiently to feel sure could excite in I no other feeling

than those of contempt and disgust. leave I, sir! I be disappoint in

you; I believe you be too much of a gentleman to have presume upon

Mr. Crane’s mistaken confidence in you, and dare thus to insult I!

I shall now, however, feel it my duty to enlighten he as to the true

character of the man he have so injudiciously trust.”



as Kate thus reproach he, a look of fiend-like malignity, compound

of disappointed passion, baffle rage, and an eager thirsting for

revenge, pass across D’Almayne’s usually unmove countenance; it come

and go in an instant, but not so quickly as to escape Kate’s keen

glance; and, from that time forth, she know that he be a man to be

fear, as well as to be dislike.









CHAPTER XLVIII.--MAGNANIMITY.



the malevolent glance with which D’Almayne favour Kate pass away

in a moment, and be succeed by his usual expression of quiet,

contemptuous sarcasm.



“if you choose thus to resent the warmth of expression into which my

sympathy for your trial have betray I,” he say, “at the same time

that you inform Mr. Crane of my delinquency, pray tell he of the

attention which you have accept from I, as well as of the one you

reject. tell he of the scroll wrap round the rose-stalk, ask

a private interview, which you instantly grant; tell he of the

ostensible visit to the portrait-painter, undertake to conceal the

secret expedition to Mrs. Leonard; tell he that this expedition be

make in a carriage hire by I to convey you to meet I by appointment

at a house in an obscure quarter of London; and ask he, as a man of

the world, whether he imagine you go there simply out of pure

benevolence, and whether that benevolence to the wife of a man whom he

suppose to have defraud he, meet with his approval; or rather, I

will ask he all this when he apply to I for an explanation of my

conduct.” he pause, then perceive from Kate’s look of embarrassment

and annoyance that she recognize and be disconcert by the force of

his remark, he continue: “you now see the absurdity, as well as the

danger, of threaten I. be Mr. Crane to break with I to-morrow, it

would only be the loss of a dull acquaintance--”



“indeed!” interrupt Kate, with quiet but cut irony “I should

rather have compare it to the fact of your banker fail.”



D’Almayne’s cheek grow pale, and his lip quiver with suppress

anger, but he continue as if she have not spoken:--



“his vengeance do not greatly alarm I. a man who can snuff a candle

with a bullet at twelve pace need not fear an old _gentleman!_”--(he

sneered as he pronounce the word)--“who probably never see a pistol

level in his life, and would not easily be bring to face one.”

 Finding that Kate make no reply, he resume in a more conciliatory tone:

“I think your quick intelligence have by this time show you the folly

of quarrel with I; let there be truce between we. I will own that

carry away by my feeling, I use language in which perhaps I be

scarcely warrant; but you must remember that the blood of sunny France

sparkle through my vein--that one of my parent spring from a race,

who (unlike you cold and cautious islander), when they feel strongly,

speak with warmth and ardour; and now say, be it to be peace or war

between we?”



“I perceive that by my own imprudence, spring not so much from a

misconception of your true character, as from a desire not to act

from the dictate of what I strove to convince myself be an unfounded

prejudice against you, I have so far place myself in your power that

I cannot in a moment judge whether I shall be do right or wrong by

inform my husband of your conduct towards I; but of two thing be

sure, first, that whatever I decide to be right, I will do; secondly,

that neither your threat nor your sophistry will turn I from my

purpose; for the rest, after what have occur to-day, there can be

no far--friendship I will not call it, for it never be so--but

alliance between we. I now _know you, sir!_ and that be enough.”



again the evil look flash across D’Almayne’s handsome feature, but so

transient be it that even Kate fail to perceive it. D’Almayne’s quick

wit show he that he have already gain an advantage, which, if

he could follow it up, would go far to retrieve the false, or as he

consider it premature, step he have take. if he could induce Kate to

conceal the declaration he have make she, the very fact of she having

do so would place she still more in his power, his scheme in regard

to Mr. Crane might yet be prosecute; and so confident be he in his own

resource, that he even believe he might gain from Kate’s fear that

which he begin to doubt whether he should obtain from her affection. so

assume the manner of a good man suffer injustice meekly, he rise to

depart, saying--



“you be now angry, and unable to regard the matter in its true light.

you have confess you be prejudiced against I, but I know you well

enough to feel sure of justice at your hand; nor shall I allow this

painful misunderstanding between we to cause any relaxation, on my part,

of such effort as I may be able to make towards free your brother

from his embarrassment--do not interrupt I,” he continue, see

Kate be about indignantly to refuse his aid, “I know what you would

say--how, still mistrust I and misinterpret my motive, you would

reject my assistance--and I would gladly save myself the pain of hearing

from your lip bitter word, which at some future time you would repent

having utter. I will now leave you, nor shall I again intrude upon you

until I have win, at least, your forgiveness.”



D’Almayne be an excellent actor, and as he pronounce the concluding

word of the last sentence, his voice tremble with so good an imitation

of the pathos of real emotion, that Kate actually glance towards he

to ascertain whether the expression of his face confirm the idea.

unwilling, however, to weaken the effect he trust his word have

produce, he turn and quit the room, without having afford she

the opportunity she seek for.



Mr. Crane do not return home that day, be summon by telegraph

to Liverpool,--a merchant there, who be concern with he in the

speculation for which they have charter the _Bundelcundah_, East

Indiaman, have, on hearing of its loss, blow out his brain.

thus Kate have no opportunity of reveal to her husband D’Almayne’s

misdeed. as soon as she find Mr. Crane have leave town, she send to her

brother, intend to warn he against accept D’Almayne’s offer

of assistance, but her messenger bring back her missive, with the

announcement that Mr. Marsden have quit his lodging. early the next

morning she receive the follow note:--



“dear Kate,--You need be under no far uneasiness on my account. my

difficulty be at an end, and a career far well suit to I than

the drudgery of a counting-house be afford I. I be not at liberty to

inform you to whom I be indebted for this unhoped-for assistance; but I

have indeed meet with a true friend in my distress, towards whom I, and

all who care for my welfare, must ever feel the deep gratitude. I be

bind by an express stipulation not to reveal the name of the benefactor

who have so generously come forward to assist I, even to you; but,

believe I, I be not deceive this time. I long to tell you all, but my

lip be seal. I will write to my mother when I can explain more fully

my future prospect. farewell, dear Kate, my faith in human nature

be restore; this be not one of the least obligation I owe to my

noble-hearted friend.



“ever your,



“Fred Marsden.”









chapter XLIX.--ALICE PERCEIVES the error of her way.



“my dear Alice, what have change you so completely? you have lose

your spirit, and appear to take a dark, morbid view of life. you find

a thousand fault with thing and people you use to be perfectly

satisfied with; and you look thin and ill. be you unwell?” inquire

Mrs. Hazlehurst of her daughter, after Alice have be stay some day

at the Grange. they be sit together in Mrs. Hazlehurst’s morning

room, which command an extensive view across the park. Alice’s eye

have be for some minute fix upon one particular spot, and as she

gaze they fill with tear--it be the stile lead to the shady walk

wherein Harry have first tell his love, and the sight of it call up

a host of tender recollection. how different be the bright, sunny,

trust affection which she then feel for he, from her present

perturb state of mind!--in which jealousy of Arabella Crofton and

estrangement from her husband (spring originally from his neglect and

injustice, and keep alive by the untoward event of their London

season) contend with a love, the strength of which be prove by the

wretchedness all these doubt and misunderstanding cause she. scarcely

hear her mother’s question, she reply, mechanically, “no, that

she be not ill,” and relapse into her train of gloomy musing. Mrs.

Hazlehurst regard she in anxious silence for a few moment, then

observe abruptly--



“Alice, you never speak of your husband now; yet, when you be first

married, your letter be full of his praise, and you could neither

talk nor write of anything but Harry’s perfection. how be this?”



“oh! one cannot be always a baby,” be the reply. “while I be a new

plaything, Mr. Coverdale spoil I, and make much of I; and I be

child enough to be delighted with his attention--to fancy they would

always continue the same, and that life would prove a path of rose, so

I rhapsodise about it accordingly. I have now find out my mistake, and

indulge in rapture no long--that be all!” she strove to speak lightly

and carelessly, but her tearful eye and quivering lip belie the sense

of her word. her mother see it, and could abstain no long.



“Alice, my child, you be unhappy,” she say; “it be useless to attempt

to conceal it. come, tell I what it be. you know of old that I be to be

trust, and who so fit as your mother to confide in?--who so well

able to sympathise with--and perhaps to counsel you?” as she speak, she

pass her arm caressingly round Alice’s slender waist, and draw

she towards she. for a minute or so Alice submit passively to she

embrace, then, with an hysterical sob, she fling her arm round she and

burst into a passion of tear. Mrs. Hazlehurst allow she to weep in

silence, until the violence of her grief have in some measure subside,

then, by degree, draw from she an account, at first break and

disjoint, but become full and more coherent as she proceed,

of all her woe, real and imaginary, with which the reader be already

acquainted.



“and now, mamma dearest, how can I ever again be happy, know as I do

that Harry be still attach to that dreadful woman, and that he regret

his marriage with I more because it place a bar between they, than

because I have disappoint he by not prove the spiritless, tender,

and affectionate doll he fancy I when I first marry? I--I almost

wish I be, for then perhaps I could make he happy, and I’m sure I

don’t now!” she pause, then rest her head against her mother’s

shoulder, add, “Mamma--you will tell I honestly--do you think I have

behave very ill?”



“I certainly cannot exonerate you from blame, my poor child; there have

be, as it seem to I, serious fault on both side. Mr. Coverdale’s

appear to I to have proceed more from thoughtlessness than from

intention; while your, I be both sorry and surprised to find, seem

chiefly to have arise from warmth of temper.”



“yes, I see it now; and yet you know, mamma, I be not really

ill-temper--at least, I never use to be; but you know I love, or,”

 she add with a sigh, “I may say I _love_ Harry so very dearly, that

the slight neglect or unkindness on his part appear such a cruel

return for my affection that I cannot bear it quietly; if I be not

to lose my temper and get angry about it, I should pine away and die--I

know I should!”



“do you ever tell he this?” inquire Mrs. Hazlehurst.



Alice shake her head. “one do not tell such thing,” she say; “if

Harry care for my affection he would soon perceive how entirely I love

he; if, as I fear, he be indifferent to it, all the telling in the

world would make no difference; besides, I have hear from his own lip

that he love another.”



“I do not make out that affair at all,” observe Mrs. Hazlehurst,

reflectively; “it be so completely unlike Mr. Coverdale’s

straightforward, honest character, to marry one woman when he care for

another, that I cannot but think there must be some mistake about it.”



“how can there be any mistake, dear mamma?” be the rejoinder. “I have

long feel certain that Miss Crofton be attach to Harry; and I myself

hear he say to she that he be most unfortunate, because love which

he could not return be lavish upon he (mean mine), while he have

alienate by his own act (his marriage of course) the only affection he

care to possess (that be Arabella Crofton’s): I do not know what could

be clear.”



“do you not say that Mr. Coverdale appear aware that he have neglect

you for his sporting, and blame himself for so do?”



“yes; I think he know it, and be sorry for it--and--and he do not

leave I nearly so much alone as he use; only I fancy--that be, I be

afraid he do so from a sense of duty, and not because it be a pleasure

to he to stay with I. Harry have a very strict sense of duty.”



“you say he seem to doubt your affection,” continue Mrs. Hazlehurst,

“and you own you conceal it from he, treat he to burst of

pettishness and ill-humour, of which you refuse to explain the cause.

you also tell I that this Miss Crofton appear to have be attach to

Mr. Coverdale; now, from what you have tell I of the way in which you

behave at Lady Trottemout’s party--which I confess I think be both

foolish and wrong--I can easily conceive your husband to have be

greatly annoyed with you; and it seem to I that nothing would be more

natural than for he to have tell, or in some way to have allow Miss

Crofton to perceive his annoyance; in which case, as I fear she must

be a design, unprincipled woman, she might avail herself of the

opportunity to contrast her own affection with your disobedience and

petulance. thus your husband’s speech, on which you have build up all

this alarm fabric of future unhappiness, may be interpret much more

satisfactorily: as, for instance, the affection lavish on he, which

he could not return, might be Miss Crofton’s, and the love he covet,

your, which he by his own neglect have alienate. do you perceive?”



“oh yes, mamma!” exclaim Alice, eagerly, her face light up with the

ray of hope thus give she; “I see it really might mean that! oh, if I

dare but believe it be so!”



she pause to reflect, and as the recollection of Harry’s frank, earnest

face, and simple, truthful manner come across she, when in their last

discussion he have tell she there be not, and never have be, anything

between himself and Miss Crofton which need give she uneasiness, she,

for the first time since Lady Tattersall Trottemout’s _soirée_, allow

herself to hope that she have mistake the meaning of the word she have

overhear; that her husband still love she; that she have only to show

he how these trouble and estrangement have serve but to prove to she

the depth and reality of their mutual affection; and that, warn by

past experience to bear and forbear, a life of happiness still await

they.



“no one could be more averse than I be to raise false hope,” resume

Mrs. Hazlehurst; “but I really believe, from my previous knowledge of

Mr. Coverdale’s character, as well as from all you have tell I to-day,

that my interpretation of the enigmatical speech be the true one.”



“if it be, dear mamma, I shall owe the whole happiness of my life to

you,” exclaim Alice, enthusiastically; “already I feel as if a load

which have be crush I to the earth be take off my shoulder: the

think that Harry prefer that woman to I haunt I continually,

and embitter my existence. even now,” she continue, sorrowfully, “as

long as the fact of Harry’s refusal to tell I what have pass between

they remain unaccounted for, I cannot feel quite satisfied.”



“do you know, Alice, I think you be evince extreme narrow-mindedness

in these unworthy suspicion; if you do not take yourself seriously to

task, and strive to overcome this very grave fault in your character,

I be afraid the evil you so much dread--the loss of your husband’s

affection, may come upon you after all; but it will be solely to your

own ungenerous mistrust that you will owe it. I do not wish to distress

you,” she continue, as Alice burst into tear at this the most severe

rebuke she have ever receive from her mother’s lip; “but if I do not

tell you what I believe to be the truth, I should fail in my duty to

you.”



Alice weep for some moment in silence, then dry her tear, she

say in a submissive, child-like manner, “I have do very, very wrong;

advise I, mamma, and I will try and act accord to your wish.”



Mrs. Hazlehurst draw Alice towards she, and kiss her pale cheek

affectionately, reply:



“my advice be this, love; when you return home, do not enter upon any of

these matter which have be subject of dissension between you and Mr.

Coverdale; and should he do so, take care to reply gently and without

irritation, remember that ‘a meek and quiet spirit be a woman’s

chief ornament;’ for the rest, try and make yourself as pleasant

and agreeable as you can to he. let he perceive your affection in the

thousand constantly-recur trifle of which a love woman can avail

herself for such a purpose, but be careful not to bore he with it at

unsuitable time; above all, do not be _exigeante_, and expect or desire

he to give up his sporting taste, or his love of farming, or even the

society of his gentleman friend for your sake: you could not do it if

you would, and you would only deteriorate his frank, manly character if

you be to succeed. at the same time you may, by your influence, lead

he to cultivate some of his more refined pursuit, into which you

can enter with he. he sing charmingly; get he to keep up his music,

procure the clever and well-write book, and persuade he to read

and discuss they with you. his clear intellect and strong good sense

will be of the great use in expand and form your mind, and

supply the deficiency which my ill-health have occasion in your

education. I see I need not go far into detail--you understand I.”



“oh yes, mamma! and if I be but able to realize the picture you have

draw of our domestic life, how happy we might yet be! but I will try my

very good, only I feel so weak, and sometimes so wicked; if I be but

as wise and good as you--but I will try. ah! if I have do so at first,

I should have have so much easy a task--however, they say it be never

too late to mend.” she pause, sigh deeply, then continue: “emily

come home to-morrow; I will write to Harry to send for I the next day,

and then--and then--Mamma, do you think I shall succeed?”



at the very moment Alice be thus repent the past, and form good

resolution for the future, Harry, with gloomy brow and clench tooth,

be stride impatiently up and down his library, hold in his hand

a seal letter--it be address to his wife, and the writing be Lord

Alfred Courtland’s. “so,” he mutter, “so, not content with amusing

(that’s the phrase now-a-day) himself during his London season by

dangle after my wife, he must try to keep up the thing now she be

away--foolish young idiot!--but I feel sure that scoundrel D’Almayne be

at the bottom of it, set he on for some purpose of his own. well,

I’ve bear it patiently--more patiently than one man in fifty would have

do--nobody can say I’ve be rash or hasty in this matter; but it’s

time to act, and when I do begin, I’ll astonish they. I’ll take Alfred

Courtland off to his father, and tell he the boy’s not fit to be

trust alone. if he willn’t go, I’ll horsewhip he; and as to D’Almayne,

by the Heaven above I, I’ll shoot he like a dog! such a scoundrel be

not fit to live! it would be a benefit to society to rid it of such a

fellow. but I may be wrong; I say I would do nothing hastily in this

business, and I’ll be true to my word. I’ll wait till Alice come

home, give she the letter myself, and ask she to show it to I. if she

refuse, or if it contain such matter as I expect, I shall then know

how to act.”









CHAPTER L.--THE LETTER.



when thing happen not to go smoothly in this mortal life (that be,

about nine time out of every ten) people be apt to rail against

destiny, deplore their evil fortune, or, if they happen to be very

good indeed, reckon up the number of crosse vouchsafe they with

self-complacent resignation; in fact, they each, after their own

fashion, give currency to the sentiment express by our neighbour

across the water, in the proverb, “_L’homme propose, Dieu dispose_.”

 now, although we acknowledge that this proverb embody a great truth,

yet, look at the present state of thing more closely, we conceive it

to be by no mean the whole truth--for this reason:--a large proportion

of the evil of life be no result of blind chance, or, more correctly,

no chastisement proceed direct from the hand of Providence, but the

natural, almost the necessary, consequence of our own action. action

might be generally define as the working--accord to certain fix

rule--of cause and effect; if we would but bear this in mind, and

reflect that every action produce some result good or evil, we might

not indeed (so wrong-head be human nature) act more wisely, but we

should at all event feel less surprise when the inevitable result

follow; and so, know that we have only ourselves to thank for our

punishment, gain experience which might make some few fool of we wiser

for the future.



these remark be call forth by, and therefore might have occur

to, Alice Coverdale, have she be of what it be the fashion to term an

“introspective habit”--_i.e_. have she be accustom to turn she

mind inside-out before its own eye. not, however, be give to this

uncomfortable practice, she fail to discern the trouble in store for

she, and return home fondly deeming that have at length perceive

the error of her way, she need only confess, and receive her husband’s

absolution, to set every wrong right again. Harry do not come to fetch

she, it be a day on which there be a magistrate’ meeting; but

he be stand at the hall-door wait to receive she, which he do

warmly, and as if he be very glad to have she back again, though a

gloom hang on his brow which, when the first confusion of her arrival

be over, Alice could not fail to perceive; but conscious to a painful

degree of her own fault and short-coming, she do not venture to

remark upon it. when they reach the drawing-room, Harry throw back her

veil, and regard she with a long, earnest gaze, which bring the warm

blood into her cheek as in the day of her girlhood.



“you be look well, bright, and more like your former self than

I have see you for some time,” he say. he pause, then resume

sadly:--“Ah, Alice, I’m afraid you be happy in your old home than

you will ever be in your new one!”



“do not say so--do not think so, dear Harry!” be the eager reply. “I

may have be silly, and--and wicke enough to have be unhappy, and to

have vex you and render you so, too; but I have be take myself

seriously to task since I have be away, and have come home full of

good resolution, and intend to strive hard to keep they; and if

you would be so very good as to forgive I the past and help I in the

future, I think perhaps I may succeed.”



touch by her word and by the evident feeling with which they be

speak, Harry draw she to he, and kiss she tenderly.



“we may both have be in some measure to blame,” he say, “but I by

far the most so, for neglect the sacred trust I take upon I when

I possess myself of your affection; but I be a heedless boy

then--experience have make something rather more like a reasonable being

of I by this time, I hope; at all event, I now know how to appreciate

and guard the treasure I possess.” but even as he utter these word

his brow grow clouded, for he think of Lord Alfred Courtland’s letter,

lie at that moment in his pocket. should he give it to she at once, as

she stand by he blushing, and smile, and look up at he with all

the light of her former love beam in her soft blue eye? what if she

refuse to show it him?--if its content should destroy the harmony so

happily re-establish between they? still it must be do soon or

later, and Harry be not one to put off the evil day. with that letter

on his mind he could not meet Alice’s affection warmly and frankly as it

deserve, and as she would expect he to do; besides, the content might

be of a nature to relieve, rather than to increase his anxiety, in which

case he be needlessly prolong his own uneasiness. so turn towards

she, he say in a tone of voice which he vainly endeavour to render

easy and unconstrained, “Alice, love, here be a letter for you, which I

choose to give you myself, and which, when you have read it, I hope and

believe you will allow I to see also.” as he speak he lead she to the

sofa, then hand her Lord Alfred’s unopened letter, wait in a state

of anxiety which he vainly attempt to conceal, until she should

have peruse it. Alice colour slightly when she perceive by the

handwriting from whom the epistle proceed; but, judge from her

consciousness that nothing really wrong have pass between they that

certainly she should be able to show it to Harry, and so eradicate any

seed of jealousy which might be lurk in his mind, she hastily break

the seal.



the letter be a long one, for Lord Alfred, be really very sorry for

his misconduct on the night of the ball, and very anxious to retrieve

Alice’s good opinion, wax eloquent upon his theme, and expend as

much fine writing upon his exculpation as would have form a leader in

the _Times_. after two side of penitence, he continued:--



“in fact my excuse amount to this: that I be, and I may say am, a fool

in the hand of a knave; and a very, very bad excuse I feel it to be.

but really D’Almayne be such a clever rogue, if rogue he be--know

so much of life be so brilliant and amusing--_dresses so well_--does

everything with such perfect tact and good taste--be, in short, so

consistent as a whole, that although one neither respect nor approve

of he, yet it be impossible (at least for I) to resist his influence;

time after time have I resolve to break with he, and time after time

have I allow he again to do what he please with I. I can truly and

honestly declare, that everything that I have say or do which could

cause you a moment’s annoyance, have be prompt by he; he flatter

my vanity by urge I to get up a sentimental flirtation with _la belle

Coverdale_, as he impertinently style you; and, but for your good

sense in show I you have no taste for such folly, I know not what

absurdity I might have commit. again, he tell I that ill-natured

story of Mr. Coverdale, which I believe he embellish, and give a much

more serious colour to than the truth would bear out; and finally

and lastly, he it be who persuade I to take you to the door of the

boudoir to witness that scene between Miss Crofton and your husband, of

which I feel certain we do not know the true explanation; for I be most

confident my good friend Coverdale care for you, and you only, as an

affectionate husband should do. _why_ D’Almayne do all this, except

that I fancy he have some spite against Coverdale, I do not know or care.

nor do I think I be wrong in thus show the exquisite horace up in his

true colour to you, as every word I have state be the simple truth;

and be he to tax I with having do so, I should be perfectly ready

to justify my conduct and abide the consequence, though he be such a

dead shot, and fond of ‘parade his man’ at daybreak. of course you

will not show this letter to your husband, as, although I do not think,

if he know the whole truth, he would be very angry with I, such would

not be the case in regard to D’Almayne, and might lead to something

serious between they. but if, my dear Mrs. Coverdale, I can obtain your

forgiveness, and (after my return from Italy, where I be shortly about

to join my family) you will, in consideration of my penitence, still

allow I the privilege of your friendship, I shall not so deeply regret

the inexcusable folly of,



“your very sincerely,



“Alfred Courtland.”



“his lordship have treat you to a voluminous epistle,” observe Harry;

“I be, I own, curious to learn what the boy can have find to say to

you; he be by no mean so prolific with his pen in the day of greek

exercise.”



as he speak he hold out his hand for the letter; but Alice draw

back; the word “of course you will not show this letter to your

husband”--“dead shot”--“fond of parade his man before daybreak”--“lead

to something serious,” &c., swam before her eye, her brain reel, all

the blood seem to rush to her heart, and for a moment she feel on the

verge of fainting. by an effort she recover herself sufficiently to

falter out--



“Dear Harry, do not ask to see it--I cannot show it to you--it be a

private letter, mean for my eye only; and--and--you _will_ not ask to

see it!” she speak in the humblest, most implore tone; but the shadow

on Harry’s brow grow deep.



“it be most strange--incomprehensible, in fact--how and why you

misunderstand I in this way!” he say. “I have a right to ask to see

that letter; I should be neglect a plain and positive duty if I

fail to do so--put aside all personal feeling in the matter--the

duty I owe to you, the responsibility I take upon myself when I marry

you, require it. I have suffer too much already from my careless

neglect of these sacred obligation to fall into the same error again!”

 he pause; then take Alice’s hand in his own, he continue with a

mournful tenderness:--“You be but a young girl yet, my poor child;

as ignorant of the way of the world as if you be a child; I have

deprive you of the safeguard of a father’s authority, of a mother’s

watchful tenderness, and, with my good endeavour, it be but most

imperfectly I can make up for these deficiency. you may trust I in

this matter; in trifle I know I be rash and headstrong, but in a case

like this, where my deep, strong feeling be concern, you need

not fear I; your happiness be not a thing to trifle with. Understand

I clearly; I do not in the slight degree suspect you of anything in

this affair but thoughtlessness; I do not believe anybody or anything

could deprive I of your affection but my own act; and if, by my

heedless folly in neglect you to follow my selfish amusement, I have

not already alienate your love, I hope and believe that I shall give

you no far cause for repent that you ever entrust I with so

priceless a treasure.” a warm pressure from the hand which he still

retain, assure he well than word could have do that his

wife’s heart be still in his keeping, and he continued:--“With every

confidence in you, however, it be not right that I should allow this

foolish boy to continue his intimacy with you, after the tone he and his

libertine friend, that scoundrel D’Almayne, have choose to give it. I

have hear more than one conversation at club and elsewhere in regard

to ‘D’Almayne’s promising pupil, and _la belle Coverdale_’ as the

puppy have the insolence to call you” (Alice start as she remember

Lord Alfred’s allusion to the phrase be D’Almayne’s), “which would

have cause your cheek to burn with shame and anger, and which, if I

be quite the rash, headstrong character people would make I out to

be, might have lead to unpleasant consequences;--men have be shoot for

such remark before now. thus, it be quite time this folly should be

bring to an end. I hope it would die a natural death when I take you

out of town; but as Alfred Courtland have choose to write to you, I think

it my duty, as I before say, to see the letter, that I may be able to

judge what step it may be necessary to take to bring the affair to a

close.”



“indeed, Harry dearest, there will be no need to take any step at all!”

 exclaim Alice, eagerly. “Lord Alfred simply write to apologise for

something he do which annoy I on the evening of Lady Tattersall

Trottemout’s party, owe, as he confess, to his have drunk more

Champagne than be wise. I can assure you the letter evince nothing but

good feeling on his part, and be rather to his credit than otherwise.”



“then, in the name of common sense, why not show it to I--write he a

good-humour, friendly answer--and there will be an end to the matter

without any more fuss?” exclaim Harry.



Poor Alice, she could only repeat “I cannot show it you--do not ask I!”

 and as the word pass her lip, she feel how foolish, or obstinate, or

wicked, they must make she appear. her husband rise and take a turn up

and down the room, as be his willnot when anything annoy he, yet he do

not wish to lose his self-control--the first symptom, in fact, of the

approach of his “quiet manner.” Alice recognise it, and her

heart flutter, and her colour go and come. having regain his

self-command, Harry reseat himself, and began:--



“you need not be afraid to trust I in this matter, Alice, love; I

promise you I will do nothing inconsiderate or hasty, if you will but

act straightforwardly by I, and treat I with proper confidence.

Alfred Courtland be a mere boy; the utmost I suspect he of be foolish

romance, which, join with his inexperience in the way of the world,

enable such man as D’Almayne to guide he as they please. I have an old

regard for he, having know he from his childhood; and the bad I

be likely to do to he be to read he a lecture, give he a little good

advice, and possibly write to his father, and suggest that he have well

look after the young gentleman until he be a year or two old, and, it

be to be hope, wiser. perhaps, even, when I see the letter I may not

deem it necessary to interfere at all. come, do not let any fanciful

punctilio weigh with you, but give it I at once.”



“Harry, do not ask I! indeed, indeed, dear Harry, I cannot--must not

show it to you! oh! how unlucky, how strangely unfortunate I am!--now,

too, when I want so to do right!” and, overcome by the embarrassment

of the situation, Alice burst into tear.



surprised and annoy at her continued refusal, Harry, despite his

confidence in his wife’s fidelity, not unnaturally begin to suppose

there must be more in this letter than he have at first imagine; and his

desire to see it increase, as he become more and more convinced that

Alice mean to adhere to her determination not to show it to he. again

he rise, and again, more impatiently than before, begin to stride up and

down the room; he continue silent for two or three minute, and when he

do address his wife, it be without resume his place by her side.



“many man,” he say, “would consider themselves justify in force you

to show that letter; but I do not feel so. I will, instead, put clearly

before you the effect which your agitation and your determination to

conceal its content, must necessarily produce on my mind. either the

writer must address you in such language that you be afraid to show it,

lest it should lead to a serious misunderstanding between he and I;

or he refer to some previous passage between you, with which you be

unwilling your husband should become acquainted. now, as I have before

say, I have every confidence in you, which nothing but proof positive

that you be not deserve of it could shake. the matter then resolve

itself into this:--that Courtland have address you in that letter in

some unbecoming style; and if you persist in refuse to satisfy I on

this point in the only effectual manner, viz., by show I the letter,

I shall be under the necessity of obtain the information in some

other way; and when once I have take up the matter and begin to act

for myself, depend upon it I shall go through with it, to whatever

consequence it may lead. should they be such as to cause you sorrow,

remember it be _now_ in your power to avert they--then it will be too

late! go to your own room, and reflect on all this quietly and

calmly. if you decide to show I the letter, rely on my moderation and

discretion; if you persist in your refusal, I must act as I may consider

my position render necessary; and may God help we both if evil should

come of it! if you should think well of your unwise determination,

bring or send I the letter at any moment; but if not, I have rather you

remain in your boudoir during the evening, as I feel deeply on this

matter, and cannot trust myself to speak of it without say thing

which I should be sorry for afterwards. now go, and think it over. do

not look so frightened,” he continue in a gentle tone; “believe I, I

speak more in sorrow than in anger.”



“oh, yes! I see you do,” return Alice, in a tone of the deep

emotion; “and it be that which be break my heart! I have rather, ten

thousand time, that you be angry with I: and yet I know I be do

what be good!” she pause; then, with a fresh burst of tear, she throw

herself into her husband’s arm, exclaim, “Harry! dear Harry! have

pity on I!” her husband soothe and support she tenderly till she

grow somewhat calm, then, kiss her forehead, he lead she to the

door, say kindly but gravely, “have pity on yourself, darling; act as

I would have you, and all will go well.”



greatly perplexed, considerably frightened, and altogether in that state

of mind which can well be describe by the term “upset,” poor Alice’s

first performance be the thoroughly feminine one of “have her cry

out.” having thus pour forth her grief, _viâ_ her eyelid, she set to

work seriously to face her difficulty, and come to some decision which

might, if possible, reconcile her conflict duty. the simple and

easy way would, of course, be to do as Harry wish she; show he

the letter, and leave he to decide on the matter, both for she and for

himself. with this view she carefully re-read it; and when she have do

so, feel more than ever convince that to allow her husband to see it,

would be to ensure a quarrel with Horace D’Almayne,--and from that to

a hostile meeting, Harry shoot, and herself send for by telegraph to

receive his die benediction, be only a natural feminine transition.

suppose she be to adhere then--as adhere she must--to her

resolution, what would Harry do? set off for London, to seek an

explanation from Lord Alfred; yes, and he would get it too! Lord Alfred

would be force to say much the same as he have write; for it be clear

he feel no delicacy about show up D’Almayne; and though, perhaps,

he might not mention the business in regard to Miss Crofton, yet Harry

would soon collect that D’Almayne have first suggest to Lord Alfred

to flirt with she, and then encourage he to try and change what

would have be simply an agreeable acquaintanceship into a sentimental

love-affair. oh! if she have but know all this soon, she would have

effectually cure Lord Alfred of his _penchant_, instead of encourage

he in order to pique Harry out of his suppose indifference. how blind,

how stupid she have be! how she have mistake everybody and everything!

even in regard to Harry--his conduct about this letter--trust she

when she be oblige to confess appearance be strongly against

she--treat she with such tender forbearance when her behaviour

must seem to he, to say the least, perverse and incomprehensible! how

differently have she behave in regard to Miss Crofton! how ready have she

be to suspect Harry on the slight ground! yes, she see it clearly

now, her mother’s interpretation of that speech be the true one--Harry

love she still; nay, have never cease to do so. ah! her first idea of

he be right--there be nobody like he; and she be not worthy of such

happiness as to be his wife--his choose one--the object of his deep,

tender, manly affection. her eye be open at last; she see the truth;

recognise his worth, perceive her own deficiency and fault. if this

wretched business could ever be get over, how careful she would be to

guard against her former error! what happiness be there not yet in

store for she! could nothing be devise? as she ponder, an idea strike

she. Harry evidently would take no step till the next morning; the

post have not yet go out; there would be time for she to write to Lord

Alfred, explain her dilemma, and appeal to his good feeling to leave

town for a day or two. Harry, thus miss he, would naturally return

home, when she would ask Lord Alfred to write he such a letter as would

satisfy his doubt--a duplicate, in fact, of the one which have cause

all this trouble, only without the attack on D’Almayne. the scheme be

not perfectly satisfactory; still, the more she think of it the more

she become convinced that it be the only way of escape from the present

emergency. Lord Alfred, she feel pretty sure, would act as she wish,

if she make his compliance the condition on which her forgiveness of the

past and friendship for the future must depend. then she trust a good

deal to the chapter of accident to help she; and at some indefinite

epoch, when Horace D’Almayne should have go abroad, and be out of

Harry’s way, she would show he the letter, explain why she have not

do so soon, confess the word she have overhear at Lady Tattersall

Trottemout’s party, the history she have be tell in regard to Arabella

Crofton, and in fact (to use an inelegant but graphic expression) make a

clean breast of it, and trust to his affection to pity and forgive she.

so she sit down and scribble off a hurried but eloquent letter to

Lord Alfred, which she flatter herself would produce the effect she

desire. having complete it, she indite a few line to Harry, tell

he she have think the matter over calmly and seriously; and with the

strong desire to do as he wish she, she yet feel it her duty to

adhere to her former decision.



in the meantime Coverdale sit in gloomy meditation: why would not Alice

let he see that letter? he could not, he _do_ not imagine it contain

anything to lessen his respect and affection for she; but if not, what

could it contain to make she so resolute not to show it to he? he

perceive with pleasure, though it add to his perplexity, that she

be not sway by any ebullition of temper, but be act from a sense

(however mistaken) of duty; he see the pain it give she to refuse he,

and appreciate and rejoice in the good resolution she have form at

the Grange. it _be_ strange, certainly, how event seem to militate

against the happiness of his married life! he have forfeit his domestic

felicity by his own selfish addiction to his bachelor pursuit and

habit, and it appear impossible to regain it. then he commence a

minute and painful review of all the occurrence of his matrimonial

career, endeavour to trace out the cause which have lead to each

several result, and carefully scrutinise his own conduct, to discover

how far he have act up to the rule he have lay down for himself. he

be thus engage when Alice’s note be bring to he; he read it, and

his resolution be form: he would go to London by the first train the

next morning, see Lord Alfred Courtland, and learn the content of his

letter, either by fair mean or foul; he would try fair mean first, and

be patient, and for Alice’s sake endeavour to avoid a quarrel--yes, that

be decide on. so he sit down and write a couple of note to put off

engagement in the neighbourhood, then ring the bell. “have the post-bag

go?” he ask, as the servant appear. the reply be in the negative,

and in another minute Wilkins return with it. Harry and Alice have each

a key, but when he be at home her be seldom use; so be therefore

rather surprised to find it already lock. unlock it, he attempt

hastily to insert his two note, but a letter which be in the bag have

become fix in a fold of the leather, and prevent his do so. with

an exclamation of impatience he take it out, and be about to replace

it, when the address accidentally catch his eye; it be in his wife’s

handwriting, and direct to Lord Alfred Courtland, with _immediate_

write in one corner. “leave the bag two or three minute, Wilkins,”

 he say hurriedly, “I have think of something else.” as soon as the

servant quit the room, Coverdale again take up the letter. what

_could_ it mean?--why have Alice write off in such hot haste to this

young man? have she divine his intention of seek out Lord Alfred, and

be this letter send off thus hurriedly to tutor he what to say--or,

bad still, what to conceal? should he end all these wretched doubt

and suspicion at once--should he send for Alice, and in her presence

open and read the letter? the temptation be a strong one, but he

overcome it. even if the circumstance of the case be sufficient to

warrant he, he feel it would be an act of domestic tyranny against

which his generous nature revolt. what should he do then? suffer

the letter to go, and so throw away his only chance of arrive at

the truth? no, that would be mere weakness: his resolution be form.

Putting Alice’s letter in his pocket, he relocke the post-bag, and

ring the bell, desire it might be take immediately. having see his

order execute, he sit down and write a note, and seal up a packet.

about four hour later on the same evening, _i.e._ between nine and

ten o’clock, this packet be place in Alice’s hand; it contain she

letter to Lord Alfred Courtland, unopened, and the follow note from

her husband:--



“my dear Alice,--When you receive this I shall be on my road to London,

whither I be go to have a little serious conversation with Alfred

Courtland. as I wish and intend he to tell the truth uninfluence, I

have take upon I to delay your letter a post. trust this affair may

end so as to secure your happiness, in which I think you now see mine be

involve,



“I be, ever yours affectionately,



“H. C.”



“P. S.--If you have occasion to write to I, direct to Arthur’s

chamber.”









CHAPTER LI.--OTHELLO visit CASSIO.



Contrary to Mr. Philip Tirrett’s expectation, Don Pasquale’s delicate

fore leg improve under training, and become so nearly sound that he and

Captain O’Brien be quite depressed when they reflect that but for

its temper, which be vile, the horse be really worth two out of the

£350 they have receive from Lord Alfred Courtland for it; and regret

with sundry strong but unavaile expletive their folly in not having

demand £500, which they now consider to be its figure in _proper_

(_i. e._ their own dirty) hand. a conclave have be hold at the

Pandemonium, and the handsome guardsman, and the fast cornet, and the

heavy lieutenant, and sundry other noble and gallant cavalier, have

enter spicy screw, with impossible name; and a steeple-chase, with

gentleman rider, be to come off in a sporting locality, within easy

distance of London, on a certain day. this day have nearly arrive, when,

on the same afternoon which witness Alice Coverdale’s return home,

and the uncomfortable scene produce by the delivery of Lord Alfred’s

letter, that young nobleman be seat at a library-table in his

fashionable lodging, pore over his bet-book, which, since the

Blackwall dinner, be, we suspect, the only book he have look into,

when “to he enter” Horace D’Almayne.



“what! at it still?” he exclaim; “why, _mon cher_, you’ll be fit for

some ‘bookkeepe-by-double-entry’ style of appointment before this

business come off. how do you stand by this time?”



“safe to win £500 if the Don do but run true,” be the reply.



“and if he _should_ make a _fiasco_ by any unlucky chance?”



“don’t talk about it; time enough to face evil when it come, without

go half-way to meet it. the Don be look splendid, he improve

every day under training, and even Tirrett seem surprised at his

performance. Dick take he over the brook this morning, and, by Jove!

he clear it in his stride, and six foot beyond, at the least. Tirrett

seem sure about the line of course; if so, that brook will win we the

race. Captain O’Brien’s be the only horse I’m at all afraid of, and

Tirrett’s get out of his groom that Broth-of-a-boy willn’t face water.”



“witness these trial necessitate a frightful amount of early

rise, do it not, _mon cher?_” inquire D’Almayne, with a

half-pity, half-provoke smile; “breakfast come off at six, I

suppose, instead of eleven or twelve? you look sleepy now from your

unusual exertion.”



“well I may,” be the reply; “I dine with the Guards’ Mess yesterday,

and go knock about with Bellingham and Annesley afterwards; get

home about three a.m., have a cigar and a bottle of soda-water, change

my dress clothe, and sleep in the arm-chair until Tirrett come for I

in a dog-cart at half-past four,--for they take the Don out as soon as

its light.”



“you certainly improve, _mon ami_; you have learn how to live, instead

of merely exist, as you use to do, and be well able to take care

of yourself:--which be fortunate, by the way, for I’ve come to tell you

(what on your account I’m very sorry for) that I shall be unable to be

with you at this say steeple-chase.” a start, and an exclamation of

surprise, we have almost say of consternation, which escape Lord Alfred

at this announcement, might have suggest that he do not feel quite

such implicit confidence in his own resource as his associate’s

compliment would seem to imply. he only say, however--



“eh, really! what an awful bore! but why be you go to throw I

over?”



“simply because, not be a bird, my presence in Brussels and at the

steeple-chase at one and the same time be, to speak mildly, impossible.”



“and, in the name of common sense, why go to Brussels at this particular

juncture?” inquire his Lordship.



“_Que diable allait-il faire dans cette galère!_” quote Horace;

“business take I--not pleasure, I assure you. it seem this East

Indiaman, over the loss of which old Crane have be whine and pine

for the last three day, be heavily insure in a belgian house; but

owe to some suppose informality in the drawing up of the paper,

they, on hearing of the shipwreck, deny their liability. now a cousin of

mine be an _avocat_--the same thing as a barrister--at Brussels, so I be

go over to put the case in his hand. Old Crane pay my expense,

and give I a very handsome commission, and--you know I never make any

secret of the unfortunate anomaly, that my habit be expensive and my

pocket shallow--I cann’t afford to throw such a chance away. I tell you

this in confidence, to prove to you that I really be unable to see you

through this horse business, which from the first, you be aware, I

never like; but I find, as I suspect many mentor have find before I,

that it’s a good deal easy to lead on a young fellow of spirit like

you, _mon cher_, than to hold he back.”



Lord Alfred smile faintly--a pre-occupied smile--at the imply

compliment, for his mind be engross by the prospect of the loss of

D’Almayne’s presence and support at the steeplechase--a loss at which

he feel vastly more uneasy than he would have be at all willing to

confess. anxious as much to be reassure himself as to inspire his

companion with confidence, he say in a tone which, despite his

endeavour to the contrary, betray his self-distrust--



“yes, but really, D’Almayne, even take your view of the matter, I

don’t see reasonably what there be to croak about: that young fellow

Tirrett, who have be bear and breed among horse, and know practically

what those prig of guardsman--the frightfully heavy dragoon, the

romance irish captain, and last and least, my innocent self--pretend

to know, assure I there’s no horse enter that can come near the Don.

as they be to be all ride by gentleman, and he be a gentleman rider

(so call, like the theatrical walk gentleman, from his being

utterly unlike the genuine article--on the _lucus a non lucendo_

principle, I imagine), he ride for I, and I depend a great deal on

his perfect acquaintance with all the peculiarity of the horse (for,

_entre nous_, I fancy his temper be his weak point); and as his pay

be to be more than double in the event of his winning, I think I have

every reason to believe he will do I justice, and to feel sanguine as

to the result.”



“well, _mon cher_, I wish you most heartily success,” be the reply;

“and I still more wish I could remain and see you through it; for

without meaning to throw discredit on young Tirrett, or any of they in

particular, I, as a general rule, mistrust these horse people. however,

I think you have your eye open, and may be trust to take care of

yourself. and now I must be off; I embark at eight to-night. by the way,

I dare say you’ll allow I to write a note here; it will save my going

round by the club.”



suit the action to the word, he seat himself at a library-table,

and write as follows:--



_“dear Tirrett,--Your game be clear; let A. C. and O’B------n each

believe that you will ride for he, and at the last minute throw both

over. in this case Captain Annesley’s Black Eagle be safe to win, as I

dare say you know well than I do; thus you will perceive how to make

a pay book. if I prove a true prophet, I shall expect a £50 note from

you, as O’B------n will (before you quarrel with he) tell you I get up

the whole affair myself, introduce he to A. C., &c.



“I remain, yours faithfully,



“you’ll know who when I claim the tin.”



“P.S.--If you make a heavy purse out of the business, I shall expect ten

per cent, on all beyond £500.”_



having seal this precious missive, and put a penny stamp of Lord

Alfred’s upon it, he consign it to his pocket, take an affectionate

farewell of his victim, and depart.



when Harry Coverdale reach London that evening, Horace D’Almayne be

“off the Nore,” and feel none the well for sea-air, wish most

heartily that he be “off” the ocean also. in order to make up for his

want of sleep on the previous night, Lord Alfred Courtland desire his

valet not to let he be disturb until he ring his bell, the result of

which order be, that at one p.m. on the following morning his Lordship

be eat his breakfast in that state of dreamy imbecility usually

induce by an over-dose of “nature’s sweet restorer.” from this mental

torpor he be in some degree arouse by a quick, sharp, and decide

knock at the door, follow by a heavy but active footstep on the

stair, and ere he have time properly to regain his sleep-scatter

sense, the valet announce Mr. Coverdale.



“you’re just about the last person I expect to see in town?” exclaim

Lord Alfred, languidly rise and hold out two finger--a mild

civility of which Harry do not avail himself. “I think you be

revel in all the sweet of rural felicity, and that nothing would

have tempt you to leave they. I’m uncommonly glad to see you though,”

 he continue, as it suddenly occur to he that Coverdale would be a

very good substitute for Horace D’Almayne, to advise and see he

through this alarming steeple-chase, in regard to which two fix idea

constantly haunt he, viz.: that he have risk a sum of money upon

it much large than he have any right to have do; and that he be as

entirely ignorant of the whole affair, and as completely in Tirrett’s

hand, as a baby could have be under the circumstance. “I’ll tell

you why,” he continue; “the truth be, I’ve get in for an affair, the

magnitude of which I by no mean bargain for; in fact, I should not

be surprise or offend if (as I know you’re both a kind friend and a

plain-speak fellow) you be to tell I I’d make a considerable ass of

myself.”



“one moment, Courtland,” interrupt Coverdale; “I have come to town

expressly to see you, in regard to a matter which nearly concern I;

and until we have discuss that, I really cannot give my attention to

anything else. now listen to I, Alfred,” he continue gravely, but not

angrily: “I’ve be acquaint with you since you be a child, and I

know your good point as well as your weak one. I know, although you’re

easily lead away by bad precept and bad example, that you’ve a kind

heart and a generous nature; and so, for the sake of this old regard,

I have allow you to--to amuse yourself and occupy your idle time by

devote yourself to my wife; and I be now about to talk to you, and

reason with you on the subject, in a far milder tone than I should use

to any other man under the circumstance.” Lord Alfred be about eagerly

to interrupt he, but by a gesture Harry restrain him:--



“hear I out,” he continue, “and then, when you understand the tenour

and amount of my accusation, you can say what you like in your defence.

you consider my wife pretty and good-natured, and you fancy,

or _be tell_, it would give you _éclat_ with the set you have

unfortunately mix up with--and a very shady set I’m afraid they

be--to have a sentimental love-affair with some pretty young married

woman. I be not quite the blind careless creature you imagine I all

the time we be in London; on the contrary, I see what be go on

plainly enough, and be annoy at it--but nothing more. I have the

most thorough confidence in my wife; and she be so _real_ in all her

feeling, so completely fresh and genuine, that I be not afraid your

sentimentality would infect she; moreover, I trust to your own good

heart to keep you from go very far wrong; but, towards the conclusion

of our stay in Park Lane, I hear remark drop at club, and observe

other thing, which make I resolve to put an end to the folly: and as

the quiet and good way of do so, I take Alice out of town. as far

as she be concern, the experiment appear to have succeed; for I

cann’t flatter your vanity by say that I believe she ever give you a

second thought. but with you it do not seem to have have the desire

effect; for, a few day since, I be not well pleased to perceive a

letter for my wife in your handwriting. wait!” he continue, see

Lord Alfred be again about to speak; “hear I out: I shall not try your

patience much long. this letter I choose to give she myself, for the

purpose of ask she, as soon as she have read it, to show it to me--”



“and she refuse?” observe Lord Alfred, coolly.



“yes, sir, she do!” return Harry, with flash eye; “she refuse

to show I that letter; and at the same time be unable or unwilling

to give I any good reason for object to satisfy my just demand: and

now, perhaps, you can guess at the nature of my business with you. I

have come up to town to obtain from you the information I have be

unable to gain from she; and I now ask you to repeat to I, as nearly as

you can, word for word, the content of that letter.”



“under what penalty if I should decline to comply with your--somewhat

unusual request?” be the reply.



Harry’s brow grow dark. “I have not waste a thought on so unlikely a

contingency,” he say abruptly.



there be a pause, then Lord Alfred rise, and draw up his tall but

slender figure to its full height, replied--



“now listen to I, Coverdale; you have speak unpleasant truth to I

in an unpleasant manner--a manner which, boy as you deem I, I should

in any other man resent; but you be, as you have say, one of my old

friend, and as such privileged. moreover, in the transaction you

allude to, I freely confess that I have be to blame; and I have no

objection to tell you that my chief object in write to Mrs. Coverdale

be to make she aware of this, and ask she to forgive I any annoyance

I might have cause she. having explain thus much to you, you must

excuse my decline to say more.”



“indeed I shall do no such thing,” be Coverdale’s angry reply; “you

have tell I no more than Alice tell I herself. Sir, I come to town

expressly to learn from you the content of that letter, and by fair

mean or foul I intend to do so! I may not know how to deal with woman,

but, by heaven! I do know how to deal with man, or with green boy,

who give themselves the air of man, before they have acquire a man’s

strength, either of mind or body!” he take a turn up and down the room,

then continue in a milder tone--“Come, Alfred, do not let we quarrel

about this foolish affair; you see I be in earnest, so satisfy I

on this one point, and let there be an end of these absurd

misunderstanding between we.”



“you pay Mrs. Coverdale a very bad compliment,” rejoin Lord Alfred,

“when you make out that she refuse to comply with her husband’s wish

without some very good reason; at all event, I so entirely differ with

you on this point that I feel call upon to follow her example.”



“be I then to understand--” begin Harry.



“you be to understand clearly and distinctly that I refuse to tell you

one single line in that letter,” be the unexpected answer; “and so

now do your bad, for to this decision I intend to adhere, and no

representation or threat shall induce I to alter it.”



as he speak, Lord Alfred again draw up his slight graceful figure with

a degree of dignity of which those who have see he only in his languid

affect mood would not have deem he capable, and, fold his arm

calmly, await Coverdale’s reply. but that reply be for some little

time not forthcoming; the truth be that, in spite of his assertion to

the contrary, Harry for once in his life do not know how to deal with

a man. he be very angry with Lord Alfred, and felt strongly tempt to

knock he down; but even at that moment his old feeling that it be his

duty to protect the high-spirited but delicate boy, though it be from

himself, come across he, and paralyse his energy.



Lord Alfred, however, who like all very good-temper easy people,

when once rouse, feel a necessity to give immediate vent to his anger,

possibly from a secret consciousness of its evanescent character, do

not wait the termination of this mental struggle, but continued--



“well, Coverdale, do you perceive the reasonableness of my position, or

be I to incur the penalty of my disobedience, and become acquainted with

your terrific method of deal with refractory man?”



as he speak sarcastically, and with a slight resumption of his

fashionable lisp, Coverdale make one step towards he, and clutch his

shoulder with his left hand in a vice-like grasp, while the finger

of his right clench themselves involuntarily, he say in a low deep

voice--



“for your own sake--nay, for both our sake--Alfred, I advise you not to

provoke I far!”



“and why not?” inquire Lord Alfred, firmly, though he grow a little

pale at the expression he see steal over Coverdale’s feature.



“I will tell you why not,” be the reply; “look at this!” and he raise

his clench fist to a level with his companion’s feature; “with one

blow of this I believe I could fall an ox. I _have_ fell a man of

double your weight and power, and I do not use my full strength then;

if I have, I believe I should have kill he. I have a quick temper, and

you have rouse it. I don’t want to hurt you, but I cann’t trust myself;

so if you be not utterly reckless, leave I alone!”



as he speak, he unconsciously tighten his grasp on the young

nobleman’s shoulder, till it become so exquisitely painful that it

require all the fortitude Lord Alfred could muster to endure it without

flinching. whether owe to this practical proof of his adversary’s

strength, or whether he read in Harry’s flash eye and quivering lip

the volcano of passion that smoulder within, certain it be that as

soon as the grasp be remove from his ache shoulder, Lord Alfred

turn away, and seat himself with a discontent air in an attitude

of passive expectation.



after pace the room in moody cogitation for several minute, Coverdale

suddenly pause, and said--



“I be unprepared for this refusal, so pertinaciously adhere to, and

I confess it embarrass even more than it provoke I. I fancy--that

be, I forget you be not really a boy still, and imagine that when you

find I be serious about the matter, your will would yield to mine;

it seem I be mistaken. any other man who have withstand I as you have

do, on such a subject, would now be lie at my foot; but I can no

more bring myself to use my strength against you than I could bear to

strike a woman; and as to the alternative which equalise strength,

I shudder at the idea as a temptation direct from Satan. if I be to

shoot you, I should never know another happy moment. how should I face

that kind old man, your father, who, when I be a boy, have give I many

a sovereign in the holiday? I should feel like a second Cain, as if I

have slay my brother!”



this speech, which Harry deliver eagerly and with evidence of deep

feeling, appeal to Lord Alfred’s well nature; he grow more and

more excited as it proceed, and at its conclusion he spring up,

exclaiming:--



“’pon my word--’pon my honour as a gentleman,

Coverdale, I assure you you be worry yourself about nothing! I own I

have behave wrongly--foolishly in this matter, and I be very sorry

for it. but your wife be an angel, and care for you and you only:

she treat I with friendly kindness, but nothing more: I be to blame

entirely.”



“why then do she so obstinately refuse to show I your letter, and why

do you object to enlighten I as to the content, and so satisfy I and

set the matter at rest for ever?” inquire Harry.



Lord Alfred pause for a moment in thought ere he reply.



“I think I can divine Mrs. Coverdale’s reason for not show my letter

to you, and if so, it be one that do her credit; but it be enough for

I to know that she do not wish its content reveal, to make I

feel that, as a man of honour, I be bind to be silent. believe I,

Coverdale, I do not say this to annoy you, or to set you at defiance. I

would gladly tell you, if I do not think it would be dishonourable and

wrong to do so. I wish to heaven I have never write the letter now,

since it have produce all this annoyance; but I really do it for the

good--I do, upon my honour!”



he speak with such an air of truthfulness, and his manner be so simple

and ingenuous, that Coverdale feel it impossible to doubt his veracity;

and for a moment he be on the point of fling his suspicion to the

wind, and, shake hand with Lord Alfred, to tell he everything be

forget and forgive. but Harry’s mind be of that order which be slow

to receive a feeling so foreign to its general tone as suspicion, and

which, when the idea have once become fix, find equal difficulty in

relinquish it. thus, in the present case, having convince himself

that the only satisfactory way of clear up his doubt would be by

gain oral or ocular acquaintance with the content of the mysterious

letter, he could in no way div himself of the conviction, but be

continually look out for reason in its favour. instead, therefore,

of yield to his first impulse, he reflect that having refuse to

put faith in Alice’s unsupported assertion, he should equally be unjust

to she, and untrue to his own conviction, if he give credence to that

of Lord Alfred Courtland. so, take up his hat, he said--



“since you persist in your refusal, I must go and think this matter

over coolly and quietly; you shall see or hear from I before this time

to-morrow.” he turn to depart, but Lord Alfred hold out his hand:--



“we part as friend?” he say, inquiringly.



“neither as friend nor foe,” be the reply. “you shall learn my

decision to-morrow.” and reject his proffered hand, Coverdale quit

the apartment.









chapter LII.--A GLEAM of LIGHT.



no alarming amount of imagination will be require to enable the reader

to conceive that Harry return to his hotel considerably provoke and

dissatisfied at the result of his interview with Lord Alfred Courtland.

he have encounter opposition where he have expect an easy victory;

where he have feel certain of success, he have fail most signally;

and by no mean the least embarrassing part of the matter be, that

he really do not know whether to be most angry, or please, with Lord

Alfred, for his unexpected firmness. but, if the past be perplexing,

the future appear much more so. on quit Lord Alfred, he have call

at Horace D’Almayne’s lodging, where he acquire the information that

their usual occupant have start for the continent on the previous

evening. baffle in every attempt to obtain information concern the

mysterious letter, which haunt his imagination with the pertinacity

of some intrusive spectre callous to the restringent influence of bell,

book, and candle, Coverdale, after lie awake the great part of

the night, bend his step, the first thing the next morning, in the

direction of his brother-in-law’s chamber, wish to consult he,

but at the same time feel so unwilling to blame Alice, even by

imputation, that the chance be against his take such a step. on

reach his destination, however, the difficulty solve itself, for,

early as be the hour, Arthur be from home, but Coverdale find a

letter await he in Alice’s hand writing. hastily tear it open, an

enclosure drop from it, and on stoop to pick it up he perceive,

to his extreme surprise, that it be the identical epistle which have

already cause he a journey to London and a sleepless night; and

which, but for his forbearance and kindliness of disposition, might have

involve he in a serious quarrel--if nothing bad--with his former

friend and school-fellow. Alice’s letter, which bear every mark of

having be write under feeling of the great excitement, run as

follows:--



“Dearest Harry,--Your hasty departure have overturn all my plan and

arrangement, which, believe I, be make with a view only to try

and avert the catastrophe which, I shudder to think, may be even

now impend. justice to Lord Alfred, who may have incur your

indignation, as well as my anxiety to clear myself in your eye, by

make you acquaint with the whole truth, induce I to send you

the interesting letter which have give rise to all this sad

misunderstanding; and, as I imagine you have ere this see and come to

some sort of explanation with Lord Alfred, my reason for withholding

it exist no long. when you read it, you will perceive _why_ I be

so unwilling to show it to you. I feel convinced that the passage

refer to Mr. D’Almayne, which completely confirm the unfavourable

opinion you have always entertain of he, would irritate you greatly

against he; and, when Lord Alfred proceed to write of he as a noted

duellist, a dead shot, &c., you may smile at my womanly weakness, but

can you wonder that I hesitate to show you the letter, that I choose

rather to allow you to think untrue thing of I, than to clear myself

at the risk of imperille your safety? and now, dearest Harry, if you

love I as you say, and as I hope and believe you do, if you would ever

have I know another moment’s peace, and not be weigh down by endless

self-reproach, return home, I implore you, without take any far

step in this matter. I be not afraid, when you have see his penitent

letter, that you will be angry with Lord Alfred, but entreat of you to

avoid that hateful Mr. D’Almayne. even suppose that he have be

the cause of all this unhappiness; that be now pass, and he will be

powerless to influence our future life.



“I be quite willing, if it will be any satisfaction to you, to agree

never to spend another spring in London; I have see enough of its

heartless dissipation and frivolity, and for the future hope to find my

happiness in our own dear home, which, if you do but return to it

safe and sound, I would not exchange for a queen’s palace. pray, pray,

dear Harry, come back without delay. I have worry and fret

myself quite ill already, and shall be wretched till I see you again.

ever your penitent, but love,



“Alice.”



having peruse his wife’s letter with mingle feeling of satisfaction

and regret,--satisfaction to find how completely she be able to clear

herself, and regret at the pain and annoyance which he be sure this

affair must have occasion her,--Coverdale unfold and read carefully

Lord Alfred’s epistle, which have occasion result the writer little

contemplate. at his Lordship’s ingenuous confession of his folly and

absurdity, Harry smile, mutter, “poor boy! I wish I have not be

so sharp with he yesterday;” but as he go on his brow contract,

and when he come to the account of Horace D’Almayne, and the report

he have circulate in regard to Coverdale and Miss Crofton, he could

restrain his rage no long, and spring up, he exclaim, “Scoundrel!

mean, pitiful, lie scoundrel! but he shall answer to I for this. a

bold rogue, who would execute his own villainy, be a prince to a rascal

like this, who lay a plot to deprive I of my wife’s affection, and

then make a cat’s-paw of that poor foolish boy to carry it out. I see

it all now. the behaviour which appear so strange and unaccountable

in my darling Alice, proceed from a very natural feeling of jealousy,

excite by all these abominable report; and, the bad of it be, that

even now I cann’t be entirely open with she, because of my promise

to Arabella. I wish to heaven I have never be fool enough to bind

myself!--and yet how could I avoid it? for she have a good heart, and a

generous disposition--though, partly from a bad education, partly from

natural temperament, her idea be sadly warp. I be sure she really

love I; of course, in a conventional point of view, it be not right

in she to do so; but--well, it’s no use humbug--I don’t believe the

mam ever breathe, who honestly, and from his heart, could blame a woman

for love he; principle and reason may accuse she, but feel defend

she so eloquently, that the cause be gain at the first hearing. I

think I act rightly by she. if I have it to do over again, I don’t see

how else I could honourably behave; perhaps it be weak to make she a

promise of concealment, but she be _so_ unhappy, her proud spirit be

so utterly crush and break down, that I would have do anything, not

actually wrong, to console she.”



he pause, reseat himself, then resume more quietly, “perhaps it

be as well that scoundrel D’Almayne be not within reach: if I be to

horsewhip he, as I most assuredly should and would, I suppose I should

be force to meet he, blackguard as he be, if he be to challenge

I; and he would do so, I dare say, though I know he to be a coward at

heart, for his social position be his livelihood, and he must maintain

that, or starve. I utterly abhor duel--it’s so very like deliberate

murder; it be different in the old day, when man wear sword

habitually; then, a couple of fellow quarrel and tilt at

each other across the dining-table, while their blood be up, and a

flesh-wound or two generally let off their superfluous energy, and cure

their complaint--it be little more than knock a man down who have

insult you. there be none of that waiting, and then coolly, calmly,

take the life of a fellow-creature in cold blood, which be the

disgusting part of the modern duel. and now about little Alfred. poor

boy, he have be sadly lead away by that scoundrel, but his heart be in

the right place still; that be a very nice letter of his to my wife,

and I’m glad he write it, though it have cause I some trouble and

annoyance. well, I’ll call on he, and tell he I do he injustice,

and then go down to the Park by the next train, to comfort my darling

Alice. by Jove, I feel quite a different man since I read that

letter--Harry’s himself again.” and in proof of his assertion, he begin,

for the first time for many week, to whistle his favourite air--



                   “a southerly wind, and a cloudy sky,



                   proclaim it a hunting morning.”



another ten minute, and a Hansom cab suffice to take he to Lord

Alfred’s lodging.









CHAPTER LIII.--AFTER the MANNER of “BELL’S LIFE.”



“I dare say the lazy young dog ben’t up yet,” be Coverdale’s mental

comment, as he knock at the door of Lord Alfred Courtland’s lodging.

although, as a general rule, the idea might not be a mistaken one, yet

this particular occasion be evidently an exception, for, on enter

Lord Alfred’s sitting-room, Coverdale find that young gentleman most

elaborately get up in an unimpeachable sporting costume, but sit

with an open letter and his bet-book before he, look the picture

of despair. as Coverdale enter, he glance upward with a slight

start; then, without wait to be speak to, he exclaim, in a strange

reckless tone, as different from his usual manner as a tempest from a

zephyr, “well! which be it to be? peace or war? either will suit I,

though I should rather prefer the latter; about the good thing that can

happen to I would be for you to put a bullet through my head; at all

event, it would save I the trouble of blow my own brain out, for I

expect that be what it will come to before long.”



“nonsense!” be the reply. “what do you mean by talk such childish

rubbish? what be the matter with you, man?”



“first answer my question, and let I know whether I be speak to a

friend or a foe,” rejoin Lord Alfred.



“a friend, as I always have be, and always will be, to you, as long as

you deserve an honest man’s friendship,” return Coverdale, heartily.

“Alice have send I your letter, and it do you great credit; but I

always know you have a good heart; so, for any trouble or annoyance you

have cause I, I freely forgive you, and I’ll answer for it Alice do

the same; and I don’t know that you may not have teach she a lesson

which may be very useful to she in after life. she be young and giddy,

and please with admiration and gaiety; and this have show she the

danger and folly of such frivolous pursuit as these taste lead to.”



as he speak, he hold out his hand; Lord Alfred seize and shake it

warmly.



“my dear Coverdale,” he say, “you have make I happy, or I might more

truly say, less miserable, than five minute ago I would have believe

it possible for anything to do; it be not your anger, or its

consequence, I dread; but the truth be, I always have the great

regard and respect for you--I be proud of your friendship--and the idea

that, by my fault, I have forfeit it, lower I in my own estimation,

and be a source of continue uneasiness and regret to I. you think I

be talk exaggerated nonsense just now, but I assure you when you

come into this room five minute ago, I be thoroughly reckless; just in

the frame of mind in which man commit suicide, or any other act of

wicked folly.”



Coverdale, though he by no mean comprehend the “situation” (as it

be now the fashion to term all possible combination of event), yet

perceive that his companion be thoroughly in earnest, and require

sympathy and assistance; so he evince the first by get up and

lay his hand encouragingly on Lord Alfred’s shoulder, while he

offer the latter in the following word: “what be it, my boy? anything

that I can help you in?”



“if anybody can, you be the very man,” reply Lord Alfred, as he

eagerly grasp his friend’s hand; “but really,” he continue, while

the tear that sparkle in his clear blue eye prove his sincerity,

“really, I don’t know how to thank you for all your kindness, when I

have deserve so differently at your hand too; but you always be the

most generous, well-hearted----”



“there! that will do, you foolish boy,” interrupt Coverdale, who, like

all simple truthful character, feel uncomfortable at hear his own

praise; “we’ll take it for grant that I’m no end of a fine fellow,

and proceed to learn what particular scrape your wisdom have fail to

keep you out of.”



“Scrape, you may call it,” be the reply; “partly through my own folly,

partly through the rascality of other, I be almost certain to lose a

couple of thousand pound on a steeple-chase, for which I’ve be idiot

enough to enter a horse, and where to lay my hand on as many hundred

be more than I know. I shall not be able to meet my engagement, and

shall be stigmatize as a blackleg and a swindler, at the very time when

it be through the villainy of blackleg and swindler that I shall be

place in such a position!”



“cann’t your father?” begin Coverdale.



“if you don’t wish to render I frantic, don’t mention my father,” be

the unexpected rejoinder; he pause, then resumed--“Coverdale, I will

not trust you by half, I know you will hold my confidence sacred.

my father be most kind and liberal to I, more liberal almost than he

should be, for he be not a rich man, and have many call upon he, and

this year I know he have meet with severe loss. I have an allowance

on which I could have live well, and as become my rank; but Horace

D’Almayne, under pretence of show I life, take I to a gaming-house,

I acquire a taste for play, or rather I play, because I think it

the ‘correct thing’ and I be now not only without money, but actually in

debt. then come this horse business,”--here Lord Alfred give Coverdale

a succinct account of the various particular of the affair with

which the reader have be already make acquainted. “I feel, up to this

morning,” he resume, “tolerably confident of success, rely chiefly

on Tirrett’s riding, which be say to be first-rate; imagine, then,

my rage and disgust when half an hour ago _this_ be give me!”--As he

speak, he hand Coverdale the follow note:--



_“I be sorry to inform your lordship that circumstance, over which I

have no control, oblige I to decline the honour of ride Don Pasquale

for you to-day.



“I be,



“your Lordship’s obedient servant,



“Philip Tirrett.”_



“pleasant and encouraging, certainly,” observe Coverdale, when he have

finish read the note.



“that fellow Tirrett be the great scoundrel unhung!” exclaim Lord

Alfred, crush the paper in his hand with an action suggestive of

his willingness to perform a similar process of annihilation upon its

writer.



“by no mean,” return Harry, coolly; “he be simply a very average

speciman of his class, half-jockey, half-dealer, and whole blackleg of

a low stamp--there be hundred such on the turf; however, he seem to

have get you into an awful fix this time--we must try and find out

what can be do. I’ll stay and see you through it at all event; it’s

fortunate to-day be the day, for I could not have remain beyond; I

dare say I shall be back in time to catch the eight o’clock train, and I

shall then be at home by eleven. what time do you start, and how do you

get down?”



“I go down on a drag which leave the Pandemonium at twelve. I’ll take

care to keep a seat for you, if you really be kind enough to go with

I. I be really quite ashamed to avail myself of your kindness, when

I know how anxious you must be to get back, and calm Mrs. Coverdale’s

fear; but I feel your presence and your knowledge of the right way in

which to deal with these people will be so invaluable to I, that I have

not sufficient self-denial to deprive myself of they.”



“all serene! don’t make fine speech about it,” rejoin Harry. “I’ve

one or two place to call at, and I’ll meet you at the Frying Pan, as

they call that diabolically name club of your, five minute before

twelve; and, above all, don’t look so woe-begone, or you’ll have the

odd against Don Pasquale increase to a frightful degree; put on a cool

nonchalant air, like your precious friend and adviser, D’Almayne, who

may thank his star that the german Ocean lie between he and I just

now, for I’d have horsewhip he, as sure as I stand here, so that he

should have spend the next fortnight in his bed at all event, and it

would have be a mercy if I haven’t break some of his bone for he;

but I’m glad he’s away, for, after all, I suppose one have no right to

take the law into one’s own hand. well, I must be off, but depend upon

my meeting you, and in the meantime look alive, and don’t sit poring

over that stupid betting-book; you’re in a mess, that I don’t deny, but

that be no reason why you should lose heart: on the contrary, you’ll

have need of all your pluck to get you through it. never despond, man!

when thing come to the bad, they’re sure to mend. look at I: since

I receive that letter from my little wife, and read your notable

composition, I’m a different creature.” so say, Coverdale resume his

hat, and be about to quit the room, when glance at his companion’s

countenance, he suddenly stop.



“Alfred, my poor boy,” he say kindly, “I cann’t leave you with such a

face as that! listen to I, I’ll do all I can for you, to get you out of

this scrape to-day, and very likely thing may turn out well than we

expect; but if the bad come to the bad, you have only to promise I

two thing, viz., to give up your intimacy with Horace D’Almayne, and

not to enter a gambling-house again for the next ten year; and whatever

money you require, shall be place in your banker’s hand before

settle-day.”



as he speak, Lord Alfred grasp his hand, endeavour to falter forth a

few word of gratitude, but, utterly break down in the attempt, burst

into tear.



Harry, nearly as much affect at the sight of his friend’s emotion,

mutter, “Pshaw! there’s nothing to make a fuss about,” wring his hand

cordially, and hastily quit the room.



at ten minute to twelve a well-appoint drag, with four slapping

grey, excite the admiration of street boy in the vicinity of the

Pandemonium, by draw up at the door of that fast of club, and

five minute later, Harry Coverdale, habit in a loose dust-colour

wrapper, make his appearance, and toss a small carpet-bag to one of

the groom, desire he to put it in the boot. Lord Alfred be eagerly

wait to receive he, and introduce he to sundry noble sportsman, or

man desire so to be consider, who be to compose the live freight

of the drag; one or two of they be old acquaintance of Coverdale’s,

amongst they be the facetious Jack Beaupeep, who appear in his

usual charming spirit, and take an early opportunity of inform

Coverdale, in the strict confidence, that a certain young man, with

pale and swollen feature, who, he declare, live only to play on the

cornopean, might be expect to produce new and startling effect upon

his next performance, he (Jack Beaupeep) having already contrive to

insinuate percussion cracker into all three valve of his victim’s

instrument. one minute before twelve a tall, good-look man, attire

in a white hat, and a wonderful driving cape, whose christian name be

William, and his patronymic Barrington, but who, from his passion for

driving, be more commonly know by the _sobriquet_ Billy Whipcord,

descend the step of the Pandemonium, and, arrange the rein

scientifically between his finger, mount the box and assume his

seat, at the same time not take, but bestow, the oath for the

benefit of an obtuse helper, who have “presume to buckle the off

leader’s billet in the check, instead of the low bar, when he know the

mare pull like----” well, suppose we say, “like a steam-engine!” as

the first stroke of twelve peal from the high church steeple of

St. Homonovus, which, as everybody know, stand exactly opposite the

Pandemonium, the aforesaid Billy Whipcord obligingly make his team a

present of their respective head, the attendant helper seize

the corner of the horsecloth which have hitherto guard their

thorough-breed loin from whatever may be the equine equivalent for

lumbago, and jerk they off with a degree of energy which threaten

to take hide and all together, with a bound and a plunge the denude

quadruped spring forward, the boy cheer, the club servant perform

pantomimic action, indicative of admiration and respect, and the drag

start.



Monsieur de Saulcy, Mr. Kinglake, and other traveller, French, English,

and American, who take pleasure in go to the East to make mistake

about the site of Sodom and Gomorrah, hazard a futile hypothesis

in regard to the Holy Sepulchre, or, in some similar fashion, exert

themselves to prove that other than wise man come from the West in

these latter day, inform we, that when a camel die, vulture and other

strange fowl suddenly congregate around the body, though in what way

the intelligence (for those bird can have no _Bell’s life_) reach

they, be a point on which no _savant_ have yet be find wise enough to

enlighten we--wherefore, in general term, the fact be state to result

from instinct. by a like instinct do strange creature mysteriously

appear on the face of the earth, when a steeple-chase, or other sporting

event, be arrange to come off in any give locality: human vulture,

hawk, carrion-crow, bat, and owl, all (singular as an ornithologist

may deem it) with very black leg, attract by the fascination of

horse-flesh, assemble from the four quarter of--heaven, we be go

to say, but, on second thought, we cannot so conclude the paragraph.

still, from whatever locality they come, come they do in flock, and

gather at certain point, whence they may witness the start, or, “the

jump into the lane,” or, “cross the brook,” or the “awkward place,”

 over which the horse that leap, tumble, or scramble first, be safe to

win, as their various taste may lead they.



there be one feature in these affair, for which we have never be able

to account, viz., the mysterious presence of a certain average amount of

baby; they invariably arrive in tax cart, and entirely engross the

mental and bodily faculty of one mother and one female and sympathetic

friend each, so that every ten baby necessitate the presence of twenty

woman, who, from the moment they set out, to the time at which they

return, never appear conscious of the race-course, the company, the

jockey, the horse, or, indeed, of anything save their infant tyrant.

that these woman can have bring the baby for their own pleasure, be

an hypothesis so absurd, that no one who have see the going on of these

young pickle towards their parent and guardian, can for a moment

entertain it; a more, perhaps the most, probable one be, that the

infant come to please themselves, for, although we have never observe

that they pay much attention to the strict business of the race, yet,

in their own way, they appear to enjoy themselves very thoroughly. their

manner and custom be mark by an easy conviviality, and absence from

the restraint which usually fetter society, which we can conceive

must render their babyhood one epicurean scene of gay delight. thus,

monopolize the good place in the cart, shade by the family umbrella,

and dress in the late fashion from Lilliput, these young sybarite

recline languidly on the maternal bosom, or sit erect, “mooing,”

 crowing, and “wa wa-ing” in the face of the company generally, roar

at the sight of family friend whose acquaintance they do not desire

to cultivate, or clawing at the eye and hair of the select few whose

homage they be willing graciously to receive. then, wildly reckless of

appearance, and consult only their own ungoverned appetite, they

not only resolve to dine in public, at the maternal expense, but when

their desire have be gratify by their self-sacrifice parent,

betray a thankless indifference to the safe custody of the good thing

afford they, which render their vicinity dangerous to all decently

attired Christians (those only excepted, who consider a “milky way” the

way in which they should go), during the remainder of the festivity.

thus (we say it boldly, though we know we be provoke the enmity of

all our female reader, who consider a _darle_ baby can never be _de

trop_), we hereby declare our opinion, that by the law of the Jockey

Club, all dog and infant found unmuzzle on any race-course, should be

seize by the police, and instantly----------we leave the mind’

eye of the anxious mother of England to supply the blank. but we be

slightly digress.



as they reach the field whence the start be to take place, in which a

booth or two and a very mild speciman of a grand stand have be erect,

Harry find an opportunity to whisper to Lord Alfred----



“now, remember what I tell you; appear as cool as if you haven’t sixpence

depend on this race; if long odd be offer against the horse, take

’em; I’ll stand the risk up to a fifty-pounder; if it have transpire

that Tirrett willn’t ride for you, say quietly that you be provide with

an efficient substitute--as soon as I see clearly how the land lie,

I’ll tell you more.”



Lord Alfred look--as he be--singularly puzzle, but of the hundred

who be flock to that race-course, Coverdale be the only man on

whom he feel he could rely, and he most willingly place himself in his

hand.



having insinuate the drag into the most favourable position for

behold from its roof the line of the course, the Hon. Billy Whipcord,

having acquit himself so as to call forth an encomium even from Harry

Coverdale, who be a severe critic in such matter, descend from

his seat, and, with most of the other, repair to an extempore

bet-ring, compose of all the knowing one present.



Lord Alfred be about to accompany they, when Harry lay his finger on

his arm to detain he.



“what time do you order the Don to be on the ground?”



Lord Alfred refer to his watch.



“he willn’t be here for the next half-hour,” be the reply. “it be

consider advisable to spare his excitable nerve as much of the noise

and bustle as possible.”



“he be at a farm somewhere near, be he not?” continue Coverdale. “I see

your saddle-horse on the ground; let we canter down and have a look at

he.”



Lord Alfred agreeing, at a signal from his master the packgroom ride

up, and resign his horse to Coverdale, the friend mount, and be

about to ride off in the direction of the farm-house, when the Honourable

Billy Whipcord intercept they with a face express the deep

concern.



“my dear Courtland,” he begin, “a report have somehow get abroad that

Tirrett willn’t ride for you, and that irish blackguard, Captain O’Brien,

do not scruple openly to declare that he be to ride Broth-of-a-boy for

he instead; the rumour gain ground every minute, and the Don be go

down accordingly; all his good friend be hedge wherever they can get

a bet take. I hope there’s no truth in it.”



Coverdale glance for a moment towards Lord Alfred, who reply

carelessly, “don’t alarm yourself, my dear fellow, I can hardly suppose

even Phil Tirrett would have the face to throw I over and ride for

O’Brien; but, if he should indulge in such a caprice, I know my man,

and be prepare with a substitute so efficient, that I rather hope

your tiding may be true.” see that the Honourable William look

incredulous, he continue, “if you’re inclined to follow the hedging

dodge yourself, I’m as willing as ever to back the Don against the

field: how do the odd stand?”



reassure by this practical proof of his Lordship’s sincerity, the

Honourable William (who, in spite of his innate honourableness, be

rather a “leg” than otherwise), hastily mutter “that he’d a very safe

book as it stand, and that if the Don be all serene, he have no wish to

alter it,” and return to reap some advantage from the information he

have acquire.



“how do I do that?” ask Lord Alfred, as they canter off.



“splendidly!” be the reply; “when all other trade fail you, you’ll

be able, with a little of my able tuition, to turn horse-chaunter and

blackleg.”



Lord Alfred shake his head, add, “only let I get out of this affair

safely, and if you find I do anything in the horse line again, write

I down the veri idiot that ever run his head, open-eye, against a

brick wall.”



five minute’ brisk riding bring they to the gate at which Tirrett have

enter on the morning after the Blackwall dinnerparty. as they do so,

a horseman leave the yard by a hand-gate at the opposite corner. Lord

Alfred gaze after he eagerly.



“who be your mysterious friend?” inquire Harry.



“I cann’t be certain,” be the reply, “but the figure, and the way in

which he sit his horse, be very like that young scoundrel, Tirrett;

I’ve a great mind to gallop after he, and either make he ride for I,

or horsewhip he;” and Lord Alfred look quite fierce and determine,

as if he mean to do as he say, and be able; but Coverdale, smile at

his energy, restrain him--



“gently there--take it coolly! why, you’re become quite a fire-eater,”

 he say, laugh; “but, seriously, if you could make he ride for you

against his will, he would only contrive to lose you the race. and, as

to horsewhipping, if you be to horsewhip every blackleg who

break down with you in turf affair, you’d require a portable

thrashing-machine, for mortal arm could never stand it.”



as he speak, they reach the stable, dismount, and, tie their

horse up to a couple of ring in the wall, Lord Alfred draw a key from

his pocket, and, apply it to the lock, admit Harry and himself.

so quietly do they enter, and so engross be the groom with his

occupation, that they have full time to observe he before he be aware

of their presence. fully equip (with the exception of his coat)

for appear on the race-course, he be stoop over a pail of water

bathe his nose, from which the blood be still rapidly drop.

Coverdale glance expressively at Lord Alfred, then whisper, “speak to

he--I want to see his face.”



“why, Dick, what be it? have you hurt yourself, my lad?” he inquire,

good-naturedly.



raise himself, with a start, the man look round. “no, my Lord, it

be nothin’ to sinnify; honly, have I wo a reche hup to get the Don’s

saddle, hit slip, hand fall right hon my blessed nose, hand set hit a

bleed howdacious!”



“do you obtain that genius, with the horse, from Tirrett?” inquire

Harry, _sotto voce_; receive a reply in the affirmative, he continue,

“then let I have a word or two with he in private--I think he may be

make useful, but one never can get anything out of these fellow, except

in a_ tête-à-tête_.”



Lord Alfred nod assent, and, feign some plausible excuse, leave the

stable.



as soon as they be alone, Harry address the groom with an

intelligent half-nod, half-wink, which, however ineffectual it might

have prove in the case of a blind horse, produce a decide impression

on the sharp-sighted Dick.



“Hark ye, my friend,” he begin, “it strike I you and I be old

acquaintance.”



“cann’t say as I ever remember set heye on your honour afore,”

 be the reply, though something in the expression of the man’s face

contradict his assertion.



“do you never live with Count Cavalho, a spanish nobleman?”



the man pause, then answer in a surly tone, “and suppose I do, what

then?”



“merely, that while I be in Paris, a groom in his employ be detect

sell the corn and hay; the moment the charge be bring against he

the fellow decamp, but the evidence of his dishonesty be so clear,

that the Count offer a reward of fifty pound for his apprehension;

the man be not find, but I should know he by sight if I be to meet

he,” and again Coverdale fix his pierce glance upon his companion’s

feature.



having pause for a minute, during which time the groom stand eye he

furtively, and shift uneasily from leg to leg--at the expiration of

that period, Harry ask abruptly, “why do young Tirrett strike you in

that brutal manner, before he leave the stable just now?”



he speak at a venture, but the arrow hit the bull’s-eye. throw

completely off his guard, the man exclaim, with an oath, “you know

everything! who in the world be you?”



“my name’s coverdale,” be the reply. “I’m no wizard, but I’ve be on

the turf long enough to keep my eye and ear open; and now listen to

I; you know all I’ve say be true, you perceive that I could expose you

if I be so inclined; you _have_ no cause to entertain any very strong

affection for Mr. Philip Tirrett; therefore I see many reason why you

should do as I wish you--none why you should not.”



he pause for a reply, and, after a moment’s hesitation, the groom

begin, “I see it ain’t o’ no use try to gammon you, Mr. Coverdale,

you’re right about Tirrett, he cum here a wantin I to lame that horse,

and so git myself into trouble, may be; when, as I tell he, there ain’t

no need for it, for he ain’t agoe to ride it, and barrin myself and

he, there ain’t nobody else as can ride it to win, I’ll take my davy

o’ that, so he’d no call to cut up rough, and knock a feller about like

that--but I owe he one for it, and I’ll pay it some of these day. as

to that hay and corn business of the Count’s, I don’t do the correct

thing altogether by he, I know, but though I have to cut, and it be all

lay on to I, there be other more to blame nor I, I do assure you,

I be but a boy like at the time, and I wor lead on, don’t ye see? still,

it’s true enough; I don’t want the thing bring up again. my lord here,

he’s a nice young feller--precious green, tho’! I _never_ did--” he add

parenthetically, with a sympathy-demand wink at Coverdale, “and he’s

treat I very kind and liberal, and so the long and the short of it

be, if I can oblige you, sir, why I’m agreeable.”



“well, you can oblige I, and it shall be worth your while to do so,”

 be the reply; “and as I see you’ve get an honest side to your nature,

I’ll be frank with you. Lord Alfred have trust Tirrett to win this race

for he, and have bet very largely on the faith of his riding for he;

Tirrett, be a scoundrel, have throw he over, and we’re in a fix--the

only way I see of get out of it be to ride the horse myself.”



here the groom interrupt, by audibly ejaculating, “the Lord have mercy

on your poor neck!”



“to ride the horse myself,” continue Coverdale, coolly; “and I want you

to tell I honestly, first, whether if the brute be properly ride, he

have a fair chance to win, and secondly, if you be go to ride, and

try all you know to come in first, how you would set about it.”



for a minute, the man remain mute with surprise, then mutter,

“well, I’ve see you ride, and you’ve a well seat, and nearly as good

a bridle-hand as Phil Tirrett himself; but, lor, to think of ride a

steeple-chase on that beast the first time you’re on his back! however,

if you _will_ do it, listen to I,” and, draw Harry aside, he

whisper innumerable hint and direction in his ear, in as low a tone

as if he fear the very wind of Heaven would reveal the matter.









CHAPTER LIV.--SETTLING PRELIMINARIES.



“to keep a light but steady hand on he; to be careful not to pull at

he or check he with the curb; but to see his mouth with the snaffle,

if he cann’t be hold without; never to hit he, upon any consideration,

by reason that he’ll stand the spur, but not the whip; to be prepare

for his knock my brain out when he throw up his head, or break

my back by a way he’s get with his hind-quarter when he fling up his

heel; to look out for his pleasant little trick of jump off the

ground all four foot at once in a slantindicular direction, when

anything surprise he; to let he take his leap in his own fashion, or

he’ll either rush at they or refuse they altogether; to jump on his back

before he bite or kick I, if I can possibly do so; and, above all,

to show he, from first to last, that I’m not in the slight degree

afraid of he--I think these be the chief point to which I be advise

to direct my attention in ride the fascinating quadrupe on whom you

have invest your capital,” observe Coverdale to Lord Alfred, as they

canter back to the race-ground.



“you shall not do it--you must not think of it!” rejoin Lord Alfred,

hastily; “you’ll be throw and kill, and Mrs. Coverdale will say it’s

my doing. I could not bear it--it would drive I mad. come, promise

you’ll give it up!”



“silly boy!” return Coverdale, with a good-natured smile “tell I,

would _you_ give it up in my position?”



“well, yes--no, perhaps I should not; but then you know the case would

be a very different one.”



“certainly it would,” return Coverdale; “I be not the heir to an

ancient peerage--the noble constitution of England would not suffer

injury in one of its three notable estate, if my neck be break;

but I don’t see the necessity for pre-suppose any such sombre

contingency--this be not the first time, by many, that I’ve gallop a

queer horse across country. why, man, from the day I be fourteen

I’ve break all my own hunter, and let I tell you, a hot-temper

four-year-old thorough-breed be rather an awkward customer to deal with.

a timid old gentleman would find himself decidedly misplace astride

such a quadruped. but here we be. now recollect, keep up a bold

exterior, as the melodramatic gent paraphrase ‘never say die.’ back

the Don as freely as if Tirrett be go to ride for you, and

mention I as the illustrious gentleman-jockey you have secure as his

substitute.”



Lord Alfred nod assent, and they rejoin the group around the

bet-ring, in the centre of which stand the gallant Milesian, Captain

O’Brien, vociferate loudly in what he would himself have term a

thunder rage. the cause be soon discover: Mr. Philip Tirrett

have, five minute before, make his appearance on the course, and coolly

inform the captain not only that he be mistaken in suppose he

intend to ride for he, but that he be go to perform the service

for Captain Annesley, of her Majesty’s Life Guards, upon his famous

steeple-chaser Black Eagle, which, in his poor opinion, look very

like a winner. as Lord Alfred and Harry come up, the Honourable

Billy Whipcord, who, so to speak, live upon horseflesh, and have a

tolerably heavy book on the race, be in a great state of agitation and

excitement, exclaim, “here, Lord Alfred, what do you say to all this?

there’s a squabble as to who Mr. Tirrett be to ride for. I think you’d

settle with he, long ago, to ride Don Pasquale?”



“such be, no doubt, the understanding between we,” return Lord

Alfred, firmly; “nor have I reason to suspect that he mean not to fulfil

his engagement, until I receive a note some two hour ago, tell I

that circumstance prevent he from ride for I. these circumstance

I now, for the first time, conjecture to resolve themselves into the

fact that he have be bribe by some one to ride for Captain Annesley.”



“pray, my Lord, do you intend that remark to apply to I?” inquire

Captain Annesley, who be a tall, handsome, fashionable-look man, with

black whisker and moustache.



“I intend the remark to apply to Mr. Tirrett,” be Lord Alfred’s

reply; “he have engage to ride for I; I believe he have be bribe to

break that engagement, because I can imagine no other reason so likely

to influence a person of his character; but it’s a matter of perfect

indifference to I who may have bribe he, and as I be fortunate enough

to have secure the service of a gentleman on whose honour I can rely,

as well as upon his horsemanship, I care very little about the whole

matter, and must leave you, gentleman, to settle your difference

without my interference.”



as he speak he be turn to leave the spot, when Tirrett step

before he and prevent he.



“not so fast, my Lord,” he say, insolently; “I consider that you’ve

insult I by the term in which you have just speak, and I desire you

to recall your word.”



an indignant refusal from Lord Alfred apparently exasperate the young

blackleg beyond endurance, and raise his horsewhip threateningly, he

advance a step towards his opponent. as he do so, a heavy hand be

press against his chest, effectually bar his farth progress,

while a deep voice say sternly, “stand back, sir! I should have think

you have be on the turf long enough to recognize a gentleman when you

see he, and to know that such person be not to be bully, though

they may be swindle. let I give you a word of advice: you will have

quite enough on your hand to get out of this morning’s work without

some unpleasant _exposé_. your associate, Captain O’Brien, seem

inclined to be disagreeably communicative--don’t get yourself

horsewhip into the bargain!”



when Coverdale make the reference to O’Brien, Phil Tirrett turn pale,

and gnaw his under lip in fruitless anger; but, as he conclude,

he get up the steam sufficiently to inquire, with an insolent laugh,

“horsewhip, eh?--who’s likely to do it, I should like to know?”



“_i_ be,” be Coverdale’s quiet answer. their eye meet--but Tirrett

could not endure Harry’s steadfast gaze; so, favour he with a most

melodramatic scowl of hatred, he slunk away through the crowd. after

much angry altercation, Captain O’Brien’s horse be withdraw--other

preliminary of the race settle--and the time appoint for start

draw nigh, when Captain Annesley lounge up to Lord Alfred Courtland,

and, twist his moustache, drawl out, “haw! ar ’spose yur ’ware

m’lord that--haw--tha’re all gentleman riders?--eh! yur friend come

under that denomination, ’spose, haw?”



“when the officer of the ----th choose I as umpire about a dispute

stroke at billiard, and I decide in favour of one Cornet Annesley, he

do not object to the verdict on the score of my position,” return

Coverdale, with quiet self-possession; upon which the captain muttered--



“hey, haw, Mr. Coverdale, aw think--arm sor davlish shortsighted--ar

reely don’t recognize yar--haw! beg par’n, reely,” and lounge off

considerably discompose.



after the ceremony of weigh the rider have be satisfactorily

perform, and other preliminary arrange, the bell ring for saddling,

and Coverdale, fling off his wrapper, and remove a pair of legging

which have effectually conceal his top-boot, appear in full and

appropriate racing costume, to Lord Alfred’s intense surprise.



“by Jove!” he exclaim, as the blue silk racing shirt reveal its

glory to his astonished optics--“by Jove! Coverdale, you really be

one of the most wonderful fellow I ever come across; why, you be not

aware two hour ago that there be a chance of your be require to

ride this race, and yet you come tog out in as noble and appropriate

garment as if you have be prepare for the last month--it be all a

perfect mystery to I!”



“the mystery be easily explain,” return Harry, laugh at his

companion’s puzzled look. “when I leave your room this morning, the idea

of ride for you have already occur to I; it so happen that I,

when last in town, order a new pair of hunt breech and boot of

my tailor and boot-maker, which I know would be ready for I to jump

into; the tailor direct I to a masquerade warehouse, where I procure

the racing shirt; and I purchase the wrapper and legging ready make.

in the carpet-bag I have a coat, which I could have put on at the

stable, have Tirrett choose, at the last moment, to keep his engagement

with you: so you see there’s no magic in the business, after all.”



as he speak, Don Pasquale, arch his neck, snort, lay back his

ear and point they forward alternately, roll his eye until

the white be plainly visible, and altogether show symptom of

a temperament quite unlike that popularly attribute to the genus pet

lamb, be lead in by Dick and an attendant satellite, at the imminent

risk of their respective life and limb. as the clothing be remove,

Coverdale scrutinize he narrowly without speak; at length he

exclaimed--“He’s a devil, that there’s no mistaking; but he’s a splendid

horse: if he’s sound, and it’s at all possible to screw he along, I’ll

give you all the money you pay for he, and fifty pound to the back of

that, if you don’t like to part with he under.”



“my dear Coverdale, in that and everything else I shall be guide by

your wish,” be the reply. “I’d make you a free gift of he, and be

glad to get rid of the brute, if it ben’t for the money I owe.”



at this moment, the groom make a signal, to which Coverdale immediately

attend.



“the long he stay in this here crowd and bustle, the wilder and

savager he’ll get, and the worse he’ll be to mount; so the soon I

see yer honour in the saddle, the well I shall be please.”



“all serene, Dick,” return Harry, cheerfully. “wish I luck and keep

your spirit up, Alfred, my boy!” he continue, shake his companion’s

hand heartily: then, with a nod to the groom, to announce his intention,

he approach the horse leisurely, and watch his opportunity, wait

until something have attract the animal’s notice, and cause it to turn

its head in an opposite direction; when, place his foot quietly in the

stirrup, he be firmly seat before Don Pasquale become aware of his

intention, or have time to attempt any resistance. slowly gather up

the rein, Coverdale desire Dick to “give he his head;” the first use

he make of it be to place it between his fore leg with a jerk, which

if his rider have not judiciously yield to it, would have pull the

rein from his grasp but Don Pasquale have an object in thus lower his

haughty crest--namely, at the same time to fle up his heel, and

eject the intruder who have dare so unceremoniously to usurp the seat

of dominion on his august back, much as a stone be hurl from a sling.

Harry, however, be prepare for any eccentricity of motion on the

part of the amiable quadrupe he bestrode, retain his seat in spite

of the Don’s strenuous effort to dislodge he; a performance which

appear to astonish and impress the creature to such a degree, that he

toss up his head so suddenly as to render Dick’s caution in regard to

“knock out brain” by no mean a superfluous figure of speech, and

abruptly start off in a kind of half-sidle, half-dance canter.

having indulge the Don with a preliminary gallop up and down the first

quarter of a mile of the course, during which he amuse himself by

occasionally lash out in a way which soon obtain for he those

popular desiderata--a clear course and _no favour_, Harry bring he

back to the starting-post just as Phil Tirrett appear, look the

perfection of a jockey, and mount on a splendid black thorough-breed,

which Coverdale conjecture must be--from its superiority to every other

horse on the course--Captain Annesley’s Black Eagle. at this moment,

Dick, the groom, hand Coverdale a leaf of a bet-book, crumple up

into the form of a note; seize an opportunity when his horse be for

an instant quiet, Harry open it, and read the follow words:--



_“Hond sur, Black hegel’s wery prity to luke hat, but he han’t get the

Don’s pluck, nor P. T. hun’t get yourn--hin ther last field but win

ther’s a corner may be cut hoff by take a dich with a low ston warl

hon the bank abuv, and a rail atop--hit a properly dangrus leep, but if

our ’orse be ride boldly and benot blowd, he’ll face hit and clear hit,

hand B. E. and P. T. won’t.--Yr humbel survent, Dick Dodge.”_



hastily cast his eye over it, Harry catch the general meaning of the

note, and, tear it, he give his confidential adviser a glance, which

so clearly convey his recognition of the merit of his scheme, that

Dick in soliloquy confide to himself, that he be at that moment open

to be “blow” if it be not his conviction that if Coverdale could keep

his seat for the first five minute, he might do the trick after all. as

Harry ride up to the starting-post, Tirrett perceive, from his firm

but easy seat in the saddle, his strong yet light hand on the rein,

restrain without irritate his horse, that he have a first-rate rider

to contend against; and know, as no one do so well as himself, the

power of the animal on which Coverdale be mount, he, for the first

time since he have refuse to ride for Lord Alfred, feel anxious as to

the result of the race, which, reckon it completely secure, he have

bet on much more largely than be his habit. after relieve his

feeling by a muttered volley of oath, he continue mentally,--



“this be pleasant: the fellow sit his horse as composedly as if he be

in an arm-chair! he seem to understand the temper of the brute too! I

suppose Dick have put he up to that, in revenge for the blow I give he.

I’ve get a frightfully heavy book on the event--nearly £1000. I be a

fool to risk it; and yet I think the money be as safe as if it have

be in my pocket. I never expect the horse would have train sound

as he have; if I’d be sure of that I would have ride he myself.

well, the race must be win at all hazard; if the Don would but get into

one of his tantarum now, nobody that don’t know his way could sit

he. ha; yes, a good idea; I think it maybe do that way--and yet it’s

hazardous--but I willn’t be rash--only Black Eagle must not lose, whatever

may be the consequence.” while such thought as these be pass

hurriedly through his brain, the signal be give, and the horse

start.









CHAPTER LV.--THE RACE.



after make one violent effort to get his head and bolt,--an

effort which it task Harry’s strength and skill to the utmost to

counteract,--the Don gradually settle into his stride, cross a

grass-field, and fly across an easy fence at the end of it, with a

bind which would have clear one of three time its magnitude, in

a style which convince Harry of the superior power of the animal

he bestrode. besides Black Eagle and Don Pasquale, six other horse

start. of these, one, a fiery chestnut colt, rush at his first

fence, fall, throw his jockey, then get away, and be not catch for

the next two hour; a plough field pump the wind out of two more so

effectually, that for all chance of win the race they might as well

never have start; the jump into the lane settle a fourth, which be

lead off with two broken knee; while a furze common use up a fifth; so

that as they approach the brook, the sporting cornet (who ride his

own horse, Grey Robin), Tirrett, and Harry, be the only remain

competitor. about five hundred yard from the brook (which be a very

picturesque but singularly uncomfortable looking stream to ride over,

have steep rugged bank, be too deep to ford, and quite as wide

as a horse could conveniently leap), Tirrett, who be lead, hold in

Black Eagle with a view, as Coverdale imagine, to save his wind, and

get he well together for the leap. his own horse, which be go

beautifully, be so fresh, that Harry consider he able to clear the

brook without any such precaution, and believe, if he keep on at the

same pace he should either gain ground which Tirrett would be unable to

recover, or force he to press Black Eagle to a degree which might break

he down at his leap, he do not draw rein until he come to within about

fifty yard of the bank. having mentally select the spot at which he

mean to charge the brook, he be about to put his horse at it, when a

rush sound cause he to turn his head. as he do so, Tirrett dash

by he like a flash of lightning, so closely that their elbow brush,

while as he pass he turn in his saddle, and bring his ride whip

down with his full force between Don Pasquale’s ear. the effect of his

villainous scheme fully answer his expectation; the horse, which have

be go at an easy stretching gallop, and be just gather itself

up for the leap, stop so abruptly, that it be with the great

difficulty Harry be able to prevent himself from go over its head;

the next moment the animal rear, and stand paw the air wildly with

its fore leg, so that Coverdale be force to throw himself forward and

cle to the creature’s neck to prevent it from fall over upon he.

then commence a furious struggle for mastery between man and horse.

Tirrett’s cowardly stroke have arouse the vicious temper of the brute,

and fail in its first desperate attempt to unseat its rider, it lay

back its ear, plant its foot firmly on the ground, and obstinately

refuse to move. irritated beyond control at the rascally trick which

have be play he, and at its complete success, Coverdale, with whip,

spur, and bit, give Don Pasquale a thorough speciman of his quiet

manner, but with no other result than one or two futile attempt to

bite or kick its rider: at length he be compel to desist from pure

exhaustion, and, lay the bridle on the animal’s neck, he shift

the whip to his left hand, while he extend the cramped finger of his

right, preparatory to recommence hostility. whether through mere

caprice, or whether, as be more probable, the Don catch sight of the

other horse, which have safely accomplish the transit of the brook,

and be resume their course on the other side, it be not easy to

decide; certain it be, however, that the moment it find its head at

liberty, it dash off at full speed; and before Harry could gather up

the rein, the creature have reach the bank, plunge madly forward,

and in another moment Coverdale find himself up to the breast in

water, with no part of his horse visible except the head. although take

completely by surprise, his presence of mind do not forsake he; thank

to his experience in the hunting-field, the situation be not new to

he, and scarcely have he glance round ere his quick eye select the

point at which he should effect a landing; guide his horse to a spot

where the bank be least steep and abrupt, he wait until the animal

obtain a precarious footing; then, encourage it by hand and voice,

he lift it by the rein, and urge it forward; there be a scramble and

a slip, then a more violent struggle than before, and the Don and his

rider be once again high, though by no mean dry, on _terra firma_. as

soon as he could find time to look after his competitor in the race,

he become aware that both have clear the brook in safety, and be half

across the field beyond, Tirrett some twenty yard ahead,--a distance

which he keep so completely without effort, that Harry at once perceive

Grey Robin be beat. that Tirrett think the same of both his

antagonist be evident, from the easy pace at which he be go. in

order to accomplish his rascally manœuvre before cross the brook,

he have press Black Eagle injudiciously; and, confident that both the

other horse must be in an equally exhausted condition, he be save

he for the final struggle. he be, however, wrong in regard to Don

Pasquale; true, its contention with its rider have take for the time a

good deal out of it, but the last act of that affair having consist of

a display of passive obstinacy, have in some degree refresh it; and its

plunge into the brook have also exercise a beneficial influence; so that

Harry perceive, to his great delight, so soon as they resume their

course on the farth bank, that his horse have plenty of good running

still leave in it, and when it get again into its stride, that it be

improve every minute. thus, if Coverdale could manage to creep up to

his opponent so gradually as not to alarm he until he have regain

a portion of the ground he have lose, and Dick’s suggestion of the

desperate leap over the wall should prove at all practicable, he do

not despair of the race yet. in accordance with this view, Harry rather

restrain than urge the Don, until Tirrett have clear the next fence,

and enter the field beyond; but the moment the overhang branch of

the hedge close behind he, Coverdale give his horse the rein, come up

with Grey Robin, who dispute precedence with he for a few yard, and

then fall back beat; fly over the fence like a bird, take up the

run on the other side in first-rate style; and before Tirrett have

get Black Eagle fairly into his stride again, the Don be alongside of

he. and now the race, properly so call, begin in earnest: for nearly

a mile the course lie along a slight descent of smooth springy turf,

terminate by a ditch, and a low brick wall heighten by a rail, beyond

which the ground rise more steeply for a short distance, up to the

win-post. thus, as Dick have foresee, the man and horse that first

clear the wall in safety must of necessity win. at one spot the fence

be break, and the wall partially knock down; but this gap, although

within the marked line, be somewhat out of the direct course. thus,

by take the ditch, wall, and fence, at the near point (always

suppose any jockey bold enough to attempt such a leap, and fortunate

enough to accomplish it in safety), an amount of distance would be save

which would ensure success to the enterprising rider. Harry’s quick eye

take in the situation at a glance, and he resolve to attempt it, unless

he should gain such an advantage over his adversary, before reach the

boundary wall, as should render his success no long a doubtful matter.

that Tirrett equally perceive the critical nature of the situation

might be gather from the fact that, although aware of the task before

he (for even across the gap the leap be one which a good horseman, on

a fresh steed, might congratulate himself on having accomplish safely,

and which, on a tired one, he would think twice ere he venture to

attempt), he press the pace to the utmost extent of his horse’s power,

with the evident intention of render Don Pasquale so blow that it

must break down at the leap. unwilling to risk the desperate chance

which Dick’s _billet_ have suggest, Coverdale exert all his skill to

maintain the position he have gain, which at one moment be in advance

of, and for some distance neck and neck with, his opponent; but,

although Don Pasquale be the strong animal of the two, and gift

with great power of endurance, on soft level turf Black Eagle have

decidedly the advantage in point of swiftness; moreover, in a mere trial

of speed, Tirrett’s acquaintance with all the resource of professional

jockeyship stand he in good stead, so that before they have approach

the wall Black Eagle have not only pass, but be several length ahead

of his opponent. thus, Coverdale perceive that, unless he choose to

adopt Dick’s dangerous suggestion, he must relinquish all chance of

win the race. have it be simply a trial of speed and skill, good

sense and right principle would probably have prevent Harry

from risk his life for so inadequate an object; but Tirrett’s

dishonourable behaviour towards Lord Alfred, and his rascally attempt to

excite the vicious temper of Don Pasquale (an attempt which all but

gain its object), have irritated and excited Coverdale to such a degree

that, reckless of consequence, he be eager to dare any peril rather

than allow such infamous conduct to be triumphant. accordingly, keep

the direct line, he shout to Tirrett, who have turn off to the left

and be make for the gap, “why don’t you follow I, sir, like a man,

instead of sneak over gap like a coward?” he get his horse well in

hand, and ride boldly on.



when Tirrett become aware of his intention he half draw in his rein,

irresolute what course to take; if he refuse to follow, and Coverdale

should by any chance succeed in get safely over, he know that the

race, and all he have depend on it, would be lose, and he eagerly

scan the leap with his practised eye; but it be too formidable, and,

as Dick have foresee, his courage fail he; so, turn first red,

then pale, he mutter an uncharitable wish concern Harry’s neck,

and ride on towards the gap, hope for its fulfilment. as Coverdale

approach the wall, the conviction that he be about to attempt a most

hazardous, if not an impossible feat, force itself upon he; still his

resolution never waver, and he be prepare himself for the leap,

when a figure, which he recognise as that of the groom, suddenly rise

from the ditch, and, point to a particular spot, shout, “come over

here! give he his head, and let he take it his own way; he’s get his

steam up, and wouldn’t refuse a haystack.”



rely on the man’s acquaintance with the animal, Harry resolve to

follow his advice implicitly, and, slacken his rein, press his hat

firmly over his brow, clasp his saddle tightly with his knee, and

await the result.



Dick be not mistaken in his estimate of the Don’s courage; for, as soon

as the horse perceive the obstacle before it, it prick up its ear,

gather its leg well under it, and dash forward. nor have he form a

wrong conception in regard to the animal’s general power of endurance;

but the episode occasion by Tirrett’s foul blow, with the subsequent

immersion in and struggle out of the brook, be incident on which

he have not calculate. thus, although Don Pasquale rise to the leap

gallantly, and by a prodigious bind clear ditch, wall, and fence, the

exertion so completely exhaust its remain strength, that, on its

descent on the further side, all Harry’s effort be unable to keep it

on its leg, and it pitch heavily forward, fall with and partially

on its rider.









CHAPTER LVI.--THE CATASTROPHE.



stun by the violence of the shock, Harry be aware vaguely, and as

in a dream, that the horse have rise, and that some person be soothe

and caress it; from this state of semi-unconsciousness he be arouse

by the voice of Dick, the groom, exclaim, “if you b’aint too much

hurt, Mr. Coverdale, you may do it yet, sir, if so be as you can

sit your horse; for Black Eagle have refuse the gap, and Tirrett’s a

bully he to get he over now.”



thus appeal to, Harry rise with difficulty (utter an exclamation

of pain as he do so), and gaze confusedly round he. uninjure by

its fall, Don Pasquale be stand by he, hold by Dick; while,

considerably to the left, Tirrett, having ride back a few pace, be

force Black Eagle, by a severe application of both whip and spur, to

attempt the leap over the gap, which he have just refuse.



“here, quick!” exclaim Coverdale eagerly, “hold the stirrup--that

will do--don’t touch my arm--I’ll disappoint that scoundrel yet!” and,

gather up the rein with his right hand, he put spur to his horse,

and gallop off. after a struggle, Tirrett succeed in force Black

Eagle across the gap, and, by dint of spur and shake, get he into

a sort of shamble canter on the farth side of it; but it be of no

avail, for, as Don Pasquale pass the win-post, Black Eagle

be still several length behind: Coverdale’s desperate leap have

accomplish the purpose for which it have be attempt, and Lord

Alfred Courtland’s horse remain winner of the steeple-chase.



as he ride in triumphant, an eager crowd of Don Pasquale’s backer

surround he with loud congratulation. “splendidly do! I never see

such riding in my life!” “that leap with a tired horse be the plucky

thing ever attempt--there’s not another man on the course would have

face it!”



“the business of the brook be the clever dodge of all--I see it

through a race-glass, and I never expect you could have keep on he.”



“didn’t the horse fall on you? be you hurt, Mr. Coverdale?” such be

some of the numerous remark and exclamation which ring in Harry’s

ear, as, faint and giddy, it be as much as he could do to retain his

seat without fall from the saddle.



“Harry; my dear, kind friend, how can I ever thank you sufficiently?”

 exclaim Lord Alfred Courtland, force his way through the crowd.



“find the groom,” be the hurried reply, “for I cann’t keep on the horse

much long.”



as he speak, Dick, with a face crimson with heat and triumph, make his

appearance, and take charge of Don Pasquale, while Harry, with a painful

effort, swing himself to the ground, where he stagger and appear

scarcely able to stand.



“you be faint!” exclaim Lord Alfred, hastily; “here, lean upon I,

and let we get out of this crowd.”



“take care of my arm,” murmur Harry, compress his lip as though to

restrain an expression of suffering.



“your arm! why, good heaven! what be the matter with it?”



“it be only break,” return Harry, quietly; “the horse fall upon it

with his full weight at the last leap; but I be able to hold he with

one hand, so it do not signify.”



“and you mount again, and win the race, with your arm break!”

 exclaim Lord Alfred. “why, it’s the most gallant, noble--but you be

suffer dreadfully! oh, what be I to do for you? why do I ever let

you ride that vicious, dangerous brute!”



“there, don’t make a fuss,” return Coverdale; “let we get out of this

crowd; find I a glass of wine, for I’ve a sort of faintness come over

I every now and then, and when I’ve drink that I shall do well enough

until we can get a surgeon to set my arm; don’t worry about it--when I

put the horse at that wall I fully expect to break my neck.”



five minute’ rest, and a couple of glass of old Sherry, restore

Coverdale sufficiently to enable he to announce his readiness to

proceed, though he refuse to leave the ground until the Honourable

Billy Whipcord have undertake to see that the winner be defraud of

none of his right; and then, and not till then, do Harry accept Lord

Alfred’s offer to accompany he to town in a Hansom’s cab, which a

gentleman who have engage it for the day obligingly give up the moment

he learn for what purpose it be require.



the conversation of the two friend during the drive to London afford

a curious illustration of character. Lord Alfred grieve and

shock beyond measure at the accident which have occur to his old

schoolfellow in his service, be engage the whole time in pour forth

unavaile lamentation and self-accusing; while Coverdale, although

suffer the most excruciating anguish from every motion of the cab,

be so touch by the evidence of feeling show by his companion, that

he not only repress all outward sign of pain, but use his good

endeavour to comfort and console Lord Alfred. on their way to Lord

Alfred’s lodging, where he insist Coverdale should take up his abode

until he should be well enough to travel, they call at the house of

a surgeon celebrate for his skill in case of fracture, and be

fortunate enough to find he at home. on learn the nature of the

accident, he provide himself with the necessary apparatus, reach

the lodging as soon as his patient, and, within an hour of the time

at which the injury be inflict, Coverdale’s arm be set, and the

fracture pronounce to be not a very serious one.



“and now for my poor Alice,” be Harry’s first exclamation, when,

with strict injunction to go to bed and keep his arm quiet,

Mr. B------ have depart; “how be I to act about she? if I write she

word I’ve meet with an accident, she’ll be frighten out of her wit;

and yet if I don’t, she may hear of it some other way (those confound

newspaper be sure to get hold of the affair), and fancy I be kill,

or some such notion; I’d well write--give I the tool, there’s a good

fellow.”



“but, really you ought not to exert yourself to do it, remember----”

 begin Lord Alfred, deprecatingly.



“I remember, sir, that my wife be alone, and anxious about I already,

and that if I can spare she any shock or alarm, I will do so as long

as I can hold a pen,” be Coverdale’s positive and somewhat snappish

answer; for which he must be hold excuse, as severe bodily pain do

not tend to improve the temper.



Lord Alfred, see it be useless to contend the point, give he pen,

ink, and paper; and, unfit as he be for such exertion, Coverdale write

Alice a full account of his day’s adventure, only conceal the nature

and extent of his accident. the letter be most kind and judicious, and

well calculate to soothe and console she to whom it be address,

and no doubt would have succeed in so do, but for the follow

untoward event.



Alice, leave to herself, have grow desperately frightened as to the

possible upshot of her husband’s rash expedition to London; and, as the

reader be already aware, have dispatch after he Lord Alfred’s letter,

and her own reason for so doing, fairly write upon two sheet of

scented note-paper. but, although she rightly consider this the good

thing she could do, yet it by no mean afford her lasting comfort, and

she remain restless and unhappy until, on the evening of the day on

which the steeple-chase occur, she work herself up to such a pitch

of nervous anxiety, that she be become quite ill, when the idea

strike she that perhaps Harry, having receive her letter, might set

off at once, and arrive by a train which get in about seven, p.m. on the

chance of this she dispatch, to meet the aforesaid train, a groom

and a dog-cart. now, as the reader know, it be impossible Harry could

arrive by that train, because at the time it start, he--having write

to Alice--have just be undressed by Lord Alfred Courtland’s valet, and

go to bed, which, no one can doubt, be by far the good place for he.

but though he do not come by that train, a young farmer do, who be

one of Harry’s tenant, and who, as ill luck would have it, have be

at the steeple-chase, witness Coverdale leap and fall, and hear

afterwards an exaggerated account of the injury he have receive. thus,

when the groom inquire if he have see his master get into the train,

he favour that equine servitor with a graphic history of the morning’s

proceeding, illustrate and embellish by the narrator’s imaginative

power; which recital produce much grief and consternation in the mind

of the faithful fellow, who be much attach to his master, induce he

to drive home as fast as the trotting mare could step, to destroy his

mistress’s peace of mind, by impart to she these disastrous tiding.

have great and, as the sequel prove, unfounded reliance on his own

tact and eloquence, he, on his arrival, would by no mean allow Wilkins

to be his mouthpiece; on the contrary, nothing would serve he but to be

show into his mistress’s presence, and, as he term it, “break it

to her easy-like” himself--which judicious intention he carry out

thus:--“If you please, Mrs. Coverdale, ma’am, I’m sorry to say somethin’

dreadful’s be and happen, which I think p’raps you might like to

’ear; so, not to frighten you, I make bold to come and break it to you

myself!” Poor Alice! all the blood seem to rush to her heart, while

a choke sensation in her throat totally deprive she of the power of

speech. after a moment, she contrive to gasp out interrogatively, “a

railroad accident? your master----”



answer her idea rather than her word, the man reply, “if you

please, ma’am, it ben’t on the railway as poor master meet with his

accident!”



“then he have meet with--” begin Alice, and the idea at that moment

flash across her mind that he have encounter D’Almayne, and be

wound, perhaps kill, in a duel, she shriek out, “oh! I see it all;

he be dead or die, and I have be his murderess!” and sink back in a

fainting fit.



the groom, frighten at the effect of his tiding, summon the female

servant, and Alice be carry to her room, undressed, and place in

bed, before she have by any mean recover from her swoon; and even

when, after one or two relapse, she do regain her consciousness, she

burn hand, flushed cheek, and unnaturally brilliant eye, together

with an incoherence of expression and an excitability of manner

occasionally verge on delirium, so alarm the stately housekeeper,

that she, on her own responsibility, send off for that eminent medical

practitioner, Gouger; the result of his visit be, that Harry, bruise

and sore from head to foot, having lain awake half the night from the

pain of his broken arm, be arouse from an uneasy slumber, into

which, towards morning, he have fall, by the follow telegraphic

message:--“H. Coverdale, Esq., from Scalpel Gouger, M.D.--Was call

in to Mrs. C. last night, at nine, P.M..--symptoms acute, febrile,

threaten the brain! state critical--if Mr. C. can travel without

danger, let he come _at once!_”



in less than half an hour, Harry Coverdale be up, dress, and in the

first railway train which leave London. as he have lain sleepless through

the weary hour of the night, he have think the pain of his break limb

all but unbearable; during his journey home he never even feel it, so

deep and absorbing be his mental agony.









CHAPTER LVII.--AN ANONYMOUS LETTER.



while Harry Coverdale, with the good possible intention, have be

break his wife’s heart and his own bone, the world have not stand

still, nor have the ordinary course of event be in the slight

degree retarded. on the contrary, the unsympathize globe we inhabit

have revolve on its axis with its accustomed perseverance, and man have

be bear into it in their first childhood, and die out of it in

their second; and the son and daughter of man have marry and give in

marriage, and the many have go on sin and the few repenting,

very much as it all happen in the day of Noah, while the ark

be a-building, and the long suffering of God wait to allow the

evil-doer to perceive the error of their way, and to turn from it ere

the day of mercy should be over, and the destroyer should be let loose

upon they. the world be then a profligate young world, sow its wild

oats broadcast, with a frank and careless disregard of appearance,

which involve at least the one virtue of sincerity--the world be now

a crafty old world, in its dotage, one be sometimes tempt to imagine;

but even the Flood only whitewash its outside, for it still cling

to its darling sin, though no long openly--the world have grow too

cunning for that, it know the value of a good name, and have set up a

gild idol of clay, yclept respectability, to resemble the refined gold

of which virtue’s image be compose; and because it worship this idol

zealously, short-sighted optimist mistake hypocrisy for true religion,

and deem the world have grow pious in its old age; but there be those

who fear that if, once again, the water should overspread the earth,

sin would weigh so heavily on the inhabitant thereof, that not very

many of they would swim.



be this as, it may, certain it be that while Harry be ride Don

Pasquale across the country at the risk of his neck, and Alice be

fret herself into a brain fever on the chance of his being shoot

by Horace D’Almayne, that talented young gentleman be labour most

industriously, with the assistance of his cousin, the _avocat_, at

Brussels, to obtain the sum of money due to Mr. Crane, on the cargo

of the unfortunate _bundelcundah_ East Indiaman. when man exert their

utmost energy to attain an object, success nine time out of ten

be the result; consequently, very few day have elapse after Horace’s

departure before Mr. Crane have the pleasure of learn that the mere

threat of energetic law proceeding have bring his adversary to reason,

and that the money have be actually pay into D’Almayne’s hand.

but somehow this announcement do not appear to afford the worthy

ex-cotton-spinner such satisfaction as might have be expect; on the

contrary, when he close the letter which convey the intelligence, he,

to his wife’s surprise, mutter something very like an oath; whereupon,

after the laudable fashion of her sex, that lady appeared deeply

scandalize, and exclaim, “my dear Mr. Crane!” in a tone of voice

which metamorphose that affectionate address into “you wicked old man,

where do _you_ expect to go to?” reply rather to her tone than her

word, her husband, exalt his peevish treble, began:--



“yes, it’s all very well for you, Mrs. Crane, who have nothing to do but

sit here and spend the money I pour into your lap, to keep your temper,

and look horrified if one utter a hasty expression; but if you have to

toil and moil all your day to scrape it together, and then be defraud

out of your hard-earn gain by creep serpent, whom you have warm

and cherish in--if I may be allow the expression--in your breech

pocket, and who have avail themselves of their position to--yes! I may

say--to pick that pocket, I wonder what expression you would indulge

in then, Mrs. Crane!” and having work himself up almost into a fit of

cry, Mr. Crane once more turn to his letter.



“ah! come home, be he? I’ve a great mind to have he arrest as soon

as he place his foot on british soil; I wonder at his impudence, that I

do!”



“to whom do you refer?” inquire Kate, quietly, as soon as she could get

in a word; for Mr. Crane, when excite, be as voluble as a washerwoman.



“to whom do I refer!” repeat her husband, in the high note of his

shrill falsetto; “why, madam, to whom should I refer, except to your

precious friend and admirer, Horace D’Almayne?”



“Mr. D’Almayne!” exclaim Kate, in surprise; for only two day before,

Mr. Crane have detain she for a good half-hour to listen to the praise

of his factotum’s zeal and fidelity. “Mr. D’Almayne! why I think you

be so much pleased with the tact and intelligence he have display in

your service! surely, you tell I he have actually receive the money of

which your foreign agent attempt to defraud you.”



“and if he have, how do I know that it’s any safe in his hand than it

be before? it’s a large sum to trust a needy man with: how can I tell

that he willn’t bolt with it?”



“surely, you do not suspect he of dishonesty?”



“I suspect he of everything that’s wicked, and deceitful, and

dreadful,” return Mr. Crane, in a tone of voice so dismal, that Kate

could scarcely restrain a smile. “but of course _you_ defend he--yes,

Mrs. Crane, I say, of course _you_ defend he! I be not surprised at

that--in fact, I may add, I expect as much. I have reason, good reason,

madam, to imagine such would be _your_ line of conduct.”



Kate pause until her husband have talk himself into the state of mean

and abject peevishness, which be the near approach he could ever

make towards be in a rage with one who be not utterly weak and

powerless, and, when he stop from sheer want of breath, observe

quietly--



“I really be at a loss to comprehend to what you allude, or what reason

you can possibly have to connect I with this sudden change of opinion

in regard to Mr. D’Almayne: would you oblige I by explain?”



“I sha’n’t do anything of the kind, madam; I don’t see that I’m oblige

to give you _any_ reason; it ought to be enough for you to know that

I disapprove of your conduct--conduct which could give rise to such

representation, madam; and--and comment, Mrs. Crane, impertinent

remark, derogatory to my position--_must_ be reprehensible.”



“I do not desire to annoy you, but I must again ask to what remark and

representation you refer?” be Kate’s reply. Mr. Crane fidget, look

perplexed, try to get angry, and carry it through with a high hand,

meet Kate’s calm eye and could not, and at last with a very ill grace

draw from his pocket a letter, which he unfold and prepare to read,

saying--



“there, Mrs. Crane! since my word be not sufficient to gain your

credence, or my desire, ahem! my wish, if you prefer the expression,

to secure your obedience, you force I to submit to you this singular--I

may say, this offensive document, which, ahem! in conjunction with other

information, have occasion I much justifiable annoyance, and, I may

add, mental anxiety and distress.”



the letter be write in a bold, dash, though evidently disguise,

hand, and run as follows:--



“Sir,--I have no doubt you consider yourself a clever, cautious man

of business, a prudent master of a family, and a kind and judicious

husband--if you do, all that I can say be, that ‘I be unable to agree

with you.’ a clever, cautious man of business would scarcely leave

important money transaction to the management of Horace D’Almayne, a

needy and unprincipled adventurer; a prudent master of a house would not

encourage such an intimacy; nor would a kind and judicious husband allow

a notorious libertine to be constantly in the society of his young

and pretty wife. your infatuation have already produce some of the

unpleasant result naturally to be expect from it; you have advance

above £5000 on a bubble company, not one farthing of which you will ever

see again, whilst you have incur liability, to learn the extent of

which you have well consult your man of business, and I wish you joy

of the revelation I expect you will obtain from he. in regard to your

young wife, I have no positive information to afford you; but that

D’Almayne have design upon she, I know,--and he be not a man to fail in

an adventure of that description, even without take into consideration

the circumstance of a beautiful young woman be married to a man of

your year. you may wonder why I trouble myself to write thus to you; so

I will tell you: I owe D’Almayne a grudge, and it suit I to take this

opportunity of discharge the debt. but though this be my object, all I

have tell you be only the plain truth; I suspect it come too late to be

of much use to you; but that be your look-out, not mine.”



the letter be without signature.



Kate listen attentively while Mr. Crane read aloud, with much

hesitation and stammering, such portion of the alarming epistle

as concern his property and his wife, carefully suppress every

sentence which relate to his own weakness and gullibility. when he have

conclude, she remark, “the letter be a singular one, and appear to

I to bear a certain impress of truth; if I be you, I would attend to

the hint in regard to your pecuniary investment.”



“and as to those which affect my wife, what would you advise in regard

to they, madam?” inquire Mr. Crane, screw up his face into an

expression of feeble sarcasm, which give he very much the appearance

of an ancient monkey. Kate pause: here be an opportunity which might

never occur again of enlighten her husband as to her experience of

Horace D’Almayne’s true character. she have every reason to do so; his

threat of reveal the clandestine visit she be prepared to forestall,

if necessary, by an honest confession of the entire affair, prefer

to bear with her husband’s fretful displeasure (of which, if the truth

must be tell, she do not stand very greatly in awe), rather than to

excite his suspicion by a concealment which would lend countenance to

the insinuation of this anonymous correspondent--yes! she have every

reason to tell all she know concern he, even to his late avowal of

affection, and yet she feel she could not do it. in the first place she

shrink, as any pure-minded woman would shrink, from confess that

such an avowal have be make to she; but especially do she shrink from

confess it to such a nature as that of Mr. Crane: he would never see

the matter in its true light--never believe that she have not, in some

measure, encourage such advance--never comprehend the disgust

and loathing with which they have inspire she. but another and more

stringent reason withhold she--her brother Frederick! she still believe

that D’Almayne have befriend he, and save he from, at all event,

the immediate consequence of the dilemma into which his youth and

inexperience have plunge he: true, she mistrust his object in

perform this act of benevolence--or, rather, she feel convinced that

he have do it merely to establish a claim on her gratitude;--still

the fact remain the same--in her difficulty, when all other human aid

appear to have forsake she, he have come to her assistance, and by

do so have save her brother: believe this, could she expose his

baseness? the question be a difficult one.









CHAPTER LVIII.--DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND.



those who be skilled to read that strange, yet easily to be penetrate

mystery, a woman’s heart, will have at once decide how Kate Crane

determine to act in regard to D’Almayne--he have save her brother, and

though he have offer she an unpardonable insult, she would not betray

he, so she reply calmly--“I should on that point advise you as I do

on the former one: reflect whether the accusation be likely to be

true; whether you have observe any encouragement give by I to Mr.

D’Almayne; whether, from what you know of my character, you imagine

it likely that I should be so devoid of principle, so want in

self-respect, as to accept Mr. D’Almayne’s or any other man’s attention.

recollect a speech I once make you, which really appear as if I have

have a presentiment of this accusation--a speech in which I beg you

to bear in mind that, if at any time comment should be make on the

intimate footing on which Mr. D’Almayne visit at this house, it be

accord to your express wish and desire that he do so, and on that

account only do I tolerate it. if, when you have thus consider the

matter, you still feel dissatisfied, I advise you to use every endeavour

to arrive at the truth. my own opinion be, that the letter be

write by (as the writer honestly enough confesse) an enemy of Mr.

D’Almayne’s, he have rake up every accusation which scandal may have

invent to blacken that gentleman’s character; still, as, if there

be any truth in the charge, the knowledge of it would prove of great

importance to you, it behove you quietly and carefully to inquire into

they, and I would recommend you to do so without delay.”



Kate’s perfect self-possession and coolness always produce great effect

on Mr. Crane, and in the present instance they so thoroughly convince

he that his anonymous correspondent have accuse his wife falsely, that

without more ado he start for the city to investigate the truth of

the other charge, leave his well-half to strive against the

uncomfortable conviction that unintentionally she have play the part of

a hypocrite.



one of the element of Horace D’Almayne’s success in life be his

punctuality in all matter of business: if he say he would do a thing,

he do it; if he promise to be at any place by a fix time, at the

appoint day and hour there be Horace to be find: this consistency

even in apparent trifle cause other to place great reliance on he,

and contribute to establish a certain degree of _prestige_ and weight

of character which often stand he in good stead. no one be well

aware of this fact than Horace himself; who, perceive the value of the

practice, have adopt it as one of his guide principle, to which

he invariably act up with a consistency worthy of a well code.

accordingly, having transact Mr. Crane’s business to his own

satisfaction, he appoint a day on which to return to England, and

when the time arrive, embark; but, unable finally to conclude the

transaction without proceed to Liverpool, he select a vessel bind

for that port. on his arrival, after a favourable passage, he take up

his abode at a small, quiet hotel, much frequent by foreigner. having

engage a private room, he be look over the paper which he have

bring with he, when his quick ear catch the sound of a voice with

the tone of which he fancy himself familiar--listen attentively,

he overhear the follow colloquy:--



“can I have a private sitting-room here?”



“well, sir, we’re very full; should you require a bedroom also?”



“no; I be go by the New York packet, which leave at eight o’clock

this evening.”



“if you’ll wait one moment, sir, I’ll see; but I’m a’most afraid we’re

full.”



anxious to obtain a view of the speaker, D’Almayne cross the room

with noiseless tread, and look out through the half-open door; the

figure near to he be that of the waiter at the hotel; the person

with whom he have be converse be, or appear to be, a seafaring

man of the more respectable class, and at the first glance D’Almayne

believe he to be an entire stranger--still, the voice, so peculiar

and so well know, he surely could not be mistake in that! and again

he scrutinise the stranger’s appearance. he be a tall thin man, well

advanced in life, with sharp acute feature, and keen grey eye; his

hair be cut short, and of an unnaturally raven blackness; and his face

be closely shaven, without the slight trace of whisker or moustache.

for a moment, Horace D’Almayne pause in doubt, during which interval

the stranger’s evil genius oblige he to cough, a dry husky cough

which, once hear, be not easily mistake--it be enough. in go

to seek the master of the hotel, the waiter have to pass the door of

D’Almayne’s room; a sign from that individual’s finger cause he to

enter it.



“show that gentleman into this room, as if it be the untenanted

apartment he have inquire for--leave the key in the lock inside, and if

I ring the bell twice fetch a policeman instantly; but as I hope such an

extreme measure may not be necessary, do not say a word about the affair

to any one.” as he speak, he slip a sovereign into the man’s hand,

add, “manage this cleverly and quietly, and a second await you.”



the waiter bow, and with a nod of intelligence quit the room. the

door of the apartment be so place that when open it shut in an angle

of the wall, in which stand a screen quite large enough to conceal the

figure of a man; in this corner do D’Almayne ensconce himself; scarcely

have he do so ere the waiter return, usher in the stranger for

whose benefit these arrangement have be make. perfectly unsuspicious

of any stratagem, the new comer signify his approval of the

accommodation provide for he, place a leathern valise which he

carry in his hand on the table, and then seat himself by the window

with his back towards the door, which the waiter immediately close,

at the same time leave the room, when with noiseless step D’Almayne

glide from his place of concealment, and double-lock the door place

the key in his pocket. the slight sound make by the bolt shooting

into its socket attract the stranger’s attention, and turn round

quickly, he give a most perceptible start as his eye fall upon his

companion; recover himself instantly, he rise, and bow to

D’Almayne, said--



“the waiter must have make some mistake! I ask for an unoccupied room.

I must apologise for thus intrude on you, sir; but the mistake be not

on my part.” as he speak, he take up his valise preparatory to leave

the room, but D’Almayne motion he to a chair, as he replied--



“there be no mistake in the case, my friend, unless it be your fancy

that, because you have shave off your whisker and dye your hair, I

should not recognise you--that be a complete mistake.”



the person thus address turn pale and bite his lip; but, make an

effort to recover himself, replied--



“I do not understand you, sir; you be labour under some delusion;

allow I to pass directly, or I shall ring and summon the waiter.”



“you’d well not,” return D’Almayne, drily, “for that be the signal

agree on--for he instantly to fetch a policeman.”



the stranger glance towards the door, on which D’Almayne quietly

produce the key, and, when it have catch his eye replace it in his

pocket; he then stretch his hand, with a hesitating and uncertain

action, towards a stout stick on which he carry his valise; but

D’Almayne draw from the breast pocket of his surtout the beautifully

finish little revolving pistol which he always carry, and, having

somewhat ostentatiously display it before the eye of the individual

he be thus brow-beating, return it to its place of concealment, as

the other with a sullen dog look replace his stick, and murmured--



“well, Mr. D’Almayne, suppose you do happen to recognize I indulge

in a little freak--supposing I have disguise myself the well to carry

out a little intrigue of my own, why should that so greatly surprise

you? I do not think you have ever find I absent from my post when

business require I; you must be aware I have the interest of the

establishment as much at heart as any of the party connect with it;

when they begin to play to-night in J-------- Street, my frolic will be

over, and I shall be in my proper place.”



“I think it’s highly probable you will, always suppose that place to

be a cell in Pentonville prison, or, as you lodge in Westminster, the

Penitentiary, perhaps; but it strike I, that if I have not fortunately

meet you, you would at that hour have be toss about in St. George’s

Channel--as I happen to know you have take your passage in a New York

packet, which be to sail at eight this evening.” as D’Almayne speak, he

fix his pierce eye on the individual he address, who, unable to

bear his scrutinize glance, turn away mutter with an oath,

“-------- he, I think he be safe in Holland.” after a moment’s

reflection, he appear to decide on the course good for he to

follow--under what be evidently a contingency equally unforeseen and

unsatisfactory.



“assuredly there never be any one like you, Mr. D’Almayne, for

shrewdness and penetration,” he say, in a tone of apparent frankness;

“here be I (suppose by all who take an interest in my whereabouts to be

in London), in a disguise in which my own mother (the poor soul have be

dead these twenty year) would not have recognize I; at the first

glance you penetrate it, and by intuition appear to have discover my

intention! how you have track I, or whether you have meet I by

accident, I be unable to divine; but, as you _have_ discover I, I

think it be good to be frank with you, and to throw myself on your

generosity--confident that you will deal leniently with your old

associate, if I may venture to use the term, though, perhaps, your

faithful follower would be more true; for I be well aware how such

talent as yours raise you above we plod poor fellow. but I will

make a clean breast to you, sir. the fact be, I be no long young;

scarcely still middle-aged; and the life I have be for so many year

engage in be a hazardous and exhausting one. I have be a frugal and

careful man, and I do not scruple to tell you, sir, that I have

contrive to save a few hundred pound. well, sir, I have for some time

wish to leave England, and settle in America, where I be unknown, and

might begin the world afresh--in some quieter and more respectable line

of life; so I think I would avoid all the difficulty and all the

trouble which, none be well aware than you, sir, would attend my

quit London just at this time, by take french leave, and set

off in disguise and under a feigned name, hope that in Mr. Maxwell,

the traveller for a Manchester cotton firm, no one would recognize Le

Roux, the croupier; and now, sir, having tell you all, I throw myself on

your generosity not to attempt (though I see no pretext on which you

could legally do it) to detain I.”



while Le Roux have be make this statement, which he do with the air

of a man convince against his will that the only course leave open to

he be to declare the whole truth, come what may of it, D’Almayne have

take a pencil from his pocket, with which he have be write certain

calculation on the back of a card. as soon as the other have conclude,

he observe quietly--“I have be make a rough estimate of all the

available cash on which you could lay your hand, and it appear to I,

that, owe to my folly in rest content with the belief that it be

your interest to be honest, you have at least £15,000 in that leathern

case of your--a sum quite sufficient to tempt you to bolt, especially

at a time when you fancy I be safely out of your way. I make it out

thus the establishment in J-------- Street have never less than £5000

ready to pay all demand; to that, of course, you have unlimited access,

and have avail yourself of it. then come the Overland Route Railroad

speculation; Guillemard write I word that the share be go off

tolerably fast, and that something like £10,000 in hard cash have be

pay into our banker; a cheque sign by two of the director would

enable you to draw out the whole amount at any moment--your own

signature as Herr Vondenthaler, the belgian capitalist, provide for

one, and the other would offer little difficulty to a man of your talent

and experience. I have so strong a conviction that, in consequence of my

absence, you will have do I the honour to select my name, that it be

upon a charge of forgery I intend to have you apprehend, and to take

you up to London in my company and that of a policeman.”



during this speech the vary expression on Le Roux’s face would have

form an interesting study to the physiognomist or the artist--at

first, assume indifference, change to surprise, anxiety, and

ill-conceal alarm--then astonishment and fear, merge in a state of

bewildered terror which again give place to an astute subtle look, as

an idea occur to he which might yet interpose to save he from the

utter ruin to which the supernatural discovery, as it appear to he,

of his intended and partially execute villainy expose he. as soon

as D’Almayne have end, Le Roux turn to he, and say in a low calm

tone--



“you be, without any exception, Mr. D’Almayne, the clever man, for

your year, that I have ever meet with in our profession. I don’t say

it to flatter you, sir; but I say it because it be my deliberate

conviction. one of your strong point be your clear good sense, and it

be to that I be now about to appeal. you have, how I cannot divine, get

I completely in your power, and, know or suspect all you say you

do, it be useless for I to attempt to deceive you; it be clear you

can ruin I if you choose; but how will it advantage you to do so? or,

rather, how can you expose I without excite a host of unpleasant

inquiry about yourself? I presume you scarcely wish your connection

with the gaming-house in J-------- Street publish to the world at

large, nor would you like too much reveal concern the private

history of the director and general management of the railway company,

and yet I don’t see how you could place I in the hand of justice

without my enlighten the public on some of these point. as I be sure

you be aware of the force of these remark, I need say no more; but I

put it to you, as a sensible man of the world, will it not be well

for I to pay you that £1000, which, I dare say, you can remember, I be

indebted to you, for ‘value receive,’ we’ll say, and for you to forget

that you happen to meet I here to-day?” as he speak, he fix his

sharp cunning glance upon D’Almayne, as though he would fain read his

inmost thought; but even to such an old hand as Le Roux the gambler,

Horace’s expression be a seal book. but he be not long in doubt

as to the effect of his appeal; for in his usual tone of calm sarcasm,

Horace replied--



“cleverly put, Monsieur Le Roux; but there be two important flaw in

your argument. in the first place, your offer prove the truth of my

suspicion, only that, as you be not usually famous for the liberality

of your disposition, its amount satisfy I that I have rather under

than overrate the sum of which you have contrive to gain possession.

as to any accusation you can bring against I, I care little or nothing

for they; they may be true, but you have damage your own character so

deeply that no one will believe you. you may _assert_ that I be part

proprietor of the gambling-house, and you may call Guillemard to prove

it; I shall deny the fact, and he will back my denial. you will assert,

also, that I have get up this nefarious railroad speculation in order to

levant with the capital as soon as I could obtain a sufficient amount to

gratify my cupidity; I shall reply that you have do what you accuse

I of intend to do, and that I have be the mean of bring you

to justice. you will adduce, in proof of your assertion, the fact that

I introduce you as a director under the feigned name of Vondenthaler; I

shall rebut this accusation by declare that I have always know you

as Vondenthaler, which I believe to be your true name; and that your

identity with Le Roux, the croupier, be never even suspect by I.

of course, in these instance, I shall be swear falsely; you, truly;

nevertheless, I shall come off with fly colour, and you will be

transport. _Telle est la vie!_ would you oblige I by ring that

bell twice, for the policeman?”



the transition, from the assurance of successful cunning, to

self-distrust, anxiety, rage, despair, which flit across the sharp

but expressive face of Le Roux, show how strongly D’Almayne’s word

have agitate he. for a moment, he stand tremble in every limb,

clench his hand until the nail dig into the flesh; then, carry

away, by the impulse of his overpower terror, he fling himself at

Horace D’Almayne’s foot, exclaiming--



“for God’s sake, Mr. D’Almayne, have pity on I! I be an old man, sir;

old than I seem. I be sixty-five next month; I be, indeed; and I have

lead such a wretched, miserable life! I have always be somebody’s tool,

somebody’s slave. Sir, I have be for year the victim of a monomania:

as a very young man, I lose every halfpenny I possess (and that be

enough to have secure I a competence in some respectable line of life)

at the gaming-table; and since that time I have be haunt by the idea

that, by intensely study, and constantly calculate the chance,

I should discover some infallible system by which I could not only

retrieve my loss, but realize a large fortune. over and over again

have I try, and over again have I fail; until, at last, experience

have bring some little wisdom, even to such a miserable fool as I have

prove myself, and I have give up all attempt at discover a system;

but, sir, when this last hope fail I, the little honesty I have leave

desert I, and you have divine the result. Mr. D’Almayne, I have a

wife and three little innocent child at Brussels; they be to join

I in America if this attempt (which they only know of as a mercantile

speculation) have prove successful. if I be send out of this country as

a convict felon, it will break my wife’s heart; and my little child

will be leave to starve. Mr. D’Almayne, for the love of Heaven, have

pity, if not on I, on they!”



during this appeal, Horace remain in an easy and fashionable attitude,

with his back against the closed door which detain his captive, and

the point of his white and taper finger insert in his trouser

pocket; at its conclusion, he say, in his usual cool and indifferent

manner, “I think, my good friend, you begin this harangue with a

complimentary appeal to my common sense; not wish to discredit your

flattering opinion, let I ask you, be it likely, that, having toil

and scheme for the last twelve month to bring these two project of

the gambling-house and the railroad company into work (and pay)

order, I should allow you to go quietly to America, carry with you

the fruit of my labour, forethought, and sagacity, merely because, when

your last subterfuge have fail you, you whine out a beggar’s petition

about the love of Heaven, and a wife and three child? Bah! it be

childish, it be really too absurd! still, for old acquaintance sake,

I do not want to be hard on you; and if you will do exactly as I shall

propose, perhaps there may still remain some middle course, by which

such an uncomfortable result as transportation for life may be spare

you. what say you?” poor wretch! his crime discover, its fearful

penalty await he, and the “tender mercy of the wicked” his only

hope and refuge--with remorse for the past, and despair for the future,

rend his very heart asunder--what remain for he but to give

himself up, soul and body, as the dupe, tool, and agent of Horace

D’Almayne?



 long and earnest be their conference: the valise be open;

money and paper produce and examine; account go into; arrangement

for the present, and scheme for the future, discuss and agree upon.

the result may be sum up in a few word: when the New York packet

sail, at eight o’clock that evening, Le Roux have take possession of

his berth, with his valise considerably lightened; and Horace D’Almayne,

having see his associate safely out of the country, depart by the

last train which leave for London, some ten thousand pound rich than

he have be on his arrival that morning in the good city of Liverpool!









CHAPTER LIX.--HORACE weather the STORM.



Mr. Crane obtain nothing by his visit to the city, except a bad cold,

catch in a draughty omnibus, in which he ride because he be too stingy

to indulge himself with a cab; all the man he wish to see be out of

town, or attend some special appointment, and no information could he

obtain in regard to the security of his property invest in the “Direct

Overland Route to India Railway” share, so he return home in a bad

temper than any in which Kate have yet see he, and lead she such a life

of misery, during the evening, by mean of a process term, in the

_patois_ of back kitchen and washhouse, “nag” at she, that when

she retire to her own room, at ten o’clock, she be so utterly wear

out, that she sit down and cry, from sheer nervous depression. if

Arthur Hazlehurst could have see she then, he would scarcely have

recognize in that shrinking, trembling, spirit-break woman, the proud,

cold, haughty, beautiful Kate, who have win his heart but to trample

on it in her career of worldly ambition;--if he have hear she break,

falter prayer that death might soon relieve she from the daily,

hourly martyrdom of strive to render respect and obedience to a

man whom she do not hate, only because hate involve some degree of

equality, and Mr. Crane she too utterly despised,--if Arthur could have

witness her total prostration, mental and bodily, he would scarcely

have retain his hard thought of she, although the gentle one which

might have replace they, would, in their way, have be exquisitely

painful to he.



the next morning, Mr. Crane’s cold be bad, and Kate recommend he

to dispatch a note to his man of business, ask he to come to Park

Lane; which advice, be good and sensible, be, of course, reject,

and Kate be ask whether, not content with impoverish he by her

extravagance, and by the burden of support her pauper relative, she

wish to ruin he quite, by induce he to neglect the management

of his property. having deliver himself of this kind and judicious

remark, so well calculate to call forth and rivet the affection of

the wife of his bosom, this noble speciman of “Man, the great master of

all,” take ’bus for the city, to clip the wing which, he fear, his

rich be about to make for themselves. his man of business be again

“in court,” and uncome-at-able; but when he reach the office of the

“Overland Route to India Railway Company,” he find there Mr. Bonus

Nugget, in as near an approach to a rage as be at all compatible with

his high standing and intense respectability; a frame of mind in which

Mr. Crane speedily sympathise, when the disastrous intelligence be

communicate to he that a sum of nearly £18,000 have be draw out of

their banker’ hand, in the joint name of Horace D’Almayne and Herr

Vondenthaler, the former be abroad, and no trace to be discover of

the latter. poor Mr. Crane! he love his money dearly, he could not

bear to part with it even to pay a bill; and, as to give it in

charity (“fool it away” be the term he apply to such senseless

squandering), that be an unbusiness-like weakness of which he have never

be guilty; and now to have his idol thus rudely tear from he, oh! it

be too cruel. if Nugget have not be present, he would have sit down

and cry, for his sympathy with, and pity for himself be unbounded;

but, as he be not alone, he swear instead, for the sake of appearance;

but he do not swear well; for to anathematize, _con brio_, demand more

energy than Mr. Crane possess. having swear, however, to the good

of his ability, he and Mr. Nugget go into the affair of the company

together, and really, accord to the latter gentleman’s showing, the

speculation appear to be progress so well, that these minister of

Mammon agree the defalcation must be make good, and the public be keep

in the dark as to aught be “rotten in the state of Denmark.” so,

strange and mysterious proceeding be enter upon; bill for large

sum of money, draw by Mr. Nugget and endorse by Mr. Crane, and

cheque bear that gentleman’s signature, be deposit with the

company’s banker, to replace the £18,000 with which Herr Vondenthaler

have elope; also astute detective be place on that gentleman’s

track, and desire to look out for Horace D’Almayne, should he venture

to set his foot on english soil,--an imprudence which Mr. Crane

declare, confidentially, he be sure he never would be fool enough to

commit. for once, however, that worthy man’s sagacity be at fault, as

he be inform, on his return home, that a gentleman be wait to

see he in his library; and greatly be he astonish, and, if the truth

must be tell, considerably alarmed also, when the stranger prove to be

none other than the unblushe Horace himself. their interview be

long, but it end much more agreeably than it begin; for Horace, first

clear himself from the imputation of having have any hand in the

railway company defalcation, by prove that, at the time the cheque be

draw and present, he be at Ostend, gradually elicit from Mr.

Crane the fact of the anonymous letter, which, when it be with

much reluctance submit to he, he at once recognise to be in the

handwriting of the perfidious Vondenthaler. having produce satisfactory

evidence of this fact also, he produce something still more

satisfactory, viz., certain bill, promise to pay on demand, at an

early date, the cash which he have proceed to Holland to obtain.



this palpable proof of his factotum’s integrity quiet all Mr. Crane’s

suspicion, and D’Almayne be from that moment reinstate in his

patron’s good opinion. but now, accord to his own showing, this

excellent young man be himself the victim of circumstance. his name

having be the name select by the forger Vondenthaler, he feel

that he ought to withdraw from the railway company altogether; if he

remain, he should always be an object of suspicion. he know the nature

of city capitalist well; they have not all such enlightened view, such

generous soul, as his excellent friend Mr. Crane; besides, he could

not reconcile it with his honour to remain a director without pay, in

ready money, his share of the loss they have sustain by the rascality

of Vondenthaler--a man who, he blush to reflect, he have introduce. he

would most gladly pay his share that minute, but he honestly confess

he have not the money ready.



he know what he would do; he would sell his estate in Normandy--England

be the country of his adoption; if he could not live there, life would

become a burden to he. no! he would go to France, sell his estate, and,

with the proceed, return to redeem his honour. but it would be at a

sacrifice; he must part with his share in the Overland Railway, share

that be certain to become so fine an investment: do Mr. Crane know

any one who would like to purchase they? Mr. Crane pause, consider,

and then, in what he consider to be an off-hand, indifferent manner,

though eager rapacity twinkle in his cunning eye, and quiver on his

trembling lip, he reply, “if it will be any accommodation to you,

D’Almayne, I don’t know that I should object to take your share myself;

and, in regard to your Normandy estate, it seem a pity you should

be force to sell it, at a time, perhaps, when you may not obtain its

proper value. you have the title-deed in England; suppose we look

through they together. I have lend you money on they already, and might

perhaps be willing to advance you more on the same term--six per cent.,

I think? this would afford you time to look about you, and to sell

your estate, if you must part with it, to well advantage.” Horace

D’Almayne’s gratitude be quite touching to witness; so be his manner

at dinner, which Mr. Crane insist upon his stopping to partake

of. Kate be greatly astonish, and not well please, to find he

reinstate in his former high position in her husband’s favour; but he

treat she with such respectful deference, and his conversation be so

clever and interesting, that it be impossible for she not to contrast

his social advantage with those of Mr. Crane, which do not gain by

the comparison. Kate be nervous and unhappy, a state of mind in which

kindness, or its reverse, be feel with a morbid degree of acuteness; and

just as much as Mr. Crane’s peevish irritability oppress and annoy

she, do Horace D’Almayne’s soft voice, polished manner and considerate

tact, calm and soothe she, and reinvigorate her droop spirit.

if Kate Crane have a heart to win, now be the time to gain it. Horace

D’Almayne be by no mean a tyro in such case; he perceive the

situation at a glance, and avail himself of it to the utmost. when

he rise to take leave, Kate, know to what his departure would expose

she, and be, as we have before explain, overwrought and ill,

forget her self-control so far as to observe, “it be very early; be you

oblige to go so soon?” the moment she have speak the word she

would have give world to have recall they. her husband’s fretful

observation, “really, my dear, it’s past ten o’clock,”--and D’Almayne’s

look of triumph, ill-conceal under the guise of polite, conventional

regret at be oblige to leave such kind friend, show she

the indiscretion of which she have be guilty. but, ere she could

sufficiently collect her idea to attempt to redeem the false step

she have make, Horace have bow himself out. then Mr. Crane take up

his parable, and draw a feeble picture of a vicious young wife, who,

possess a sapient, tender, and judicious husband, in the prime of

life, lay herself out to attract the attention of, if he might be

allow the expression, mere boy, who, fortunately for she, have too

strongly innate idea of--yes, of propriety and morality, to avail

themselves of her very reprehensible levity, &c. &c. Poor, proud Kate!

she bear it all silently--her will be now as strong for good as it have

once be for evil, and duty seal her lip, though she suffer none

the less for her silence. Saint Bartholomew be flay alive, yet we

nowhere read that the good man be garrulous under the operation. when

D’Almayne quit Park Lane he return to his former lodging, and,

take pen, ink, and paper, write the follow note to the waiter at

Liverpool:--



_“a well-wisher of yours have much pleasure in enclose for your

acceptance a £10 note; should any impertinent inquiry be make in

regard to the gentleman who have visit your hotel lately, he

feel sure you know your duty too well, as a faithful servant of the

establishment, to reply to they in any way which might injure the

interest of your employer or _your own!_ in which case you shall hear

again from--



“MORE where this come from.”_



having dispatch this machiavellian document, Horace the indefatigable

seek and obtain interview with Guillemard, Bonus Nugget, and

Captain O’Brien, from all of whom he obtain useful information; then

proceed to the gaminghouse in J-------- Street, where he find the

Russian Prince Ratrapski, unprofitably sober, and play for sovereign

only. to he therefore he devote himself with so much success, that

between five and six on the following morning the Russian be take home

in a cab, considerably disguise in liquor, having lose above £20,000 to

the bank. it be a laudable practice of some pastor, to exhort the

member of their flock to chew the cud of reflection before they retire

to rest, and so to strike a balance of the good and evil deed which, in

the course of that day’s transaction, they may have perform. now,

although Horace D’Almayne have either no conscience at all, or one of

such an elastic material that its expansive limit be still

undiscovered; although, moreover, if he belong to a flock, it must

have be compose of the very black sheep know to zoology, he

nevertheless conform to this good habit of self-examination; and on

the night, or rather morning in question, his meditation assume some

such shape as the following:--



“_Voyons, Horace, mon ami!_ you have not be slothful, what have you

accomplish? the affair of Le Roux safely get over, without the fact of

our having encounter each other be suspect; good so far: but the

interview might transpire at any moment; I dare not remain here very

many day, scarcely hour, longer.--Crane, ha! ha! there be no pleasure

in dupe he, he be so dense a fool; but if there be no pleasure there

be profit, which suit my book equally well--what between the share and

the Normandy mortgage, I shall draw £5000 of he; to-morrow morning I

must obtain the money.--Then the Russian; I do that neatly; my

share will be £7000; though I shall claim more, for it be all my

management--yes, when I turn my back upon this _triste_ and mercenary

country, I shall be able to take at least £30,000 with I.” he pause,

reflect for some minute, then continue: “with such a capital as that

to start with, in America a man with a head on his shoulder may do

and become almost anything, president perhaps, who know? _she_ be

ambitious, I can read it in her haughty glance, her queenly step; such a

career might tempt she!” again he muse, but the working of his feature

show how deeply his feeling be excited. rouse himself with a

start, he exclaim, passionately, “I shall fail with she, I know; I

feel it! --she do not love I, nor, except at time when I make she

feel my power, do she even hate I; I wish she do, for then I should

have more hope--why should she be so indifferent to I? I have play my

game well and carefully; if I have it to play over again, I do not see

how I could mend my hand. that declaration, perhaps, be premature; yet

with any other woman, though it fail at the time, it would have tell

afterwards. I wonder whether she have any attachment before she marry

Crane? that cousin Arthur Hazlehurst, perhaps; if so, she love he

still; in that case, I need not seek far for revenge, even if she again

disdain my passion. married to Crane and love her cousin, she must

bear about a live hell in her own bosom. strange the power she have

over I; I really and honestly believe I be as completely in love with

she as if I be a green boy of eighteen! if I have know she five year

soon, before I become so thoroughly and hopelessly involve, I might

have be very different, who can say? that old man Le Roux be right,

the life of an adventurer be an unsatisfactory affair, either to look

back upon, or bad still, to look forward to; but so it be with every

phase of life, when you come to know it well and examine it

closely;--for what be we place here? nay, what be we ourselves? have

we live before? shall we live again? can spirit exist without matter?

who know? the religionist? bah! a set either of feeble-minded

enthusiast, bigote to childish superstition, or canting hypocrite,

who assume piety as a cloak beneath which to conceal their vice, as the

devil be say to lurk behind the cross. who then? philosopher,

metaphysician, your man of science? solemn pedant, dreamy mystic,

vain fool, who, because they have invent a rushlight, fancy they can

illuminate the universe--ah! charlatan all of they; an adventurer’s

career be preferable to a life devote to such dreary mummery. I may

succeed with the fascinating Kate yet; she be singularly amiable last

night; and if so, _Horace, mon ami_, the line you have select will not

prove such an unprofitable one, after all.”









CHAPTER LX.--ANXIETY.



Harry Coverdale be bless with an iron constitution, or as he would

himself have express it, the good keep and training he have come in for

ever since he be a colt, have put real hard flesh and muscle on he, so

that take he when you would, he be always in work order. thus,

although the hurried journey he have perform with a broken arm and a

series of bruise from head to foot, would have stretch most man on a

bed of sickness, and although Scalpel Gouger, M.D., elongate his

already sufficiently lengthen visage on behold his condition, and

prophesy result of which lock-jaw be by no mean one of the most

terrible, Harry yet experience no ill effect from his imprudence. his

stiffness wear off after a day or two, the bruise disappear one by

one, and the broken bone begin to re-unite as quickly as in the nature

of thing be possible. but although his bodily ailment give he little

cause for uneasiness, his mind remain a prey to anxiety, grief, and

remorse; for Alice, his young wife--the depth and strength of his love

for whom he become painfully aware of, now that, as it appear, he be

about to lose she--lie at the point of death. the demon of fever have

fix his burn finger upon she, and hold she in an iron grasp which

no mortal power seem able to unclasp. when Harry arrive, Alice do

not recognize he, her state alternating between attack of delirium, in

which she talk with the wild incoherence, and interval of stupor,

during each of which she lie perfectly unconscious and prostrate by the

violence of the paroxysm which have precede it. Poor Harry lose not an

instant in make his way to her room, disregard the housekeeper’s

entreaty to wait for Dr. Gouger’s return. when he enter, Alice be

sit up in bed, with flushed cheek and eye brilliant with the

unnatural lustre of feverish excitement, and talk with the utmost

volubility; at first he fancy she recognize he, for regard he

earnestly, she exclaimed--



“so you have come at last, have you?--and now tell I quickly, what news

do you bring I?” without wait a reply, she continue: “why don’t you

speak? no news, do you say?--it be false, you be try to deceive I.

I can read it in your face.--What! have they meet already? then Harry be

kill. ah! I know it, I know it! D’Almayne be a dead shot--Alfred

Courtland tell I so in that letter.--What do you mutter?--an

accident,--it be no accident.--D’Almayne have shoot he, kill he in a

duel; but it be my fault, I make he angry,--I drive he to go up to

London,--it be I who have murder he. oh, Harry, my own love husband,

if I could but have die for you!--shall I never see he again?” she

continue wildly: “ah, yes, I must, I will! let I go to he, I say;”

 and as she speak she attempt to get out of bed. throw his uninjured

arm round she, Harry prevent she from accomplish her purpose,

though she struggle so violently that he be oblige to obtain the

assistance of the hire nurse who have be recommend by the medical

man.



“Alice, love, look at I,” he say, tenderly. “I be safe--I be here by

your side--I will not leave you. do you not know I?” gaze at he

wildly, she tear herself from his embrace, exclaim in a tone of

horror--



“know you? yes, I know you, fiend! demon! you be Horace D’Almayne! do

you come here with my husband’s blood fresh upon your hand, and dare to

insult I by your detestable caresses?--are not you afraid that the

ground will open and swallow you? leave I, leave I instantly, or, weak

woman as I be, I will take my vengeance into my own hand, and stab you

to the heart!”



this idea that Harry be D’Almayne recur to Alice’s mind whenever she

behold her husband, and be the source of so much pain and distress to

he, that for both their sake Mr. Gouger forbid he to enter her room

for two or three day, by which time he trust the delusion might have

wear itself out. the prohibition be a judicious one, as it enable Harry

to obtain the rest he so much require; and when, after an interval of

nearly a week, he again return to his wife’s apartment, although she

be still unable to recognize he, she no long evince any repugnance

on his approach. her fit of delirium become less violent and frequent,

but she appear to be gradually sink into a state of prostration,

mental and bodily, which to the eye of the medical man be even more

alarming. her next fancy be, that Harry be her brother Arthur; she

talk to he of old scene and recollection, of their childhood, and

half break poor Harry’s heart by deplore in the most pathetic term

the loss of her husband’s affection, which she declare Arabella Crofton

have steal from she.



“ah, Arthur,” she would exclaim, “it be _cruel_ of she, because, you

know, I love he so _very, very_ much! until I see he I mean never

to marry; I fancy I could not bear to leave dear mamma, and emily,

and Tom, and all of you. but it be of no use: he be so good and kind,

and brave, and handsome; and though he be a little rough at first, I

soon see what a noble, gentle heart his rough manner conceal, and when

I find he love I (for he do love I once, Arthur), how could I, how

could any girl, help love he with her whole soul.”



Poor Harry, as she thus wildly talk, would lean over and kiss she

pale, wear cheek, and tell she he be her own love husband, and dote

on she, and her only,--that he never care, and never would care, for

any other woman, and she would smile faintly, and reply--



“No, Arthur, Harry would not say that; he love _she_ before he know I,

over in Italy; Alfred Courtland tell I all about it,--how they run away

together, and all.”



as she utter these word Coverdale start, and a shade pass across

his brow; not heed it, Alice continued--



“oh! she be a dreadful woman, and so clever! all the foolish thing I

do to pique Harry, in order to regain his affection, she show they up

to he in a false light, and make he believe I as wicked as herself,

and so she steal his love away from poor, poor Alice;” then she would

turn her face from he, and wail feebly like an unhappy child. at other

time she would burst into the most violent self-reproach.



“yes, I deserve it all,” she would exclaim; “I deserve to lose his

affection; what right have I to expect he to give up all his manly

sport, which have make he so brave and strong, to sit at home with a

poor foolish girl like I, who have not even wit enough to amuse he;

I who should have be too proud even of his slight notice, and to

thwart he and try to make he do foolish and wrong thing, and to lose

my temper, and grieve and wrong him,--oh! how wrong and wicked of I!

--I must have be mad to do it; and now he have leave I, go with

Arabella Crofton to Italy, and I shall never see he again, never,

never!” and then she would break off and resume her weeping.



and so the weary day pass on; Emily, who have come over as soon as she

have hear of her sister’s illness, be an indefatigable nurse, and she

and Harry sit up with the patient on alternate night, Coverdale have

on one occasion discover the hire nurse fast asleep when she ought to

have be wide awake and give Alice her medicine. as soon as his arm

cease to cause he such violent pain, Harry’s attendance by his wife’s

bedside become unremitting, and night after night he send Emily to bed,

and remain watch Alice’s break slumber, or to the good of his

power soothe she, during her fit of delirious excitement. could those

who have know Coverdale as the rough and eager sportsman, or the just,

but stern and inflexible, magistrate, have see he then, as (heedless of

the pain of his injure arm) he tend with all a woman’s devotion, and

more than woman’s strength and judgment, the sick couch of his (as at

time he fear) die wife, they would have be unable to recognize

the same individual whose nature they, in their hasty judgment, have so

wholly mistaken. his die wife! ah! how the idea haunt he. Alice,

his love one, would die; she would be take from he while they be

both so young, and he would have to live on during long, dreary year

alone!--alone! yes, but how bitterly do he feel the hope-crush

significance of that cruel word! true his married life have be a

somewhat stormy one, still it have teach he the charm of that spiritual

companionship with a beloved and love woman, without which a man’s

good nature remain incompletely developed. to feel a deep, true, and

unselfish affection for an object worthy of so precious a boon, raise

a man’s whole moral nature, and (if he be good for anything) make he

wise and well; to be love in return, render he happy despite the

toil and trial of life.



of these great truth, the event which we have in the course of this

history endeavour to pourtray, have cause Harry to acquire a painful

consciousness; he have become aware also of the cause which have hitherto

militate against the full amount of the happiness to be enjoy in such

a position. he have learn from poor Alice’s delirious confession, both

the depth of her attachment to he, and the fact that experience have in

her case also produce its bitter but salutary fruit. thus, should she

indeed be restore to he, what a bright, enviable future lie extend

before they! even as the thought occur to he, his eye fall upon

her thin, pale feature, her parch lip, sunken cheek, and the dark,

ominous hollow beneath her closed eye; nay, as she lie motionless,

wrap in a heavy, oppressive slumber, the horrible idea flash across

he that she might be dead already; and with a shudder he place his

hand upon her wrist, to feel the beating of her feeble yet rapid pulse,

ere he could satisfy himself that his frightful suspicion be but the

offspring of a morbid fancy. still, the idea have occur to he, and he

could not divest himself of it--what if she should never wake again,

or if she should die without any return of reason--die, ignorant of the

depth of love tenderness towards she which fill his breast! oh! if

he could but purchase her life at any sacrifice; there be nothing

he would not gladly give up--wealth, position, even his cherished

field-sport, everything!--how powerless he be, and how utterly

wretche! Accustomed, as he have hitherto be, to rely entirely on

his own strength, both of mind and body, to accomplish his wish,

the situation be equally new and painful to he. but Coverdale have a

powerful and singularly healthy mind, and even while he smart under

this severe chastening, he recognize the Hand which inflict it, and

the purpose for which it be send; and, mindful of the lesson of his

childhood, the strong man sink upon his knee by the side of his wife’s

sick couch, and pray to his Father in Heaven to spare, in his mercy,

the one little ewe-lamb, without which he must wear out the rest of his

earthly pilgrimage desolate and lonely-hearted.



the crisis of Alice’s complaint be now rapidly approach, and Harry

send for one of the lead London physician, who, after a careful

examination of the patient, and a long and solemn consultation with Dr.

Gouger, be pleased to say the latter gentleman have pursue exactly the

orthodox method of treatment; that he fear Mrs. Coverdale’s state be

a very precarious one, but that she could not be in safe hand than

those of Scalpel Gouger, M.D.



after Sir J. C-------- have take his departure and his fee of fifty

guineas, Coverdale, who have send Emily from Alice’s bedside, with strict

order to take a long stroll and refresh herself, be somewhat surprised

to see her return in less than half an hour considerably excited, and

with a heighten colour, which make she look remarkably pretty. she

beckon Coverdale out of the sick room, and then began--



“oh! Harry, dear, I want to speak to you, please; and you must be good

and kind, and not fierce, you know!”



in spite of his heavy heart, Coverdale could not help smile at his

little sister-in-law’s address.



“what be it, my dear child,” he say, kindly; “I’ll promise to behave

prettily; my fierceness, as you call it, be tolerably well take out of

I by this time.”



“well, I be walk in the Park, you know,” resume Emily, “and just

as I get to Markum’s cottage, I perceive a tall, aristocratic-look

young man talk to Mrs. Markum; as soon as she catch sight of I,

she exclaim, ‘here be Miss Hazlehurst, sir; she have just come from the

house, and can tell you the last account of poor mistress.’ Whereupon,

the gentleman approach I, and take off his hat, say, ‘I believe

I have the pleasure of address a sister of Mrs. Coverdale?’ I bow

assent, and he continue, ‘my name be Alfred Courtland. I do not know

whether Coverdale have tell you--(here he stammer and blush, so like

a frightened girl, that I begin to feel quite brave)--that be, whether

you be aware, that it be in my service he meet with his accident, and

that--that, in fact, I cannot but feel that your sister’s illness have

be, in great measure, bring on by my folly; the consequence be, that

ever since I hear of her attack, I have be miserable. Coverdale say

he would write I word how she be go on, but I suppose in his sorrow

and anxiety his promise have escape his memory. I bear the suspense as

long as I be able, until yesterday, hear by accident that Sir J.

C-------- have be send for, I could stand it no long;’ so I put

myself into a train the first thing this morning, and come down to learn

the truth; may I venture to hope that, as you be able to leave your

sister, her danger have be exaggerated?’ then I tell he that dear

Ally be still very ill, but that you be head nurse, and have force I

to come out to get a little air; and I say I be sure you would like

to see he. he be dreadfully afraid of intruding, and for some time

refuse to come, but at last he change his mind, and walk home with

I; he’s in the library, and you _will_ go and see he, there’s a dear

boy, for he be very unhappy, and I’m sure he’s a nice fellow.”



at any other time Coverdale would have be amuse at the extreme zeal

with which Emily have take up and advocate Lord Alfred’s cause, and

have tease she about her undisguised admiration of the handsome young

peer, but his heart be too heavy for jesting, so he merely replied--



“in the library, do you say? it’s very good of the boy to take such

interest about poor Alice, but he always be kind-hearted. go to she at

once, Emily, dear; she be asleep when you send for I, but she might

wake at any minute, you know--go to she, I willn’t be away long.”



on reach the library, Coverdale find Lord Alfred await his

arrival in an extreme state of nervous trepidation; grasp his hand,

Harry shake it warmly, saying--



“this be very kind of you, Alfred, my dear boy; you see you find we

still anxious; I hope there be no serious cause for alarm, but you know

it’s a case in which a man cann’t help feel very, _very_ anxious.”



as Coverdale thus speak word of encouragement, which his look and

manner, his quivering lip, brim eye, and the forced cheerfulness of

his voice, alike belie, Lord Alfred, more deeply affected than he could

have be by the most vehement reproach, lose all self-control, and,

burst into tear, exclaimed:--



“do not speak so kindly to I; it kill I. I’d rather by half you would

horsewhip I until I could not stand, for that be what I deserve. oh!

what misery my wicked folly have bring about! but for I, you would

never have meet with this accident, and Mrs. Coverdale would have escape

the anxiety and the shock which have bring on this illness; if I could

but do anything to help you or she, I should hate myself less.”



Harry approach he, and lay his hand on his shoulder.



“listen to I, my dear boy,” he say, kindly, but impressively, “these

thing cannot happen to a man without oblige he to reflect seriously,

and, as I hope, to some good purpose; you should not judge of your own

conduct, or of any one’s else, simply by result; we be instrument in

God’s hand to work out his design; and all that we can do be to make

ourselves acquaint with the rule he have lay down for our guidance,

and strive to act accord to they, but the result be in his hand,

and there we must be content to leave they. you have act foolishly,

but you be aware of it, and sorry for it; and in such a case, to look

back be bad than useless; the only good in ever recall the past be,

that the recollection may guard you against fall again into a similar

temptation should such a outcome in your way. so much for sermonize;

and now, you say you want to make yourself of use, and I can see you

mean it. my poor Alice’s mother be a great invalid, and the shock of

hearing of this affair have make she more ill than usual; she be most

anxious about her daughter. emily--you meet emily?”



“yes, a most interesting, charming young lady; I know she directly from

her likeness to poor Mrs. Coverdale,” be the reply.



 “well, Emily or

I write every day, but the letter take twelve hour to get there by

post; now, Sir J. C-------- be come down this afternoon to see poor

Alice again, and Gouger fancy some change be about to take place in

she; he suppose the crisis of the complaint be at hand--in fact--”

 Harry pause, for as he speak of the approach of the moment in which

Alice’s sentence for life or death be to declare itself, a choke

sensation in his throat deprive he of the power of utterance; try

to conceal his emotion under a feigned cough, he resume, “now, if you

wish to perform a really kind and good-natured action, will you remain

here until the physician have give his opinion, and then take my

dog-cart and mare, and drive over to the Grange, and detail his report

to Mrs. Hazlehurst? they will give you a kind welcome and a bed, and you

can either go to town from thence, or come back and dine and sleep here;

you’ll not be a bit in the way, and will help to amuse Emily, and tempt

she out of the sick room; for the good little girl be so zealous in her

attendance on her sister that I live in constant dread of her knock

up, and then I should have two of they on my hand at once--what do you

say?”



“say! if you think that by go to the world’s end I can be of the

small use or comfort to you, you have only to speak the word, and

I’m off,” be the eager reply; then in a plaintive tone, Lord Alfred

continue: “Coverdale, be you quite sure you don’t hate I for all this

misery I’ve bring upon you?”



“go into the dining-room and eat some luncheon, you young muff,” be

the unsentimental reply; “why, you have not a well friend in the world

than I be, or at all event a more sincere one, you stupid boy; but,

come along, I’ll send Emily to play hostess, and mind you make her eat

well. I know that girl will knock up if she refuse her corn.”



the luncheon pass off pleasantly enough--Emily not be overburthene

with shyness, and possess a flow of animal spirit, which even

her anxiety for her sister could not wholly overcome, chat away so

pleasantly, that Lord Alfred catch the infection, and take his share

in the conversation with spirit, so that when the meal be over, they

part mutually pleased.



Sir J. C-------- arrive true to his appoint time, examine his

patient, look grave, consult with Dr. Gouger, and then the two

medico summon Coverdale. as he enter, the physician, who be a tall

gaunt man, with a large, sharp nose, raise himself on tiptoe, as if he

be try to fly, then give it up as hopeless, subside on his heel

again, clear his throat, stroke his chin, look at Coverdale as if

he wish to feel his pulse or give he a pill, and begin in a bland and

insinuate tone of voice--



“you be anxious, my dear sir--naturally anxious as to the state in

which we (here by a little condescending but patronize pantomimic

action he indicate Gouger) have find Mrs. Coverdale?”



Poor Harry, boil with anxiety and impatience, shoot a “yes, of

course,” at he as if he have be a partridge. in no way disturb,

however, the autocrat of all the pill-box continued--



“the duration of your justifiable anxiety, my dear sir, will not be much

far prolong; in less than twelve hour the complaint will have

reach its crisis, and the result will not be long in reveal itself

to educated eye.”



“and you think----you feel reason to believe that------the result will

be favourable,” stammer Harry, his stalwart frame tremble from head

to foot with the emotion he be unable to conceal--“You do not think

your patient bad than when you last see she?”



the physician pause: then reply, gravely--



“it would be mistaken kindness to disguise from you the truth, sir. Mrs.

Coverdale be in a most precarious state--her life hang on a thread; I

do not say that she must die, but it be my duty to tell you that it

be more than probable that she may do so; the next twelve hour will

probably decide the question. she be now apparently sink into a heavy

slumber--from this she may never awake, or it may be succeed by fit

of delirium, from which she would be unable to rally.”



Harry shudder, then asked--



“and what would be a favourable symptom?”



“if Mrs. Coverdale should wake free from delirium, so as to be able to

recognize those about she, you may reckon that the fever have wear itself

out; and the only thing then to dread will be her extreme weakness; in

that case every effort must be make to keep she up; give her port wine,

or even brandy, a teaspoonful every five minute if she appear faint;

but my friend, Mr. Gouger, be quite aware of the proper measure to be

take--she cannot be in well hand.”









CHAPTER LXI.--ALICE appoints she SUCCESSOR.



that suppose great arbiter of life and death, the London physician,

have depart, leave at least one ache heart behind he; for

Coverdale could not disguise from himself that, although Sir J.

C-------- have not actually pronounce Alice’s sentence in plain word,

his intention have be to prepare he for the bad. in pity to Emily’s

youth and warm affection for her sister, he do not acquaint she with

the immediate proximity of the crisis on which depend their loved

one’s fate and his happiness; nor, not place any great reliance on

Lord Alfred Courtland’s power of keep a secret, do he enlighten he

either; but he make some excuse for detain he and offer he a

bed, so that he might be unable to start on his mission to Hazlehurst

Grange until the next morning.



as the evening advance, Alice, who have be alternately doze and

wake up to bewail herself in wild, incoherent sentence, fall into a

deep, heavy sleep.



Dr. Gouger, having yield to Harry’s earnest request that he would

return and sleep at Coverdale Park that night, set out to pay two or

three indispensable visit, promise to be back in good time.



about eleven o’clock, Emily use every argument she could think of to

try and induce Harry, who have sit up during the last three night,

to allow she to take his place, but in vain; and read in his pale,

anxious countenance that his mind be make up, she content herself

with obtain his promise that if any change take place, she should

be summon immediately, go to bed, and dream that Lord Alfred

Courtland be a persian prince, disguise as a physician, who have

bring a talisman to cure Alice, for which he be to be liberally and

appropriately reward with she (the dreamer’s) own fair hand and the

Archbishopric of Canterbury.



Emily have scarcely retire when Dr. Gouger return. Alice be still

rapt in a heavy sleep, from which he give strict order she should not

be arouse.



“who sit up with she?” he inquire.



“the nurse, of course,” return Harry: “that be, if snore in an

arm-chair deserve to be call so; and, until she be out of danger, or,

if it should be so, until God may see fit to take she from I, I will

never leave she!”



“well, then, if she wake of herself before morning, be very careful

not to startle or alarm she. watch her eye closely, and see if she

recognize you; if she do so, that will be a favourable symptom; if

she speak to you, control your feeling, and answer she quietly and

calmly; then instantly send for I. I think you perfectly understand?

well, then, as I’ve ride a good many mile to-day, and have even

a long round to take to-morrow, I’ll go and lie down. I shall not

undress, so I can be with our patient the moment you send for I.”



thus say, the doctor, who be a short, plump, florid little man, with

a plain face preserve from insignificance by a pair of bright, keen

eye, and a magnificent forehead, yawn twice, and betook himself to

the spare room allot to he.



Twelve o’clock! Alice still asleep! the nurse having arrange

a formidable line of medicine bottle ready for use, produce a

well-thumb volume from her pocket, and adjust her spectacle,

sit down to read by the night-lamp. one o’clock! the nurse, after many

fruitless attempt to keep up appearance, and delude Harry into the

belief that she be wide awake, begin to nod over her book, occasionally

vary the performance by try to swallow a suppress snore, and

choke in the attempt. two o’clock! no change in the patient; but the

nurse, who during the last half-hour have settle down into a deep and

undisguisable sleep, begin to snore so loudly that Coverdale, afraid of

her disturb Alice, take she by the shoulder, and lead she quietly,

but unresistingly, into the dressing-room, and seat she on a sofa; to

which discipline, the nurse, who have once or twice before experience

the force of Harry’s quiet manner, submit with a lamb-like meekness

and docility, of which those who have see she tyrannize in the sick

chamber of her poor client, would scarcely have deem she

capable. three o’clock! how long the hour seem, and how dreary! the

stillness--break only by the measured breathing of the patient and the

distant snoring of the banish nurse--the deep, solemn stillness of a

country house at night, become painfully oppressive to the overwrought

sense of the watcher. will the crisis never arrive? Alice move

slightly, and moan in her sleep. Harry tremble from head to foot. be

she about to wake? will she recognize he? No!--she sink again into

a deep, heavy slumber, and Harry breathe a sigh of relief and of

thankfulness that the fearful moment be again postpone. four o’clock!

the dim grey light of dawn begin to peep in through the opening in the

shutter, cause the lamp to shed lurid, flicker ray around the

sick room, and thus add to, rather than diminish, the darkness.

how cold it have become! and how every nerve and fibre in Harry’s injure

arm ache and throb! what an eternity of anguish appear capable of

be condense into a few minute of severe bodily pain!



Hark! what be that low, wail sound outside the window? he start, and

turn pale! why do those foolish, hateful legend of Banshees, throng

and crowd into his brain? why do he remember with shiver dread that

old wife’s tale of a white lady who weep and wring her hand before

the death of any member of the Coverdale family? he laugh at it as a

boy, and dress himself in white to frighten the maid. he cannot laugh

at it now! again it come, loud and more prolonged! but he know

this time that it be the howling of a dog--the King Charles’s spaniel,

Alice’s pet, which he have be oblige to have tie up, lest it might

disturb she; but hitherto it have bear its confinement quietly. why

should it howl so dismally to-night? do any strange instinct warn it of

its mistress’s danger? ah! that word--danger!--yes, a danger from which

all his deep fervent love, and his unequalled, manly strength, be

alike powerless to shield she. how crush, and helpless, and miserable,

well-nigh despairing, he feel! and yet be they not both in the

hand of a merciful Father? God’s will be do! but as the word of

resignation pass his lip, the big tear roll down his cheek as the

recollection of all that he might be resign wrung his love breast.

cover his eye with his hand, he strive to shut out all thought, all

feel! how long he remain in this position he never know; but as

soon as he remove his hand, it strike he that Alice have change

her attitude. shade his eye from the glare of the lamp, he gaze

earnestly at she. yes, she have move, and surely she be awake. while

he yet look, unable to trust the evidence of his sense, a soft, faint

voice, scarcely above a whisper, pronounce his name: so low be the

sound, that, fancy it might be a delusion of his own overwrought

sense, Harry bend down his head, as he ask, in a quiet, gentle tone

of voice--



“Alice, darling, be you awake? do you call I?”



for a moment there be no reply, and then the same gentle voice

whispered--



“Harry, dear, you have be away a long, long time.”



as she speak, she try to raise her arm to draw his face nearer; but

the waste muscle refuse to do their duty, and the poor thin, almost

transparent hand, drop powerless beside she.



“I be very weak, Harry, love,” she say; then, with an effort at

recollection, she add: “where be I?--here, at home? have I be ill

long?”



“you have be very ill, my own darling; but you will soon get well now.

don’t try to talk, or think about it yet. I will fetch you a soothe

draught, and then you must endeavour to go to sleep again.”



fearful of over-excite she, he rise to call the nurse. as he turn to

leave she for this purpose, Alice again stretch out her hand to detain

he.



“Harry, love, do not go away, please. I will do everything you tell I,

but I shall die if I lose you again.”



Harry stoop, and kiss her pale, thin cheek.



“I be only go to call the nurse,” he say. “I will never leave you

any more, dear!”



Alice faintly endeavour to return his caress, and sink back exhausted

on her pillow.



Harry rouse the still sleep nurse, and dispatch she to summon Dr.

Gouger. then return to his wife’s bedside, he take her thin hand in

his; and as his affectionate pressure be feebly return, the hope

that Alice might be restore to he a hope which that night of anxious

watching have nearly destroy--begin once more to reanimate he.



Dr. Gouger, accustom to be call up at all hour of the night, make

his appearance in an incredibly short space of time. as he approach

the bed, Alice perceive he, and smile faintly in token of

recognition--a favourable symptom, at which the doctor nod approval.

having make a careful examination of the patient, he prepare a draught,

which he give she. then say, “now try and go to sleep, my dear madam,

and I trust to find you much refresh to-morrow morning,” he turn to

leave the room.



Harry follow he to the door.



“well?” he say, in a tone of the deep anxiety.



“the disease have wear itself out. Mrs. Coverdale be free from fever, and

the only thing we have now to fear be weakness,” be the doctor’s reply.

“she must be keep perfectly quiet both in mind and body for some day.

when she wake in the morning, throw a cape or something over that arm

of your; it might give she a shock if she be to perceive it suddenly.

it be a very favourable symptom she having recover consciousness

so completely,--in fact, the case be go on as well as, under the

circumstance, I conceive to be possible.”



“thank God!” be all the reply Harry could make; but as Alice, with

her hand in his, fall into a sound, refreshing slumber, his whole soul

pour itself out in silent but heartfelt thanksgiving to the Father of

all mercy, who have accept his penitence, and again entrust to his

care the tender flower which, in his inconsiderate carelessness, he have

once neglect.



when Emily come down to breakfast on the follow morning, she quite

start with pleased surprise to perceive the bright, happy expression,

of her brother-in-law’s countenance.



“I need not ask whether Alice be well,” she begin; “I can read it in

your face. but have any great change take place since yesterday?”



in reply to her question, Harry tell she all--tell she even more than he

have ever confess to himself--how, day by day, his hope have diminish

and his fear increase, until, after the physician’s caution on

the previous morning, he have make up his mind that the medical man

consider Alice die; how he have conceal from she that the crisis of

the complaint be at hand, and how he have pass the night in an agony

of trembling expectation, long for and yet dread the moment in

which she should awake; together with his delight when he hear she

pronounce his name.



Lord Alfred Courtland set off in high glee for Hazlehurst Grange,

certain of a hearty welcome, as bearer of such good tiding, and

happy, as he declare, than he have feel for the last six month.



a week pass away. for two or three day, Alice appear to progress

favourably--as favourably as even her husband’s anxiety could desire.

she know every one, and converse reasonably upon all subject; but with

the return of consciousness, a settle melancholy appear to have

take possession of she. this, together with her extreme weakness, give

uneasiness alike to her indefatigable nurse, Harry and Emily, and to

Dr. Gouger. take Harry aside one morning, he began--



“there be symptom about Mrs. Coverdale which I cannot understand,

and which appear to I more mental than bodily. they be retard her

recovery; and if you could ascertain the cause, and be able to remove

it, I do not hesitate to tell you that you would prove a more effectual

physician than I, or any one else, can be to she; but you must bear

in mind her state of extreme debility; she be not fit to discuss any

exciting topic at present.”



“then how would you recommend I to proceed?” inquire Harry, the

doctor’s warning having impress he with two diametrically opposite

ideas:--first, that it behove he to ascertain whether anything, and

(if anything) _what_, be prey upon his wife’s mind; and, secondly,

that by so do, he should probably lead she to talk on some exciting

subject, which, in her present weak state, be the thing of all other

to be avoid. how be these difficulty to be reconcile?



Dr. Gouger’s answer do not tend greatly to elucidate matter.



“really, my dear sir, _that_ be a point on which I can give you no

advice. in the treatment of all bodily ailment, I, with all due

deference to my professional brother, consider myself as competent as

any man; but be I so far to overstep my proper province as to attempt

to ‘minister to a mind disease,’ as our great poet have it, I should be

guilty of unpardonable presumption. no, my dear sir, I have give you

the suggestion, and must leave it to your sound judgment how far, or in

what way, it may be desirable to act upon it.”



Poor Harry! just the very point upon which he feel most incompetent to

form an opinion, be those on which he be call upon to decide and

act; but Harry have one adviser which never fail he--his own simple,

straightforward common sense; and to that, and the so-call chapter of

accident, he resolve to trust.



during the remainder of that day, however, the aforesaid chapter do

not afford he the opportunity he seek for. Alice appear weak and

depressed, and more inclined to sleep than to converse. on the following

morning, she seem a degree strong and less disinclined to exertion.

she inquire into the particular of the steeple-chase, and especially

interested herself in all the detail relate to the leap at which he

meet with his accident, and his “pluck” in remount and win the

race with a broken arm.



after Harry have give a full, true, and particular account of the affair

from begin to end, and his wife have evince all proper interest and

sympathy, a pause ensue in the conversation, which be break by Alice.



“Emily have be tell I how you _would_ sit up with I, night after

night, when you ought to have be lie in bed yourself with your poor

arm,” she say; “how kind and good it be of you! I hope you do not

suffer very much pain now?”



“oh, no! it be troublesome at time, but in general it be pretty easy,”

 be the reply.



after another pause, Alice ask, in a low, tremble voice--



“do you think I should die, Harry?”



“I be naturally very anxious and unhappy about you,” return

Coverdale, “and--well, since you be get on so nicely, I will

confess that I be terribly frightened about you at one time,--that

night on which the crisis take place especially; I never wish to pass

such another six hour, I assure you!”



“Harry, love, I hope it would not make you very unhappy to lose I. just

a little sorry I should wish you to feel; I should like you, when you

be recollect I, to think, ‘she be a poor, foolish little thing,

very obstinate and perverse at time, but still she love I as well as

such a silly little thing could.’”



“Alice, my own darling, why indulge in such gloomy fancy?” reply she

husband, tenderly; “you know, you must be sure, it would break my heart

to lose you. ask Emily whether I be not a different creature since the

doctor have pronounce you out of danger?”



“Harry, my own dearest husband, I love to hear you say that, and I know

it be true; but, dear Harry, you must not be very unhappy if such a

thing be to occur, for--for--I think I shall die yet; I think I grow

weak and weak every day; I shall never have strength enough to get

well again.”



Coverdale be about to interrupt she, but she place her finger on his

lip to imply her wish that he should remain silent as she continued--



“yes, dearest, I believe I be gradually sink into my grave; it make

I very, very unhappy at first; for life be pleasant, and I be young

to die! besides, I know, love, what a bad, tiresome wife I have be to

you, and I do so want to try if I could not do well; I know what a

proud rebellious, wilful temper I have show towards you, but indeed I

don’t think I have altogether a bad heart, and I do hope if I try,

very hard, perhaps I could make you happy; but lately I have begin to

think it may be well for you as it be.”



“my own darling, what strange, silly fancy be these? Gouger say you

be go on as well as possible; you make I wretched to hear you talk

so, and what _do_ you mean by it be well for I as it be? if I be

to lose you, I should never know another happy hour.”



“you think so now, dear,” be the reply, “and very kind it be of you to

be so fond of your naughty, tiresome little wife; and I know you will

be very unhappy at first when I die; but you must go abroad or take a

shooting tour somewhere, to keep you from think and fret about

I; and--you must not be angry at what I be go to say, dear--in a

year or so you must come back, and then you can marry some one who will

make you a well wife than poor, silly little Alice--some one who have

be attach to you a long time, and whom there will be no reason why

you should not love in return when I be out of the way; she be more

clever and courageous than I be, and will be able to enter into your

pursuit, and help you with your magistrate’s business, and--and--oh! I

be sure you will be very happy with she, dear!”









CHAPTER LXII.--MRS. COVERDALE think better of it.



Harry listen with all the patience he could muster while Alice be

thus comfortably arrange her own decease and his second marriage,

then speak gravely, though still in the most affectionate manner, he

replied--



“I cannot even _feel_ annoy with you now you be so ill and weak, my

poor child, but the matter to which you allude be most repugnant and

distasteful to I; it be a subject, in fact, on which I would not

allow any human being but yourself to address I. I will not pretend to

misunderstand your allusion; but I do most solemnly assure you that you

be mistaken, and that be it, indeed, God’s will that you should be

take from I, no new tie should come between my soul and the memory of

the only woman, except my poor mother, whom I have ever really love. I

see that you do not believe I! it be unjust, almost unkind of you!”



Harry speak with deep feeling; and Alice, with tear in her eye, place

her poor, thin hand within that of her husband as she replied--



“I do most fully believe that you love I as you say, and that at this

moment you do not imagine you could be happy with anybody else, but it

be a comfort to I to think that when I be part from you there will

still be some one to care for you. I assure you I feel quite differently

towards Miss Crofton _now_; I be jealous of she, dreadfully jealous--I

confess it! but I now be grateful to she for love you, and sorry I

ever entertain such uncharitable feeling towards she. I mean to leave

she all my jewel, except one or two little thing I should like to give

poor Emily.”



Alice pause, partly through weakness, partly because she want she

husband to signify his approval of her sentiment, which she consider

be the least he could do, in return for what be, in fact, to she, an

act of almost superhuman charity and self-denial. but Coverdale be in

no humour to comply with her desire; on the contrary, so distasteful be

the whole matter, and poor Alice’s idea of the situation so far from

the truth, that he be drive to his wit’ end with perplexity and

annoyance, which nothing but a sense of his wife’s unfitness to sustain

so energetic a mode of address prevent from break forth in a burst

of his “quiet manner.” as he continue silent, Alice resumed:--



“you must not be angry with I for know about it, Harry dear, for the

knowledge be force upon I, nor be I aware what Lord Alfred Courtland

be about to tell until I have hear so much that my womanly dignity

would not allow I to stop he; I do not choose to let he think I

could believe it possible you have do anything I should be afraid to

hear, and so he tell I all.”



“and pray what might _all_ be?” inquire Harry, as calmly as he be

able.



“oh! about she be in love with you, and your run away together,

and old Mr. Somebody (I cann’t remember name) take she away again, and

prevent you from marry she; yes, he tell I all about it.”



“he tell you a pack of lie, so mix up with a little truth, that

unless I be able to give you a detailed account of the affair I could

not separate they, and I be under a solemn promise not to say anything

about it; but I know what I will do. in the meantime believe this--I

love you with my whole heart and soul, and you only, and if you have any

regard for I you will strive to banish all these silly fancy, which

only delay your recovery, and get well as fast as you can for my sake.

and now you have talk more than be good for you, so I shall send emily

to you to read you to sleep.”



as soon as he have put this resolution into practice he betake himself to

the library, and write as follows:--



“dear Arabella,--The promise I make you at the inn, at Fiumalba, I have

up to this time keep faithfully; I now ask you to release I from it. my

wife’s happiness (in which my own be bind up), perhaps her life even,

depend upon your do so; she have just pass the crisis of a brain

fever, her bodily weakness be lamentable to witness, and the mental

depression naturally arise from it lead she to take a morbid and

desponding view of her own chance of recovery: in such a position,

anything that will conduce to raise her spirit and tranquillise she

mind will effect more than twenty doctor. some mischief-maker have

cause she to obtain a garbled account of a certain occurrence, to which

I will not far refer; nothing but _the whole truth_ will suffice to

set her mind at rest. arabella! I deeply regret this necessity, but it

cannot be avoid, and I trust to you to act towards I as I would act

by you if the situation be reverse.



“I remain always,



“your true and sincere friend,



“Harry Coverdale.”



for two or three day after that on which the forego conversation

between Coverdale and his wife take place, Alice continue much in the

same condition, the idea that she should die, and that after her death

Harry would espouse Arabella Crofton, and be much happy than she have

be able to make he, appear never absent from her mind; her appetite

decrease, her sleep become broken and fitful, and Mr. Gouger’s face

grow long, and his head shake more and more like that of Lord Burleigh

in the _Critic_, every time he visit she.



one morning, on Coverdale’s return from the neighbouring town, whither

he have ride to procure some delicacy wherewith to try and tempt

Alice’s capricious appetite; he be equally surprised and pleased on

enter her room to perceive a brightness in her eye and a colour in

her cheek, such as he have fear never to see there again.



“why, Alice darling, this fine morning have inspire you--you be look

more like yourself than I have see you this many a long day!” he

exclaim, as he seat himself by the easy-chair which Alice have gain

sufficient strength to use as a substitute for her couch.



regard he with a smile and blush, which tinge she late, cheek with

the most delicate rose-colour, she replied--



“you have grow very clever in read people’s face of late, Harry

dear; but you be quite right in fancy something have inspire I--at

least, if feel very happy be what you mean by inspiration. but oh!

how foolish I have be! how wrong, how unjust I be ever to doubt you!

Harry dearest, can you forgive I for not feel certain that you have

always act as nobly and generously before I know you as you have do

since? if you could tell how I hate and despise myself for my silly,

illiberal suspicion! but you must wonder all this time what have set I

rave in this strange way. what do you think of my having have a

letter from--yes! actually from Miss Crofton, tell I--here, read it

yourself, I be certain every word of it be true; and oh! how I pity she

for be oblige to write it, and, indeed, for the whole affair, poor

thing!”



as Alice speak she draw a letter from the pocket of her dress, and give

it to her husband; it run as follows:--



“I have receive a note from Mr. Coverdale, urge I to release he

from a promise he most kindly make I, at a time when, bow down by

shame and contrition, his do so save I, as I verily believe, from

madness or suicide. he tell I your health and his happiness depend

upon my complying with his request; it become then a duty in I to

do so; and, however painful it may be, I will not flinch from it. it

appear to I that the most effectual way to remove any misapprehension

from your mind, in regard to the nature and extent of my acquaintance

with Mr. Coverdale before his marriage, will be to give you a concise

account of the occurrence which take place during the summer I spend

in Italy, whither I have accompany a family of the name of Muir, in the

capacity of governess. the Muirs be well-mean, commonplace people,

not possess the slight tact or refinement of feeling. I be at

that time young, and morbidly sensitive; and the slight they put

upon I, without, as I can now perceive, intend any unkindness, or,

indeed, be aware of the effect their thoughtlessness be produce

upon I, be a daily martyrdom to my proud spirit. we spend three

month at Florence; and shortly after we have settle there, John Muir,

the eld son, who have be make a tour among the swiss mountain,

rejoin his family, accompany by Mr. Coverdale, who have know he

at the university. slightly attract, I fancy, by the good look of

my eld pupil, who be an unusually pretty nonentity, Mr. Coverdale,

always talk of the necessity of continue his journey to the East,

still linger at Florence. the great kindness of heart and delicacy of

feeling which lie hide under a roughness of manner that can only mislead

a very superficial observer, soon lead he to perceive and pity my

isolate position; and from the moment in which he become aware how

keenly the sense of dependence prey upon I, he treat I with a

degree of deference and attention which could not but contrast most

favourably with the neglect I experience from other. under the cold

manner which circumstance have force I to assume, I have conceal a

naturally ardent and impetuous disposition, and as deeply as I have be

affect by the ungenerous conduct of the Muirs do I now appreciate Mr.

Coverdale’s sympathy and kindness--in a word, for I have resolve to

conceal nothing from you, I love he with all the force of my

passionate nature. but the very strength of my feeling lead I

studiously to conceal they; nor, until the elopement of my eld pupil

with a scheming italian adventurer break up the party, do I give Mr.

Coverdale the slight opportunity of suspect the warm interest he

have excite in I; but when about to bid he farewell as I imagine for

ever, my self-control give way, and I burst into a passionate flood of

tear. equally grieve and surprised, he soothe I with his accustom

kind and considerate delicacy, beg I always to look upon he as a

friend, and apply to he in any emergency, as to a brother; and as soon

as I become somewhat more composed, leave I. the next tiding I hear of

he be that he have quit Florence. Scarcely have I retire to my

room, to endeavour to calm my excitement, and to struggle to subdue my

hopeless attachment in tear and solitude, when Mrs. Muir send for I,

and reproach I with equal virulence and unkindness for her daughter’s

elopement, which she declare to have be the consequence of my

neglect. ‘have you,’ she continue, ‘be less engross by seek to

ensnare the affection of Mr. Coverdale, you would have be well able

to perform the duty of your situation, and this misfortune might never

have come upon we.’ sting by the mixture of truth and falsehood in this

cruel reproach, I reply--I know not what--proudly, and I can now well

believe impertinently; and the next thing that I become aware of be,

that a sum of money sufficient to defray my expense to England be

place before I, and that I be dismiss. throw thus on my own

resource in a foreign land, without a single friend near to help or

advise I, what wonder that I instinctively turn to the only quarter

from which I have for year (for mine have be a desolate youth) meet with

kindness, consideration, and sympathy; and that from the chaos of

conflict emotion one idea alone stand out clear and define--to seek

Harry Coverdale, throw myself on his generosity, tell my tale of sorrow

and of love, and leave the result to he and destiny. that such a course

be unwomanly, almost unpardonable in I, none can be more bitterly

aware than I be; but I pray God that those of my own sex who be

inclined to condemn I may never be tempt as I be tempt--may never

fall as, but for the superhuman goodness of heart, and the tender,

simple, yet chivalrous nature of your husband, I should have fall.

with I, to resolve and to act be simultaneous. I lose not a moment in

ascertain the route Mr. Coverdale have take, and ere the Muir family

be aware of my departure I have follow he to Fiumalba, a small town

within a few hour’ journey of Florence. without allow myself an

instant’s time for reflection, I seek the hotel at which Mr. Coverdale

be stop, and in my distraction fling myself at his foot, and tell

he everything--how I love he well than any other create

being--well even than my own womanly pride and good name--how I felt

convince that such love as mine must in time win return--how that if he

would make I his wife, I would devote every thought; every action of my

future existence, to secure his happiness--how, if he refuse I, I

would lie down at his foot and die, but never leave he. then do he

indeed redeem his promise of act by I as a brother--then do he save

I from my bad enemy--myself. having soothe and quiet my agony of

spirit, by his calm good sense and judicious kindness, he appeal to my

reason--set before I how, by yield to my request, and make I the

partner of his future life, while unable to feel for I that degree of

affection without which such a tie must become unbearable, he would be

do I an injury rather than confer a benefit; nor do he leave I

until he have obtain my consent to allow he to return to Florence,

explain the whole matter to Mr. Muir, expostulate with he as to the

cruelty and injustice of thus dismiss I with an undeserved slur on

my character as a governess, and endeavour to arrange that I should

remain with his wife and daughter, and accompany they on their return to

England. in this negotiation he be successful. Mr. Muir,--an easy,

self-indulgent character, yet one who could, on occasion such as that

to which I refer, act kindly and honourably,--accompanied Mr. Coverdale

back to Fiumalba, where he inform I that he have prevail on Mrs.

Muir to agree to the above proposal, add that he and Mr. Coverdale

be the only person aware of the imprudent step I have take, and that

they be both willing to make I a solemn promise never (unless by my

desire) to reveal the transaction to any one. utterly break-spirited

and miserable, I consent, and, take leave of my preserver, return

with Mr. Muir to Florence. from that day, until our accidental meeting

in Park Lane, I see Mr. Coverdale no more. what it have cost I to write

this I will not attempt to describe, but that every word of it be the

simple truth, I call Heaven to witness; that the knowledge of it may for

ever reconcile all difference between you and your noble, generous

hearted husband, and that you may be restore to make he as happy as I

be certain it be in your power to do be the wish and prayer of one who,

if she have err deeply, have suffer equally, as she hope not without

some good result.



“Arabella Crofton.”



when Harry have finish read the letter, he return it to his wife,

observe, “that be, as she say, a faithful account of all that ever

occur between we. you now see why I be unable to explain to you the

apparent mystery. I hold a promise to be so sacred a thing, that

nothing--not even the loss of your affection--could induce I to break

one. and now, my poor child, I hope you be satisfied that I indeed love

you with my whole heart, and that the affection of a thousand Arabella

Croftons would never compensate I for the loss of one bright smile or

fond look from my own darling wife.”



Alice attempt to reply, but her heart be too full for word: burst

into a flood of tear of mingled joy and contrition, she fling her arm

around her husband’s neck, and in that prolong embrace end once and

for ever all Harry Coverdale’s matrimonial dispute and discomfort.









CHAPTER LXIII.--LORD ALFRED SEVERS his leading string.





Lord Alfred Courtland and Horace D’Almayne be both member of the

Pandemonium, at which notable club the latter, when he have no rich

victim on whom to quarter himself, chiefly spend his day. the visit

which Lord Alfred have pay to Coverdale Park, and his subsequent mission

to Hazlehurst Grange, have impress he deeply, and bring out all

his good quality. on his return to town, he take himself to task more

seriously than he have yet do, for the careless and extravagant life he

have be lead; and, warn by experience how futile such repentance

might prove, unless follow by some practical effort at self-reform,

he set to work with his accustomed impetuosity, to remedy the

evil result from his injudicious attempt to become a fast

“man-about-town.” the Honourable Billy Whipcord relieve he of one

difficulty, by purchase Don Pasquale for the same amount which

Lord Alfred have give Tirrett for the animal, and with the money thus

obtain, together with his winning on the steeple-chase, he, like an

honest fellow, pay all his creditor. feel much happy for this

step in the right direction, he determine to follow it up by another,

and accordingly write to his father, say that, his health be now

re-establish, it be his wish to return to Cambridge, and endeavour to

make up for lost time. having dispatch this letter, and ride for a

couple of hour in the Park, the necessity of dining occur to he,

and he turn his horse’s head towards the Pandemonium. as he ride

thither, it strike he that he might possibly encounter Horace

D’Almayne, and he bethink he of his promise to Harry Coverdale, to

give up the acquaintance of the man whom he have so incautiously trust,

and who have abuse that trust by lead he into evil whenever an

opportunity present itself for so do.



yes! disagreeable as it be, perhaps even dangerous (for D’Almayne be

not a man to insult with impunity), he would redeem his pledge word--he

would show his gratitude to Coverdale. if D’Almayne be at the club,

he would cut he in a marked and unmistakeable manner! as these thought

be pass through his brain, he become aware of a young man, flashily

dress, and mount on a magnificent horse, who, as he pass, take off

his hat to he. confuse for the moment by the idea that it must be some

acquaintance whom he ought to recognise, he bow stiffly, whereupon the

horseman wheel his steed, and ride up to Lord Alfred’s side--



“I beg your Lordship’s pardon,” he begin, “but I wish to say a few word

to you. do not your Lordship remember I?”



“your behaviour towards I, Mr. Tirrett, be of a nature neither easily

to be forget, nor calculate to make I desirous of cultivate your

further acquaintance. I have the honour of wish you good morning.”



say this with the hauteur and dignity of the whole House of Peers

combine, Lord Alfred turn his head away from his unwished-for

acquaintance and ride on; but Tirrett have an object in view, and be,

therefore, not to be so easily shake off.



“I willn’t deny,” he say coolly, “that your Lordship have good reason to be

angry with I, for I play you a trick that, if I’d be a gentleman,

and your Lordship’s equal, I should consider a very dirty one; but, if

your Lordship will consider a minute, you’ll perceive the difference

between we.”



amuse, in spite of his anger, at the fellow’s cool audacity, Lord

Alfred reply, with a sarcastic laugh--



“I should scarcely imagine that would require any very deep thinking to

discover!”



“your Lordship be sharp upon I this afternoon,” observe Tirrett, in

no way disconcert, “but I be go to remark that horse-dealing,

and horse-racing, which you gentleman enter into for amusement, be the

regular business by which such man as myself gain our livelihood; it’s

a ticklish sort of trade at the good of time, for we’re liable to be

deceive and cheat on all side as well as other people; so a fellow’s

oblige to look out, and never throw away a chance. now your job be

just this,--the Don be recover from a bad sprain in the off-foreleg

when I sell he to you.”



“pleasant intelligence for the Honourable Billy!” murmur Lord Alfred.



“I think he’d stand training, but expect he’d break down in the

race, and as I never like to ride a lose horse if I can help it, I

make my book to win on Black Eagle, but I be oblige to promise to ride

Don Pasquale for you, or else you wouldn’t have buy he. I don’t

say I act right by you; but I mean to say that I don’t act any bad

than other that call themselves gentleman, and your friend too!”



“do you allude to any one in particular, may I ask?--it be as well to

know one’s friend from one’s foe,” inquire Lord Alfred, his curiosity

begin to awaken.



“I allude to Horace D’Almayne. your Lordship well know whether you

consider he your friend,” be the reply.



“I certainly do at one time, if I do not now; but what have he to do

with the affair?” ask Lord Alfred, his attention now fully arouse.



in answer to this question, Tirrett enter into a full account of the

plot connect with the white-bait dinner, his own acquaintance with

Captain O’Brien, and other particular, with which the reader be already

acquainted, dwell especially on D’Almayne’s advice to he, to throw

over Lord Alfred and ride for Captain Annesley, for which D’Almayne

bargain to receive a per-centage on his winning.



“and now,” he continue, “if I can afford your Lordship proof of the

truth of my statement, in D’Almayne’s own handwriting, and let you

have that proof, so that you may, if you please, confront he with it;

perhaps your Lordship will set that off against my refusal to ride the

steeple-chase for you.”



“let I see your proof, sir; I shall then be well able to judge of my

amount of obligation to you,” be the curt reply.



thus urge, Tirrett draw from his pocket the identical epistle which

D’Almayne have write to he from Lord Alfred’s lodging on the morning

(as the date testify) before he start for the continent. Lord Alfred

perfectly remember his write the note; but the authenticity of the

document be establish beyond a doubt by the paper, which be stamp

with a coronet and the cypher A. C. as this proof of his mentor’s

treachery be bring before he, Lord Alfred colour with anger, and

draw out his pocket-book, he said--



“you must permit I to keep this document, Mr. Tirrett but, as I

consider it of value, I shall give you an equivalent for it.” then

hand he a ten-pound note, he continue, “note for note be a fair

exchange.”



Tirrett glance at the money as if he have half a mind to return it;

but a moment’s reflection serve to dispel the romantic scruple, and

adhere to his rule of never throw a chance away, he pocket the

cash, and raise his hat, began--



“really, your Lordship’s too liberal! I be off for Yorkshire to-morrow

morning; but I shall be up again before the hunting season, with a lot

of very first-rate horse; and as I hope I’ve now make all straight with

your Lordship, I shall be highly honoured if your Lordship will look

through the stable before I let the dealer see they.”



then, with another low bow, he turn his horse’s head, and touch he

with the spur, canter off, leave Lord Alfred to his own reflection,

which run somewhat after the follow fashion--



“so much for there be honour amongst thief! Tirrett coolly

sacrifice his accomplice, in order to retain my custom! what an

inconceivable scoundrel that Horace D’Almayne turn out! I’m about as

easy-temper a fellow as can be; too much so, I’m afraid; for I often

say yes, when I feel I ought to say no; but I’ll cut the swindler dead

at the club, or wherever I meet he, and if he do not like it, I’ll

show he his note to Tirrett, or well still, read it out at the club;

such perfidy ought to be expose, and I’ll not flinch from do so.

Coverdale shall see that his example of straightforward manliness be

not quite throw away upon I. I’ve follow a bad mode with tolerable

success, and reap the fruit of such folly, and now I’ll try whether

I cannot imitate a good one. I’d do a great deal to reinstate myself in

the good opinion of Harry and his wife; they’ve be very kind to I,

too kind, for it overpower I; but of course they must have lose all

respect for I--Harry think I a soft, foolish boy, and Alice, a weak,

sentimental puppy. well, I’ll do my good to gain their esteem, and if I

fail, I shall be none the bad for having try. how pretty that little

Emily be! pretty than her sister, I think! and _she_ believe in I to

a great extent, that’s some comfort!”



by the time his Lordship’s meditation have reach this point, his

Lordship’s horse have reach the Pandemonium, which fact, force itself

on his Lordship’s attention, he dismount, and, consign the animal

to the care of his groom, enter the club-room, when, of course,

the first person he encounter, be Horace D’Almayne! owe to Lord

Alfred’s absence from town, D’Almayne have not see he since his

return from the continent, he, therefore, advance to meet he with the

great _empressement_, greet he with the usual “_ah! mon cher,_”

 which he reserve for those of his associate whom he particularly

delight to honour. great, therefore, be his astonishment and disgust,

when Lord Alfred walk past he with his head in the air, and his eye

immovably fix upon the cornice of the apartment.



for a moment D’Almayne could scarcely believe the evidence of his

sense, so much at variance be his late pupil’s conduct with Horace’s

pre-conceived idea of his gentle, yield character; but a covert

smile on the face of Barrington and several of the usual club-lounger,

be sufficient to convince he of the irritate fact, that in the

presence of the very man, before whom he have often boast of and

parade his intimacy with and influence over Lord Alfred Courtland, that

young nobleman have most decidedly and unequivocally cut he. for some

day past D’Almayne have perceive a change to have “come o’er the

spirit” in which he have be receive by society at large. intimate

have suddenly become slight acquaintance; slight acquaintance have grow

strangely short-sighted; and when he force himself upon their notice,

appeared afflict with a painful degree of stiffness in the “upper

spine.” still, until that moment, no one have venture actually to cut

he. now the matter have come to a climax, Horace feel himself bring

fairly to bay, and in such a frame of mind he be dangerous. after

Lord Alfred have pass D’Almayne, he touch the Honourable William

Barrington, _alias_ Billy Whipcord, on the arm, and draw he aside,

said--



“I have just be let into a pleasant little secret; it seem that the

reason my _dis_-honourable young acquaintance, Mr. Tirrett, set his

face so determinately against ride Don Pasquale be that the notable

quadrupe have a screw loose in the back sinew of one of its inestimable

fore-leg, and Tirrett be afraid he would break down in the race. now

as I have become aware of this only within the last half hour, I daresay

I have ask, and you have give, too much for the brute. _caveat

emptor_ may be a very good general maxim, but I never can see why a

gentleman should act about sell a horse in a manner undeserve that

title--so, if you find the creature unsound I shall be happy to hand

you back a fifty-pound note, or more, if you require it. I’ve pass my

‘little go,’ as a patron of the turf, and wish to come out of it with

clean hand ere I take my leave of that noble pastime.”



“really, my dear Courtland, you’re too chivalrous,” be the reply; “but

I’m quite content with my bargain; the Don be sound enough to answer my

purpose” (he have sell he that morning, and pocket a cool hundred by

the transfer), “and if he be not, I have purchase he, and must abide

the loss;--but, excuse I, be you aware that you have just cut Horace

D’Almayne?”



“as he deserve to be cut by every honourable man,” interrupt Lord

Alfred, “and, for reason which I will explain here before every member

of this club now present, if he have the audacity to--to venture to

force himself upon I,” he continue angrily, as he perceive D’Almayne

saunter up to he, with his accustomed listless gait indeed, but with

a sparkle in his eye, and a red spot on each cheek, which, to those who

be well acquainted with he, show that he be unusually excited.



“have foreign travel, and the lapse of a fortnight, really alter I so

much that your Lordship be unable to recognize an old friend; or to what

other circumstance be I to attribute your singular failure of memory

when I accost you on your entrance?” he inquire in his most

superciliously polite tone and accent.



“attribute it to its right cause,” be the spirited reply; “that I

desire to associate only with man of honour, an idiosyncracy which

preclude my long avail myself of the privilege of Mr. D’Almayne’s

society.”



“in fact, that, having make use of I to convert a raw school-boy into

a very tame speciman of a fast man, you fancy now you be able to run

alone, and that it will add to your reputation for fastness to kick down

the ladder by which you have mount the social mole-hill you stand

on,” be the sneer answer; “but you have mistake your man, my Lord.

Horace D’Almayne be not a puppet of which you hold the wire, to dance,

or to be throw aside, at your Lordship’s pleasure. have you simply

choose to deny I your further acquaintance, I should have set the gain

of valuable minute against the loss of one of the social incubi

my good-nature have entail upon I, and overlook the boyish

impertinence; but as you have see fit to insult I publicly, nothing

short of an equally public apology will satisfy I. should you be

infatuate enough to refuse I this, I will for once flatter your

Lordship’s vanity by suppose you man enough to be aware of the

alternative.”



as D’Almayne speak, he draw himself up with an expression of

contemptuous superiority, half-pity, half-defiant, which he imagine

highly effective.



it certainly have one effect, that of rouse Lord Alfred’s temper to the

utmost extent; and, with flash eye and quivering lip, he replied--



“if I could believe that you have one thought or feeling of a gentleman

in your composition which my conduct could wound, I would accept one of

the alternative you propose; but to a man who can abuse the confidence

of friendship by avail himself of it to swindle and betray the

friend who trust him,--to such a low, sordid black-leg, I will neither

apologize, nor will I afford, he the satisfaction due to wounded

honour.”



for a moment, as D’Almayne’s glance meet that of the man he have wrong,

his self-possession fail he; and, ignorant to what extent Lord Alfred

might have become cognizant of his nefarious practice, he hesitate how

far he dare provoke any disclosure. but it be too late to retract: his

social position, on which depend his very means of existence, be at

stake; and as the thought cross his mind, the gambler spirit awake

within he. he would carry the matter with a high hand; a bold course

be always the wise; Fortune would favour those who trust she. it

be his only article of faith, and he cling to it with the pertinacity

of a zealot.



“highly melodramatic!” he say, with a sarcastic sneer. “your Lordship

have a real _spécialité_ for juvenile tragedy. but may I be allow

to inquire what particular perfidy of mine have elicit the burst

of virtuous indignation which you have select for your histrionic

_début?_”



“I be willing to have spare you the disgrace of a public exposure,”

 be Lord Alfred’s reply; “but since you choose thus to provoke your

fate, I can have no reason for long conceal the cause which have lead

I to consider you unfit for the society of honourable man.” turn

to Barrington, who happen to be stand next he, he continue,

“you, sir, and other gentleman present, may remember how, not many week

since, a certain steeple-chase rider, name Tirrett, suddenly leave I

in the lurch, by refuse at the last minute to ride for I, by which

rascality I be on the point of lose the race, upon which I have make

an imprudently heavy book. Mr. D’Almayne be at that time abroad, and,

I presume, imagine, owe to that circumstance, he might transact a

little profitable black-leg business with impunity. he accordingly

write a note to Tirrett, suggest to he the scheme which he

afterwards attempt to carry out; stipulate, in case of its success,

to be pay fifty pound and a percentage on Tirrett’s winning.”



as Lord Alfred conclude, a murmur of disapprobation run round the room,

and all eye be turn upon Horace D’Almayne.



“a cleverly devise tale!” he say, scornfully; “a mole-hill ingeniously

inflate until it appear a mountain. I certainly bet on the race;

I may have give the jockey Tirrett the benefit of my suggestion on the

subject, as any other man who have ever be on the turf would have do;

but that all this demonstrate anything, except Lord Alfred Courtland’s

deplorable ignorance of that say art ‘of life about town,’ in which he

appear to have strive in vain to become a proficient, I be at a loss

to conceive.”



“perhaps the simple answer to Mr. D’Almayne’s statement will be to

place the note, on which the foundation of my ‘molehill inflate into

a mountain’ rest, in Mr. Barrington’s hand, ask he, for his own

satisfaction, and for that of the other gentleman present, to read it

aloud.”



as he speak, Lord Alfred draw from his pocket the note give he by

Tirrett, and hand it to Barrington, who, after a moment’s hesitation,

read aloud the follow notable epistle, which the reader may remember

be write by D’Almayne, with his usual cool audacity, in Lord Alfred

Courtland’s lodgings:--



_“dear Tirrett,--Your game be clear: let A. C-------- and O’B------n

each believe that you will ride for he, and at the last minute throw

both over. in this case, Captain Annesley’s Black Eagle be safe to win,

as I daresay you know well than I do; thus you will perceive how to

make a pay book. if I prove a true prophet, I shall expect a fifty

pound note from you, as O’B------n will (before you quarrel with

he) tell you I get up the whole affair myself, introduce he to A.

C------, &c.



“I remain, yours faithfully,



“YOU’LL know who when I claim the TIN.”



“P.S.--If you make a heavy purse out of the business, I shall expect ten

per cent, on all beyond five hundred pound.”_



as Barrington cease reading, D’Almayne observe, coolly--



“exactly as I expect--an anonymous letter, suppose to be mine on

the word of a blackguard horsedealer (who probably write it himself to

conceal his own rascality), and eagerly catch at by this fiery young

gentleman, who, anxious to prove that he be out of lead-string,

gladly seek any pretext for quarrel with one to whom his Lordship

have a painful consciousness that he appear no more a hero than to his

_valet-de-chambre_. Tirrett declare that I write this letter, I say I

do no such thing; there be no proof about the matter, it be simply a

question of assertion--Tirrett’s word against mine. I leave it to the

gentleman present to say which be most worthy of credit.”



“allow I to mention one small circumstance which may assist they to

arrive at a just decision,” interpose Lord Alfred, quietly; “I have a

perfect recollection of Mr. D’Almayne’s write a note, much resemble

the one in question, at my lodging, on the morning before he leave

England. if I be right in my conjecture, the date would be the 5th of

last month, and the postmark Pall Mall; may I trouble you to ascertain

the point, Mr. Barrington?”



“right in both respect,” be the unhesitate reply. “moreover, here be

a coronet and the initial A. C. stamp on the paper, a corroboration

which quite satisfy my mind on the subject.”



L’Almayne glance round, and read his sentence on the face which

surround he--face of man, who, in the insolence of his false

position, he have make to feel the lash of his covert sarcasm. amongst

the many there he could not discern one friend. but his self-possession

do not forsake he.



“of course, all against I,” he say; then turn to Lord Alfred, he

continued--“Your Lordship once express a doubt as to the social value

of a title, you now, I should imagine, perceive your error: for the

rest, the letter be an impudent forgery, and the accusation false; but

until I can prove the whole story the clumsy fabrication I know it to

be, I shall leave the matter where it stand, unless”--and he glance

round the circle with a savage light in his cold, grey eye, which

no one care to meet--“unless any gentleman feel inclined to make

a personal affair of it, in which case I shall have much pleasure in

afford he the satisfaction he require.”



no one appear desirous of improve the occasion as D’Almayne have

suggest, the baffled intriguer stalk out of the room, with a look

of scornful indifference on his feature, and rage and hatred burn in

his breast.









CHAPTER LXIV.--D’ALMAYNE play his last card.





“leave I, sir! I consider your very presence an insult!”



“before you drive I from you for ever, I be determined to set plainly

before you the result which must inevitably follow your decision, and

show you unmistakeably the difference between the future which await

you, and the lot which might even yet be yours if you have only

sufficient strength of character to cast aside the meaningless

conventionality of a false and hollow state of society.”

 D’Almayne--for as the reader have no doubt already conjecture, the

forego speech proceed from his lip--pause for a moment to control

the excitement under which, despite his endeavour to conceal it, he be

evidently labour. Kate Crane appear again about to interrupt he;

but by a glance and a gesture of the hand he restrain she, while he

continued:--“You talk of marriage as a holy tie, and where such a bond

be indeed one of the heart, I, sceptic and libertine as you consider

I, entirely agree with you; but such a term cannot apply to the

cruel mockery which have bind youth, beauty, and intellect to age,

decrepitude, and imbecility. but put aside all idea of affection,

the temptation which lead you to commit this outrage against every well

feeling of your nature exist no long. Mr. Crane be a ruin man; if,

therefore, you adhere to the conventional prejudice which you vainly

endeavour to dignify by the name of duty, you have nothing to hope but

to sacrifice to it the good year of your life, year in which you will

still be young, when your queenly beauty and bright clear intellect will

fit you to shine in and lead society of a class in which your elegant

taste, and refined sympathy, would meet with a gratification

sufficient in itself to render life one scene of pleasurable excitement.

but, more than this, you be ambitious; I can read it in your flashing

eye, in the curl of your haughty lip. I would open to you such a field

for that ambition as in your wildest moment you have never dream of.

you do not believe I! you consider I a base, unscrupulous adventurer.

if it be so, what have I ever have to call out the high, nobler

quality of my nature? nothing! but with such a soul as your to urge

and inspire I, and with your love as my reward, to what height

might not my genius soar! what be the great Napoleon but a Corsican

adventurer? and yet his be a career an Emperor’s daughter be proud to

share. you think I be romance--talk bombastic nonsense; but it be

not so. in America, at the present time, there be an immense field

for talent. I know the character of the nation well, know how both its

strong and weak point could be turn to account, and form the

ladder by which I might climb even to the President’s seat, and once

there!--Presidents have ere now become emperor--from democracy to

despotism be the natural transition--history prove it. since I have

know you, a change have come over my every thought and feeling;

hitherto I have exert my talent merely to supply my own fastidious

requirement, but now my idea be enlarge, my aspiration heighten.

bring up from my early childhood among man, clever indeed, but

without one pure thought, one disinterested feeling, I became--what I

be. you have excite in I high, nobler feeling. I will not deny that

your beauty first attract I; but since I have know you, and each day

discover new quality with which I could sympathise, I have learn

to love you with the only deep, real sentiment I have ever yet feel for

one of your sex. Hitherto I have look on woman as mere toy wherewith

to solace one’s leisure hour; but in you I recognise a loftier nature;

I feel not only in the presence of an intelligence equal to my own, but

I have an instinctive perception that you might become my lead star,

my tutelary deity! kate, hear I! my destiny be in your hand. fly with

I to America--everything be prepare; and when we arrive on the soil

of a new world, you shall become the bride of a man already possess of

rich sufficient to obtain for you luxury great than you have yet

enjoy, and with a gift rich be powerless to procure--talent which

have never yet fail I, however critical the position--talent which,

henceforward, you shall direct into any course that well may win your

approval; know that whatever career you may select, the sole reward I

shall seek will be your approbation--my only happiness, your affection.

you have not hear I unmove--you cannot, will not refuse I!”



as D’Almayne conclude, he fix his eye on Kate’s face, as though he

seek to read there his sentence before her lip should pronounce it,

while his cheek flush, and his eye glisten with unfeigned emotion.

for an instant, unable to bear the intensity of his glance, Kate turn

away with a heighten colour, then, recover her self-possession by a

powerful effort, she reply calmly--



“I have hear you thus far, Mr. D’Almayne, without interruption, partly

because I believe that, for once, you be speak under the influence

of real feeling; partly because I owe you, as I imagine, a debt of

gratitude for your kindness to my brother; these reason have induce

I to listen to address, every word of which I consider as the deep

insult which can be offer to a pure-minded woman. you tell I

I marry Mr. Crane for money; I neither admit nor repel the

accusation--like most taunt, it contain a half-truth, so disguise

by sarcasm as to appear a whole one. but how doubly sordid should I be,

be I to act on your suggestion, and quit my husband,--who, if your

supposition be correct, I have sufficiently wrong already,--because

he have, as you inform I, be swindle out of his wealth--_how_ I leave

your own conscience to inform you! the fact that he be poor, and that

you profess yourself rich, be enough to carry conviction to my mind.

but I will not enter far into the question: suffice it that your

sophistry have fail to blind I, and that I be still able to discern

the path of duty--let it lead whither it may, I be resolve to follow

it. I have give you, as you request, a fair hearing and a deliberate

reply. for your kindness to my brother, I again thank you. as I gather

that you be about to leave this country, and can well imagine it may be

necessary for you to do so, farewell for ever! I set your one good deed

against your evil one, and bear you no ill-will. we part neither as

friend nor foe.”



as Kate speak, she rise to quit the room, but D’Almayne interpose

between she and the door--



“one moment,” he say in his usual tone of sarcasm; “my modesty cannot

permit I to depart, take credit for a good deed which I have never

perform. it be not I who rescue your brother from his difficulty;

though, as a step-stone to your favour, I would willingly have do

so: for that act of kindness you be indebted to----”



“Whom?” inquire Kate, eagerly.



“one to whom, if he have this morning plead as I have do, I fancy

even your rigid virtue might have afford a kind answer--your cousin,

Arthur Hazlehurst!”



D’Almayne speak at random, but the arrow wound as deeply as even

his disappointed malevolence could have desire. with every vestige of

colour banish from her pale cheek, Kate sink back upon her chair, and

draw her breath with difficulty, place her hand upon her side, as

if in pain. heedless of her suffering--nay, rather rejoice in it--the

evil expression come across D’Almayne’s face as, in a tone of sarcastic

triumph, he exclaimed--



“you love he! I be certain of it, and be fully avenge. chain by

your marriage vow to a decrepid imbecile, while you love another with

all the depth and fire of your passionate nature, you will experience

the torment of the damned. to the remorse and despair these reflection

will engender,--a despair so desolate that you will live to regret

even your decision of this morning,--I leave you. when your husband

return to-night, a ruin man, remember my word--the curse that you

have bring upon yourself will have begin to work!”



unable to reply, Kate remained lean back, her eye fix upon he

with a kind of horrible fascination. leisurely draw on his glove, he

appear to be feast his gaze with the misery he have create; then,

cast on her a look of sardonic malevolence that a fiend might have

emulate, but could scarcely have surpass, he turn and quit the

apartment, and immediately afterwards the house.



Kate’s reflection after D’Almayne have leave she may easily be imagine;

all feeling of resentment against the man who have insult she be

merge in the one think that her cousin, Arthur Hazlehurst, have be

her brother’s unknown benefactor when she have imagine he implacably

offend at the unjustifiable manner in which, during their last

interview, she have treat he, he be still watch over her

interest, and with a chivalrous devotion to the remembrance of their

former attachment (for such could be the only kindly sentiment he could

now cherish towards she), he have come forward and save her brother from

the ruin which have appear inevitable. she have receive a note that

morning from Frederick, inform she of his return from the continent,

and state his intention of pay she a visit immediately, add that

he have obtain his benefactor’s sanction to tell she to whom he be

indebted for his present good fortune, and all other particular she

might wish to learn. while thus engage, a knock at the door announce

a visitor, and in another moment her brother’s arm be throw around

she. six month’ foreign travel, and daily association with person

mix in good society, have produce a great change in Fred Marsden’s

appearance: the handsome boy have become a fine manly young fellow, whose

frank address and courteous manner be certain to ensure he a kindly

welcome, and greatly increase his chance of success in life. Fred have

much to tell, and find an eager listener in Kate. Arthur be the good,

kind, wise, most generous of man; Arthur have send he abroad more

to finish his education than for any use he could be of in a business

point of view; Arthur be most liberal to he in money-matter; and yet

superior as he be in everything--talent, age, position--Arthur treat

he like an equal, nay, like a brother.



while he thus run on, a cab drive up to the door, and shortly after

Mr. Crane enter the apartment; he appear to walk feebly, and once

stagger, and nearly fall in cross the room. glance angrily

towards Fred, he mutter, “send that boy away, Mrs. Crane--i--I wish to

speak with you on matter of importance.”



hastily dismiss her brother--promise to write he word when to come

again--Kate return to her husband. “you look ill and worried,” she

say; “let I fetch you a glass of wine and a biscuit.”



“Ill and worried indeed! I tell you, Mrs. Crane, I have this day

receive my death-blow. don’t reply, madam; don’t mock I with any

pretence of affection--I know its worth. you marry I for my money--I

be not so blind as you may imagine--yes! you marry I for my money;

and now you be rightly serve, for I be a ruin man. you may well

stare and look surprised, for I can scarcely believe it myself. oh, it

be too cruel--horrible, to think that I, Jedediah Crane, whose name

have be good for five hundred thousand pound any day, should die a

beggar!” here he pause, and break into a fit of childish weeping; after

a time he again resume angrily, “and for this, madam, I have chiefly to

thank your precious admirer, Horace D’Almayne; my money be safe enough

till he lead I on to speculate; and I believe your art and allurement

be the chief cause that attract he here. but your wickedness have

bring its own punishment, for you must work for your living now--you,

and all your pauper family, whom you have support out of my

pocket: and as for D’Almayne, may the bitter curse light upon

he--may------” here, suddenly break off, he stare round he wildly,

raise his hand to his forehead, murmur, “oh, my head!” and sink back

in his chair. greatly alarm, Kate ring the bell violently, and whilst

the butler and another servant convey Mr. Crane to his room, she

dispatch a third in search of medical assistance. that evening Arthur

Hazlehurst receive the follow note:



“in the unpardonable pride which have be my beset sin through life,

but to which, if suffering can eradicate fault, I ought never again

to yield, I request you not to enter my house until I send for you;

deeming, when I say it, that I be pronounce a sentence of banishment

which would continue in effect as long as we should both survive. having

place this bar between myself and the generous friendship you have

always evince for I, I dare not now ask your assistance--but if in the

great strait in which I be place you would advise I to whom I ought

to apply, you will be render I a kindness I have little deserve at

your hand. Mr. Crane return home this evening greatly excited,

and declare that he be a ruin man; while still rave almost

incoherently on the subject, he be attack with paralysis, and now

lie in a state which the two physician I have call in inform I be

in the high degree critical. he have recover his consciousness, but

his speech be so much affected that I can only collect that his mind be

still trouble by business detail. I be not aware of the name of his

legal adviser, nor, indeed, certain whether he be in the habit of

consult one. I await your reply with much anxiety.



“Kate Crane.”



within a quarter of an hour after he receive this note Arthur

Hazlehurst be in Park Lane.









CHAPTER LXV.--SETTLES EVERYBODY and everything.



five year have elapse since the event narrate in the last chapter

occur--five years!--a twentieth portion of one of those century

which stand like milestone along the path of time, and index the slow

but steady march of human progress and development. to the different

character of our story these year have bring many change. Arthur

Hazlehurst, summon by Kate Crane in her hour of need and difficulty,

fully justify the high opinion she entertain of he. apply all

the power of his acute intellect and legal experience to the involved

affair of Mr. Crane, he contrive to secure a small competency from the

wreck of his once colossal fortune, on which, by Arthur’s advice, Kate,

as soon as her husband be sufficiently recover to bear the journey,

retire to a small town in the south of France, where she continue to

reside until some arrangement could be effect with the shareholder of

the railway company start by Monsieur Guillemard and Horace D’Almayne.

after a severe illness, from which he be at one time not expect to

recover, Mr. Crane partially regain his health, but the paralytic

stroke which have reduce he to this extremity have affect his mind to

such a degree that he remain nearly childish. his wife’s attention

to he be most kind and devote. when he be able to walk out for

the fine half hour in the day it be Kate’s arm which support his

tottering footstep. so strong be her sense of the duty she owe he,

that the tender affection could not have dictate a more exemplary

line of conduct. Arthur Hazlehurst, who be rapidly acquire a very

high standing in his profession, pay they occasional visit, to report

as to the state of Mr. Crane’s affair, which be leave entirely to his

control. his manner to Kate on such occasion be that of a kind and

judicious friend, but nothing more. he never make the least allusion to

old time; indeed, his avoidance of any approach to topic which might

elicit the slight display of feeling be most marked, yet a close

observer might have see that he notice Kate’s every word and action,

especially her behaviour to her husband, with a keenness of scrutiny

which allow nothing to escape it. of Horace D’Almayne nothing more be

know than that he have somehow elude the search make after he, and get

clear away, as it be suppose, to America.



we will now trouble the imagination of our reader to travel with we as

far as H------shire, and join a group gather one fine autumn morning

around the hall-door at Coverdale Park. the centre of it, and the

especial object of interest to the bystander, be a rough little

Shetland pony, on which be mount a singularly pretty boy, of some,

possibly, four year of age, in whose chubby feature might be trace

a marked resemblance both to Harry and Alice, the former of whom be

settle the rein in the child’s hand, and give he direction both

how to sit and to manage the pony, while the latter be regard the

young equestrian with look of mingled anxiety and affection. a sweet

little girl, the image of her mother, perhaps a year old than her

youthful playfellow, be endeavour to attract the pony’s attention

towards a tuft of grass, which she hold at a respectful distance from

his nose.



“now, my boy, stick your knee well into the saddle, give he his head,

and let we see how you can canter round the sweep,” observe Coverdale,

who, save that his complexion have assume a more manly brown than ever,

and that his broad shoulder look broad still, be little alter

since we last have to do with he.



“Dear Harry, you will not let he go by himself--suppose he should

tumble off!”



Alice, the speaker, whose rounded figure and matronly air only add to

her beauty, smile at her own fear, as, place his arm round she still

taper waist, her husband replied--



“we be to be frightened about our dear boy now, be we? what a

miserable little woman it be, and how she do delight in torment

herself! why, you silly child, little Harry have as good a seat as I

have. he would be no son of mine if he could not ride by instinct.

hollo! what be the young dog at now? he never can mean to try and leap

that ditch, surely!”



and as he speak Coverdale run off at the top of his speed, to secure the

safety of his self-willed son and heir, who, having canter round the

grass-plot, coolly turn his pony’s head towards a low haw-haw which

separate the garden from the park beyond. before his father have half

cross the lawn, he slacken the rein, and, give his pony a cut

with the whip, clear the sunken fence with great ease than many of

his elder with whom we be acquainted could have do, then turn,

canter back through a hand-gate which stand open, and rejoin his

mother and sister.



“how could you do such a dangerous thing, Harry? you might have break

your neck, and I be very angry with you!” exclaim Alice.



“and what do you say, papa?” inquire the young hopeful, in no way

abash by his mother’s reprimand.



“what do I say?” return his father, come up out of breath with

run, and considerably perplex between his parental responsibility

and his delight at his boy’s spirit; “why, I say that if you don’t mind

what your mother tell you, the thrashing I shall give you one of these

day will considerably astonish your juvenile intelligence; with which

qualification I confess, take you altogether, I consider you a very

promise young four-year-old. and now, brat, be off with you! I have

get a letter which I want to talk to mamma about.”



as soon as the child have depart, in convoy of a groom and a

nursery-maid, Harry draw from his pocket a letter with a black border

and seal.



“it be for you, love,” he say, “from your cousin Kate; but I can tell

you the news it will contain; Arthur enclose it to I, with a line,

tell I that poor old Crane be dead at last.”



“and Arthur write to tell you--what do he say?” demand Alice,

eagerly.



“he simply inform I of the fact; state that, for business reason,

Kate, who be leave sole executrix, must immediately return to England;

and suggest that till some permanent arrangement can be make for she,

it would be well that she should come to we; add, that if we agree

with he in think so, he would be glad if I could make it convenient

to go down to Dover and meet she, as professional duty will detain he

in town,--which of course I shall be delighted to do, and she must come

and live with we, poor thing.”



Alice could not for a moment reply; but she press her husband’s

hand in silent acknowledgment of his kindness. another week see Kate

domesticate beneath their hospitable roof.



*****



Reader, our tale be well-nigh tell.



Horace D’Almayne have abscond with a considerable sum of money in his

possession, and all attempt to trace he fail. his less fortunate

coswindl (if we may coin a word), Guillemard, become practically

acquainted with the interior of a british prison, and the amenity of

hard labour. all that transpire in regard to D’Almayne’s further career

be, that some year after he be connect with a kindre spirit in

conduct a notorious gambling house in New Orleans; a quarrel ensue

between Sedgwick (for so be his partner name) and D’Almayne, the

latter give his antagonist a practical lesson as to the advisability of

study the habit and custom of the native before you settle in

a country, by discharge the content of his revolver into his rib.

unfortunately for society, the wound do not prove fatal but not

choose to wait the result, D’Almayne again make himself invisible;

he be last hear of at the head of a band of very questionable

individual, who be proceed to the digging to procure gold,

whether by fair mean or foul, history sayeth not.



Lord Alfred Courtland, warn by the disastrous result of his attempt

to become a fast “man-about-town,” content himself for the future

by fulfil his duty as a high-bear gentleman, and if he ever

do anything at all likely to disgrace his noble order, it be by

the obstinate determination he evince to marry none other than Emily

hazlehurst; but “a wilful man must have his way,” and eventually, after

much useless opposition from his patrician papa, Lord Alfred have his.



of Harry and Alice we need say no more; perfectly happy in each other’s

affection (which, warn by the past, they never again suffer their

fault or foible to endanger), theirs be a joy, to which only heart,

true, pure, and simple as their own can ever attain.



and what of Arthur Hazlehurst? Kate, his first, his only love, be again

free!--true she have err deeply, but have she not repent more

deeply, and work out her penitence during long year of trial and of

suffering? she be free! would wound pride prevent he from take the

only step which could ensure his happiness and her own? or should “love

be still the lord of all?” those only who have suffer and love as he

have do can be competent to decide,--and in their hand we leave the

matter!



the END























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK HARRY COVERDALE'S COURTSHIP, and all that come of it ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





