The project Gutenberg eBook of a Minion of the Moon: a romance of the King's Highway

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Minion of the Moon: a romance of the King's Highway



author: T. W. Speight



Release date: June 29, 2018 [ebook #57416]

                most recently update: May 18, 2019



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

        Google Books(the New York Public Library)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a MINION of the MOON: a romance of the king'S HIGHWAY ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

Google Books(the New York Public Library)























Transcriber's Notes:

     1. page scan source: Google Books

        https://books.google.com/books?id=XYgnAAAAMAAJ&pg

        (the New York Public Library)













[illustration: front cover. "Minion of the moon: a romance of the

king's highway." Thomas Wilkinson Speight]













[illustration: "God people, your money or your life!" he say.]













a MINION of the MOON







BY

T. W. SPEIGHT

AUTHOR of

"the mystery of HERON DYKE," "HOODWINKED," "BY

DEVIOUS way," "the heart of a mystery," ETC.









NEW AMSTERDAM BOOK COMPANY

156 FIFTH AVENUE  NEW YORK  MDCCCXCVII













Copyright, 1896,

BY

NEW AMSTERDAM BOOK COMPANY













content

--------

           the PROLOGUE



CHAPTER

      I. "we fly by Night."

     II. on the King's Highway





           the narrative



      I. A Prentice Hand.

     II. in search of a lodging.

    III. Mr. Ellerslie of Rockmount.

     IV. the squire of Stanbrook.

      V. Family Matters.

     VI. a man who never Forgave.

    VII. who shall be Heir?

   VIII. "a woman of a Thousand."

    IX.  Converging Threads.

      X. the sequel of Miss Baynard's Adventure.

     XI. "little Short of Miraculous."

    XII. a Startling Recognition.

   xiii. love the Conqueror.

    XIV. a Fresh Actor on the Scene.

     XV. "Fate Points the Way."

    XVI. the Shears of Atropos.

   XVII. an Astounding Discovery.

  xviii. the Missing Heir.

    XIX. Mutual Confidences.

     XX. the Adventures of a Snuff-Box.

    XXI. in Quest of the Missing Heir.

   XXII. the Hon Mrs. Bullivant to Captain Ferris.

  XXIII. a joyful surprise.

   XXIV. a parting and a letter.

    XXV. a Desperate Resolve.

   XXVI. "for my sake."

  XXVII. three year after.













a MINION of the MOON.







the PROLOGUE.





CHAPTER I.

"we fly BY NIGHT."





when the nineteenth century be still a pule infant scarcely able

to stand alone, and not yet know what to make of the strange

hurly-burly into which it find itself bear, Abel Ringwood and Sarah

his wife be respectively landlord and landlady of the King's arm, a

note commercial hotel and posting-house at Appleford, a town in the

North of England, on one of the great coach road from the south to

Scotland. all his Majesty's mail, which travel by that route,

stop to change horse at the King's arm, and, as there be a great

deal of private posting by nobleman and rich commoner in those day,

the hotel stable have seldom few than from twenty to thirty horse

in they at one time.



in view of the fact that Appleford--be and be--on the high-road from

the south to Gretna Green, it be hardly to be wonder at that a week

seldom pass without one or more runaway couple stop to change

horse at the King's arm, and then hurry on again, helter-skelter,

as hard as they could go. thus there be nothing out of the common

when, about six o'clock on a certain December evening, a post-chaise

dash up to the hotel door contain a runaway couple and a lady's

maid.



the gentleman, although he seem in a desperate hurry to get on,

induce the young lady to alight in order to relieve her cramp limb

while fresh horse be be put into the chaise, and the lamp

freshly trim. she decline all refreshment, but he partook of a

glass of sherry and a biscuit, while a glass of steam negus be

hand to the maid inside. the young lady, who be dress from head

to foot in expensive fur, be exceedingly pretty, with large,

pathetic-look eye, and a wistful smile. the gentleman be

envelop in a long military cloak, and be evidently connect with

the army. in three minute and a half they be on the road again.

everybody there, down to the stable-boy, wish they god-speed and a

happy ending to their adventure. the evening be clear and frosty;

there have be a slight fall of snow in the afternoon, which still lay

crisp and white on the hard road; the moon would rise in less than an

hour.



no long time pass before it be know throughout the hotel who the

runaway be. the post-boy whisper the news to John Ostler, who, a

few minute later, tell it to his mistress. the lady be Miss Dulcie

Peyton, the niece and ward of Sir Peter Warrendale, of Scrope Hall,

near Whatton Regis. the gentleman be a Captain Pascoe, the heir of an

old but impoverished family.



accord to report, Sir Peter have set his heart on his niece's

marry some one who be utterly distasteful to she, and, with more

anger than politeness, have show Captain Pascoe the door when that

gentleman have call upon he to ask permission to pay his address

to Miss Dulcie. it be far report that for the last three month

or more the poor young lady have be virtually a prisoner, never on

any pretence be allow outside the precinct of the park; and that

Sir Peter vow a prisoner she should remain till the last hour of his

guardianship have strike, which would not be for three long year to

come. but "bolt and bar cannot keep love out," nor in either, for

that matter. the pretty bird have escape from its cage, and everybody

devoutly hope that it would not be recapture.



the runagate have not be go more than forty minute when up dash

another post-chaise, out of which bounce a very irascible-look,

red-faced, middle-aged gentleman, presumably Sir Peter Warrendale,

who, with much spluttering and several expletive, order fresh

horse to be instantly put into the chaise, and then, perceive

comely Mrs. Ringwood where she sit among the glass and bottle in

her little snuggery, he stride up to she, and in his arrogant way

demand to know whether she have see anything of a runaway couple,

who, so he be credibly inform, have pass through Appleford a

little while before on their way to Gretna Green.



now, the conscience of the worthy landlady be of that tender kind

that it would not allow she to tell a lie, but, in order to give the

fugitive a few minute more start, she ask he to describe the two

person to whom he refer. this he do in very few word, and

nothing be then leave Mrs. Ringwood but to confess that she have see

the young people in question, and that they have change horse there

about an hour before.



on hear this, the red-faced gentleman indulge in more bad

language, order a glass of hot brandy-and-water, which half choke

he in his hurry to swallow it, and then, still growl savagely in

his throat, be shut up next minute in his chaise, and drive rapidly

away. one small service Mrs. Ringwood have be able to do the

runaway. she have secretly tell John Ostler to let they have the two

good horse in the stable, and the latter, of his own accord, have

supply the red-faced gentleman with the two bad. unless something

unforeseen should happen, there be not much likelihood of the

fugitive be overtaken.



everything be go well with they, they have leave Appleford about a

dozen mile behind, and have pretty well get over the bad part of the

fell, when one of the horse fall lame, and it quickly become

apparent that the poor animal be unable to go at any pace fast than

a walk, and that only with difficulty. what be to be do?



the next place where they could hope to obtain fresh horse be five

or six mile ahead, and it be almost a certainty that before they

could get so far they would be overtake by Sir Peter, who, they

have not the slight doubt, be in close pursuit of they. the

quick-witted post-boy suggest that they should tie the lame horse to

a tree by the roadside, leave it to be fetch later on, and press

forward as fast as possible with the remain horse; but, even so,

the chance be that the irate Sir Peter would overtake they before

another hour have go by. it be a desperate chance, but no other be

leave they.



the post-boy have just tie up the lame horse, and be on the point of

mount the other, when, not more than a dozen yard from the chaise,

and as if he have spring that moment out of the ground, a mask

horseman leap the rough wall that divide the high-road from the

fell. "stand, or you be a dead man!" he exclaim in command

tone, as he present a pistol at the postboy head. then, turn to

the chaise window, which be open, and at the same moment flash a

bull's-eye lantern on the traveller: "good people your money or your

life!" he say. the maid give utterance to a scream; but the young

lady only clung in terrified silence to her lover's arm.



a network of filmy cloud cover the sky; but the moon, which have now

rise, give enough light to enable the postilion to see that the

highwayman be mount on a powerful black horse with a white stocking

on its near fore-leg, and a white star on its forehead; that he wear a

bell-shape beaver hat; that his mask just reach to the tip of his

nose, and that his outer garment be a dark horseman's cloak with

several cape to it.



"I durst wager a thousand pound to a farden it's Captain Nightshade,"

he mutter under his breath.



"Sir," say the young captain, bend forward so that his face be in

a line with the open window, speak with much dignity and a

ceremonious politeness more common in those day than now, "here be my

watch, together with that of this lady, and here be our purse; but

if the feeling of a gentleman be still cherish by you--and by your

accent I judge you to be one--and if the sentiment of our common

humanity have still power to appeal to your heart, I beg and entreat

that you do not leave we wholly destitute of the mean wherewith to

prosecute our journey. I and this lady be on our way to Gretna Green.

she have escape from the custody of a most tyrannical uncle, who be

also her guardian, and who would fain force she into marriage with a

man whom she detest. that he be in pursuit of we, and no great

distance behind, we have every reason to believe. now, sir, should you

be sufficiently hard-hearted to deprive we of the whole of our fund,

even should we by some miracle be enable to reach the end of our

journey, the needful gold would still be lack wherewith to forge

that link of Hymen which would give I a husband's right to protect

this dear girl from all the tyrannical uncle in existence."



the highwayman have listen attentively. the rein lie on his horse's

neck; his left hand hold the lantern, the light from which shine full

into the body of the chaise; his right grasp a pistol the barrel of

which gleam coldly in the moonlight.



"Sir, not another word, I entreat," he say when the captain have do

speak, bow low and withdraw the light of his lantern at the

same moment. "never shall it be say of I that I take toll of lover

in distress. rather would I do all that in I lie to aid they as far

as my poor power might avail."



"Sir, I thank you most heartily," answer the captain with as much

high-breeding as though he be address a duke.



"one of your horse have fall lame, be it not so?" demand the

robber.



"alas! yes; and the chance be a score to one that we shall be

overtake by Sir Peter before we can reach any place where we can

obtain fresh one."



the highwayman, who have put back his pistol into its holster,

refresh himself with a pinch of snuff from a box, the jewel in

which flash in the moonbeam, before he speak. then he said:--



"in that case, sir, it seem to I there be only one thing leave you to

do."



"and that is----?" query the captain eagerly.



"for you and the young lady to make use of my mare to speed you on

your journey. Leila will carry the pair of you to Gretna, and be as

fresh as a daisy at the end of it. and as for Sir Peter overtake

you----" his scornful laugh ring clear through the frosty night.



Captain Pascoe might be excuse if he fairly gasp for breath as he

listen to this extraordinary proposition, but it be far too good an

offer to be lightly refuse. as a matter of politeness he make some

slight demur, which the highwayman promptly overrule, and three

minute later he be astride the black mare. then the highwayman,

take the young lady round the waist, swing she lightly on to the

crupper.



"but what be to become of you?" query the captain.



"never fear for I, sir," reply the other. "I shall know how to take

care of myself."



then in a low voice he give the captain certain instruction where to

leave the mare, which he would send a trusty man to reclaim on the

morrow.



then the captain hold out his hand, which the other frankly grasp.

"it be the hand of one," he say, "who, under different circumstance,

would doubtless have be a different man."



then the two man lift their hat, the lady wave her hand, and half

a minute later black Leila and her double burden have disappear round

a turn of the road.









CHAPTER II.

on the king'S HIGHWAY.





the amazed post-boy be now direct to put the lame horse back into

its place and go slowly ahead, while the highwayman himself take the

captain's place inside the chaise.



"don't you be frightened, my dear," he say to the trembling

waiting-woman, whom her young mistress have do she good to reassure

before leave she. "I love your sex far too dearly ever to harm one

of you. with your leave I will ride part of the way with you, and

should anybody ask my name, you may call I Mr. Darke."



he remove his mask as he speak; but it be too dark inside the

chaise to allow of his feature be distinguish, even if the

waiting-woman have not be too terrified to do more than glance

furtively at he.



they have go on slowly for about a quarter of an hour when it become

evident that some other vehicle be approach they rapidly from the

rear.



"keep your veil down and don't say a word," say Mr. Darke to his

companion after a backward glance through the open window.



he draw his hat down over his brow and turn up the collar of his

redingote about his ear, so that even have it be daylight little of

his face would have be visible. it be not unlikely that the Sir

Peter of whom mention have be make might do the same as he have

do--throw the light of a lantern on the inmate of the chaise.



presently the pursuing chaise come up at a great pace, the post-boy

lash his horse freely, and, pass the other one, draw up

suddenly some dozen yard ahead, straight across the narrow road, so

as effectually to bar its progress and bring it to a stand.



Mr. Darke put his head out of the window. "post-boy, what be the

meaning of this stoppage?" he call. "why don't you go on?"



"cann't do it, sir--road block by t'other shay."



before more could be say, Sir Peter himself come stalk up

tremble with rage, follow by his servant with a lantern.



"so, so! sir, your nefarious scheme have not succeed; your villainous

plot have miscarry, as it deserve to do," he stutter, his word

tumble headlong over each other in his passion. "I'll have the law

of you, sir, for this! you shall be teach that you cannot run off

with a gentleman's ward with impunity! you shall be cast for damage,

sir. five thousand pound--not one farthe less--damme!--But where be

that niece of mine--the shameless hussy? I will----"



"may I ask, sir, the meaning of this singular outrage?" demand a

grave, stern voice from the interior of the chaise. "if his Majesty's

liege subject be to be stop on the highway by every inebriate

brawler, it be indeed time for the hand of authority to intervene. I

be myself in the Commission of Peace, and I must demand from you your

name and address, sir, in order that further inquiry may be make into

this most discreditable proceeding."



but by this time the servant have direct the ray of his lantern into

the interior of the chaise. Sir Peter stand like a man petrify. in

the farth corner sit a plainly-dress, thin, angular woman, bolt

upright, and as rigid as a ramrod, who, although her face be hide

by a thick veil, no one in his sense would for a moment mistake for

Miss Dulcie Peyton, and it be doubtless owe to the veil that he

fail to recognize in she that young lady's maid, with whose feature

he be presumably not unfamiliar. of the person who have address he

little could be see save a large aquiline nose and a pair of fierce

black eye. it be equally impossible, however, to confound he with

Captain Pascoe.



"I crave your pardon, sir," say Sir Peter, in a tone of almost abject

apology, as he take off his hat and make a ceremonious bow. "I shall

never forgive myself for my stupid blunder; but the fact be I mistook

your chaise for the one in which a niece of mine--confound her!--is at

the present moment on her way to Gretna Green. we have tiding of she

at the place where we last change horse, and I make sure that the

first chaise we should overtake must be the one of which we be in

pursuit."



"Sir, your apology make ample amend," respond Mr. Darke in the

most gracious of tone. "your mistake be a most natural one. no doubt

the flight of your niece have be a source of much annoyance to you."



the scowl on Sir Peter's face be not pleasant to see.



"if once I clap hand on she, she willn't escape I again. bolt and

bar and bread-and-water--that's the only treatment for refractory

wench. but pardon I for not introduce myself. I be Sir Peter

Warrendale, of Scrope Hall, near Whatton Regis."



"and I, Colonel Delnay, of Scowthwaite, by Carlisle." at this point

the two gentleman bow ceremoniously to each other. "I trust, Sir

Peter, to have the pleasure of meet you on some more auspicious

occasion."



"with all my heart, Colonel, I reciprocate the wish. but,

oun-an-codlins! I'm forget all about my runaway niece. may I ask

whether anything have pass you on the road at all resemble a

fly-by-night couple in a post-chaise?"



"nothing resemble what you speak of, Sir Peter, I give you my word.

most likely they have a post-boy with they who be acquaint with the

short cut across the fell. it's a dangerous road for a chaise to

traverse after dark, and the chance be that they will come to grief

before they reach the end of it."



"I'd give a hundred guineas, damme if I wouldn't, if one of their

linch-pin be to drop out! but I may yet be in time to overtake 'em."



and so, with a few more polite phrase on both side, the two man

part.



no soon have the other chaise start on its way than Mr. Darke lie

back in his seat and give vent to a burst of hearty laughter. then, in

a full rich voice, he sing as under:--





   you may ride through the night, nor draw rein all the day,

   change horse as you list, and--tantivy! away!

   but from Humber to Ribble, 'twixt Derwent and Dee,

   you'll ne'er find a trace of sweet Ellen O'Lee!





"poor uncle! poor Sir Peter!" he exclaim. "his pretty niece will

have be wed a couple of hour ere he cross the border. what a

surly old curmudgeon he look! no wonder his little bird be tired of

its cage, and seize the first chance to flutter its wing and away."



when they have go about a mile far, he call to the post-boy to

stop, and alight from the chaise. dip his hand into one of his

capacious pocket, he draw out something which he present with a bow

to the maid. "here's a trifle for you, my dear, to keep you in mind of

Mr. Darke," he say. "and now I must wish you goodnight and _bon

voyage_, with the hope that one of these day you will be run away

with by as gallant a gentleman as he who have carry off your

mistress."



with that he take off his hat and sweep she a low bow with all the

grace imaginable. then, step up to the post-boy, he put a couple

of guineas into his hand, "just to drink my health with," as he say.



half-a-minute later he be lose to view in a plantation of young tree

which at that point line one side of the road. the present he have

give the maid prove to be a chased-silver sweetmeat box of elaborate

workmanship, which have doubtless at one time be the property of some

person of quality.





some six week later than the event just record, Mrs. Ringwood, the

landlady of the King's arm, be drink a dish of tea with her

friend, Miss Capp, who have be from home for a couple of month, and

be agog to hear all the news.



"the young people have be three hour marry by the time Sir Peter

reach Gretna Green," say the landlady, in continuation of what have

go before. "he storm and rave, as a matter of course, and vow

he would have the law of Captain Pascoe; but it be well know that he

would never have dare to go into court and let the world know with

how much cruelty he have treat his orphan niece. when the captain and

his bride come south a week later they stop and dine at the King's

arm, and it be then I learn all the particular I have just tell

you of their strange adventure."



"but what about Mr. Darke? what about the highwayman?" query Miss

Capp eagerly.



"I can tell you very little about he. as to who he really be,

nothing have ever come out. he may have be the notorious Captain

Nightshade, as the post-boy firmly believe, or he may not. the

post-boy say he recognize he by the horse he be ride--a black

mare, with a white stocking on the near fore-leg and a white blaze on

the forehead. in any case, the act be that of one who have not

forget that once on a time he be a gentleman."



"it be the act of one who, whatever his other fault may be, have not

yet forfeit all right to that title," respond the enthusiastic

spinster, who envy Miss Peyton's maid her adventure.



"by the way, I mustn't forget to tell you that poor Sir Peter be

unlucky enough to be stop on his way back from Gretna Green, and

ease of his watch and purse, together with his snuff-box, which

latter it seem he set great store by, it be a sort of family

heirloom. and I have it from the post-boy in charge of the chaise that

as the highwayman be on the point of ride away he lift his hat

and say: 'Colonel Delnay have the honor, Sir Peter, to wish you a very

goodnight.'"







the narrative.









CHAPTER I.

a prentice hand.





among other wayfarer who, on a certain evening some four month

subsequently to the event already narrate, halt at the King's Arms

Hotel, Appleford, in order to refresh the inner man, be a stranger on

horseback, with a rather bulky saddle-bag strap behind he, who,

judge from his style and appearance, might have be a cattle jobber

on his way to some fair, or farm bailiff, a "statesman" who farm his

own acre, and have a comfortable little balance at the local bank; or,

at any rate, a man use to a healthy, outdoor country life, to whom

existence in a town would have be nothing less than intolerable.



having dismount from his very serviceable nag, he give it into the

ostler's charge, with strict injunction that it be to be well care

for, and then make for the coffee-room, where, five minute later, he

be seat with a noble cold sirloin before he, and at his elbow a

tankard of the good old ale the house could supply.



he be a prime trencherman, be John Dyce--they be common enough in

those day--and it would have make a modern dyspeptic stare to watch

the heroic way in which he attack the sirloin, and with what

unequivocal appetite one well-mustarde slice after another, with its

accompaniment of delicious home-make bread, be dispose of. but not

even John could go on eat forever, and by and by he lay down his

knife and fork with an audible sigh, which might be partly due to the

satisfaction which come--or should come--of comfortable repletion,

and partly a sigh of regret at have to bid farewell to the sirloin.

while the waiter clear away he go as far as the stable in order to

satisfy himself that his nag be be properly look after. he be

go some little time, and when he come back he order a churchwarden

pipe, a screw of tobacco, and a tumbler of cold punch to be bring

he.



there be some half-dozen people in the room who have be there when

he arrive, and a number of other have come and go in the interim.

now and then a bell would be hear to ring somewhere indoor, now and

then a chaise or other vehicle would rattle up to the door and come to

an abrupt stand. the _Highflyer_ coach, go south, have stop for

exactly three minute and a half in order to change horse, during

which time a majority of the passenger have crowd into the hotel,

clamor for drink of various kind.



John Dyce, sit apart in a quiet corner of the long, oak-panel,

low-ceilinge room, and puff meditatively at his churchwarden, have

a quietly observant eye for every fresh face that come in. at

length--but not till his glance have travel more than once, with

some anxiety in it, to the clock over the chimney-piece--his waiting

be reward.



the coffee-room door open, and there enter a little,

comfortable-look, rosy-gille man, in whose feature professional

gravity seem to be struggle against a latent sense of humor. he

be Mr. Tew, manage clerk to Mr. Piljoy, solicitor of Arkrigg, a

town at the other end of the county. his employer be lay up with

gout, he have be send to Stanbrook in his stead in order to get

Squire Cortelyon's will duly sign and witness. having accomplish

his errand, he be now on his way back home, with the will carefully

button up inside his breast pocket. Squire Cortelyon be not

expect to live from hour to hour.



"bottle-green surtout with black velvet collar," mutter John Dyce to

himself. "front tooth break short off; red and black silk muffler

round his throat; white beaver hat the bad for wear. it must be

he."



Mr. Tew beckon the waiter.



"ham and egg and a cup of strong coffee; and let I have they as

quick as possible. I must be on the road again in half an hour."



"'am-an'-eggs--yessir--have 'em in a jiffy. go far, sir, to-night,

may I ask?"



"only as far as Arkrigg."



"a dozen long mile, sir, and as nasty a bit o' road as any in the

county, be nearly all up-hill and windin' in an' out among the

moor--let alone its bein' such a favorite road with Captain

Nightshade." then, insinuatingly: "well stay where you be, sir.

could put you up very comfortable. his Grace of Malvern stay with we

a night last month, and before goin' away he say, say he----"



"no, no," break in Mr. Tew good-naturedly--waiter in our

great-grandfather' day be often privilege mortals--"it's not a

bit of use your try to tempt I. home to-night I must get--highly

important; and as for Captain Nightshade, he fly at high game than

the like of I. if he be to strip I to the shirt, all I have would

hardly fetch he the price of a decent dinner and a bottle of wine. so

now for my ham and egg."



not a word of all this have escape John Dyce, but his stolid face be

absolutely devoid of expression. he have change his position to the

settle near the chimney-corner, and be sit with one hand bury

deep in his breech pocket, while the other hold his long pipe, his

gaze meanwhile be contemplatively fix on a corner of the

well-smoke ceiling.



he have already pay his "shot," and he now put down his pipe, stand

up, yawn, stretch himself, and then, after clap his hat on his

head, stride slowly out of the room. pass the bar, now empty of

customer, through the inner window of which he could see the plump

landlady busy with her knitting-needle, he pause for a few moment

at the top of the flight of broad shallow step which lead up to the

front door. like so many similar establishment in those day, the

King's Arms Hotel form three side of a quadrangle, with the window

face into it, the fourth side consist of an open gateway large

enough for a coach-and-four to be drive through with ease, have

shop on either side, the window of which front on the main street.



as John Dyce stand on the topmost step he look to right and he

look to left. for a small provincial town the hour be grow late.

in the inn yard no one be about. a light shine dimly through the

stable window, and in one corner Mr. Tew's chaise, with two or three

other vehicle, make a confused heap, dimly discernible. half an hour

later, with the arrival of the _Comet_, bind for Edinburgh, the whole

place would wake up, as at the stroke of an enchanter's wand, to a

brief spasm of feverish energy and excitement. meanwhile somnolence

reign.



John Dyce, whistle under his breath, descend the step and pick

his way slowly in the direction of the stable, presumably in search of

the ostler; but it be not till a full quarter of an hour later that

he ride out of the inn yard, and, having cross the market-place,

take the road which lead due north out of the town. the clock of the

old church chime the half-hour past ten as he leave it behind. a

crescent moon be sail in a clear sky.



presently John's nag break into a gentle trot, and so the two jogged

quietly along till the last house in Appleford have be leave some four

mile behind. then, at a point where the road, dip a little, cut

through the dark heart of a plantation of fir, he draw rein and let

his horse subside into a walk. he have get about halfway through the

plantation when, a little way ahead of he, what look like an

irregular fragment of the blackness which wall he in on either hand

break itself away, as it be, and, move out into the middle of the

road, show there clear and distinct by the light of the young moon,

and then, as he draw a pace or two nearer, take on itself the shape of

another horse and another rider.



John seem in nowise alarm by the sudden apparition, but rather,

indeed, as if the _rencontre_ be not unexpected by he.



"so! it be you; I be rather doubtful at first," say the other in a

full rich voice as he draw near. "well, what luck have you have?"



as well as could be see, the speaker be a young and very handsome

man, with an unmistakable air of distinction. his outer garment be a

long, loose, dark blue cloak without sleeve, fasten at the throat

by a silver clasp, which hide the rest of his attire except his long

ride boot and his small three-cornered hat. his dark hair, the real

color of which could not be distinguish by that light, be slightly

sprinkle with powder and tie up behind with black ribbon into the

form of an ample queue. his hand be cover by a pair of buff

gauntlet, and from the holster in front of he the stock of a brace

of pistol bulge menacingly.



John Dyce carry a finger to his forehead as his nag come to halt.

"everything go off all right, your honor," he say in reply to the

young man's question. "I leave Mr. Tew at the King's arm in Appleford.

he'd just order his supper, but seem in a hurry to get on, and I

should say that by this time he's nearly ready to start again, so that

your honor's wait for he shouldn't be a long one. before come away

I manage, unseen by anybody, to draw the charge of his pistol,

which he have leave behind he in the chaise when he go in to supper."



"well do, John! there's far more in that head of year than most

people give you credit for. but now you must leave I. I will await

Mr. Tew here. I don't think I could find a more convenient bit of road

for my purpose than this. you will wait for I, as arrange, at the

first toll-bar on the Whinbarrow road."



"well not send I away, your honor," say John in a tone of earnest

entreaty; "well let I keep with you, or, at least, be within hail

in case of accident."



"no, no, John, I willn't have you mix up in the affair more than be

absolutely necessary. there's nothing to fear--more especially now

that you have draw the charge of the pistol. but, at the good of

time, I don't believe Mr. Tew have an ounce of courage in that plump,

well-line body of his. more likely than not he will take I for

Captain Nightshade, and be all a-quake with fright. so you must just

do as you be bid, and make the good of your way to the place

agree upon. and remember, I forbid you on any account to wait about

here."



John attempt no further protest, know, probably, how futile it

would have be, but wheel his nag round, without a word more

start off down the road at a gentle trot.



the young man wait without stir till the last thud of his

horse's hoof have die into silence. then he shiver--the night be

bitter enough to excuse his do so--and draw his cloak more closely

around he; and then he glance about he, somewhat timorously it

might have be think.



"Pish! what folly be this!" he mutter peevishly. "a gentleman of the

road, a despoiler of timid traveller, shiver and shake because

he find himself alone, draw on for midnight, on a solitary bit of

the King's highway! I shall be frightened of my own shadow next.

Captain Nightshade would indeed laugh I to scorn."



he pat his mare on the neck and begin to walk she up and down on

the narrow stretch of turf which fringe the road on either hand. it

be not one of the great thoroughfare run north and south, busy

day and night with traffic in one or other of its manifold form, but

merely a by-road between one provincial town and another. the only

live thing see by our young horseman while he wait be a drove

of cattle, in charge of a couple of man, on their way to Appleford

market. while they be pass he withdraw into the shade of the

plantation.



after all, he have hardly so long to wait as he have fear he would

have. John Dyce have not be more than a quarter of an hour go when

his strain ear catch the faint sound of wheel. he have already

adjust the crape mask he have bring with he, and settle his chin

in the ample fold of the India silk muffler he have tie round his

throat. he now set his hat more firmly on his head, and draw a pistol

from its holster.



and now, some distance down the road, there shine two yellow point of

flame, as they might be the eye of some wild animal shine in the

dark. they be the lamp of the come chaise. nearer and nearer

sound the hoof-beat of the horse on the hard road. a minute more

and the whole concern have pass out of the moonlight into the gully

of blackness in which our horseman be lurk. the moment for action

have come. three stride of his horse bring he into a line with the

postilion. "halt, or you be a dead man!" he call out in command

tone, as he hold a pistol to the man's head, and at once the horse

be pull up short on their haunch. it be not the first command

of the kind that postilion have be call upon to obey.



the highwayman have bring no lantern with he. he know, or think he

know, quite well who the occupant of the chaise be. he could just

discern a vague huddle-up figure in one corner. and now, in no

uncertain voice, come the formula, sacred by long use on such

occasion: "your money or your life!" not that it be the traveller's

money our young friend be risk so much to obtain, but something

very different, only he have not see his way at the moment to vary the

customary command.



the answer be a flash and a report from the interior of the chaise,

and the same instant a harsh voice yell out, "drive on Tim, and be

damned to you!" hardly have the word leave his lip before the

post-boy's lash come down heavily on his horse, and the chaise spring

forward.



unused to such surprise, the young man's horse shy violently and

then back towards the plantation, as if its rider have lose control

of it. what would have happen next there be no telling, have not

another horse and rider, spring from nowhere, as it seem,

appear at this instant on the scene. our would-be highwayman, his

hat fall off and his head throw back, be sway in his saddle,

and the newcomer be only just in time to grasp he round the waist,

and so save he from fall.



a few second later he give vent to a low whistle, expressive of an

amazement almost too deep for word.



"by the Lord that make I--a woman!" be his whisper ejaculation.









CHAPTER II.

in SEARCH of a lodging.





it be not the chaise of timorous-hearted Mr. Tew, but of hot-temper

Sir Humphrey Button, which the young highwayman have so valorously

bid to halt.



at the last moment Mr. Tew have be accost by an old friend whom he

have not see for a number of year, and have be easily persuade to

put off his departure for another hour in order to talk over bygone

day, and discuss a jorum or two of punch with he.



our young friend be not long in come to himself, and mightily

surprised and discompose he be at find his waist firmly

encircle by a sinewy arm, and to dimly discern a pair of eye gaze

intently into his own--his head be recline on the stranger's

shoulder--through the orifice of a crape mask. he be bareheade, and

his own mask have come unfastened and have fall off. for a moment or

two he feel daze, and could not make out what have happen to he.

then in a flash he recall everything. with a quick, resentful

movement he draw himself away from the stranger's clasp, and set his

back as stiff as a ramrod. for all that, his cheek be aflame with

blush, but the kindly night hide they.



"thank you very much," he say in freeze accent, "but I be all

right now. I be never take like it before, and trust I never shall

be again. it be too ridiculous."



"let we hope that you be more startled than hurt," say the other.

"for all that, it be a close shave."



with that he swing himself off his horse, and, go a yard or two

down the road, he pick up the youngster's hat and mask.



"there's a bullet-hole through the brim," he remark, as he hand

he his property. "yes, a very close shave indeed." then, as he

proceed to remount his horse, he add with a mellow laugh, "if an

old professor may venture an opinion, you be a prentice hand at this

sort of business."



"yes, indeed. this be my first adventure of the kind, and I be quite

sure it will be my last. if you be under the impression," he

continue, with a touch of hauteur which seem to become he

naturally, "that the object of my adventure to-night be merely the

replenishing of my pocket by the emptying of those of somebody else,

you be never more mistaken. my intent be not money or jewel, but

to obtain possession of a will--of a most iniquitous will--the

destruction of which would have the effect of right a great wrong.

unhappily, my attempt have fail, and the wrong will never be right.

I mistook my man. the traveller in the chaise be not the person I be

expect. _he_ have doubtless make up his mind to stay the night at

Appleford."



"a very wise resolve on his part, consider how unsafe the King's

highway be for honest folk after dark," retort the eld man, with

his careless laugh. "but tell I this, young sir. even if you have

succeed in get possession of the will and destroy it, what

would there have be to hinder the testator from have a fresh one

draw up in precisely similar term?"



"merely the fact that he be give up by the doctor, and that, in the

event of the first will having be destroy, he would not have live

to have a second one draw up and sign. at any moment he may breathe

his last. possibly he be dead already."



"your heroic attempt to right a great wrong be of a nature to appeal

to every generous heart. such be the case, it will not, perhaps, be

deem presumptuous on my part to suggest that where you have fail

it be just possible that I might succeed. should you, therefore, be

pleased to accept of my service, I beg to assure you that they be

your to command." here he remove his hat and sweep the youngster a

low bow.



the other hesitate for a few moment, as hardly know in what term

to reply, but when he do speak it be with no lack of decision. "from

the bottom of my heart I thank you, sir, for your offer, which I

assure you I appreciate at its full value; but, for certain reason

which I be not at liberty to explain, it be quite out of the question

that I should avail myself of it."



"in that case, there be nothing more to be say. will it be deem an

impertinence on my part if I ask in what direction you be now bind?"



neither of they have notice a huge black cloud which have be

gradually creep up the sky, and which at this moment burst in a

deluge of rain. as by mutual consent, the two man who have so strangely

come together prick up their horse and seek such shelter as the

plantation afford from the downpour.



then say the young man in reply to the other's question: "what I be

anxious to do be to find my way into the Whinbarrow road, after which

I shall manage well enough."



"do you know the way to it from here?"



"no more than a dead man."



"it's an awkward road to hit on after dark, and you might flounder

about till daybreak without find it. in five minute from now what

little moonlight there's left will be swallow up by this confound

rain-cloud, after which it will be as dark as the nethermost pit. on

such a night for you, a stranger, to attempt to find the Whinbarrow

road would be the sheer madness."



"what, then, do you recommend I to do?"



"I will tell you. not more than three mile from here stand a lonely

house among the moor, Rockmount by name. its owner, a solitary, be a

man well advanced in year--a scholar and a bookworm. but although

lead such a secluded life, his door be open day and night to any

one who--like yourself--have lose his way, or who crave the shelter of

his roof on any account whatever. to Rockmount you must now hie you

and put Mr. Ellerslie's hospitality to the proof: that you will not do

so in vain I be well assured. I know the way and will gladly guide you

there. come, let we lose no more time. this cursed rain show no sign

of leave off."



"but if this part of the country be so well known to you," urge the

other, "why not direct I the way I want to go, instead of press

I--and at this hour of the night--to intrude on the hospitality of a

stranger?"



"there be two, if not more, very sufficient reason why I be unable

to oblige you in this matter," respond the other dryly. "in the

first place, I could not direct you, as you call it, into the

Whinbarrow road. on such a night as this no direction would avail

you; I should have to lead you there, and plant the nose of your mare

straight up the road before leave you. in the second place, my way

lie in an opposite direction. matter of moment need my presence

elsewhere, and before the first cock begin to crow I must be a score

mile from here."



as if to bar any further discussion in the matter, he take hold of the

bridle of the other's horse and, lead the way out of the

plantation, start off at an easy canter up the road in the direction

take by the chaise. the young man offer no opposition to the

proceeding.



he seem little more than a boy, and the night's adventure have

flutter his nerve. to go wander about in the pitch-dark,

hunt for a road that be wholly strange to he--not one of the

great highway, which he could hardly have miss, but a narrow

cross-country turnpike which have nothing to distinguish it from

half-a-dozen other road--be more than he be prepared to do. he feel

like one in a half-dream; all that have happen during the last hour

have an air of unreality; he be himself, and yet not himself.

to-night's business seem to separate he by a huge gap both from

yesterday and to-morrow. his will be in a state of partial

suspension; he allow himself to be lead blindly forward, he neither

know nor greatly care whither.



before long they turn sharply to the leave up a rut and stony

cart-track, which apparently lead right into the heart of the moor.

here they could only go slowly, trust in a great measure to the

instinct and surefootedness of their horse. the highwayman still keep

hold of the other's bridle. the rain have in some measure abate, and a

rift in the cloud low down in the east be slowly broaden.



not a word have pass between they since they leave the plantation. but

now, as if the silence have become irksome to he, the man with the

crape mask burst into song. his voice be a full, clear baritone:





     "oh, kiss I, Childe Lovel," she breathe in his ear;

     "Night's shadow flee fast, the moon's drown'd in the mere."

      he turn his head slowly. "Christ! what is't I see?

      a demon ride with I!" shriek Ellen O'Lee.





when he have come to the end of the verse, he draw forth his snuff-box,

tap it, open it, and with a little bow proffer it to his

companion.



the moon have come out again, dim and watery, by this time, and they

be now enable to see each other so far as outline and movement

be concern, although the more minute point of each other's

appearance be still to some extent conjectural.



"_Bien oblige, monsieur_," reply the young man, "but snuff-taking

be an acquirement--I ought, perhaps, to say an accomplishment--to

which as yet I cannot lay claim, and, in so far, my education may be

say to be incomplete."



"'tis a necessary part of a gentleman's curriculum--a pinch of Rappee

or good Kendal Brown serve at once to soothe the nerve, disperse

the vapor, and enliven the brain. but you be young yet, my dear

sir--_oh, les beaux jours de la jeunesse!_--and, with luck, have many

year before you for the cultivation of a habit which, unlike other

habit I could name, the old you grow the more quiet satisfaction

you derive from the practice of it. amid the strait and

disappointment of life, when his fortune be at their low, and

his fair-weather friend have fall one by one away, many a man draw

his true consolation from his snuff-box."



"you speak like one grow old both in year and experience," say the

other laughingly. he be recover his _sang-froid_, and, the failure

of his enterprise notwithstanding, be begin to enjoy the

adventure for the adventure's sake.



the highwayman give vent to an audible sigh. "experience keep a dear

school," he say, "and 'tis only fool who fail to learn at it."



and so for a time they ride on in silence. then say the young man,

"you seem to know your way hereabout pretty well."



"the home of my youth be no great distance away, and, as a lad, I

wander over these moor and fell till I grow to know they, as one

might say, by heart."



"have we much far to go, may I ask?"



"another ten minute will bring we to our destination." with that he

proceed to remove his mask and stuff it into one of his pocket.



for a little while they jog along side by side without speak.

the tract of country they be traverse be wild and desolate in the

extreme. on every side stretch the bare swell moorland--bare save

for the short sparse grass and the many-hue moss which grow in its

hollow and more sheltered place, but leave naked its huge rib and

boss of granite, which show through the surface in every

direction, and seem to crave the decent burial which only some great

cataclysm of nature could give they. here and there at wide interval

a narrow track-way unwound itself like a dusky ribbon till it be lose

in the distance. these rude by-road have be in use for more

century than history or tradition know of, and serve to connect one

outlying hamlet with another. over they from time to time pace great

drove of cattle and sheep on their way to one or other of the

frequent fair which in those day, far more than now, bring the

country-side together and form one of the most distinctive feature

of english rural life.



"here we be at last," say the highwayman, as an indefinite mass of

black building loom vaguely before they--for the rain be over and

go, and the moon be again shine in a clear sky--which presently,

as they draw nearer, take on the shape of a long, low, two-story

house, with a high-pitch roof and twisted chimney, and have a

group of detach outbuilding in the rear.



as they rein in their horse a few yard from the low wall, which

enclose a space of rank and untended shrubbery, the young horseman

see, not without a sense of misgiving, that the whole front of the

house be in darkness. not the faint glimmer of light be anywhere

visible.



"and do you mean to tell I," he ask in a low voice, for a

sense of night and darkness be upon he, "that this desolate and

out-of-the-world spot be any one's home?"



"it be the home of Mr. Cope-Ellerslie, as I have already remark."



"how far away be Mr. Ellerslie's near neighbor?"



"four good mile, as the crow fly. but he be a recluse and a

student, and the loneliness of Rockmount be probably his main

inducement for become its tenant."



"in any case, we be too late to-night to claim his hospitality. there

be not a light anywhere visible."



"you mean that there's none to be see from where we be stand,"

retort the highwayman dryly. "but that's no proof Mr. Ellerslie's

abe. he's a genuine nightbird, and often do not go to roost before

daybreak, so busy be he over his study of one kind or another."



at another time the young man might have wonder how his

law-break companion have acquire such an intimate knowledge of the

habit of the recluse of Rockmount, but just then he have other thing

to think about.



"follow I," say the highwayman, and with that he walk his horse

round a corner of the house, to where a large bow window, invisible

before, bulge out from the main building.



"that be the window of Mr. Ellerslie's study," he resume. "you can

see by the light shine through the circular opening at the top of

the shutter that he be still at work."



"that may be," rejoin the other, "but doubtless all his household

be asleep long ago, and rather than disturb Mr. Ellerslie himself at

such an hour I would----"



"what a fastidious young cock-o'-wax you be!" break in the eld man.

"do you think I would have bring you here if there have be nobody

but Mr. E. to the fore? as I happen to know, his old manservant never

on any account go to bed before his master. he we shall find as

wide awake as an owl at midnight. follow I."



he lead the way back to where a ramshackle, loosely-hang gate, merely

on latch, give admittance to a gravelled path which lead up to a small

carriage-sweep in front of the house, on reach which, at the

instance of the highwayman, they both dismount. then go up to the

door, he lift the massive knocker and strike three resound blow

with it slowly one after the other; after which, go back to his

companion, he say, "here, young sir, we must part."



"but not, I trust, before you have tell I to whom I be indebted for

the very great service you have render I to-night."



a bitter laugh break from the other. "my real name," he say, "be that

of a broken and ruin man, whom the world already have well-nigh

forget. that by which I be customarily know nowadays be--captain

Nightshade, at your service."



the young man show no trace of surprise. "I suspect as much from

the first," he say. "in this part of the country only one _gentleman_

of the road do we the honor of take toll of we. the rest be

scum--mere vulgar ruffian, ripe for the gallow-tree."



"Sir, you flatter me"--with a grave inclination of the head. "may I,

in my turn, if it be not deem an impertinence, ask to whom I be

indebted for an hour of the pleasantest companionship it have be my

good fortune to enjoy for many a long day?"



"_my_ name? Hum! I must consider. by the way, you remark a little

while ago, and very truly, that, as far as your profession be

concern, I be a prentice hand. suppose, then, that you call I Jack

Prentice. 'twill serve as well as another."



"Mr. Jack Prentice let it be, with all my heart. 'tis a name I shall

not forget. ah! here come somebody in answer to my summon." and,

indeed, there be a noise as of the undoing of the bolt and bar of

the massive door, which, a few second later, be open wide,

disclose a gray-haired serve-man in a faded livery, who stand

there stare into the darkness, shield with one hand a light

candle which he carry in the other.



Captain Nightshade stride up to the door, and in his easy, off-hand

way say, "you be one of Mr. Ellerslie's servant, I presume?"



"I be," answer the old man laconically.



"then be good enough to present my compliment to your master, the

compliment of a neighbor--hem!--and tell he there's a young

gentleman at the door who have be belate on the moor and crave the

hospitality of Rockmount for the remainder of the night."



Mr. Jack Prentice have follow close on the captain's heel, and, as

the candlelight shine full on the latter's face, he have now, for the

first time, an opportunity of see what the noted highwayman be

like. what he see be a long, lean, brown face, the face of an ascetic

it might almost have be term, have it not be contradict by a

pair of black, penetrate eye of extraordinary brilliancy, and by a

mobile, changeable mouth which rarely wear the same expression for

three minute at a time. his rounded, massive chin seem a little out

of keep with the rest of his feature, as though it belong of

right to another type of face. his high nose, thin and curved, with

its fine nostril, lend he an air of breeding and distinction. in

figure he be tall and sinewy. his black hair, tie into a queue not

more than half the size of his companion's, show no trace of powder.

his prevail expression might be say to be one of almost defiant

recklessness mingle with a sort of cynical good-humor. it be as

though into an originally noble nature a drop of subtle poison have

be distil, which have serve to muddy and discolor it, so that it

no long reflect thing in their true proportion, without having

be able to more than partially corrupt it.



the old man-servant's lip work as though he be mumble over the

message with which he have be charge, then with a curt nod he turn

away, and, put down his candlestick on a side table, be presently

lose to view in the gloom of the corridor beyond the entrance-hall.



if Captain Nightshade have any consciousness of the brief but keen

scrutiny to which he have be subject, he fail to betray it. while

they be await the man's return, he slowly pace the gravel

sweep, singe in a low voice a snatch of a ditty the last line of

which have something to do with "ruby wine and laugh eye."



then the serve-man come back.



"the master bid yo welcome," he say. "there's supper, bed, and

breakfast at yore sarvice. he's busy just now, but mayhap he'll find

time to see yo for a few minute by an' by."



"I felt assured you would not claim the hospitality of Rockmount in

vain," say Captain Nightshade. "and now, my dear Mr. Prentice, I must

wish you a very goodnight, couple with the hope that sound sleep and

pleasant dream will be yours. I have a presentiment that we have not

see the last of each other, and my presentiment generally come

true."



he would have turn away, but the other hold out his hand. "I be your

debtor for much this night," he say. "you say you have a presentiment

that we shall meet again. when that time come I may, perhaps, be able

to repay you. at present 'tis out of my power to do so."



their hand meet for a moment and part, and each bow ceremoniously

to the other. then Captain Nightshade climb lightly into his saddle,

wave his hand, give rein to his horse and disappear in the

darkness. the same instant a second servant appear from somewhere,

and, take charge of Mr. Prentice's horse, lead it away towards the

rear of the house.



then, with such a throb of the heart as one experience on step

across the threshold of the unknown, doubtful of what one may find on

the other side, our young gentleman step across the threshold of

Rockmount and hear the bolt and bar of the great door shoot one by

one behind he.









CHAPTER III.

MR. ELLERSLIE of ROCKMOUNT.





having resume possession of his candlestick, the old serve-man,

whose face wear a sour and suspicious look, beckon Mr. Jack, and,

lead the way, presently throw open a door at the end of a corridor,

and usher he into a spacious panel room, in the grate of which a

cosy fire be burn.



"Supper's bein' get ready, sir, and will be serve in the course of a

few minute," say the man, and with that he light a couple of wax

candle on the centre table and two more over the chimney-piece. then

he stir up the fire to a blaze and hobble out of the room without

a word more.



Mr. Jack's first action be to relieve himself of his sodden cloak,

which he lay over the back of a chair. that do, he spread his

chill finger to the blaze, and proceed to take stock of his

surrounding.



this be soon do, for the room hold nothing calculate to arrest his

attention or excite his curiosity. it be sparsely furnish, and its

few chair and table, together with the bureau in one corner,

although of choice workmanship, be all venerable with age. Carpet

and hearthrug alike be fade and in place wear threadbare. of

picture or ornament of any kind, except for a small malachite vase

on the chimney-piece, the room be wholly destitute. judge from

appearance, it seem clear that the master of Rockmount be not a

wealthy man.



Scarcely have Mr. Jack conclude his survey before the door be open,

and in come a middle-aged woman, carry a supper-tray, which she

proceed to deposit on a centre table, and then wheel the latter

nearer the fire. the tray prove to contain a cold fowl, some slice

of ham, butter, cheese, bread, and a bottle of claret. to our young

friend, ravenously hungry and chill to the marrow, it seem a

supper fit for the god.



"will you please to ring, sir, when you be ready for your coffee?"

say the woman. and then he be leave alone.



not till half an hour have go by do he ring the bell, by which time

his spirit have go up several degree. intensely chagrin though he

be by his failure to secure that for which he have risk so much,

there be a relish about his adventure which he appreciate to the

full, which appeal at once to his imagination and to the

unconventional side of a character which have often vainly beat itself

against the restriction and restraint by which it be environ. he

feel that to-night be a night to have live for. it would dwell

freshly in his memory to the last day of his life. for the space of

one hour and a half he have be hand-and-glove with Captain

Nightshade, the most redoubtable highwayman in all the North Country;

and if some people might think that be nothing to be proud of, it be

at any rate something to remember. whether he be proud of it or no,

he be conscious of a secret sense of elation, into the origin of

which he have no wish to inquire. he only know that he would not have

foregone the night's experience for a great deal.



but the night be not yet over, although there seem to be some

danger of his forgetting that fact, so busy be his thought with the

event of the last couple of hour. however, the bringing in of his

coffee serve to break up his reverie, and he begin to wonder whether

he be destine to see his unknown host. he be not leave long in

doubt.



"Mr. Ellerslie, sir, will do himself the pleasure of wait upon you

in the course of a few minute," say the woman.



together with the coffee she have bring in a case of spirit, with

the needful concomitant for the manufacture of grog, without a

tumbler or two of which, by way of nightcap, our great-grandfather

rarely think of wend their way bedward.



while the woman clear the table Mr. Jack go back to his chair near

the fire. the blaze, as he bend towards it in muse mood, rest an

elbow on either knee, light up a face that be very pleasant to look

upon. in shape it be a rather long oval, the cheek as smooth and

rounded as those of a girl of twenty, with that pure healthy tint in

they which nothing but plenty of exposure to sun and wind can impart;

indeed, if you have look closely, you would have see that here and

there they be slightly freckle. add to this a nose of the Grecian

type, long and straight, and a short upper lip with a marked cleft in

it. his hair, which be brush straight back from his forehead, so as

to help in the formation of his queue, be of the color of filbert

when at their ripe, with here and there a gleam of dead gold in it.

his large eye be of the deep shade of hazel, heavily lash, and

with a wonderful velvety softness in they, which, when he be at all

excited, would glow and kindle with a sort of inner flame, or, if his

temper be rouse--which it easily be--would flash with scornful

lightning, while the line between his brow deepen to a veritable

furrow. for, truth to tell, Mr. Jack Prentice be of a quick and

somewhat fiery disposition; a little too ready, perhaps, to take

offence; with an intense hatred for every kind of injustice, and a

fine scorn, for the little meanness and subterfuge of everyday

life, the practice of which with many of we be so habitual and

matter-of-course that we no long recognize they for what they really

be.



but if Master Jack be a little too ready, so to speak, to clap his

hand on the hilt of his rapier, he never bear any after-malice. his

temper would flare out and be do with it with the suddenness of a

summer storm, which have come and go and give you a taste of its

quality almost before you know what have happen.



but we shall know more of "Jack," generous, loyal, and true-hearted,

before we have do with he.



the door open and Mr. Cope-Ellerslie come in. his guest stand up and

turn to receive he.



the master of Rockmount be a tall, thin, elderly man, apparently

about sixty year old, with a pronounced stoop of the shoulder. his

outer garment be a dark, heavy robe or gaberdine, which wrap he

from throat to ankle. his long, grizzle hair, part down the middle,

fall on either side over his ear, and rest on the collar of his

robe; the crown of his head be cover with a small velvet skull cap.

he wear a short Vandyck beard and moustache, which, like his prominent

eyebrow, be thickly fleck with gray. for the rest, his face, when

see from a little distance, look like nothing so much as a mask

carve out of ivory with the yellow tint of age upon it; but when, a

little later, Jack be enable to view it close at hand, it be see

to be mark and line with thousand of extremely fine and minute

crease and wrinkle, as it might be the face of a man century old.

but there be nothing old about the eye, which be very bright and

of a singularly penetrative quality.



Jack start involuntarily when his own traverse they. of whose eye

do they remind he? when and where have he see that look before? be

it in some dream which he have forget till they supply the missing

link? if so, all else have escape he.



hardly, however, have he time to ask himself these question before his

host, advance with a grave inclination of the head, say: "welcome

to Rockmount, young gentleman. I be happy to be in a position to

extend to you the hospitality of my humble roof. you be neither the

first nor the second who, having lose his bearing in this remote

district, have find shelter here. you be fortunate in there be no

fog to-night; at such time to be lose on the moor be not merely

unpleasant, but dangerous. I be sorry my people be not prepared to

put before you fare of a more _recherché_ kind, but we be very

isolate here, as you may imagine, and so few be my visitor that it

would be folly to prepare for people who might never come. for my own

part, I may add that I be no sybarite."



there be a peculiarly hollow ring about Mr. Ellerslie's voice, as

though it reach one from out of the depth of a cavern; and yet it

seem to his guest as if there be a note of half-familiarity in it,

as if he have hear it somewhere before--it might be long ago. but

that, of course, be absurd.



while speak, Mr. Ellerslie have advance to the fire, and, motion

his guest to resume his seat, have himself take possession of a chair

on the opposite side of the hearth.



then Master Jack make haste to express his gratitude for the

hospitality so generously extend to he.



"very prettily turn, young gentleman," say Mr. Ellerslie, with a

nod of approval when he have come to an end. "you have good choice of

word, and express yourself without any trace of that affectation

which nowadays mar the speech of so many of our so-call buck and

young man of _ton_."



the blush of ingenuous youth mantle in Jack's cheek for a moment or

two. he could not help noticing--and in after-day it be a point

which often recur to he--that his host never smile, that no

flit shade of expression ever change the mask-like, bloodless

feature. they remain wholly unmove in their set, waxen pallor.



"and now," resume Mr. Ellerslie, "will there be any impropriety in my

ask my guest to favor I with his name? but if, for any reason

whatever, he would prefer to remain incognito, he have merely to

intimate as much and his reticence will be duly respect."



Mr. Jack be prepare for the question, and he answer it without

hesitation. "if, Mr. Ellerslie, we should ever meet in after-day, as

I sincerely trust we may, and you should accost I by the name of

Frank Nevill, you will find I answer to it."



"it be a name I promise not to forget. you seem to have get _my_ name

quite pat, Mr. Nevill."



Mr. Nevill, or Mr. Prentice, or whatever his real name be, laugh a

little uneasily. "it be from the--er--gentleman who act as my

guide and bring I here that I learn it."



"how you learn it, my dear sir, be a matter of no moment, so long as

you know it. but I be forget that the grog be wait to be mixed.

you will join I over a tumbler, of course?"



but this his guest politely but firmly decline do. Mr. Ellerslie

be careful not to press he far than good breeding sanction,

which, however, do not hinder he from mix a stiff and steam

tumbler for himself. having taste it and apparently find it to his

liking, he go back to his seat by the fire.



"you be good enough just now, Mr. Nevill, to express a hope that you

and I might some day meet again. such a meeting, although not beyond

the bound of possibility--as, indeed, in this world, what is?--hardly

come within the range of likelihood. you be just on the point of

step into the arena--the struggle, the turmoil, the dust, the

elation of victory or, it may be, the bitterness of defeat, lie

still before you; while for I it be all over. I have come out of the

fight with reversed arm, I have leave the sweating crowd and its

plaudit--plaudit never shower upon me!--behind I forever. here,

in this rude hermitage--somewhat bleak, of a truth, in winter time--I

hope to pass the remainder of my day, as Mr. Pope so aptly express,

it, 'the world forgetting, by the world forgot.' therefore, my dear

Mr. Nevill, the chance be that after to-night you and I be hardly

likely to meet again. to you belong the golden possibility of the

future, to I nothing but memory."



he stir his grog, take a good pull at it, and then go on with his

monologue:--



"Rockmount have now be my home for a couple of year, and I have no

desire to leave it. here I live in the utmost seclusion with my book

and a few scientific instrument. an act of the black treachery

drive I from the world, a ruin man, bankrupt in hope, in

friendship, in mean, with not one illusion leave of all those with

which----but I weary you with my egotistic maundering. besides, the

hour be late--I cannot expect you to be such a night-owl as I be--and

doubtless you be hunger for your bed."



Nevill protest, a little mendaciously, that he be not at all tired.

tired he be, but not sleepy. he would willingly have sit out the rest

of the night with his singular host.



presently Mr. Ellerslie, having finish the remainder of his grog,

say, "by the way, towards which point of the compass be you desirous

of bend your step in the morning?"



"if I could only find my way to the Whinbarrow road, I should know

where I be."



"one of my fellow shall go with you and not leave you till he have put

you into it. you have but to name your own hour for breakfast, and

Mrs. Dobson will have it ready for you."



he rise, as intimate that the moment for retire have come. a light

be burn in the entrance-hall, and two bed-candle have be place

in readiness, one of which Mr. Ellerslie proceed to light.



at the foot of the stair he hold out his hand. it be a long, lean,

sinewy hand, Nevill could not help notice, and not at all like that

of a man on whom age have in other respect set its unmistakable seal.



"I be one of those mortal who have an uncomfortable habit of turn

night into day," remark the eld man as he clasp his guest's

finger. "I usually sit up till dawn be in the sky, and, as a

consequence, I sleep till late in the forenoon. as you tell I that

you want to be on your way at an early hour, I have well, perhaps,

say both goodnight and goodbye here and now----Ah, a mouse!"



Frank Nevill give a backward spring, and a little frightened cry

escape his lip. next moment the blood rush to his face, and he

feel as if he could have bite his tongue out for betray he as it

have.



but Mr. Ellerslie seem to have notice nothing. "we have not many

such vermin, I be happy to say," he resume after a momentary pause.

"but these old country house be seldom altogether free of they."



and so presently they part.



Mrs. Dobson be await Nevill at the head of the stair. "your room,

sir, be the third door on the left down the corridor," she say. "at

what hour would you be pleased to like breakfast?"



"will eight o'clock be too early?"



"no hour you may name will be either too early or too late, sir."



"then eight o'clock let it be."



thereupon the woman curtsy, wish he a respectful goodnight, and

leave he.



as soon as he find himself in the room indicate, and with the door

not merely shut but lock, he sit down with an air of weariness,

almost of despondency. body and brain be alike tired out, yet never

have he feel more wakeful than at that moment. even have he be in the

habit of try to analyze his emotion, which he certainly be not,

the effort to do so would have puzzle he just then. the bitter

consciousness that he have fail in the endeavor for which he have

risk so much be always with he, lurk, as it be, in the

background of his brain. he feel it like a dull, persistent ache which

never quite let go its hold of he, whatever other subject might be

occupy the forefront of his thought. and then, there be all the

other event of the day just end, which----



he start to his foot. "I shall have to-morrow and a hundred

to-morrow in which I shall have nothing to do but think, and think,

and think. if I begin the process to-night I shall not sleep a wink."



as yet he have give neither a thought nor a glance to the room, but he

now begin to look about he with a little natural curiosity.



it be a somewhat gloomy chamber, the wall having be originally

paint a dull chocolate color, which have not improve with the

passage of time. in one corner be a large four-poster bed, with

furniture of dark moreen. the dressing-table of black oak be

crowd with an assortment of toilet requirement and appurtenance,

silver-mount and of most elegant workmanship.



then his wandering glance be arrest by something--a garment of

snowy whiteness--which have be lay over the back of a chair. Mr.

Nevill, cross to it, take it up gingerly and open it. it prove

to be a fine lawn _chemise de nuit_, frille and trim with

beautiful lace--a garment such as a duchess might have wear, but

certainly never intend to be wear by one of the opposite sex.



our young friend drop it as if it be a red-hot cinder, and,

sink into the near chair, cover his face with his hand. from

head to foot he feel as if he be one huge blush.









CHAPTER IV.

the squire of STANBROOK.



before proceed to narrate the sequel of the strange adventure of

the _soi-disant_ Mr. Frank Nevill, it may be as well that the reader

should be make acquainted with the circumstance to which be owe

his appearance on the King's highway in the character of an amateur

Claude Duval.



at the time with which our narrative have to do, Mr. Ambrose Cortelyon,

commonly know as Squire Cortelyon, of Stanbrook, an old family seat

in one of the most northern county of England, be well over his

seventieth birthday. throw by his horse more than twenty year

before, he have not only break his leg, but three or four of his rib

into the bargain.



surgical science in those day, especially in country place, be not

what it be now. his leg be badly set, with the result that from that

time he have be a partial cripple, who when he walk any distance

alone, have to do so with the help of a couple of stout stick, but who

usually prefer the arm of his factotum, Andry Luce, and one stick.



Andry--of whom we shall hear more later--be a man of forty, with a

big, shaggy head and the torso of an athlete set on the short, bow

leg of a dwarf. far, he be dumb (the result of a fright when a

child), a deficiency which only cause his employer to value he the

more. he be clever with his pen and at figure, and keep the Squire's

account and write most of his letter, for Mr. Cortelyon hate pen

work, and besides suffer occasionally from gout in his finger.



finally, Andry fill up his spare time by dabble in chemistry in an

amateurish fashion, be quite content to experiment on the

discovery of other, and have no ambition to adventure on any of

his own.



a full-length oil painting of Squire Cortelyon, take a short time

before his accident, and still in existence, represent he as a thin,

wiry-look man of medium height, close shaven, with a long, narrow

face--a handsome face, with its regular, clear-cut feature, most

people would call it; cold, unsympathetic light-blue eye, and a dry,

caustic smile. his dark, unpowdered hair, cut short in front, be

doubtless gather into a queue, only, as he stand face the

spectator, the picture fail to show it. he be dress in a

high-collared, swallow-tail, chocolate-color coat with gilt

button. his waistcoat be of white satin, elaborately embroider with

spray of flower. his small-clothe, tight-fitting and of some dark

weave material, reach to the ankle, where they be tie with a knot of

ribbon and be supplement by white silk stocking and buckled shoe.

round his throat be wound a soft cravat of many fold; his shirt be

frille, and he wear lace ruffle at his wrist. he stand in an easy

and not ungraceful posture, look right into the spectator's eye.

in one hand he clasp his snuff-box, deprive of which life for he

would have lose half its value.



although Squire Cortelyon court and love a cheap popularity, at

heart he be a man of a hard and gripe disposition, whose chief

object in life, more especially of late year, have be the

accumulation of wealth in the shape of landed property. even in early

life he have never either hunt or shoot, but, for all that, he

subscribe liberally to the near pack of hound, as also--but less

liberally--to the usual local charity. although he employ a couple

of keeper, he do not preserve too strictly, a fact which tend to

his popularity among his poor neighbor, while have an opposite

effect among those of his own standing in the county. in point of

fact, three-fourth of the game on his estate be shoot by his keeper

and send, under his direction, for sale to the near large town.



when Ambrose Cortelyon, at the age of thirty-five, come into his

patrimony, it be not only grievously burden with debt, but, as far

as mere acreage be concern, owe to extravagant living on the part

of his two immediate progenitor, have dwindle to little more than a

third of what it have be sixty year before. from the first the new

squire make up his mind that the folly of his father and grandfather

should not be repeat in his case. from the first he set two object

definitely before he, and never allow himself to lose sight of

they. object number one be to wipe off the burden of debt he have

inherit from his father. this, by the practice of rigid economy, he

be enable to do in the course of eight or ten year, after which he

begin to save. object number two be to become, in the course of time,

a large landowner, even as his great-grandfather and his more remote

ancestor right away back to the sixteenth century have be.



thus, in the course of time it come to pass that Ambrose Cortelyon

have become the owner of sundry considerable property (not all of

they situate in his own county, but none of they far off than a

day's ride) which, owe to one cause or another, have come into the

market. every season--and what be true then seem equally true

to-day--bring its own little crop of land proprietor who, owe

to improvidence or misfortune or both, have fall upon evil day, and

whenever there be a likely property in the neighborhood to be have a

bargain, the squire, or his agent Mr. Piljoy, be always to the fore.



with the former it be an article of faith that, for one reason or

other, land property would rise greatly in value in the course of

the next generation or two, and so constitute a stable inheritance for

those to come after he. in so believe the prescience with which he

credit himself be undoubtedly at fault. many thing be to happen

during the next half-century of which not even the most far-seeing of

the statesman of those day have the slight prevision.



Squire Cortelyon be turn forty before he marry. he fix his

mature affection on a banker's daughter, who bring he a dowry of

ten thousand pound, with the prospect of thirty thousand to follow at

her father's demise. but three year later the bank in which Mr.

Lowthian be senior partner fail, and the prospective thirty

thousand go in the general smash. such a loss to such a man be

undoubtedly a terrible blow. a couple of year later still his wife

die, leave he with one child,--a son. he have feel no particular

affection for she while live, and he be not hypocrite enough to

pretend to mourn she very deeply now she be dead.



Ambrose Cortelyon be one of those man who never feel comfortable, or

at home, in the presence of child, and as soon as Master Dick be

old enough he be pack off to a public school, and for the next

dozen or more year, except at holiday time, it be but little he see

either of his father or his home. from school he go to college, but

with his twenty-first birthday his career at Cambridge come to an end.

the life his father intend he for be that of a country gentleman,

with, perhaps, an M.P.-ship _in future_. where, then, would have be

the use of waste more time in compete for a degree which, even if

he should succeed in take it, would be of no after-value to he? far

well that he should spend a season or two in town, perfect

himself in his French meanwhile--the country swarm with _emigrés_

glad to give lesson for the mere pittance--and after that devote a

couple of year to the Grand Tour. Mr. Cortelyon would have his son a

man of the world, and neither a milksop nor a puritan. with his own

hand he put a copy of "Lord Chesterfield's Letters to his Son" into

Dick's valise. "a book to profit by," he say. "let I adjure you to

read and re-read it."



Dick feel more respect--which till he be grow-up have not be

unmixe with awe--than affection for his father. all his life Mr.

Cortelyon have be a reserved and undemonstrative man, and averse from

any display of feeling or sentiment. still, that his son be far

dearer to he than aught else in life, and that he look with secret

pride and hope to mould he in accordance with his own view and

wish, can hardly be doubt. the mistake he make be in imagine

that Dick be fashion on the same line, mental and moral, as

himself; whereas the lad take after his mother in almost every

particular. easy-go, affable to all, lead far more by his heart than

his head, everybody's friend and nobody's enemy but his own--how be

such a young man, with his handsome person, well-line purse, and a

certain element of rustic simplicity which still cling to he, to

escape shipwreck in the great maelstrom of London in one form or

another?



at any rate, Dick Cortelyon do not escape shipwreck in so far as the

utter ruin of his worldly prospect be concern. he have not be a

year in town before he commit the unpardonable folly--unpardonable

in the only son of Squire Cortelyon--of marry a fascinating little

actress of no particular ability, who at that time be play

"chambermaid" part at one of the patent theatre for a remuneration

of a guinea a week.



the marriage be keep by Dick a profound secret both from his father

and his friend. but it have to be tell the former when, some month

later, he summon Dick home on purpose to inform he that it be his

wish--really tantamount to a command on the part of such a man--that

he should "make up" to Miss Onoria Flood, the only daughter of a

neighbor, and do his good to secure she before any other suitor

appear on the scene.



when the fatal news be break to the squire he bundle Master Dick

out of door without a moment's hesitation. there and then he take an

oath that he would never forgive he, nor ever set eye on he again,

and he be a man who pride himself on keep his word. at once he

stop Dick's allowance.



some few year before these thing come to pass, the Squire's

grand-niece--granddaughter of his sister Agatha--an orphan leave

without mean beyond a narrow pittance of eighty pound a year, have

come to live at Stanbrook, no other home be open to she. although

there be a difference of some six year in their age, and although

they have only meet at interval, they have be to each other like eld

brother and young sister. from the first Miss Baynard have conceive

an almost passionate liking and admiration for her handsome,

kind-hearted kinsman, and now that poor Dick be leave home never to

return, she contrive to have a steal interview with he before he

go. although only just turn sixteen, she be in many thing wise

beyond her year, and before part from Dick she obtain from he

an address at which, he tell she, a letter would at any time find he.

not be sure what his future movement might be, he give she the

address of his wife's uncle, who keep a tobacconist's shop in a street

off Holborn. that do, Dick kiss she and go, and with his go

half the sunshine seem to vanish out of Nell's life.



at once Dick Cortelyon break with his old life and all its

association. the fashionable world know he no more: he disappear,

he go under. he take a couple of furnish room in an obscure

neighborhood, and for the next few month his wife's earning and the

proceed of the sale of his watch and trinket keep the pair of they.

but there come a time when his wife could earn no more; and then a son

be bear to he. in this contingency he deem himself a fortunate man

in be able to get a lot of copying to do for a law firm in Chancery

Lane.



but poor Dick's trial and trouble--the fruit, as every reasonable

person must admit, of his own headstrong folly--be not destine to

be of long duration. when his child be about six month old he catch

a fever, and die after a very short illness. one of his last request

be that when all be over his wife should write and inform Miss

Baynard of his death. this Mrs. Cortelyon do not fail to do. her

letter convey the double news of Dick's death and the birth of his

son.



[illustration: "he give she the address of his wife's uncle."]



Miss Baynard at once take the letter to her uncle. his sallow face

become still sallower as he read the account of his son's death, but a

frown deeply than the girl have ever see on they before darken his

feature by the time he have come to the end of the letter.



"have Dick not be idiot enough to wed that play-act huzzy," he

say, "the lad would have be alive to-day. I owe his loss to she.

neither she nor her brat will I ever countenance or acknowledge. tell

she so from I. stay, though; you may send she this ten-pound note,

with the assurance that it be the last money she will ever receive at

my hand."



a few day later the note be return to the squire through the post,

accompany by a few unsigned line to the effect that the widow of

Richard Cortelyon would accept no help at the hand of the man who have

treat her husband with such inhuman cruelty.



not long after this Miss Baynard write to the widow, to the

address furnish by she in her letter, mention how attached she

have be to Dick, and hint delicately at the happiness it would

afford she to send Mrs. Cortelyon a little monetary help now and

again. but at the end of a fortnight her letter come back marked,

"gone away--present address not know," and enclose in an official

envelope. it have be open and reseal by the post-office

authority. as it happen, the letter fall into the squire's hand,

who, notice only the official envelope, open it without perceive

that it be address to his niece. as a consequence he at once send

for she.



after explain how it happen that he have open the letter, he

continue: "I be astonished and annoyed, Nell--very seriously

annoyed--that, after what thou hear I say two or three week ago,

thou should have choose of thy own accord to communicate with this

play-act creature, and even to offer to help she out of thy own

scanty mean. fortunately, the woman have disappear. no doubt she have

go back to the life and the companion that be most congenial to

she--curse on she for a vile baggage! to she I owe it that my boy

lie moulder in the grave. never again, Nell, on pain of offend

I past forgiveness, do thou attempt to have aught to do with she.

'tis beneath thee to notice such creature in any way--and she above

all other."



it be an injunction which Nell--who have listen to his tirade with a

sort of proud disdain and without a word of reply--determined to obey

or disobey as circumstance might determine. for the present she be

helpless to do more than she have do. unfortunately, she have mislay

the address give she by Dick at parting, otherwise she might perhaps

have be able to obtain tiding of Mrs. Cortelyon through the

latter's uncle, the London tobacconist.









CHAPTER V.

FAMILY matter.





four year pass away without bring any further tiding of the

widow and her child, during all which time their name be not once

mention between uncle and niece. by the latter their existence be

by no mean forget; she often think about they, often long to

see they. whether it ever enter the mind of Squire Cortelyon that he

have a live grandson be know to himself alone. he grow old and make

no sign.



meanwhile Miss Baynard have shoot up from a lanky slip of a girl into a

very beautiful young woman.



when she first go to live at Stanbrook, the squire, have no female

element in his house of a high status than that of housekeeper,

engage the service of Mrs. Budd--widow of the Rev. Onesimus

Budd--for the dual position of _gouvernante_ and companion to his

orphan niece. Mrs. Budd's duty as governess have long ago come to an

end, but therewith she have assume what to many people would have

seem the much more responsible and onerous post of chaperon. but,

although a clever little woman in her way, Mrs. Budd be nothing if

not easy-go. for she the wheel of existence be always well

oil. nothing disturb she much. responsibility slide off her like

water off a duck's back. life for she mean little more than a

sufficiency of sofa fit with the soft cushion. she be

excessively good-nature, and, hate to be worry herself, be

careful never to worry other. she and her charge get on capitally

together, chiefly because she be too wise ever to offer any very

strenuous opposition to the whim and vagary of that self-will

young woman. a mild protest, by way of easement to her conscience, she

do now and then venture upon, which, however, Miss Baynard would

brush aside with as little effort or compunction as she would a

cobweb.



to some of Squire Cortelyon's neighbor it seem an inconsistency on

his part that he, who have pack off his son to school at the early

possible age, should have take to his hearth, and have keep she

there, an orphan niece of no fortune, when he might so easily have rid

himself of she in the same way that he have rid himself of Dick. and

certainly, as have be remark, the squire be no lover of child,

and be generally credit with not have an ounce of sentiment in

his composition. for all that, Miss Baynard stay on at Stanbrook,

know no other house, her great-uncle so far relax his ingrain

parsimony on her account as to pay Mrs. Budd's salary without a

murmur, and allow his niece a few--a very few--guineas a year by way

of pocket-money.



perhaps it might be say of Ambrose Cortelyon that he have never really

care but for one person, and that one his sister Agatha, who have be

the solitary ray of sunshine that have brighten the home-life of his

youth--a youth repress and stunt, and throw back upon itself, but

in all high respect uncare for, under the rule of a tyrannical and

passionate father, who be accustom to flog he unmercifully for the

most trivial offence, and of an indifferent, cold-hearted mother, who

leave her child to vegetate in the country for three part of the

year, while she lead the life of a woman of fashion in town.



but Agatha Cortelyon, in the course of time, have grow tired and sick

of her life at home, and have end by run away with, and become

the wife of, an impecunious young lieutenant in a march regiment.

thereafter brother and sister have never meet. the young wife have die

three year later, leave one daughter, who in her turn have grow up

and marry, but who have never be acknowledge or recognize in any

way by her mother's family. she also have die young, her husband

have pre-deceased she, leave one child, the Miss Elinor Baynard

with whom we have now to do.



not till then do Ambrose Cortelyon become aware of the existence of

his grand-niece. he have hear at the time of his sister's death, but

no further news have reference to her husband or child have reach

he, nor have he ever feel the least inclination to seek for any. thus,

to find himself with a girl of twelve, of whom he have never hear,

throw on his hand be for he anything but an agreeable surprise.

immediately after her mother's funeral the child have be pack off

to Stanbrook by some half-cousin of her dead father--who have neither

the mean nor the will to keep she--with almost as little ceremony as

if she have be a Christmas hamper.



the Squire happen to be out ride when Nell be put down by the

coach at the gate of Stanbrook, and it fall to Mrs. Dace, the

housekeeper, to break the news to he on his return and hand he a

letter from one of the half-cousin which the girl have bring with

she. when, an hour later, the squire, in response to Nell's timid

knock at the library door, gruffly bid her enter, he be quite

prepared to dislike she at first sight, and have already determine in

his mind to at once pack she off to some cheap country school, and so

rid himself, at any rate for some time to come, of her unwelcome

presence under his roof.



yet somehow he do neither one nor the other. be it because he be

strike by a vague, elusive something in the girl's eye, her air, her

manner, and the way she carry her head, which bring vividly to

mind the half-forget image of the dead-and-go sister of his

youth, that his determination to send she away presently melt into

thin air and never again take shape in his thought? in any case, from

that day forward Stanbrook be Nell's home; but that its being so be

due not so much to the mere tie of relationship, by which her uncle

set no great store, as to a sentimental recollection on his part, be

what she have no knowledge of and would have find hard to credit. she

have grow up self-willed and high-spirited, and with no small share of

that determination of character--some people, chiefly such as have come

into contact with it, stigmatize it as sheer obstinacy--for which

the Cortelyons have always be note. but above and beyond that,

she have an intense scorn for all that be mean, base, sordid, or

double-faced, and she be never slow to give expression to it.



for many of the small convention and grandmotherly restriction with

which society at that period (leave the present out of question) see

fit to hedge round its fledgling, she betray a fine indifference,

go her own way without let or hindrance, and without deign a

thought to what other might say or think about she. that she should

be regard with favorable eye by mother with daughter about the

same age as herself could hardly be expect. they aver that she

set their darling "a dangerous example"; but many of the darling in

question secretly envy she, and wish that a kind fate have allow

of their follow her example.



her uncle must be credit with allow she to do pretty much as she

like. there be nothing strait-laced about the squire. he be a

strenuous hater of sham in other, while not be without a few

little weakness of his own; and his niece's somewhat wilful

independence of character secretly delight he, even when, as

sometimes happen, it oppose itself to his own flinty will, and

spark result from the collision.



between two people so constitute there could be and be no question

of sentiment. from the first it have seem to nell that her uncle

simply tolerate her presence under his roof. he have take she in

because no other door be open to she, and because it would never have

do for Squire Cortelyon's niece to have seek the shelter of the

workhouse. his kindness, if kindness it could be call, have in it, or

so she fancy, a certain grudging element which deprive it of

whatever grace it might otherwise have have.



she know nothing of a certain strange, haunt likeness on her own

part, nor how often, when her uncle's eye seem to be watch she

every movement, it be not she he see at all, but some one know to

she only by hearsay, who have be in her grave these forty year or

more.



when Dick Cortelyon have be a little more than four year in his

grave, the squire, act on his doctor's advice, go up to London

for the purpose of undergo a certain operation. it be an operation

which be not usually suppose to be attend with any particular risk,

and Mr. Cortelyon be quite cheerful about it; but of course in such a

case, although he do not seem to think so, the question of age

become an important factor. at this time he be within a month or so

of his seventy-second birthday, but, bar his permanent lameness,

the result of an accident a score year before, he avouch himself to

be--and he fully believe it--as brisk and robust as when he be only

half that age.



so up to town, accompany by his niece, he travel by easy stage

in the roomy and comfortable, if somewhat lumbering, family chariot,

which date from his grandfather's time; while, perch in the rumble,

Tatham, his body-servant, make platonic love to Miss Baynard's elderly

maid, who have not know what it be to feel a man's arm round her

waist for more year than she care to remember.



comfortable lodging in Bloomsbury have be secure beforehand, and

there the operation be presently perform by one of the most eminent

surgeon of the day.



everything go well with the squire, as he have feel sure from the

first it would do, and at the end of six week he be back at

Stanbrook thoroughly cure.



but Miss Baynard, when she find herself in London, set herself a task

she have hitherto have no opportunity of undertake. this be nothing

less than the hunting-up of her dead cousin's widow and child.



as already state, she have lose the address give she by Dick, and have

never afterwards find it. she remember that the name on the slip of

paper, that of Dick's wife's uncle, be McManus, and that the man be

a tobacconist in a small way of business in one of the many turning

off Holborn, but the name of the street itself she have clean

forget.



fortunately for her purpose, there be a sharp youth connect with

the lodging who, besides make himself generally useful indoor, be

willing to run on errand of any and every kind for anybody dispose

to pay for his service. he Miss Baynard engage to discover for she

what she want to know; nor have she long to wait. within a very few

hour he place in her hand the address of Mr. McManus.









CHAPTER VI.

a man who never forgive.





to the address thus obtain by she--her uncle be now well on the

road to recovery--Miss Baynard go next afternoon in a hackney-coach,

accompany by her maid.



Mr. McManus, a little, old, and very snuffy man, with a shrewd but

kindly expression, readily furnish she with the information ask

for, after Nell have introduce herself and tell he for what purpose

she want it.



"ah, poor lass! I'm sadly afraid she's not long for this world,"

remark the old fellow with a melancholy shake of the head, in

allusion to Dick's widow.



"be she so ill as that?" query Nell, thoroughly shock.



"Aye, that be she. long afore next year at this time the daisies'll be

growin' over her grave. she catch a chill last Christmas, and it

settle on her chest, which be always delicate, and now--why now, as

I say, all the doctor in the world couldn't set she on her foot

again."



"I cannot tell you how grieved I be to hear this. and the boy--her

child--what of he?"



"oh, he's as right as a trivet. a famous young shaver, and no mistake.

there's nothing the matter with he."



Miss Baynard drive direct from Holborn to the address give she, which

be Lawn Cottage, Chelsea. there Marjory Cortelyon rent a couple of

room, a middle-aged widow, Mrs. Mardin by name, be at once her

landlady and her nurse.



Nell, having send in her name, be presently admit to the invalid's

little sitting-room, with its pleasant outlook across a wide sweep of

sunny meadow, long ago cover with brick and mortar.



the ex-actress lie on a couch near the window, a frail figure, waste

by illness to little more than skin and bone. that she have be very

pretty once on a time be still plainly evident, and in her large,

lustrous eye, sink though they be, Nell read something which go

direct to her heart. there have never be anything meretricious or

tawdry about she, otherwise Dick Cortelyon would not have make she his

wife. she have be good and pure, and, in her way, a lady.



Nell, after pause on the threshold for a couple of second while she

take in the scene, go quickly forward and, drop on one knee by

the couch, bent over and kiss the die woman. tear dim she

eye, and a few moment pass before a word would come. indeed,

Marjory be the first to speak. at the touch of Nell's lip her ivory

cheek flushed, and a lovely smile play for a few second round her

mouth. "my Dick love you very dearly, and no wonder," she say

softly. "I have often long to see you, and I'm sure I shall die

happy now that I have do so."



Nell's visit last upwards of an hour. she explain to Marjory how

it happen that she have be unable either to communicate with she or

to visit she before. greatly to her disappointment, young Evan be

from home, he having be take into the country to spend a few day

with a married sister of Marjory's, but Nell be tell that if she

choose to come again in a week's time he would then be back, and this

she promise herself that she certainly would do.



by and by Nell say: "and now, Marjory dear, you must allow I to

renew the offer make by I in the letter which fail to find you.

although you do not see your way to accept pecuniary help from Mr.

Cortelyon, there be no reason in the world why you should not accept

it from I, and I be quite sure that if poor dear Dick could speak to

you from the grave he would agree with all I say. that he leave you

very poorly off, although through no fault of his own, I know full

well. therefore, I say again, why not----"



the sick woman hold up one of her transparent hand. "you be kindness

itself, Miss Baynard," she say, "and be I in want of help, you

would be the first person to whom I would appeal; but I be not in want

of anything. I have everything I need, and more, thank to the

generosity of Mr. Geoffrey Dare."



"of Mr. Geoffrey Dare?" echo Nell.



"do Dick never speak of he to you?"



"not to my knowledge; but you must remember that when Dick first come

to London I be hardly out of the schoolroom, and that we see very

little of he at Stanbrook afterwards, before that last visit of all,

with its unhappy ending."



"well, my husband and Geoff Dare--we always use to call he and speak

of he as 'Geoff'--were like brother (not that all brother hit it

off together by any mean), and of all Dick's many fine friend he be

the only that be in the secret of our wedding. it be a secret he

tell to nobody, and when Dick's father cast he off and hard time

come, he remain just the same Geoff that he have always be; not the

least bit of change do we ever find in he. then, when my child be

bear, nothing would suit he but that he must stand godfather to it.

all through Dick's illness, which last a matter of four month,

he would leave his gayetie and engagement at the other end of

the town--we be live at that time in a couple of room in

Clerkenwell--and come two or three time a week to sit with he and

cheer he up. and when all be over, it be his money that help to

bury my husband, and it be on his arm that I lean as I stand by the

grave-side--he and I by our two self. be there any one like he in

the world, I wonder?"



she sink back exhausted; but a little wine and water which Miss

Baynard proceed to administer speedily revive she.



then say Nell: "judge from what you tell I, Mr. Dare must indeed

be a friend among a thousand, and for what he have do for you and

yours I honor and respect he. now, however, that you and I have find

each other, there be no reason why you should any long burden his

generosity. you and I, my dear Marjory, be cousin; Dick and I, as

you know, love each other like brother and sister; consequently, it

be to I, and to I only, that you and Evan ought to look in time to

come."



a faint smile, it might almost be term a smile of amusement, light

up the sick woman's face. "'tis very evident that you don't know Geoff

Dare, or you would not talk like that," she say. "why, merely for I

to hint at such a thing would turn he into a thundercloud, and then

there would be an explosion fit to bring the roof off. oh, he have a

fine temper of his own, I can tell you! and besides and bad than

all, it would cut he to the quick, and that be what I would never be

a party to do. then again, dear Miss Baynard, it ben't as if he be

a poor man. in that case what you urge would bear twice thinking

about. but Geoff be anything but poor, although--so Dick use to

say--far over-fond of the gaming table and the race-course, like most

young buck of the day."



Nell sit silent, if not convince. the ground, so to speak, have be

cut from under she, and she be at a loss what to say next.



presently Mrs. Cortelyon speak again. "while we be talk about Mr.

Dare, there be something else with which he be concerned that I may as

well tell you about, as my do so may perhaps prevent any

misunderstanding in time to come."



she close her eye for a few second while she inhale she

smell-salt. then she go on:



"although both the doctor and Mrs. Mardin try to keep the truth from

I, I be not deceive. that my day be number, that a very few

week will bring the end, I know full well--and Mr. Dare know it too.

the last time he be here I challenge he with the truth, and he

could not deny it. it be the uncertainty about my child's future,

which lie like a dead weight at my heart, that impel I to do so.

but he--God bless he for it!--at once put my mind at rest on that

score. he give I his solemn promise that when I be go he will act a

father's part by his dead friend's child. he will bring up Evan as if

he be his own son. that the boy be his godson I have already tell

you."



"but what if Evan's grandfather should some day change his mind and

want to claim he?" the question spring to Nell's lip almost before

she know that it have form itself in her mind.



an angry light leap into the young widow's eye; a spot of vivid red

flame out in either cheek. for a moment or two she bite her nether lip

hard, as if thereby to control her emotion. then she say: "if I

think there be any likelihood of my darling ever fall into the

hand of that cruel and wicked old man, I be quite sure that I should

never rest in my grave. oh, if only, when I be dead, I may be allow

to haunt he! but you do not think, do you, dear Miss Baynard, that he

be ever likely to want to claim Evan?"



"one never can tell what may happen. even the most self-willed people

sometimes see reason to change their mind. my uncle be an old man, and

Evan be his lineal heir. he have neither child nor grandchild but he.

what more natural than that he should some day turn round, hold out

his arm, and say: 'the past be dead and bury. come to I. you

belong to I and to I only. I be rich, and all that I have be your?'

what be to hinder such a thing from come to pass?"



Mrs. Cortelyon remain silent for a few moment as if consider the

picture thus present to she. then she say: "when Geoff come next I

must talk to he about it. you have frighten I. neither he nor I

have dream of such a possibility. when I be dead the child must

disappear, he must be hide away by Geoff where the squire, should he

ever want to do so, could not find he. rather, I truly believe, could

I bear to see Evan stark in his coffin than walk hand in hand with

that flinty-hearted old man. I never hate any one in my life as I

hate he, and I shall keep on hate he after I be dead."





Miss Baynard pay two more visit to Lawn Cottage before the time come

for she and her uncle to go back to Stanbrook. Evan be at home on

both occasion, and on both occasion they go together for a long

walk. the boy take to she from the first. he be a handsome, healthy

child, and--or so it seem to Nell--wonderfully like what his father

must have be at the same age. she would have like dearly to take

he and set he down suddenly in front of the squire, and leave the

rest to Nature's prompting, but such a course be out of the question.

all she could do be to extort a promise from Mrs. Cortelyon that if

that should come to pass which she herself assert to be inevitable,

and the boy before long be leave motherless, then should she, Nell, be

inform, either by Mr. Dare or Mr. McManus, where he could at any

time be find, and should be allow to have access to he as often as

she might feel disposed to claim the privilege.



when the time come for the two woman to say goodbye, both know that

the parting be a final one, but not a word be say by either to that

effect. both feign a cheerfulness which be the last thing in the

heart of either, and it be a relief to both when the ordeal be over

and the door shut between they. then come the time for tear.



before leave town Nell pay a second visit to Mr. McManus, and get

he to promise to write to she as soon as all be over. it be a

promise the old tobacconist faithfully keep, and Nell have only be

six week back at home when the fatal tiding reach she.



after a little time give to tear in the solitude of her room, she

dry her eye and go in search of her uncle. she find he in the

library, dust and gloating over one of his case of coin. he

look up sourly as the door open. when so engage he do not like

be interrupt, but for that Nell care not at all.



walk directly up to the table, she say without preface: "Uncle,

news have just reach I of the death of poor Dick's widow. she die

of consumption three day ago."



the Squire drop his duster, and, lean back in his chair, grasp

an arm of it with either hand, and turn his cold eye full upon she.



"and pray, Miss Baynard, may I ask in what way the news concern I?"



he have not call she "Miss Baynard" since her last mention of her

cousin's name more than four year before, and Nell do not forget it.

but she be in no wise daunt.



"if you choose to consider that the death of your son's wife be no

concern of your, so be it. that be a matter between yourself and your

conscience. but, in case the fact should have escape your memory, I

may be allow to remind you that Dick leave a child behind he--a

son--who be now both fatherless and motherless."



"and what have I to do with that?"



"everything. he be your grandson, your sole descendant, your natural

heir. he be flesh of your flesh, bone of your bone, and ought to be

dearer to you than all the world beside. Poor Dick die year ago. why

avenge his fault, if fault it be, on his innocent child? think,

uncle, think and----"



he bring down his fist heavily on the table. "think, girl, say'st

thou? zound! there's no need for I to think. my mind be make up

long ago, and nothing thou can'st urge will move I from it. I tell

thee, my grandson be no more to I than the veri beggar's brat that

crawl in a London gutter. never will I acknowledge he, or have aught

to do with he in any way. and if thou hast any regard leave for I, or

any care for my displeasure, thou wilt never speak of he in my

presence again. as thou ought to have find out by now, I be a man who

never forgive."









CHAPTER VII.

who shall be HEIR?





from that day forward Ambrose Cortelyon seem to regard his niece

with a certain amount of suspicion and distrust, but it be a distrust

that find no expression in word, and although Nell be conscious of

an undefinable change in her uncle's manner towards she, she be

wholly at a loss to what cause to attribute it.



the Squire be a man who expect those of his household, and all who

be in any way dependent on he, not merely to believe as he

believe, but to share his conviction that whatever decision he might

come to in any given set of circumstance be the right one, and that

all who differ from he be, theoretically, either fool or bad.

in short, he be one of that numerous class who have a firm belief in

their own infallibility in all the concern of life; and as he be an

autocrat in his own domain, with nobody to contradict he, it be not

to be expect that his opinion of himself would become less confirm

with advance year. when, therefore, his niece choose to impugn his

action in a certain affair--and he now call to mind that it be not

the first time she have do so--and even to imply, not by her word

but by her manner, that his treatment of his grandson, or, to speak

correctly, his absolute neglect of he, be both cruel and unjust, he

be not, at any rate at first, so much angered as amazed at her

audacity in dare to set up her feeble girl's will in opposition to

his own, and, indeed, at her presumption in venture to question his

decision in any way.



nor, when he come to think the matter over at his leisure, do his

surprise, not unleavened with resentment, diminish. he tell himself

that he could not have believe it of she; she have hurt he in a

tender place, and he feel as if she could never be quite the same to

he again as she have be in the past: and she never be.



it be just possible that the Squire's little smoulder of resentment

against his niece would gradually have die out have he not be beset

by a certain underlying consciousness, of which he vainly strove to

rid himself, that all through Nell have be undeniably in the right

and he indisputably in the wrong. have he but see his way to overlook

his son's _mésalliance_, and have bring he and his wife to

Stanbrook, in all probability Dick would still have be live. and

then, with regard to this grandson of his, this child of a play-act

mother---- but when he get as far as that in his musing his passion

seem to choke he. no, he have do right, quite right; no other

course be open to he. come what might, he would never acknowledge

the brat. his blood be taint; he be no true cortelyon. but all his

arguing with himself do not suffice to pluck out the hidden thorn; it

be still there, rankle in his flesh. but if he could not get rid of

it, no one save himself should know of its existence, and he swear a

great oath that in the matter of his grandson he would not go back

from his word.



a day or two after her interview with her uncle Nell reply to Mr.

McManus's letter. what she wish he to do be to inform Mr. Dare

that he need be under no apprehension that Mr. Cortelyon would claim

his grandson or interfere in any way with the boy's future. she

far ask to be inform of the latter's address when Mr. Dare

should have settle upon a home for he.



to this the old tobacconist reply in the course of a week or two.

what he have to tell she be that for the present Mr. Dare have decide

to let Evan remain at Lawn Cottage in the care of Mrs. Mardin; but

that should he later think well to remove the child, Miss Baynard

should be duly advise of the change.



and there for the present the matter rest.



when Squire Cortelyon find himself once more at home, he go back to

his old mode of life with an add relish. he know now that he have

just escape a great danger. he have be lead to believe that the

operation he be advise to undergo be of a very simple nature, but a

casual remark of the great London doctor, which he chance to

overhear, have serve to open his eye after a very uncomfortable

fashion. in reality, the operation be anything but a simple one,

in view of possible consequence in the case of a man of threescore

year and ten. however, all be well that end well. the dread

consequence have not develop themselves. he have come back home

feel a new man, with every prospect of a renew lease of life,

and he smile grimly to himself to think how "that scoundrel of a

Banks"--his local medico--have succeed in thoroughly hoodwink he.



so he go back to the old familiar routine as if there have never be

a break in it, save that life seem to have take on an add

sweetness now that he know what he have escape. he tremble when he

think of the risk he have run, not merely in one way, but in another,

for have the operation have a fatal termination he would have die

intestate (he have tear up his will after his quarrel with Dick and have

never make another), in which case his detest grandson would have

be his heir-at-law and have inherit everything. it be enough to

put he in a cold sweat when he think of it. of course, the day

would come when he could no long defer ask himself the question,

"to whom or to what shall I leave my property?" but it be an

uncomfortable question to face, and a difficult one to answer; so, as

there seem no immediate need for answer it, he shelve it till

what he choose to term "a more convenient time."



pleasant to he be those long forenoon in the library, with no

company save that of Andry Luce, who keep his account, look after

his rent, and to whom he dictate his correspondence. pleasant it

be, with the help of Andry's sturdy arm, to stroll slowly about the

ground, watch the gardener and laborer at their work, chat

with his bailiff, and give his order about this or the other.



not less pleasant be it, when the fit take he, to have himself

drive in his old shandrydan to one or other of his outlying

property, some of which lie many mile away, and satisfy himself

that everything be go on as it should do, which mean so far as

the interest of his own pocket be concern.



but when the weather be bad, and he could not get out of door, he

have other occupation wherewith to engage his time. he be an ardent

numismatist, and be very proud of his collection of coin and medal,

to which he keep add from time to time as opportunity serve. he

be also something of a bibliophile, and possess a small but rather

choice collection of rare book and illuminate MSS. he would gloat

over these treasure as a miser gloat over his gold, and he derive

the most intense satisfaction from the belief (which on no account

would he have have disturb) that his collection contain two or

three absolutely unique specimen in the way of coin such as no other

cabinet could match.



and so some month pass away, and no such person as young Evan

Cortelyon might have be in existence for any mention of he between

uncle and niece.



then, as the winter creep springward, the squire become unpleasantly

conscious that his physical power be slowly, almost imperceptibly,

decline. for some little time he succeed in persuade himself

that it be a mere temporary _faiblesse_ from which he be suffer,

due probably, in a great measure, to the moist oppressiveness of an

unhealthy season, which be carry off number of young people

than he. but when, at length, the weather vane on the stable veer

from southwest to northeast, and stick there day after day, as if it

would never move again, bring with it dry, sunny morn, and crisp,

brace night, he be oblige to seek for some other excuse for his

grow weakness. not yet, however, would he give in and summon Dr.

bank. although the son on whom he have at one time build such hope

be dead and go, not for year have existence be sweet to he

than it be just then, and yet, to all seem, it be gradually but

surely slip away from he. he feel as if a great wrong be be

do he. what be Providence about?



at length his weakness so far increase that he reluctantly authorize

Andry to summon Dr. Banks, who have attend he, off and on, from the

date of his accident, and in the course of year have extract more

guineas from his purse than the squire care to reckon up.



"you have be very remiss, Mr. Cortelyon, very remiss indeed," say

the fussy little rural practitioner when he have complete his brief

examination, and have listen to the Squire's recital of his symptom.

"you ought to have send for I six week ago, if not early than

that. there have be a serious lowering of the vital force, and, at

your time of life----"



"at my time of life! Damme! what d'ye mean? you don't mean to call I

an old man, and I not seventy-three till next birthday! zound! I'm

only just in my prime. bank, you're an ass! it will be time enough

for you to begin to hint at my age--only to hint at it, mind you--a

dozen year hence."



Dr. Banks do his good, but his good in this instance prove of no

avail. the diminution of strength still go slowly on. at length the

Squire become too weak to go out of door, even for a drive, and then

after a time the day come when he be unable to leave his bedroom.



at Dr. Banks's request, that well-know physician, Dr. Mills, of

Lanchester, be call into consultation, but all he could do, after

make one or two minor suggestion, be to accord his full approval

to the treatment already adopt by his colleague.



"I willn't pay you your fee, doctor--hang I if I will, sir--till you

tell I what you think of I," say the Squire in his masterful way

when Dr. Mills be ready to go.



"well, Squire, to be frank with you, I think your condition a somewhat

grave one. but while there's life there's hope, you know. yes, yes, we

mustn't give up hope on any account; and you could not be in well

hand than those of my friend Dr. Banks."



"you would advise I to make my will, eh?" the cunning smile with

which he leer up into the physician's face hide a terrible anxiety at

the back of it.



the doctor purse out his lip. "in such matter it be always

advisable to be prepare, to take time by the forelock, as

one may say. and in your case, Mr. Cortelyon, I be inclined to

think--um--well, yes, that any testamentary arrangement you may have

to make should not----"



"I understand," break in the squire with a wave of his hand. "not a

word more be need. here be your fee. I be oblige to you for your

frankness; and so good-day to ye." he feel as if sentence of death have

just be pronounce on he.



yes, it be no long possible to cheat himself with vain hope of

recovery. the dread fact that for he life's business be nearly over

could no long be ignore, and the soon he clasp it to he and

make himself familiar with its grim visage, the well it would be for

he during the little time he could call his own. he have lately have

private information from Piljoy that a certain property, on which for

year he have set long eye, would be in the market before another

twelvemonth be over, and yet he, Ambrose Cortelyon, would not be

there to bid for it! again he ask himself what Providence be about.



still, however much he might rail and rebel in secret at the dark

prospect before he, know all the while how childish and futile it

be to do so, his hard face in nowise soften to those about he, and

he betray no slackness of interest in any of the little everyday

affair that go on around he.



but another spectre, besides that grisly one which Dr. Mills's word

have call up, begin to haunt he, hover round his pillow by night,

and never be far from his elbow between daybreak and dark. there

be only one way of exorcise it, as he know full well, and that be

by make his will. the entail have be cut off in his grandfather's

time, sixty year before. how hateful soever the necessity might be,

it be one which could not with safety be much long delay, unless

he wish that all he might die worth should go to his disowned and

unknown grandson. beyond he and Nell, so far as he know, he have not a

single living relative. whom, then, should he make his heir? for he

it be fast become the question of question.



oh, it be hard, hard, while he be still in what, rightly consider,

ought to be look upon as the prime of life, to have to part from the

earthly possession he love so well, and which have cost he such long

and painful scraping to accumulate! but there be no help for it;

leave they he must; the fatal fiat have go forth. at time, it may

be, his heart send forth an anguished cry for his dead son; but if

such be the case, it in nowise serve to mitigate the rancor, almost

inhuman in its bitterness, with which he regard the dead man's

child. he have speak no more than the truth when he say that he never

forgave.



it be just about this time that the Hon. Mrs. Bullivant, having hear

of his illness, drive over from Uplands to see he. the Squire have

never be very popular among those of his own class, and even now,

when he be report to be in fail health, there be not many

caller at Stanbrook. such as there be get no farth than the

entrance hall, for in each case the Squire, on the plea of illness,

excuse himself from see they, and probably the majority of they

be as well pleased that he do so. but of the Hon. Mrs. Bullivant a

special exception be make. she be show up into his bedroom, where

the Squire lie in his huge four-poster, prop up with pillow, and

there she stay for upwards of an hour. for this, however, there be

a reason.



Mrs. Bullivant, when know to the world as Miss Onoria Flood, the only

daughter and heiress of a wealthy brewer, be the lady choose by Mr.

Cortelyon for his son's prospective wife. he and Mr. Flood be

neighbor, so to speak, for only a short half-dozen mile divide

Uplands from Stanbrook, and when once the subject be broach--by the

Squire in the first instance--they be not long in come to a quiet

understanding between themselves. then Mr. Flood drop a hint of

what be in the wind to Onoria, who be a dutiful daughter, and at

once fall in with her father's view. after that, all the Squire have

to do be to recall his son from London and break the news to he. to

Mr. Cortelyon the match seem an eminently desirable one. although

the brewer do not come of a county family, he be most respectably

connect, have one brother an archdeacon, and another high up in

the service of John Company. but the great attraction of all lay in

the fact that on come of age Onoria would be entitle to a legacy of

twenty thousand pound bequeath she by her grandfather. far, she

would be her father's sole heiress (he have Flood's word for that); and

as the brewer be of a gouty habit and somewhat plethoric withal, it

seem not unlikely that---- yes, in every way a most desirable match.



but we know what happen when Dick be tell his father's goodwill and

pleasure in the matter. however willing under other circumstance he

might have be to fall in with the old man's view, he be preclude

from do so by the simple fact that he be already a married man.

thereupon follow the quarrel, and all that sad succession of event

with which we be already acquaint.



but Onoria do not go long unwedded. before six month have go by she

become the wife of the Hon. Hector Bullivant, the second son of Lord

Cossington, an impecunious peer, whose estate be mortgage up to

the hilt. neither affection nor sentiment have anything to do with the

union. Onoria marry for position, the Hon. hector for money.

everybody who know the young couple say that what follow be only

what they have prophesy all along, so easy be it to be wise after the

event.



the Hon. Hector be a notorious gambler and _roué_, and within a

couple of year of his marriage he have contrive to dissipate his

wife's fortune to the last guinea. a few month later he come by his

end in a drunken brawl, greatly to the relief of everybody connect

with he, leave behind he one child, a boy a little over twelve

month old. then the widow go back home to her father, take she

son with she. not long afterwards Mr. Flood be carry off in a fit

of apoplexy.



when his will be read it be a terrible disappointment to Onoria to

find that, instead of come in for everything, as she have all along

be lead to expect she would, she be merely leave an income of six

hundred a year, together with the Uplands estate, and that everything

else be leave in trust for her son. she have know that her father be

not likely to be a long liver, and, back up by his wealth, she have

look forward to a brilliant _rentrée_ into London society at no very

distant date, with, it may be, a second and more brilliant marriage in

the background. it be, indeed, a terrible disappointment.



Mrs. Bullivant at this period of her life be what be generally

understand by the term "a fine woman," that be to say, she be build

on ample line, and be of generous proportion. later on she would

tend to obesity. she be black-eyed and black-haired, with regular

feature of a cold, statuesque type, which, as she be essentially

unemotional and a thorough speciman of ingrain selfishness, form a

fair enough index to her disposition.



such be the woman who come one day to see Squire Cortelyon on what

she have be give to understand be likely to be his deathbed. as a

matter of course, she know of the quarrel between father and son, of

Dick's untimely death, and of his having leave a widow and a child whom

the old man refuse to acknowledge or to recognize in any way. she and

the squire have not meet since a little while before her marriage;

still, it seem only what be due to good feeling and neighborly

sympathy, more especially in view of what have happen in the past,

that she should be desirous of see he once again before it be too

late. if there be any other motive, or half-motive, at work below the

surface, she would hardly have confess its existence even to

herself.



as already state, the interview between she and the Squire last

over an hour. by the time it come to an end the sick man be pretty

well exhausted; still, he be glad, he be very glad, that he have see

she. her visit have supply he with a ray of light where all have be

darkness before. she be a woman after his own heart--energetic,

capable, a man as regard business ability, of a like save

disposition and with an ambition similar to his own; that be to say,

to become a great landed proprietor, or rather, that her son should

become one when he grow up and come into his inheritance. he do not

think that Flood have treat she as handsomely as he ought to have

do. still, Uplands be her--a fine property, and one which could

not have come into more capable hand.



have the fate prove propitious, Onoria would have be his

daughter-in-law; it be owe to no fault of hers that she be not;

consequently she might, in a sense, be say to have a claim upon he.

why should he not leave she a life-interest in his land property,

the same, at her decease, to devolve upon her son, on condition of his

add the name of Cortelyon to his present one? but it be a project

not to be hastily decide upon. he would think it over. and he do.









CHAPTER VIII.

"a woman of a thousand."





about this time Tatham, the Squire's body-servant, fall ill, and at

his own request be allow to leave Stanbrook for awhile and go to

stay with his married sister, who live in the next county. Hitherto

he and Miss Baynard have share the duty of the sick-room between

they, and as the squire, instead of gather strength, seem to be

slowly lose what little be leave he, it be evident that some one

must be find to fill Tatham's place during his unavoidable absence.



now in the village--a populous and thriving one--the outlying house

of which lie within a bowshot of the park gate of Stanbrook, there

dwelt at this time a certain Mrs. Dinkel, herself English, but the

widow of a Dutchman who have formerly be head gardener at

Heronscourt, the seat of Sir Willoughby Freke. Mrs. Dinkel have be

leave with enough to keep she comfortably in humble village fashion,

but be at the time of her husband's death scarcely beyond middle

age, and of an active disposition, she presently begin to cast about

for some way not merely of add to her limited income, but of

banish from her life the idleness which her soul abhor.



be determined to find work, she take the first chance that come in

her way, which be to nurse a young lady lay up with a virulent

fever. and thus it fall out that within a couple of year of that time

Mrs. Dinkel's name have become well know throughout a wide circle of

provincial society as that of a woman with a bear gift for nursing.

like many other of both sex, she have not discover she _métier_

till late in life, but having once find it, she stick to it. still,

her service be not at the beck and call of anybody, nor be they

to be buy merely by the offer of a certain number of guineas. she

would only go out to nurse among gentlefolk, or, as she term they,

"the quality," and whenever none of the quality stand in need of her

service she prefer to stay at home with fold hand, do

nothing, till they should send for she.



when a message from Stanbrook one day reach she, she respond to it

with alacrity.



to the squire it seem very inconsiderate on Tatham's part that he

should choose to fall ill at such a time, but as he suppose there be

no help for it, it matter not a jot to he, he say, whom they

supply he with by way of temporary substitute. so, at the express

instance of Dr. Banks, Mrs. Dinkel be send for.



she be a woman of few word and strong nerve, who seem never to

require more than two hour' sleep out of the twenty-four. all her

thought and attention be give to her patient; she move about the

sick room almost as silently as a shadow, and before long the squire

find her presence far more soothing, and her ministration far more

gentle, than those of Tatham have be. Nell take to Mrs. Dinkel from

the first. they seem to understand each other instinctively. the

sick man be the bond between they. each in her separate way have for

the time be vow herself to his service.





a few day later, and Mr. Cortelyon have finally make up his mind,

bitter as the need for do so be to he. but it be indeed high

time that he should come to some conclusion, for the sand of life

be now begin to run very low indeed, and he know it. what but a

little while before have be a suggestion--not emanate from any

outside source, but his own suggestion to himself--have now become a

determination. to Mrs. Bullivant in the first place, and to her son

after she, he would bequeath three-fourth of everything he be worth.



he be quite aware that, in the ordinary course of thing--his

grandson be out of the running--his niece's claim upon he ought to

have have priority of that of everybody else. and he tell himself that

it should have have if only Nell have be a clear-head, sensible,

businesslike woman of the type of Onoria Bullivant. unfortunately,

she be nothing of the kind. instead, her head be cram full of

high-fly, sentimental, and quixotic notion (he pride himself on

having read she thoroughly), and he feel morally sure that if he be

to leave she any large lump sum, say fifteen or twenty thousand

pound, by way of legacy, she would be quite capable, when she find

that Master Evan have be leave out in the cold, of make over a big

slice, perhaps even the whole of it, for the benefit of the brat. such

a result as that must on no account be allow to come to pass. what

he would do be, to invest a certain number of thousand in her name

in the fund, just enough to bring in about three hundred a year, and

allow she the interest to live upon. with such an income she could not

do much harm, or what the squire designate to himself as harm. should

she be fool enough to take the boy to live with she, and assume the

responsibility of his future, why, she be welcome to do so. but owner

of Stanbrook and Barrowmead, and of his late purchase, that big

property on the Yorkshire border, his grandson never should be.



thus it one day come to pass that Mrs. Bullivant receive a note

write by Andry Luce, ask she, if convenient, to drive over next

day to Stanbrook in time for luncheon, and take her son with she. the

widow be a shrewd woman, and it seem to she that such a note be

capable of but one interpretation, and as she drive through the

country lane next day on her way to the Hall her heart beat high with

hope, which, however want in substance they might be, be none

the less _couleur de rise_.



in point of fact, before cause his testamentary disposition to be

record in black and white the squire be desirous of take stock of

the youngster whom he be propose to constitute his heir. if he

should prove to be a weak, pule child, or betray any sign of

delicacy of constitution, why, in that case that there would be good

reason for reconsider his decision.



as it turn out, the squire have no cause for uneasiness on that

score. Young Gavin Bullivant, who have just enter on his fifth year,

look as strong and sturdy as an oak sapling. he be a bright-eye,

apple-cheek lad, both inquisitive and acquisitive by natural

disposition, and not know what shyness mean. he be very like his

mother, but more in expression than feature, and at time one catch

a far-off hint of something in his face, at once hard and cunning,

which seem curiously out of keep with his year. it be as though

a very old man--and not a good old man either--be peer at you from

behind a beautiful mask of childhood.



"not much likeness here to the late lamented--hey?" query the squire

after a good stare at he, which the boy return with interest.



Mr. Cortleyon have only meet the Hon. hector on one occasion, at a sale

of some of Lord Cossington's stock, and have feel no desire to

cultivate his acquaintance.



"it may seem like self-flattery to say so," reply Mrs. Bullivant

with a complacent smile, "but both in look and disposition dear Gavin

take wholly after I. even his grandfather cannot help admit as

much."



then the squire proceed to put several question to the lad, which

he answer with promptitude and aplomb. he betray no timidity in

the presence of the sick man, although to many a child of his age the

latter would have seem a sufficiently formidable object, with his

parchment-like skin, his hollow cheek, his heavy, grizzle eyebrow,

which seem bent in a perpetual frown, and the strange half-fierce,

half-pathetic eye beneath they, in which the flame of life seem to

burn all the more strongly just now because it be so soon to be

extinguish forever.



after that Gavin be plant in the big easy-chair, with a supply of

sweet cake to keep he quiet while his mother and the squire talk

together in confidential fashion.



but it be not in Gavin to keep quiet for any length of time, and

hardly have the last cake go the way of the rest before he have slide

from his perch to the ground, bent on a more minute inspection of the

room and its content than he have yet be able to give they. so,

while the two elder people talk together in low tone, he go about

his self-impose task, examine this object and the other, open

every drawer that be unlocked in the big escritoire and make a

study of its content, and in all respect make himself thoroughly

at home.



at the end of three-quarter of an hour Mrs. Bullivant rise to take

she leave, for the squire be show sign of fatigue. there be upon

she a sense of disappointment, for nothing of a confidential nature

have fall from the sick man's lip, and she be still at a loss to

imagine not merely why she have be send for, but why she have be

ask to bring Gavin with she. sick people be subject to strange

whim, but surely there be something more than a whim at the back of

Mr. Cortelyon's request to see her son!



the Squire's keen eye seem to be read her thought. "Onoria," he

say--and he be hold her hand as he spoke--"Onoria, I be about to

make my will, a new one, for I destroy the old one some year ago

and I have send for you to-day in order to tell you that it be my

intention to bequeath you the sum of three thousand pound. nor will

the boy be forget, as you will find when my testament come to be

read. no thank, please--they would only worry I, and--and I cann't

afford to be worry nowadays."



Mrs. Bullivant raise the hand that be hold her to her lip and

kiss it. "dear Mr. Cortelyon," she say, and for once her voice have,

or seem to have, a tremor in it, "although you forbid I to thank

you for your act of noble generosity to I and my son, you cannot, at

any rate, hinder I from remember you in my prayer."





[illustration: "his mother now produce the Squire's watch and

appendage."]





a cynical smile light up the Squire's haggard face. perhaps the

picture of Mrs. Bullivant on her knee, return thank for a

thumping legacy--for that be the form her remembrance of he would

take, if it take any--strike he as be a trifle incongruous.



next moment an exclamation escape he. he have suddenly miss his big

gold watch, with its pendant of seal and trinket, which he be in

the habit of keep within reach on the little table by his bedside.

that it have be there only a few minute before he be fully

convinced. Whither, then, have it vanish?



Mrs. Bullivant at once begin a search for the miss article, but at

the end of two or three minute she give it up as a bad job. then her

eye fall on Gavin, who have go back to his perch on the easy-chair,

and have be watch her movement with much apparent interest. she

know from previous experience that when he look the most cherubic he

be usually most in fault. it seem to she that he appear too

unconscious to be wholly innocent. "come here," she say, beckon

he with her finger. he obey without hesitation.



he have only lately be breeche, and very proud he be at having be

emancipate from petticoat. pocket have not be omit from his

jean trouser--cut short in the leg, as be the fashion, so as to

leave display an amplitude of white stocking--and from one of they

his mother now produce the Squire's watch and appendage. he flush

a little and throw a timorous glance at the sick man, but, on the

whole, his mother be the more put about of the two.



"I cannot imagine what make he do such a thing," she say, with tear

of vexation in her eye. "but you may rest assure, dear Mr.

Cortelyon, that I will not fail to chastise he most severely when we

reach home."



but the squire be snigger. "I trust, Onoria, you will do no such

thing," he say. "it be merely the trick of a child too young to know

the difference between _meum_ and _tuum_. the good course will be to

overlook it as if it be a matter of no consequence and so leave he

to forget it. indeed, I be rather glad than otherwise to have have such

a proof of the young rascal's acquisitive faculty. it go, I think,

to prove that he will not grow up a prodigal like his father."



when his visitor have leave he the Squire lie for some time deep in

thought. at length he say, speak aloud, for he have just take his

cordial and be alone: "the more I see of she, the more confirmed I be

in my decision. her view in all that relate to the great question of

property be almost the counterpart of my own. she be a woman of a

thousand. what an admirable daughter-in-law she would have make! if

only that poor headstrong lad of mine had---- but why go back to that

business even in thought? the past be dead and bury; we have now to

deal with the present and to arrange for the future. I would give

something to be able to see Onoria's face while she be hear the

will read. I tell she about the legacy of three thousand pound, but I

say nothing about a life-interest in my land estate. I have leave

that by way of a surprise, and what a joyful surprise it will be to

she! well, well, to-morrow I will send for Piljoy."



it be in the course of the afternoon of the second day after Mrs.

Bullivant's last visit that Mr. Piljoy arrive at Stanbrook. he be

genuinely shock at the condition in which he find the Squire, whose

confidential business agent he have be for more than a quarter of a

century. the sick man's lamp of life have indeed flicker down to a

very feeble flame. evidently no time must be lose in have the

all-important document draw up and then sign and witness in due

form.



so for a full hour or more the two man, lawyer and client, be

closet together in the latter's bedroom. the will itself, engross

and ready for signature, be to be bring by Mr. Piljoy three day

later.



the lawyer be to dine and stay the night at Stanbrook, as he have do

many time before; and in order that he should not lack company, his

old acquaintance Mr. Herries, the vicar, have be ask to meet he.



Miss Baynard and Mrs. Budd honor the two gentleman with their

company at dinner, but leave they to their own device as soon as the

meal be over. then the lawyer and the vicar--the latter of whom be a

jovial, fox-hunt parson of what we be accustom to term "the old

school!"--drew their chair close, in anticipation of a pleasant

evening over their long pipe and a steaming bowl of punch, and in all

likelihood they be not disappointed.



at ten o'clock the vicar's man come with a lantern to light his master

home. by this time Mr. Piljoy be not quite so steady on his foot as

he customarily be, and when Andry Luce bring he his bed-candle and

proffer his arm to help he upstairs, he accept it without demur,

for he have sense enough to know that at his time of life it would not

do to risk a fall. but, indeed, Andry have help he in similar

fashion on more than one occasion before.



nor do the thoughtful Andry leave he till he have help he off with

his coat, waistcoat, cravat, gaiter, and shoe. he also wound up his

watch, and place it, together with his purse and bunch of key, on

the dressing-table. one of the abomination of those day, know as a

rushlight, be leave to burn itself away.



an hour later, Andry, minus his shoe, steal into the bedroom, have,

early in the evening, take the precaution to abstract the key of

the door. the lawyer's measured, long-draw breathing convince he

that he have nothing to fear. inside the small valise Mr. Piljoy have

bring with he he find the paper of instruction for the drawing-up

of the squire's will. to make himself master of its content be the

object of his nocturnal intrusion. five minute by the dim aid of the

rushlight suffice for his purpose. then he put the paper back and

go his way as silently as he have come.



Mr. Piljoy leave Stanbrook immediately after breakfast, and without

see the squire again, travel, as he always do on such

occasion, by post-chaise.









CHAPTER IX.

CONVERGING THREADS.





in the course of the same forenoon Andry Luce seek Miss Baynard with

the view of make a certain private communication to she. talk on

Andry's part be, of course, do by mean of his finger, but long

practice have make Nell an adept at read the language of the dumb.



Andry, who retain no recollection of his parent, in his brooding,

self-contain fashion have never really care but for two people,

to-wit, his young master, Dick Cortelyon, and Miss Baynard. one of

they be dead, and to the other be now give a double measure of that

love and devotion which have spring full-grown from his heart the

moment he first set eye on she, and have burn there with a steady,

unflickering flame ever since. she be the secret goddess at whose

shrine he worship daily. his love be unmixe with any taint of

ordinary passion, and be as absolutely pure as that of a father for

his child. it be the one well-spring of live water his maimed life

know. there be nothing in the wide world he would not have do, or

have attempt, at Miss Baynard's bidding.



his object in see she this morning be to enlighten she with regard

to the provision of the Squire's new will, which Mr. Piljoy be to

bring a couple of day hence for the purpose of have it sign and

witness. he do not tell she through what channel he have obtain

his information, and, naturally enough, Nell imagine that it be he

and not Mr. Piljoy who have draw up the instruction, or, at any rate,

that he have be present at their specification by her uncle. but

before Andry's finger, work although they be at their quick,

have get more than half through their tale, Nell's thought be

otherwise engage.



she be render terribly indignant, as Andry know full well she would

be, by the thought of the gross and cruel injustice of which Mr.

Cortelyon meditate make his innocent grandson the victim. she be

make both to love strongly and to hate strongly, and there be nothing

she hate more than aught that savor of cruelty or injustice. she

have love poor dead and go Dick as a young sister love a

handsome, generous, kind-hearted eld brother, and it make her blood

boil to think that his child should be treat as an outcast from the

hearth to which he ought to have be welcome as the pride and the

heir.



but what could be do? how could the purpose of this most iniquitous

will be defeat? she could discern no way--none. she be as helpless

in the matter as a new-bear babe. tear hot and passionate be shed

by she in the privacy of her own room. but of what avail be a girl's

tear? they fall, only to be dry up as quickly as a summer shower.



now, it so happen that about this time a certain peripatetic dealer

in rare book, coin, and curio of different kind, of whom Mr.

Cortelyon have make sundry purchase at various time, call at

Stanbrook on purpose to submit to the Squire a choice illuminate MS.

of the fifteenth century, for which he be desirous of find a

customer. the price ask be a high one, but after a little

haggle--he be too weak to hold out long--the Squire agree to pay

it rather than let the treasure go.



it be not so much that he have fall in love with it on his own

account, as he believe that in it he have secure a rarity, to possess

which his friend Mr. Delafosse, who be also a bibliophile and a

numismatist, but more of the former than the latter, would be willing

to give in exchange a certain unique stater of Epaticcus which he,

Ambrose Cortelyon, have long covet. although he believe himself to

be so near his end, it seem to he that he should die happy with

the precious stater shut up in his palm, and the knowledge that at

last it be his own.



yes, Nell should go to Dene House, take the MS. with she and

negotiate the exchange. she be already know to Mr. Delafosse, who

be no stranger at Stanbrook, and, in point of fact, be a special

favorite of the old collector. Dene House be some twenty-five mile

away across country. she could go on horseback, accompany by John

Dyce by way of escort.



so great become his impatience that he would have she set out that

very afternoon. the day be already long, and she could reach Dene

House soon after sunset, stay there overnight--Mrs. Delafosse would

give she a hearty welcome--and be back home before noon on the morrow.



so Nell be send for, and the manuscript give into her charge. by

this time her uncle's weakness have become so extreme that his wish

and instruction have perforce to be limit to a few whisper

sentence. but Nell give he to understand that she know exactly what

he want do, and he be satisfied. she would set out in the course

of the afternoon, and be back by midday on the morrow.



about an hour later Dr. Banks arrive, accompany by Dr. Mills. the

Squire have express a wish to see the latter about once a week, and

although all the doctor in the world could have do nothing for he,

that be no reason why his whim should not be humor. but there be

no need for a lengthened visit, and the pair have come and go in the

course of half an hour.



this be the day fix for the return of Mr. Piljoy with the will, and

about half-past two a post-chaise drive up, from which, however, there

alight not the lawyer himself, but his manage clerk, Mr. Tew. Mr.

Piljoy, he report, be lay up with gout, and unable to come, but

he, Mr. Tew, be just as competent to see to the proper signing of the

will.



Mr. Tew be not sorry to be tell that the squire be asleep and must

on no account be disturb. he be both tired and hungry, and be glad

to be able to put the hospitality of Stanbrook to the proof before

have to attend to the business which have take he there.



it be not till close upon five o'clock that he be summon to the

Squire's presence. the sick man be alone, prop up in bed as usual,

but Andry Luce have be instruct to keep within hearing of his

master's bell.



Mr. Tew, having explain the cause of his employer's absence, go

on, at the Squire's request, to read the will aloud, slowly and

deliberately, the testator give a nod of approval at the end of each

clause. five or six minute bring the reading to an end, and as he

take off his spectacle Mr. Tew say: "I presume, sir, that your

witness be in readiness?"



the Squire nod. "ask Andry to summon the gardener and the groom.

they have be tell to hold themselves in readiness," he whisper.



the two subordinate in question be not long in make their

appearance, and very self-important, albeit somewhat sheepish, they

look. they do not know they have be choose as witness because

most of the old servant be legatee under the will, whereas they

be not mention in it. besides, it have be ascertain that they

could actually sign their name, which, for person of their class,

be regard in those day as a very considerable accomplishment.



then Andry, who have charge of the proceeding, bring in the Squire's

big leaden inkstand, together with a couple of quill pen, which he

have cut and trim specially for the occasion. all be in

readiness, Andry put a stalwart arm round his master, and hold he in

a firm support while the latter, with slow and painful elaborateness,

write his name at the foot of the will, which Mr. Tew hold for he in

a convenient position. that do, the groom and the gardener in turn

follow their master's example, not without many strange facial

contortion as the pen travel shakily over the parchment. then they

touch their forelock and shuffle out of the room, glad the

ceremony be over, and yet feel themselves to be much more

important person than they have be a quarter of an hour before. as

they shamble downstairs they whisper to each other that they have

set eye on "th' owd Squire" for the last time. of the content of the

document sign by they they know nothing. they have be tell it be

their employer's will, and that be enough for they.



Mr. Tew be not allow to leave Stanbrook till after dinner, nor,

indeed, have he any particular desire to do so. he could not stay

overnight, as Mr. Piljoy would have do, but so long as he be back

at business by nine o'clock on the morrow, that be all that would be

expect of he. he be carry back with he the sign will, in an

envelope seal with the Squire's own seal, to be retain in the

custody of his employer till the time should have come for it to be

make public.



Mrs. Budd and he dine alone. he be tell that Miss Baynard, to whom

he have be introduce early in the afternoon, have in the meantime

leave the Hall on some private business for her uncle, and be not

expect back till next day.



shortly after seven o'clock, Mr. Tew, who be begin to be a little

muddle with the quantity of old port he have imbibe, bade Mrs. Budd

an almost affectionate farewell (she be a widow, and, to his

thinking, still a charming woman), climb into his chaise, and be

drive off on his return to Arkrigg.



Night settle down over the old house. in those remote country part

people keep early hour, and when the hall clock chime the half-hour

past ten the only light leave burn in the Hall be the one in the

sick man's room. near it sit Nurse Dinkel busily knit--for she

could not bear her finger to be idle--but watchful and alert, as she

always be. the squire do not like to be look at as he lie there,

and from where she sit she could not see he for the heavy curtain

that shroud the head of the bed, but the slight movement of his

finger on the counterpane draw she to his side.



she be a woman of some education, and have a low and pleasant voice,

and as Mr. Cortelyon's night be often restless and wakeful, he have

get into the way of occasionally ask she to read aloud to he. she

do so take he for a time out of the dungeon of his own thought

and sometimes bring in its train the sleep he long for.



so to-night, after lie awake for some time, as motionless as if he

be already dead, he say, "Nurse!"



"yes, sir?"



"I want you to read to I." his voice be still very feeble, but

strong than it have be in the afternoon; such fluctuation be

frequent with he.



"yes, sir. what would you like? shall I go on with Mr. Pope from where

we leave off the night before last?"



"Aye, you cann't improve on he. draw back this curtain that I may the

well hear you."



when the curtain have be draw back Nurse Dinkel do not return to

her chair, but stand there, look at her patient, nurse an elbow

in either hand.



"Mr. Cortelyon, sir," she say after a brief pause, "I have something

on my mind which I wish most particularly to say to you, if you will

kindly give I leave to do so."



"surely, Mrs. Dinkel, I will listen to anything you may have to say.

but don't stand there while you talk. go back to your chair."



"thank you, sir," she say, as she resume her seat. "I will try not

to tire you, although what I wish to say may at the beginning seem a

bit tedious. you may or may not be aware, sir, that I have a son,

Cornelius by name, who be now turn thirty year of age. when he be

quite a boy--and a clever boy he be, though 'tis I who say it--the

late Sir Willoughby Freke take a great fancy to he. in the course of

time he go to London, at Sir Willoughby's expense, for he be bent

on study to become a doctor. and study he do to such good purpose

that he pass all his examination with fly color. hardly,

however, have he obtain his diploma before a very good offer be make

he to go out to Java, where he have relation on his father's side

engage in business. it be an offer he feel bind to accept. that be

ten year ago, and now he have come back to England and be not go

abroad any more. his home will be in London, but before settle down

there he have come to spend a little time with his old mother, from

whom he have be so long part. and now, sir, I come to the reason

why I have take on myself to trouble you with all these dry

particular.



"my son have bring a wonderful discovery back with he from the East.

accord to his account, it will cure certain disease after all

other medicine have be try in vain, and, in some case, will

almost bring dead people back to life. what the drug consist of I

cannot tell you, because that be my son's secret, and one which he

would not think of open his lip about even to I. all I know be

that the chief ingredient be the powdered bark of a certain tree, of

which he have bring a considerable supply back with he. Cornelius

feel as sure as it be possible for a man to be of anything that he

have only to introduce his discovery to the medical world of London to

find himself on the high road to a big fortune. his heart be buoy up

not merely by hope but by certainty.



"well, sir, no long ago than last Sunday afternoon, when you and

Miss Baynard be good enough to spare I from my duty for a few

hour, I have a long talk with my son, and take the liberty of tell

he about your illness. and what do you think he say, sir? why this:

'if Mr. Cortelyon could only be persuade into try my drug, I feel

sure that it would give he a new lease of life.' those be his very

word, sir--'a new lease of life.'"



the Squire lie silent for a little while. then he say, "and it be

your opinion that I ought to allow myself to be experiment upon by

this vaunted remedy of your son?"



"most emphatically it be, sir. Cornelius be no idle boaster; he always

know what he be talk about, and he would not have say what he do

without good reason. he try the drug again and again in several

desperate case before he leave Batavia, and in no instance be it a

failure."



"but I be an old man, Mrs. Dinkel, and my case be not one of any

particular disorder, but a gradual decay of the vital force, which

can have but one end--and that be now close at hand."



"don't say that, sir, I beg. who can say what wonder my son's remedy

might not effect even in your case, as it have already do in those of

other? it be true that neither Dr. Banks nor Dr. Mills seem able to

do anything for you, but that be no reason why you should refuse the

help now offer you from another source. my son know your age within

a year or two; I describe to he all about your illness, and yet for

all that, it be his deliberate opinion that he can give you a fresh

lease of life."



again the Squire lie for some time without speak. "only one quack

the more," he murmur to himself with a touch of his old cynicism.

"well, why not? from the high to the low they're quack, every

mother's son of 'em. as it be, I'm at death's door already, and if the

fellow can do I no good, I'll defy he to do I much harm."



then he say aloud: "D'you know, I'm half inclined to let this son of

yours experiment upon I, if only to take some of the brag out of he

and prove to he that in such a case as mine his wonder-work stuff

be no more effectual than a dose of senna would be."



"then you _will_ try it, sir! that be all I ask. in any case, no harm

can come of it."



"my own opinion exactly"--with a dismal attempt at a chuckle. "yes, I

agree to try it. only, the affair must be keep secret; outside this

room nobody must know about it, unless it be my man, Andry Luce. and

now, when can this son of yours be smuggle into the house?"



"it's only a little past eleven o'clock, sir, and if you think you can

spare I, I will go at once and bring he back with I. the servant

be all abe, and my son could come and go without one of they be a

whit the wiser."



"that's a very good notion of your, damme! go at once, my dear woman;

but first give I a drink of that cordial. I shall want nothing till

you get back. and if I can coax that shy dog, Morpheus, to keep I

company meanwhile, so much the well."









CHAPTER X.

the SEQUEL of MISS BAYNARD's adventure.





it be with a bitter sense of helplessness that Miss Baynard continue

to brood over the news bring she by Andry Luce. the knowledge that,

with the exception of a certain legacy to herself and sundry small

bequest to old servant, the whole of her uncle's wealth, both in

land and money, would go to Mrs. Bullivant and her son, who be not

even cousin six time remove, cut she to the quick. the amazing

injustice of the thing, so to speak, strike she dumb. to think that a

man who know full well his span of life have dwindle to a few brief

hour should, in cold blood, choose to perpetrate so black a sin--for

in her eye it be nothing less--be to nell wholly inconceivable. and

all for what? merely because his son have marry beneath he, and have

thereby bring to naught a certain ambitious scheme on which his

heart have be set. and now the innocent child be to suffer for its

father's fault, if fault it be. oh, it be monstrous--monstrous!



of one thing she be quite sure: she would never touch her uncle's

legacy. every shilling of it should go to the boy. but what be such a

pittance in comparison with the income which, when he should come of

age, ought to be his of inalienable right? yet his name be not once

mention in the will! the last of the Cortelyons--bone of his bone,

and flesh of his flesh--might die in a gutter or come to the gallow

for anything the old man care. such a revenge be more than human; it

be fiendish, and could only have be prompt by the devil. Nell

burn from head to foot with a fine flame of indignation when she

think of these thing, and for the next forty-eight hour she could

think of nothing else.



it be in the course of the second afternoon after Andry Luce have tell

she that she happen--herself unseen--to overhear the two doctor

talk together as they stand for a few moment in the corridor after

come out of her uncle's room. "I give he three day at the

outside," one of they say. to which the other reply: "Hum! I

daresay you be right. but I shouldn't be a bit surprised if he be

to go off in his sleep between now and to-morrow."



Nell give one quick gasp, and a shudder run through she from head to

foot. she have know for some time what each day be bring near,

but to hear from the lip of those who know that the end be so close

come upon she with a shock, and for a moment or two make her feel as

if she have suddenly come face to face with a skeleton.



it be the day Mr. Piljoy have promise to bring the will for the

purpose of have it sign, and as she remember this she could not

help say to herself: "if I could only get hold of it and destroy

it, my uncle would hardly live to sign another in its stead, and Evan,

as his grandfather's heir-at-law, would succeed to everything!"



then a little derisive laugh at her folly break from her lip. get

hold of the will, forsooth! why, she would not be allow to so much

as set eye on it. her brain must be soften even to imagine such a

thing.



about an hour later her uncle send for she. it be in connection with

the errand to Mr. Delafosse that he want to see she. having receive

her instruction--give brokenly and in whisper--and have the precious

MS. commit to her charge, she leave the room. he gaze after she, a

little wistfully as it seem, think, perhaps, that she might have

kiss he before go--for in his heart he love the girl--as at

another time she most likely would have do; but her proud, set face

have never change while he give she his message, and when he have do

she simply incline her head and go. she feel that even if she be

never to see he alive again she could not forgive he; but he do not

know that.



about two o'clock Mr. Tew, in Mr. Piljoy's stead, arrive with the

will. in the absence of Mrs. Budd, who have go into the village, he

be receive by Miss Baynard, to whom he explain the nature of his

business and apologize for his employer's absence.



Nell's heart grow cold as she listen. why do not providence

intervene, and not allow so black a deed to be consummate? if only

Mr. Tew's arrival have be delay for two or three day--she would

not have care by what mean--then would he have come too late, and

all would have be well. as it be, she could but wring her hand in

sheer helplessness.



she be go sadly upstairs to her own room (after see Mr. Tew

plant in front of a pigeon pie), when an idea flash across her

brain which for a moment or two seem mentally to blind she. but it

be a notion at once so wild and extravagant that, after draw one

long breath, her hand go involuntarily to her head, and she say to

herself, "my reason must be desert I." for all that, she could not

thrust the notion from she; indeed, it have take such a firm grip of

she that when she reach her room she find herself under compulsion

to sit down and face it, and, however bizarre and impracticable it have

at first seem, to consider it dispassionately from a common-sense

point of view. the idea which have so startle she, and without any

conscious lead up to it on her own part, be nothing less than, in

the guise of a highwayman, to stop Mr. Tew when on his way back to

Arkrigg and despoil he of the will.



when a young spark of nineteen or twenty, Dick Cortelyon, on the

occasion of one of his brief visit at home, have attend a fancy ball

in the neighborhood in the character of a gentleman of the road. in

the wardrobe in his room upstairs--a room leave untouched since the

date of his quarrel with his father--the dress, wig, mask, pistol,

and other item of his make-up on that occasion be store to the

present day, a fact which be within Nell's cognizance. the picture of

her cousin, mask and ready to set out for the ball, have impress

her girlish imagination very vividly at the time, and have often

recur to her memory since; and this recollection it must have be,

act through some sub-conscious channel, which, while ask herself

despairingly how she could get possession of the will, have inspire

she with the idea of turn highwayman in reality--for one night

only.



we know at what decision she arrive. instead of scout the idea and

cast it from she, as ninety-nine young woman out of every hundred

would have do, she determine, _coûte que coûte_, to put it to a

practical issue. whatever risk might be connect with, or follow on,

the affair she be prepared to face, if only she could thereby insure

the destruction of her uncle's iniquitous will.



fortunately for she, when she come to consider, several thing seem

to work in favor of her scheme, desperate as at first sight it have

appear.



in the first place, everything in the way of dress and accessory

needful for the part she have make up her mind to play be there ready

to her hand. in the second, John Dyce, who be to act as her escort,

have know she from childhood, be devoted to she, and could be

thoroughly depend upon to keep any secret she might think well to

entrust he with. in point of fact, John have originally be one of

her father's servant, and he it be who have bring she, a girl of

twelve, to Stanbrook, where he have remain ever since, fill the

part of man-of-all-work in the squire's establishment. then, again, it

be a good thing, so far as her purpose be concern, that a married

cousin of John should be keeper of the first toll-bar on the

Whinbarrow road, which be the road she would have to journey by on

her errand to Mr. Delafosse.



for the last time she ask herself, "shall I adventure it, or shall I

not?" know all the while what the answer would be. by now the

afternoon be so far advanced that she must no long delay her

preparation. she know already that Mr. Tew would not set off on his

return journey till dinner should be well over. she herself would

start in the early dusk about an hour in advance of he.



she make it her first business to see John Dyce and have a little

private talk with he. next she invent an errand for she maid to a

neighboring village which would keep that elderly damsel out of the

way till after her own departure. next come one of the most essential

feature of the programme she be bent on carry out: the

transformation of Miss Baynard into the guise of a young man.



the change be affect in due course, and a very handsome and dashing

young blade she look. she take a long survey of herself in the

cheval glass, blush and smile as she do so. Nell be a tall,

juno-like young woman, and as her cousin Dick have be a somewhat

slender, medium-sized young fellow, his clothe fit she almost as

if they have be make for she.



but servant have pry eye, and not thus would it do for she to be

see leave the house; besides, there be the risk of encounter

some one in the village to whom her face be know. so, over her man's

dress she now proceed to put on certain article of feminine attire,

to wit, a long riding-skirt, and a mantle with a hood to it, the

latter of which she draw over her head. it be a common enough costume

for lady travel on horseback.



into a couple of saddle-bag, which John Dyce have supply she with,

she have already stow away a number of thing. then, when all be

ready, she go down by way of the back staircase, and so out of the

house, unseen by any one save a gape kitchen wench. in the court

near the stable be two horse in readiness, one of they be she

mare Peggy, a birthday gift, two year before, from her godmother,

Lady Carradine. John help she into the saddle, then mount his own

horse, and two minute later they be canter down the avenue.



they ride through the village, and so on their way for a couple of

mile or more till they reach a little woode hollow somewhat

remove from the high-road. there Nell, having doff her riding skirt

and hood mantle (her hair having be previously brush back from

her forehead and fashion into a queue), substitute for they the

three-cornered hat wear by her cousin at the fancy ball, with, by way

of overall, an ample riding cloak, well worn, which poor Dick have be

use to travel in. these article she produce from the saddle-bag.

neither be the mask forget. although she have never see Mr. Tew

before that day, and then only for a few minute, it would not do to

leave the slight opening for his recognition of she in the part she

be bent on play.



John, meanwhile, have be change Peggy's sidesaddle for an ordinary

one. that do, he again help she to mount. it be as well for Nell

in her new character that her mare have be thoroughly train, and

that she be a fearless horsewoman. whatever awkwardness or

embarrassment she might feel at first the friendly night cover up;

but presently she have other thing to think of than any little hot and

cold shiver of her own. in the holster in front of she be stick a

brace of unloaded pistol. John's pistol, however, be fully

charge.





how Miss Baynard speed on her hare-brain expedition have already be

tell: how she mistook the chaise of a stranger for that of Mr. Tew;

how she be fire at, but escape with nothing bad than a fright;

and how the notorious Captain Nightshade appear in the nick of time

and act as her guide as far as Rockmount, where, under the name of

Mr. Frank Nevill (that of a cousin in India) she be make welcome, and

find shelter for the night.



we leave she just after Mr. Cope-Ellerslie's housekeeper have show she

to her chamber; and now that the two thread of our narrative have

be bring together we will take up her history from the follow

morning.



when "Mr. Frank Nevill" go downstairs he find an excellent

breakfast await he in the same room into which he have be show

overnight. he be wait upon by Mrs. Dobson, who express much

concern at the smallness of his appetite. when the meal have come to an

end she say, "at what o'clock, sir, would you like your horse to be

bring round?"



"as soon as it can be get ready, for I be anxious to get on my way."



in ten more minute he be in the saddle. in accordance with Mr.

Ellerslie's promise, a serve-man on horseback be in readiness to

show he the way as far as the Whinbarrow road. he do not part from

Mrs. Dobson without ask she to convey to her master his warm

thank for the hospitality which have be extend to he; nor do he

forget to press a guinea into her palm, reluctant though she be to

take it.



as he turn away from the house he give it a long backward look. it

be a two-storied domicile, plain to the verge of ugliness, build of

roughly-hewn block of the dark gray stone of the country. its wall

be of great thickness, and it be roof with huge slab of slate,

well fit to withstand the fierce gale which assail it during the

winter month. it stand alone in the centre of a great plateau of

stony, desolate moorland, which spread away on every side till it be

lose in the distance. no other homestead or sign of man's occupancy or

vicinage be anywhere visible. a narrow rut lane, originally, no

doubt, nothing more than a sheep track, pass close by it, seemingly

come from nowhere and lead to nowhere. Frank Nevill shudder as

he look. what must it be like, he ask himself, to live there in

winter? what man in his proper sense would think of build a house

on such a spot? and yet Mr. Cope-Ellerslie seem well satisfied to

live there!



after traverse the lane for a matter of three or four mile, Frank

and his conductor emerge on one of the great highway run due

north and south. cross this, they find themselves after a little

while in a tangle of country road, among which a stranger would

infallibly have lose himself. Frank's guide, however, evidently know

every foot of the way, and at the end of a couple of hour, at a point

where the cross-road they have be traverse debouch into one much

wide, he pull up his horse and say: "this be the Whinbarrow road,

sir; six mile straight ahead will bring you to Dunthale Prior. do you

wish I to go any far with you, sir?"



they be almost the first word the man have speak, and Frank, as in

honor bind, have refrain from put any question to he.



he now dismiss he with thank and a little present for himself.

twenty minute later he draw rein and dismount at the first

toll-bar, at which place it have be arrange that John Dyce should

await his arrival.



and there honest John be, and a glad man be he to set eye again on

his young mistress. never before have he pass so wretched a night.

fear and anxiety have render he half crazy, and have put all thought

of sleep out of his head.



as already state, the keeper of the toll-bar be a cousin of

John Dyce; and Mrs. Nixon, his wife, now proceed to show "Mr.

Nevill" into a neat little bedroom. it be the last time that young

gentleman be see by mortal eye. at the end of half-an-hour Miss

Baynard--stately and gracious, but with a defiant sparkle in her eye

which seem to say, "challenge I who dare!"--issued from the chamber

and make her way downstairs.





Miss Baynard reach Dene House on the stroke of noon, where she be

warmly welcome by Mr. Delafosse and his wife. the old bibliophile

prove to be quite willing to exchange his gold stater of Epaticcus

for the rare MS. on vellum which Nell have bring with she. although

genuinely grieve to receive such a bad account of his old friend, he

could not help remind himself that there be several rarity in

Cortelyon's collection the possession of which he have long envy he.

well, we must all die some time, and as his friend's collection would

be sure to come to the hammer, there would at length be a possibility

of his become the owner of such article as he especially covet.

all the more would they be value by he for having be the property

of a man he so highly esteemed.



after join the Dene House family over their three o'clock dinner,

Miss Baynard set out on her return, and, there be nothing this time

to detain she on the road, Stanbrook be reach by dusk. as she ride

up the avenue she glance anxiously at the window. have the squire

be dead the blind would have be draw down. but there be no

change in the usual aspect of the house, and it be with a relieved

heart that she dismount.



she go up to her uncle's room without delay when tell that he have

more than once ask for she. "there's a great improvement in he

to-day, my dear," Mrs. Budd have say to she in the entrance hall. "Dr.

Banks be quite strike by the change when he call this morning."



Nell find her uncle awake. his eye meet hers questioningly as she

enter the room, but when she produce the coveted coin and place it

in his hand his face light up wonderfully. "good lass! good lass!"

he murmur. then he give a sigh of relief, and his lean finger

close lovingly over the stater.





as to whether Miss Baynard's attempt to purloin her uncle's will be,

or be not, under the circumstance morally justifiable, the writer

wish it to be understand that the point be one with which he

consider himself in nowise concern. his duty, as he apprehend it,

be simply that of a recorder of fact, without take on himself

either to justify or condemn any action, good, bad, or indifferent on

the part of his character, who be allow to go their own way

without let or hindrance, and as we all have to do, must accept and

make the good of whatever consequence may result therefrom.









CHAPTER XI.

"little short of MIRACULOUS."





yes, as Mrs. Budd have tell Miss Baynard, there be a decided change

for the well in Mr. Cortelyon's condition, but by what mean the

change in question have be bring about be know to three people

only--the sick man, his nurse, and the latter's son.



Cornelius Dinkel have go to Stanbrook in obedience to his mother's

midnight summon, take with he a small quantity of his remedy, and

have spend an hour with the squire, unknown to any of the household.



he be a tall, sallow, dry-up man, who look as if all the juice

of his body have be suck out of he by the heat of a tropical

climate. he be thirty year old, but might well have be take for a

man of forty-five. nobody would have venture to call he handsome,

but his expression be one of marked intelligence, in combination with

considerable will-power and great tenacity of purpose.



"Mr. Cortelyon, my son," say Mrs. Dinkel, as she introduce the young

doctor into the sick room.



Dinkel bow gravely. the Squire blink his eye; he would have

nod, but have not strength to do so.



then he say, speak in a thin whisper, break by frequent gasping

for breath: "your mother inform I that you have bring some

wonderful discovery back home with you, and she would fain cozen I

into the belief that by mean of it you can succeed in prolong the

life of a moribund like I. I tell you at once that I don't believe in

your ability to do anything of the kind. no, damme! I'm too far go

for any hanky-panky of that sort, and both Banks and Mills would

simply dub you a quack for your pain."



Dinkel's face remain impassive. "permit I, Mr. Cortelyon," he say,

and with that he proceed to submit the other to a brief but

search examination. till it have come to an end no one speak. then

take up a position on the hearth with his back to the fire, and

speak in the tone of one who feel himself master of the situation,

he break the silence:



"your case, Mr. Cortelyon, I find to be exactly such as my mother

describe it to I. that I can permanently cure you I at once admit to

be an impossibility. you be too advanced in life, and your

constitution be too nearly wear out, to warrant any such hope. but

that I can succeed in prolong your life for week, nay, it may well

be for several month to come, I make no manner of doubt--such be the

marvellous efficacy of the remedy I have bring back with I from

abroad."



this, to a man who have every reason for believe that a few more

hour would bring the end, be news indeed. week--perhaps month--of

life, when he have look forward to be bury about a week hence!

it be too marvellous to credit.



for a little while he be too overcome to speak. then he murmur, and

Dinkel have to bend over he in order to catch what he say: "I--I

cannot believe it--I cannot!"



"nevertheless, Mr. Cortelyon, I be not deal in romance--heaven

forbid that I should in such a case!--but in sober fact. there be a

homely proverb which affirm that the proof of the pudding be in the

eating. I have bring with I a small quantity of my remedy. will you

permit I to administer a dose of it to you?"



again there be a space of silence. the sick man's gaze be bent on

the young doctor as if he would fain read he through and through,

while his grizzle eyebrow make a straight line across his forehead,

he like the look of he; there be something in that strong, earnest,

plain face which inspire confidence. compare with he, Dr. Banks

look like an amiable old woman.



"first of all, I should like to know what this so-call wonder-worker

of yours be compound of," he murmur, after a time.



Dinkel shrug his shoulder. "its chief constituent be the dried and

powder bark of the tatao tree--a tree indigenous to the island of

Java. the other ingredient consist of sundry drug in certain fix

proportion, the secret of which I be not at present prepare to

divulge."



"quite right--quite right. very sensible on your part. you don't want

to poison I, I suppose--hey?"



the ghost of a smile flit across Dinkel's rugged face. "what should

I gain by that, sir? only the hangman's noose. I think you ought to

credit I with a desire for lengthen your day, not for shorten

they."



"it would puzzle you to make 'em much short than they seem likely to

be," gasp the Squire, with a painful imitation of one of his old

chuckle. "well, well," he resume, "I'll venture on a dose of this

stuff of your, not because I've any faith in it, mind you, but merely

to take the cock-a-doodle out of you, and prove to you that you're not

the wonderfully clever fellow you're inclined to crack yourself up as

be."



not for day have the squire speak so much in so short a time, and as

the last word die from off his lip his eye close and he sink into

a half swoon.



he could not have be in more competent hand, and before long he be

bring back to consciousness. his first word, in a feeble whisper,

be: "give I the stuff; I'll take it."



from his waistcoat pocket Dinkel extract a tiny phial, no big

than his little finger, about three-part full of a ruby-color

fluid, which he proceed to empty into a dessert spoon.



"you willn't find it at all disagreeable," he say, as he proffer the

spoon and its content to the squire.



"it taste not unlike the liquorice-root I use to be fond of when a

lad," murmur the latter half a minute later, and with that his eye

close again.



Dinkel hold up his hand, and for a little space neither he nor his

mother stir. then say the young doctor, "he be asleep, and if all

go well, as I have every reason to think it will, he willn't awake for

five or six hour. I will go now, and return between six and seven

o'clock."



as already state, Dr. Banks, when he call as usual in the course of

next forenoon, be considerably surprised at find such a decide

improvement in his patient's condition, when, accord to all the

rule and regulation of medical science, he ought to have be

nearly, if not quite, in a state of collapse. "it's merely a flash in

the pan--the sudden flare-up of a candle before it drop into

darkness," he say to himself. "he's a wonderful old fellow, and I've

evidently underrate the strength of his constitution."



but next day, and the day after that, a still further improvement

unmistakably manifest itself. Dr. Banks rub his nose with his

forefinger and be clearly nonplus. on the fourth morning he be

join by Dr. Mills, who have be expect from hour to hour to have

tiding of the squire's demise. he and bank do not fail to discuss

the case as they drive over to Stanbrook in the latter's gig, but

neither of they could make head or tail of it, and certainly it be

difficult for they to believe the evidence of their eye when, on

enter their patient's room, they find he seat in his

easy-chair, prop up by cushion, and not only that, but dictate a

letter in a firm voice to his secretary, Andry Luce.



he favor they with a curt nod, but do not otherwise notice they

till he have bring his dictation to an end. then turn with a

sardonic smile, he say: "good-morrow, gentleman. very pleased to see

you, especially you, Mills. you find an unlooke-for change in I

since you be here last week--hey? it's all your friend Jimmy Banks's

do. from the hour he change my physic, now four or five day

since, I begin to mend. why he don't change it before, instead of

let I get down to death's door first, the Lord only know. but

Jimmy always be a wag. don't shake your pow in that way, sir; you

know I'm speak the truth. what grand weather for the crop we be

have just now! I'm tell that both my corn and my tatie be come

on famously; but I hope to drive round in a day or two and see they

for myself."



there be nothing to be do and very little to be say, and the two

doctor cut their visit as short as possible.



say Mills to the other after they have leave the room: "what be the

change of medicine he speak of? what fresh treatment have you be

subject he to?"



"to none at all, I give you my word. I be send he the same mixture

now that I be send he three week ago--the one that you and I

agree upon. no single ingredient have be change. in say what he

do he be only poke fun at we in his cynical way."



"possibly at you, bank, but certainly not at I," rejoin the other

in his pompous way. "in any case, he's a very remarkable old man, and

although I could not quite follow you in think that his vitality

be at such a low ebb as you seem to make out, I certainly do not

credit he with the possession of the marvellous recuperative power

to which our eye have just bear testimony."



"Humph! you seem to be bless with a very short memory, Mills. your

own word on the occasion of your last visit be, 'I give he three

day at the outside,' and that's just a week ago."



"well, well; we be all liable to err, of course. still, I'm afraid

that I allow my judgment to be in some measure lead astray by your

diagnosis. I ought to have subject he to a more comprehensive

examination than seem to be necessary at the time. for all that, I

cannot deny that his case be one of the most remarkable which have come

under my notice. in short, I should hardly be go too far if I be

to term his recovery, however temporary it may be, little short of

miraculous."



Dr. Banks grunt. he be too indignant to reply in word. only to

himself he say, "I always set you down in my own mind as a humbug,

and now I'm more convinced of it than ever."



as the reader will have rightly surmise, the marvellous change in

Squire Cortelyon be wholly and solely due to the drug administer to

he by Cornelius Dinkel. already, as we have see, he be able to sit

up--although only for a short hour at first--and transact business;

and each day bring its own small addition of strength and vital

power. soon he be able to go out on fine day for a drive, and a

little later he even get so far as, with the help of Andry Luce's arm,

to take short stroll about the ground.



but this eminently satisfactory state of thing could only be

maintain on one condition: it be absolutely essential that a

certain regulated dose of the wonderful drug should be administer to

the patient daily. for the purpose of carry out this arrangement

Dinkel make a point of come to the Hall every evening after dark,

bring the day's dose with he in a phial. he simply wait long

enough to see the squire swallow it, and then go his way.



Mrs. Dinkel remain at Stanbrook, nor, although he be so much

well, would her patient listen to a word about her departure.

perhaps it seem to he that so long as he could succeed in retain

her service he would have a firm hold on those of her son. besides,

his man Tatham be not yet able to resume his duty.



so interested be young Dinkel in the case of Mr. Cortelyon that for

the present he make up his mind to stay where he be. as his mother

have tell the Squire, the object of his life now be to take his

discovery to London, and build up a fortune on the strength of it. but

he be gift with the patience, slow but sure, of his father's race,

and be content to wait.



by this time it have got rumor about the country-side that the

Squire's amazing recovery be due to Dinkel, or rather, to the effect

of some magic compound he have bring with he from abroad. far,

it be commonly report that so long as Dinkel continue to practise

his art on the old man, the latter would not, or could not, die.

among other, the whisper go that the Squire have sell himself, body

and soul, to the young doctor on condition of his life be prolong

till he be a hundred.



these rumor be not lessen by Dinkel's mode of life. he have fit

up an old shed at the back of his mother's cottage, and there he

conduct his experiment. strange-color flame would often be see

issue from its chimney after dark, and one or two bold spirit,

who have venture to pry upon he, aver that they have see he

warm his hand at a big glass jar which give off blue spark when

he touch it. evidently he be a man to be both shun and fear.



but the love of life burn strongly in we. not merely be we desirous

of prolong our own existence, but the life of those dear to we,

and among the villager be three mother who, their child having

be give up by the local doctor, go to Cornelius Dinkel as a last

resource, and pray he with tear in their eye to try to save their

little one. he do try, and in two case out of the three he

succeed.



still, the country people, with their ingrain superstitious

prejudice, fight shy of he, and regard he with a suspicion that

be largely mixed with dislike. "he's a man-witch, that's what he be,"

they mutter among themselves. if he could prolong "th' owd Squire's"

life, why couldn't he save Molly Grigg's child?--and why don't he

try his hand on old Tommy Binns, who be only eighty-seven when he

die?









CHAPTER XII.

a startling RECOGNITION.





in view of the astonishing and wholly unexpected change for the well

in Mr. Cortelyon's condition, it become manifest to Miss Baynard that,

even if she have succeed in despoil Mr. Tew of the will, she do

so would have be to no purpose, see that her uncle have live long

enough to make half-a-dozen other have he be so inclined. she could

not help cherish a faint hope that, now a fresh lease of life have

mercifully be grant he, he would see fit to change his mind in

the matter of his grandson, and, either by mean of a codicil to his

present will, or the drawing-up of a new will, repair, in a great or

less degree, the act of cruel injustice of which he have be guilty.



but as time pass on Nell's hope fade and die. no allusion to his

will ever pass her uncle's lip, or she would have hear of it from

Andry Luce. it seem that he be satisfied to let it stand unchanged.



one day a brief letter from her godmother, Lady Carradine, be

receive by Miss Baynard. her ladyship be up in town for a

fortnight--her usual home be in Devonshire--and she write very

pressingly to Nell to join she there during her stay.



this Nell be by no means loth to do; and as her uncle raise no

objection to she go, but rather urge she to accept the invitation,

she and her maid be drive over to Lanchester a couple of day

later, where she book two inside place in the London mail.



Nell be especially glad to find herself again in London, because she

would now be enable to renew her acquaintance with young Evan, whom

she have not see since his mother's death.



but before go to Lawn Cottage, where, so far as she be aware, the

boy be still domicile, she deem it advisable to call upon Mr.

McManus, whom she find in nowise change, but still as genial, as

shabby-looking, and as snuffy as ever.



"yes," he say in answer to a question, after he have usher his

visitor into a little parlor behind the shop, "the young shaver be

quite well and hearty, or be so a week since, and be still in charge

of Mrs. Mardin."



"and all the expense in connection with he be still defray by Mr.

Dare?"



"in that respect nothing be change. I may, however, just mention that

some time ago a report reach I--although, mind you, Miss, I cann't

tell how true it be--that between two and three year ago Mr. Dare

come to the end of his tether--be ruin, in point of fact (no doubt

gambling have to do with it), and have to give up all his fine

acquaintance and leave London. but be that as it may, I have it from

Mrs. Mardin's lip that the quarter's money for young Evan be always

punctually remit. he's one of those gentleman, be Mr. Dare, whose

word be his bond. I wish all so-call gentleman be like he."



the old man pause to refresh himself with a pinch of his favorite

mixture and then go on:



"I myself, on a fine Sunday afternoon, sometimes manage to get as far

as Chelsea, in order to satisfy myself as to how the boy be get

on. although Mrs. Mardin know I for his great-uncle on the mother's

side, that fact, at my request, have be keep a secret from Evan. from

the first I make up my mind that I would not spoil any chance the boy

might have of one day be acknowledge by his father's relation by

put my humble self in the way, and when you enter the shop just

now, Miss, I be in hope you have come to tell I that Mr. Cortelyon

have change his mind at last, and have send you to fetch his grandson."



Nell shake her head sadly. "I be afraid there be no present likelihood

of my uncle do anything of the kind. up till now his feeling in

the matter have undergo no change."



"and maybe he will go down to the grave without having know how sweet

it be to forgive. poor old gentleman, how I pity he!"



an hour later Nell despatch a note to Mrs. Mardin, tell she that

she hope to be at Lawn Cottage in the course of the afternoon of next

day, and there the specify time find she.



Evan have by no mean forget his "Aunt Nell," and she be make very

glad thereby. but she have send he so many present of toy and other

thing from time to time that it would have be odd if he have not

remember she. to she he seem to have grow more like his father

than ever. if his grandfather would but once have admit the lad to

his presence, surely his hard heart would have soften at Evan's

haunt likeness to the dead man! but, as the old tobacconist have

say he would go down to the grave without having know how sweet it

be to forgive.



Mrs. Mardin be nothing if not hospitable, and before long tea be

serve; nor be the toothsome bun for which Chelsea be fame

forget. but scarcely have the first cup be pour out before Mrs.

Mardin rise suddenly to her foot. some one have just pass the window,

and next moment there be a tug at the front-door bell.



"I declare if here ben't Mr. Dare!" exclaim the widow. "what a

strange thing that you and he should happen to come on the same day!"

and with that she hurry out of the room.



Miss Baynard have often desire to make the acquaintance of this

unknown benefactor of her dead kinsman's widow and child, and now she

wish be about to be gratify. she stand up as the door open, with

a slightly heighten color, and with a heart that beat somewhat

fast than common.



a second later every vestige of color flee her face, and it seem to

she as if her limb be on the point of give way under she. she

draw one long, gasp breath, and unconsciously her hand grip the

back of her chair, as if to keep herself from fall. in the man who

now enter the room she have recognize--or she feel nearly sure she

have--the notorious Captain Nightshade, he who have come to her help

that night when she be reel in her saddle after having be fire

at by the unknown traveller in the chaise, and who have afterwards

act as her guide as far as Rockmount!



it be true that she have only have a clear view of his face for a few

brief second, while the old serve-man stand at the open door with

his lighted candle, but the picture thus see have burn itself into

her memory as few thing have ever do, and many a time since then have

she conjure it up in fancy till its every lineament seem to have

grow familiar to she.



and now, marvel of marvel, here before she, a live reality, be the

face she have never think to see again--long and brown, with its

thin, high-ridged nose, its delicate nostril, its black, brilliant

eye, its mobile mouth, and its massive, rounded chin, together with

that air of almost defiant recklessness which of itself would have

serve to mark the man out from his more commonplace fellow, and

which seem to sit so easily upon he. and there, too, have far

proof be need, be the tiny brown mole on the low half of the

leave side of his face, which have catch her attention at the time, as

a "beauty-patch" might have do on the cheek of one of her own sex.



she tighten her grip on the back of the chair, and their eye meet.

into his there come no flicker of recognition, no slight evidence

which betray any consciousness on his part that they have ever meet

before. his glance encounter her with the clear, unwinking

steadfastness of one stranger regard another. his feature be

grave and compose; there be no start of surprise; the sallow of his

cheek remain untinged by any faint flush of color. Miss Baynard

be bewilder. could it be that he have know beforehand whom he be

about to meet and have school himself accordingly? but this be a

question Nell have no ground for ask herself.





[illustration: "she have recognize the notorious Captain Nightshade."]





the girl's perturbation and amazement pass unnoticed by Mrs. Mardin,

whose eyesight be no long what it once have be, and she now go

through the office of introduce the young people in the few word

possible.



Miss Baynard curtsy a little _gauchement_, which be not like she.

Mr. Dare, with his hat press to his heart, make she a profound bow.



"I be indeed fortunate in find here to-day a lady whom it have long

be the chief desire of my existence to have the felicity of

meeting."



such a speech address nowadays by a young man to a young woman would

seem, and rightly so, absurdly high-flown and unreal; but to our

great-grandfather and grandmother it would have appear nothing of

the kind. they and their progenitor for generation have bring the

art of compliment, especially as between the sex, to a degree of

perfection of which we, in these degenerate time, retain little more

than the tradition. very likely it be all very artificial and

insincere, but the fair sex of a day which now seem so far remove

not only expect it but like it. if we have be bring up on

sugar food, the taste for it generally cling to we through life.



if any doubt have linger in Miss Baynard's mind with regard to the

dual personality of the man before she, his first word would have

finally dispel it. she would have know his voice among a thousand.

how many time since she first hear those full deep tone have she

hear they again in her dream? she would have blush to tell how

often have she care, or be able to count they. yes, the last shred

of amazed doubt be go. have she encounter Dare in the dark and

hear he speak, she would have whisper to herself, "that be the

voice of Captain Nightshade, and of no one but he."



and yet he have not recognize she! but perhaps there be nothing to

wonder at in that. so far as she know he have have no opportunity of

scan her feature as she have of his, and probably have no curiosity

to do so, besides which he have be unaware of her sex, and have part

from she as one man part from another. to a man of his profession the

adventure of that night would seem a tame little episode hardly worth

the trouble of remembering. she be glad, she be very glad, that he

have fail to recognize she, and yet--be of the sex she be--even

while she tell herself so she feel a bitter heart-stab. _she_ would

have know _he_ again anywhere, and under any disguise.



but she put this thought from she, and draw a breath of revive

courage. her blood begin to flow again, and soon a strange gladness,

for which she could not account, begin to make itself feel at her

heart.



before this come about she have find word to reply to Dare's little

speech.



"and I on my part, Mr. Dare, can say in all sincerity that I be very

glad to make your acquaintance. I have long want to be able to thank

you for your generous kindness towards both the dead and the living,

and now the time have come when I can do so. but pray let we be

seat."



Mrs. Mardin have discreetly withdraw. she be sorry that all the good

tea in the pot would be spoil with standing, but such little mishap

cannot always be avoid.



Master Evan be in the garden, urge on his wild career on a big

rock-horse which his Aunt Nell have send he by carrier the day

before.



"Dick Cortelyon and I be very dear friend, Miss Baynard, as you be

doubtless aware. when his premature death leave those he love on the

verge of destitution, be it not the place of he he have honor with

his friendship to come forward and shield they, in some measure at

least, from the chill blast of penury? this it have be my privilege

to be able to do. 'twas but little--very little--and have our place

be reverse I feel assured that Dick would have do the same by

I."



"there I agree with you; but such friendship be rare, or so I be

bid believe. for all you have do in the past, Mr. Dare, I thank

you from the bottom of my heart; it be what not one so-call friend

out of a hundred would have do. but from to-day his charge upon your

generosity must cease."



a shade of perplexity pass across Dare's face. "pardon I, Miss

Baynard, if I fail to apprehend your meaning."



"what I mean be that my cousin's child must no long be a burden on

you, and that it devolve upon those to whom he be bind by the tie

of blood to care henceforth for his future."



"a burden, Miss Baynard! the word stab I."



"Pardon I, I be wrong. it ought never to have pass my lip. I be

very sorry."



Mr. Dare bent his head as accept the apology, and, indeed, for once

Nell look almost abject.



"from your remark," say Dare, "I can only conclude that Mr.

Cortelyon's hard heart have at length relent, and that he have make up

his mind to acknowledge his grandson."



Nell shake her head. "I be sorry to say that nothing of the kind have

come to pass. my uncle be still as much embitter against the boy as

ever he be."



"excuse I, but you speak of those to whom the boy be bind by the

tie of blood as----"



"be I not bind to Evan by the tie of blood, Mr. Dare?"



"the fact be one which cannot be dispute. then, you wish I to

understand----?" he pause.



"that from now I charge myself wholly and solely with Evan's future.

'tis what I have long wish, nay, determine to do, but till to-day

you and I have never meet." the last word have hardly pass her lip

before a quick flush mount to her cheek. unthinkingly she have give

utterance to an untruth. they two _have_ meet before, although he seem

to be wholly unaware of the fact. but there be no possibility

of recall her word even have she be desirous of do so.

"And----and consequently I have have no opportunity of make this

know to you before." the break have only be momentary. have he

notice it? she could not tell.



Dare's face darken, and the line between his eyebrow become more

marked. "I be certainly not prepare for this," he reply. "have I

have any prevision of what I be about to hear, much as I value my

introduction to Miss Baynard, I think I should hardly have come near

Lawn Cottage to-day."



Nell's eye strike fire, and for a moment or two her tooth bit into

her underlip; but when she speak it be with no trace of temper.



"that be a very rude speech on your part, Mr. Dare, to address to a

lady. but, under the circumstance, I can make every allowance for

your feeling, and I be not go to take offence at it. the one thing

I be sorry about in connection with this affair be that some such

arrangement be not come to long ago."



"and I be grieve that it should ever be come to. it will cut I to

the quick, I tell you plainly. when poor Dick lie on his deathbed I

give he my word that while I have a crust his boy should not want,

and that I would do my good to make up to he for that stroke of

ill-fortune which be about to rob he of a father's love and care. it

be a promise which, as far as the exigency and circumstance of my

life would allow, I have strive to fulfil to the good of my ability.

that life--my life--be a very lonely one, how lonely you cannot

conceive, and in the course of time my dead friend's son have grow

very dear to I. yet now, Miss Baynard, you would come between we (how

cruel in some thing be your sex!) and would deprive I of he."



"you misapprehend my intention, Mr. Dare. I have no wish to come

between you and the boy in any way. you will have full freedom to

visit he as often as you wish. all I say be, that henceforth all

charge in connection with he must be defray by I."



dare get up abruptly, cross to the window, stare out of it for a

few moment, and then go back to his seat.



"look here, Miss Baynard," he say, "why should not you and I come to

a compromise in this matter, as one find it advisable to do in so

many of the affair of life? suppose we share the expense--'tis a mere

bagatelle after all. come, now, what say you?"



Miss Baynard shake her head. "it cannot be, Mr. Dare. on this point my

mind be finally make up. I be very sorry if my tell you so cause

you any pain or annoyance, but there be no help for it. my action be

base on reason which I do not feel at liberty to explain. your

goodness in the past will never be forget by I, and I trust----"



"not a syllable more, I beg," say Dare, with a queer little break in

his voice. "my 'goodness,' forsooth! revile I, strike I, but never

fle that word at I again as applicable to anything between I and

my dead friend! but I will urge you no long. you tell I your mind

be make up, in which case there be nothing more to be say or do."









CHAPTER XIII.

love the CONQUEROR.





although Dare have not succeed in persuade Miss Baynard to reverse

or modify the decision she have come to in the case of her cousin's

child, and although he be at no pain to hide his chagrin and

disappointment, he and she do not fail to part as good friend be in

the habit of parting. neither of they have any wish to part otherwise,

and it would have be hard to say which of they would have be the

more sorry to do so; indeed, Nell be unwilling to say goodbye till

she have obtain from he an address--that of a lawyer--to which she

could write in case she should have occasion to communicate with he

about the boy.



both of they put the selfsame question to themselves within five

minute of their parting: "when and where, if ever, shall we meet

again?"



dare go direct from Chelsea to Holborn. Miss Baynard have say that

her action be influence by certain reason which she do not feel at

liberty to specify. be one of those reason base on the fact that he

be now a ruin man? if so, through what channel have the information

reach she?



find Mr. McManus as usual in his shop, Dare at once challenge he

with be the tale-bearer. it be an accusation he make no attempt to

rebut; but that in say what he have to Miss Baynard he have be

actuate by any feeling of ill-will towards Dare be too absurd a

notion to be entertain for one moment. however, the mischief be

do and could not be undo, and with all his fault Dare be not the

man to vent his annoyance on so helpless an object as the old

tobacconist.



but Miss Baynard have speak as if there be more reason than one for

the decision she have arrive at. might not another, and perhaps the

chief one, lie in the fact that in he she have recognize the man who

have be mix up with herself in a certain memorable adventure, and

who, when ask his name, have tell she that he be none other than the

notorious "Captain Nightshade"? it be a recognition he have not

count on, be unaware how incautiously he have afford she the

opportunity of scan his feature by the light of the serve-man's

candle at the door of Rockmount. but that she have recognize he be

an indisputable fact. be it, then, to be wonder at that she should

refuse in such positive term to permit he any long to defray young

Evan's expense with money which she doubtless regard as the

proceed of robbery on the King's highway?



no, he feel bind to admit that it be not to be wonder at, and

that, in point of fact, no other course be open to she. and yet,

know he now to be that which he have tell she he be, she have

part from he with a cordiality in which he feel assured there be

no _arrière-pensée_. she have give he her hand frankly, and in her

beautiful eye he have read nothing but kindliness, with just a hint of

sadness, or so he fancy, shine through it. and then, what have she

last word to he be? "let we not say goodbye, but _au revoir_."

and this to the man who have confess to be Captain Nightshade!



but to attempt to follow the turning and twisting of that

incomprehensible thing, a woman's mind, be what he make no

pretension to do. it be enough for he that her own lip have say

_au revoir_; and that a propitious fate in its own good time would

bring they together again he do not permit himself to doubt.



Dare have have no thought or expectation of find Miss Baynard at Lawn

Cottage; he have not even know that she be in town; consequently the

meeting be as great a surprise to he as it be to she. but what he

do know, and have know all along, be that she and the _soi-disant_

"Mr. Jack Prentice" be one and the same person. so pique have his

curiosity be by the adventure which have bring they together after

such a strange fashion, that after her departure from Rockmount he have

cause a watch to be set upon her movement till she have be trace

back to Stanbrook. that she should prove to be the cousin of his dead

friend, Dick Cortelyon, be merely one of those coincidence such as

people who habitually keep their eye open can see happen around

they every day.



Dare have be quite right in his surmise as to the reason which have

actuate Nell in her refusal to allow he to contribute any long,

even in part, towards the cost of Evan's maintenance. the fact that he

be a ruined man would of itself have be argument sufficient for the

step she have decide upon take. but when, in addition, she have to

face the question, and it be one she could not shirk, "from what

source be the money derive which be remit every quarter-day to

Mrs. Mardin?" she feel that no answer be need from she. it be a

question which answer itself. and this state of thing have be

go on for she know not how long! not another day must it last.



she have only be a couple of day back at Stanbrook when a small

packet reach she through the post. it bear the London postmark, and

be address in a writing wholly strange to she. she open it, not

without curiosity, to find that all it contain be the mask wear by

she on a certain never-to-be-forget occasion. she have be unable

to find it when, after reach home, she proceed to replace Dick's

habiliment in the closet whence she have disinter they. to the good

of her belief she have inadvertently leave it behind she in the bedroom

at Rockmount, but it be a point as to which she could not be

positive. anyhow, here it be, send back to she by an unknown hand,

and her receipt of it in such fashion raise more than one perplexing

question.



but suppose she be in error in think she have leave the mask at

Rockmount? in that case only one conclusion be open to she--that it

be not Mr. Ellerslie, but Mr. Dare, who have return it. one or the

other of they it must be. if Mr. Dare be the sender of it, how

woefully in error she must have be in assume that he have not

recognize she when they meet accidentally at Lawn Cottage! and yet, by

not so much as the flicker of an eyelid have he betray any knowledge,

or even suspicion, of their ever having meet before! if he do

recognize she on that occasion, then of course her secret--the secret

of her sex--be equally in his keeping. perhaps he have know or

guess it from the first! have he not, when she reel and all but

swoon in the saddle, catch she in his arm? and have she not, with

wandering sense, lain for a little while--a very little while--in his

embrace! be it then he make the discovery, suppose it to have be

make at all?



hardly have she ask herself the question before a delicious thrill

go through she from crown to foot, and all the pulse of her be

begin to palpitate with a strange, new, sweet life, far sweet than

anything she have hitherto know. she feel as a chrysalis may feel when

it burst its husk and first spread its wing to the sun.



she sit for some little time, her face hide in her hand, although

she be alone, and her vein aglow with something that almost

frighten she. then on a sudden her mood change: she spring to her

foot, and with clench hand and hard-set face take to pace she

room from end to end, do silent battle with herself meanwhile.

never have she be so assailed before, and she bring all the force

of her womanly pride to bear on the insidious foe that be undermine

her outwork one by one. she have deem herself invulnerable; she have,

as it be, set herself on a pedestal as a being apart, whom the one

great weakness of her sex--for such it seem to she--could never

touch. and now nature be begin to revenge itself by prove to

she that she be no strong in some way than the weak of her weak

sister. but she would not yield, she would not give way, she tell

herself again and again with a sort of fierce despair, while conscious

all the while that one bastion after another be crumble before the

enemy's assault. "shall not a woman remain mistress of her own fate?"

she cry despairingly.



in some thing she shall, my dear Nell, but not in all, as you be

prove to your cost. there be a power within you that be strong

than yourself.



at length, sick and weary at heart, she cast herself on her bed and

bury her face in the pillow. "never, never will I submit!" she

moan. but even as the word escape she some traitor in the garrison

haul down the flag which have flaunt itself so defiantly, and the

citadel be win.



but who the sender of the mask be remain as much a mystery as

before.









CHAPTER XIV.

a fresh actor on the scene.





except in a few occasional instance, Mr. Ambrose Cortelyon, who

pride himself on his possession of an unbiassed mind, be not in the

habit of be unreasonable either in his demand or his expectation,

whether they concern himself or other. thus, he be quite aware

that when his convalescence, so to call it, have reach a certain

point and make no advance beyond it, it would be both useless and

unreasonable on his part to look for any. although Dinkel's marvellous

drug could do much, it could not work miracle. he, the squire, must

not only be content, but must deem himself one of the most fortunate

of man that such a measure of health have be give back to he as be

now his, and henceforward his most fervent prayer must be for a

continuance of it for an indefinite time to come.



Dinkel have hold out to he the hope--nay, it have be next door to a

promise--of a prolongation of his life for several month. what be

there to hinder those month from extend themselves to year? he

himself could see nothing in the way. why should he not go on as he

be go on now till his year have stretch themselves out to

fourscore? of course, he be only live a half-life, as it be; it

be existence with sadly maim power, but only on such term be

existence possible to he at all. when we cann't have what we would,

the only wisdom be to content ourselves with what we have.



he be quite aware of his utter dependence on Dinkel, but on that

score he have no fear. he know that the young doctor meditate a

removal to London before long; indeed, the contingency have already

be discuss between they and provide for. week by week Dinkel

would forward to his mother by coach a small packet contain seven

phial, the content of one of which would be administer to the

Squire each day by Mrs. Dinkel, whose service have be exclusively

secure by the payment of a wage far more liberal than she could hope

to obtain elsewhere. Dinkel's own service be to be remunerate at

the rate of one hundred pound a month for as long a time as he should

prove successful in keep his patient in the land of the living.



under these circumstance, the Squire could bear to look forward to

Dinkel's proximate departure with tolerable equanimity.



Dr. Banks, at the Squire's request, still keep up his visit to the

Hall, but he no long come daily as of yore. at each visit the same

little farce, which each know to be a farce, be enact between he

and his patient. having feel the latter's pulse and look at his

tongue, bank would remark in his inanely amiable way: "we be go

on famously--famously. Strength thoroughly maintain; total absence

of febrile symptom; temperature absolutely normal. I think we could

not do well than keep on with the old medicine."



"of course we couldn't, bank," the Squire would respond with a

chuckle. "it's wonderful stuff that of your. send another pailful

along as soon as you like."



then would bank take his departure, know well that not one

drop of his medicine would be swallow by the master of Stanbrook.

but he have a large family, and could not afford to quarrel with his

bread-and-cheese. he be no bad than the majority of his fellow,

for circumstance make humbug of most of we, if not in one way, then

in another.



he have hear all that common report have to tell he about Dinkel, and

about the magical drug he have bring with he from the East, but he

forebore to make any inquiry of his own into the matter. to he the

whole thing be an insoluble mystery; but, for all that, there be one

consolatory feature connect with it. so long as Mr. Cortelyon could

be keep alive, even be it with the connivance of the Foul Fiend

himself, so long would he, James Banks, continue to draw a certain

number of guineas for visit pay and physic supply, although the

one might be nothing more than a solemn farce, and the other might be

pour down the kitchen sink.



to himself he stigmatize Cornelius Dinkel as a "Son of the Devil."





but what about the Hon. Mrs. Bullivant all this time?



after that last interview with the squire, she have wait with

exemplary patience for the news of his demise. he be a dear old man,

and she have be grieve at find he so near to death's door; but

all these thing be ordain by Providence for the good, and it would

not only be useless but wicked to rebel against they. of course, under

the circumstance, she would have to go into mourning--that be to say,

into a modify kind of mourning--for a short time. Society would

expect it of she when the dead man's munificent bequest to she be

make public. well, she have the consolation of know that she never

look well than she do in mourning. dear, dear Mr. Cortelyon!



still, the expect news--one hardly like to term it the long-for

news--fail to come. it be strange, it be very strange. after

wait a few more day with restrained impatience, she send one of

her servant direct to the Hall with a diplomatically word message

have reference to the state of Mr. Cortelyon's health. the answer he

bring back be both surprising and disconcert. an unexpected

change have manifest itself; the squire be very much well, and the

improvement seem likely to last.



"oh, I be so glad, so very glad!" say Mrs. Bullivant to her messenger

when he have unburden himself of his news. "you have relieve I of a

great anxiety."



"so the improvement seem likely to last, do it?" she say to

herself. but that be sheer nonsense. it have be her lot to see a

good deal of sickness and death, and if she have ever see a man whose

hour be number, that man be Ambrose Cortelyon. the so-call

improvement, as to the nature of which every one about he seem to

be labor under a misapprehension, be but Nature's expire effort.

she have be a witness of such thing before. for a few brief moment

the lamp would flame up as brightly as ever it have do, and then

would come sudden darkness.



it be with an easy mind that she set out next day for London, where

some law business connect with her late father's affair render

her presence imperatively necessary. she be go six week, during

the whole of which time she look, morning by morning, to receive a

letter contain an announcement of the squire's demise. but none

come to hand. it be both unaccountable and disappointing. it would

have be such an advantage to she to be able to buy her mourning in

town! she journey back home in anything but a pleasant frame of

mind. it be no long "dear, noble-hearte Mr. Cortelyon," with she;

he be now a "nasty tiresome old man, who ought to be ashamed of

himself to be so long a-dying."



on this occasion Mrs. Bullivant have a travel companion in the

person of her half-brother, Captain Wilton Ferris, who be a son of

the late Mrs. Flood by her first husband.



Captain Ferris, who have sell out of the army some year before in

consequence of a certain scandal with which his name be prominently

mix up, be a handsome but blasé-look man of forty. he be

well-know in London society as a gambler and a rake who have be

black-ball at more than one club. in his time he have go through

two fortune, his own and his wife's--he be now a widower without

family--and for the last few year have be reduce to live by such

wit as nature have endow he with; but at length he have come to the

end of his tether. he have receive a quiet hint that his presence on

the heath at Newmarket be undesirable; man look shyly on he at the

card-table; his reputation with the dice-box seem to have precede

he wherever he go; pigeon worth the plucking be few and far

between; and, bad than all, a bill for five hundred pound, bear

his signature, would fall due in about ten week' time, his failure to

take up which would involve nothing less than social ruin--such ruin

as be still possible to he--and outlawry.



his strait be a desperate one, and, as a last resource, he have come

to his half-sister, in the hope that once more--neither for the first

nor second time--he might find salvation at her hand.



Mrs. Bullivant be a woman of tepid affection; nature have make she

so, and she could not help herself; but, in her limited and narrow

way, she have always cherish a fondness for her handsome, scampish

half-brother. her own bringing-up have be of the most strait-lace

kind, and maybe for that very reason she like he none the bad on

account of his fault, which--and so far one may give he credit--he

never strive to hide from she; in point of fact, she be the only

person in the world to whom he ever speak frankly. as a consequence,

she cherish no illusion in respect of he; she know that at his

time of life it be useless to look for any radical change or

improvement in he; that which he have be and be now he would remain

till the end.



he have tell she all about the "damnable fix" in which he now find

himself, and if she do not sympathize with he, that be probably

because it be not in her nature to sympathize with any one. on the

other hand, she do not blame he, as so many people in her place

would have do, for the reckless folly which have at length land he

in such an _impasse_.



but if she do not sympathize with he in word, she do something

else which be very much more to the purpose so far as he be

concerned. she say to he, "as soon as ever Mr. Cortelyon's legacy of

three thousand pound come into my hand--and I be expect the news

of his death from hour to hour--I will place five hundred pound of it

at your disposal."



that have be a fortnight ago, but the wish-for news be still

lacking; so now Captain Ferris be journey down to Uplands with his

sister, glad enough to get away from London for awhile, where, so

importunate be his creditor become, it be no long safe for he

to venture out of his lodging by daylight. besides, at Uplands he

would be on the spot when the long-for legacy, in which lie his only

hope of salvation, should drop into his sister's lap.



at this time it so happen that Mrs. Bullivant be not in a position

to supply her brother out of her own resource with anything

approach the sum need to help he out of his difficulty. she have

just complete the purchase of a considerable slice of freehold

property abut on her own estate, and for the present her balance

at her banker's might be say to be down to zero.



although the late Mr. Flood have never like his stepson, and after his

wife's death, which occur within a few year of their marriage, have

keep he at arm's-length as much as possible, he have yet felt

compel, for the sake of appearance, to invite he now and again on

a short visit to Uplands, so that the Captain be no stranger to the

place and its surrounding.



no soon be breakfast over on the morning after the arrival of

himself and his sister than he set out on foot for a long ramble. the

way he took lead he in the direction of Stanbrook, and when he reach

the village of that name, which, as we know, lie within a bowshot of

the Hall, he march into the bar parlor of the White Hart Inn and

call for a bottle of the good sherry the house could furnish.



such an order be attend to by the landlord in person, which be

just what Ferris have count on.



after they have chat together for a few minute about the weather

and the crop, there be nothing out of the common in the Captain

ask the worthy Boniface to join he over a glass of his own wine. a

second glass help to loose the latter's tongue, after which the rest

be easy. they gossip together for upwards of an hour before Ferris

go his way. there be no need for he to seek further information

elsewhere; he have learn all he want to know.



what he have hear impress he greatly; nor be its effect less

mark upon his sister, who be, however, incline to be skeptical

with regard to some of the detail. one thing be evident to both:

Mrs. Bullivant must go to Stanbrook on the morrow and ascertain for

herself how matter be progress.









CHAPTER XV.

"FATE points the WAY."





"well, how do you fare? how much long be the old scoundrel go to

keep Beelzebub out of his own?"



these question be address by Captain Ferris to his sister, who

have just get back from Stanbrook. he have be await her return with

ill-conceal impatience. it seem to he that she have be go an

unconscionable time.



"my dear Wilton, I wish you wouldn't flurry one so. I will tell you

all there be to tell if you will give I time. but first of all, mix

I a little brandy-and-water."



having take off her outdoor thing, induct her foot into a pair of

roomy house-shoe, and plant herself in her favorite easy-chair Mrs.

Bullivant be ready to begin her narrative:



"in the first place, the rumor which have reach we from various

quarter about Mr. Cortelyon's amazing recovery be not a bit

exaggerated. I know for a fact that, at the time I see he last, he

have be give up by both his doctor, and be not expect to last

the week out. if I ever see a man with death in his face, it seem to

I he be that man. when I leave he I bid he (mentally) a final

farewell. so far so good. but what do I find to-day on reach

Stanbrook? the same man, truly, and yet another. not the Ambrose

cortelyon whom I leave at death's door, on whose face I see already the

shadow of the tomb, but Ambrose Cortelyon as I remember he a number

of year ago. for he Time's dial have be put back a decade. can you

wonder if, for a few moment, I be strike dumb with astonishment?



"I find he, not in his bedroom, but in his library, and how do you

think he be engage? why, in draw up, with the help of his

secretary, a catalogue of the coin and medal which he have be

accumulate for the last forty year? when he turn to greet I his

voice be as firm and resonant as I ever remember it to have be.

then his secretary leave the room and we be alone.



"he hold out a lean, withered hand, and his face light up with one

of his peculiar smile. (when Mr. Cortelyon smile you never can be

sure whether he be smile with you, at you, or merely at some hide

thought of his own.) 'welcome, Onoria!' he begin. 'I have be

expect a visit from you for some time past, but well late than

not at all. you be surprised--he!--he! (now don't deny it, I can read

your face like a book) at find I perch here and busy myself

with my favorite triviality, when, if only I have behave as ordinary

mortal be willnot to do, I should have be shoulder to my last abode

week ago, and you would have be a considerably rich woman than

you be to-day. well, well, nobody can be more surprised than I. but

why don't you sit down? I hate to have people stand about and

stare at I.'



"what I say in reply, when he give I a chance of speak, be not

worth repeat. as a matter of course, I explain how I have be

call from home and do not get back till yesterday, but he listen

without seem to hear what I be talk about. evidently he be

busy with his own thought.



"his next word have reference to Gavin. he want to know whether the

boy be quite well. when assure on the point he nod his head and

seem pleased. then he lie back in his chair for a little while

without speak, twiddle between his finger, as if he love it, a

large gold coin which look as if it might have be mint a couple

of thousand year ago.



"at length he speak: 'there be one matter, Onoria, about which I wish

to give you my assurance. it be this: that whether I die to-morrow or

not for five year to come, my will, as it now stand, will remain

unchanged. when once my mind be make up, it be make up for good; I

never go back from my decision. consequently, you may make yourself

easy on that point. you know already that neither yourself nor your

son have be forget in the will; indeed, I will go so far as to

tell you this, that there be perhaps such a surprise in store for you

as you little wot of. and now let we talk of something else. I hear

the Browhead property be likely to come into the market in the course

of a few week. I wish you would drive as far some day soon, look over

it, and let I know what you think of it.'



"nothing more pass that it would interest you to be tell about, and

before long I take my leave, but not till Mr. Cortelyon have request

I to visit he again on this day fortnight and take Gavin with I."



Captain Ferris's face be black as night. "then it's quite evident the

old fox have make up his mind not to die just yet," he say. "and yet

it might be as well that he should not live too long. his promise

about the will may be take for what it's worth. invalid--and I

suppose Mr. Cortelyon may be count one still--be notoriously

changeable, and any day may see your hope dash to the ground."



Mrs. Bullivant look at he, but his eye do not meet her. there

be something behind his word, but she be not quite sure what it

be. "of course I fully admit, between you and I, that it would be a

great relief if the Lord be to see fit to take the poor man to

himself," she say, after a pause. "but what can I do? in a case of

this sort one be absolutely helpless." the Captain be trim his

nail, and do not reply.



after wait a moment or two, his sister say: "by the way, I have

something more to tell you. as I be drive back I overtake Ann

Thorpe, who use to be under-cook at Uplands, but leave my service

three year ago to enter that of the squire. I know she for a

talkative, simple-minded young woman, and the sight of she supply I

with an idea which I at once proceed to put into practice. stop

the carriage, I alight, and bade Trotter drive on slowly and pick I

up at the toll-bar. then I join Ann, and we walk on together. it

be a lonely bit of road, and there be nobody to observe we. I be

desirous of put certain question to she which no one but an

inmate of the Hall could have answer to my satisfaction.



"with the question themselves I need not trouble you. what I want

from Ann be a confirmation or otherwise of the all but incredible

news you pick up yesterday with reference to the man Dinkel and his

doing at the Hall. what you have hear might be merely one of those

idle rumor in which ignorant folk delight, but which they be never

at the trouble to sift; or there might be a substratum of truth in it,

but so overlay with fiction that it would be next to impossible to

separate the two. strange to say, your statement be confirm by Ann

Thorpe in almost every particular.



"Mrs. Dinkel, the mother, have be act as nurse to the Squire ever

since Tatham, his body-servant, have to resign his duty on account of

ill-health, and it be she who introduce her son at the Hall, but not

till her patient have be give up by his doctor and be hardly

expect to live from hour to hour.



"as you be tell yesterday, this young Dinkel be say to have bring

with he a marvellous drug from the Far East, which will almost bring

dead people back to life. in any case, it seem certain that he have

effect several remarkable cure in the village and neighborhood, and

from the date of his first visit to the Hall the Squire begin to mend.

it appear that he go there every evening after dark, take with

he a dose of his wonderful medicine, which he will allow no one to

administer but himself.



"I have tell you already how changed I find the squire from what he

be when I see he last. it be a change which to I seem little less

than miraculous, and yet, so far as can be gather, it be wholly due

to the man Dinkel. Dr. Banks, who have attend the squire for year,

keep on send his physic as usual, but Ann Thorpe assure I that

the bottle be never as much as uncorked. from what I see myself

to-day, and from what I gather from Ann, it seem not unlikely that

the squire may last for a year or two, or even long. but life be

make up of crosse, and, however much one may try to convince oneself

that everything be order for the good, it be sometimes a little

difficult to do so."



Captain Ferris shut his penknife with a click. "and what would be the

consequence, so far as Mr. Cortelyon be concern, in case of anything

happen to this fellow Dinkel?" he ask.



Mrs. Bullivant lift her eyebrow. "really, my dear Wilton, that be a

question which I have no mean of answer."



"for all that, it be one which might be worth consider."



he get up, stretch himself, cross to the window, and stand stare

out, whistle under his breath. his sister follow he with her

eye. she could read between the line of his character far more

clearly than any one else could.



"in such a case as you speak of, I should think it would be a very bad

thing for Mr. Cortelyon," she say after a pause, in a low voice.



"my own opinion exactly," he make answer, without turn round.







the day follow each other till a week have go by, and Captain

Ferris be still at Uplands. indeed, he know of nowhere else to go to.

London be too hot to hold he; the bailiff be look for he high

and low. here at any rate, he could lie by for awhile. but not for

long. hour by hour the day be creep nearer when the fatal bill for

five hundred pound would fall due. after that not even Uplands would

be safe for he. he must put the Channel between himself and the

bloodhound of the law.





[illustration: "the body of the 'man-witch' have be find shoot

through the heart."]





little further allusion be make either by his sister or himself to

the subject which loom so largely in the thought of both. what

more, indeed, be there to be say? talk for talk's sake be what

neither of they be give to indulge in. for they, just then, life

seem to be at a standstill. they be wait breathlessly, so to

speak, for the tiding which still delay their coming. Captain

Ferris be out and about a great deal, put a discreet question

here, and elicit a morsel of information there, but all he hear

point to an unchanged state of affair at the Hall. any fine

afternoon Mr. Cortelyon might be see drive about the country road

in the shabby old chariot which date from his grandfather's era, and

have in those day rank as one of the grand coach in town.



"he'll live to be a hundert, you see if he doan't, sir," say one man

to whom the Captain have put a certain question.



Ferris turn away with a stifled oath.



it be on the afternoon of the tenth day after Mrs. Bullivant's return

from London that some startling news reach Uplands. it be bring

by the Tuxford carrier, who retail it as a _bonne bouche_ to the

maid in the kitchen, whence, before long, it penetrate to the

drawing-room. the body of the "man-witch," Cornelius Dinkel, have be

find early that morning, shoot through the heart, in Threeways Spinny.

so far nobody have be arrest for the crime.



Mrs. Bullivant be alone in the drawing-room when she maid bring she

the news. Gavin have lately have a pony give he, and his uncle have

take he out for a ride on it. a sudden vertigo take the mistress of

Uplands almost before her maid have get halfway through her story. she

motion for her salt, and for a few moment lie back in her chair

with closed eye and white face. then presently, with a faint, "I'm

well; you can go," she dismiss the girl.



it be not the news itself, startle though it be, which have have

such an effect on Mrs. Bullivant. it be a horrible suspicion which,

so to speak, have grip she by the throat and refuse to loosen its

hold of she.



yesterday evening, as daylight be die into dusk, her brother have

leave the house without say either where he be go or when he

might be look for back. but she be use to his queer mood and

apparently purposeless coming and going, and find it well to

question he as little as possible. she have hardly think to see

anything more of he till breakfast time next morning. great,

therefore, be her astonishment when, on cross the hall a little

after eleven o'clock on her way to her bedroom, she suddenly meet he

face to face. he have enter the house by a side door which could be

open from the outside without disturb any of the servant. that

he be both surprised and disconcert by the meeting he show

plainly, his intention having apparently be to reach his room unseen

by any one.



but it be not so much the fact of come unexpectedly on her brother

as the appearance he present that cause Mrs. Bullivant to start

back with a low cry of alarm. for his face be as colorless as that of

a corpse; his feature be draw and haggard; he look at she with

eye which she do not recognize as his, so strangely change be

their expression; he be bareheade, and his black hair, mat with

sweat, be all in disorder; while his chest rise and fall pantingly

like that of one who have outspent himself with run. finally, both

his boot and his clothe be bespatter with mud, for much rain have

fall in the course of the day.



"great heaven! Wilton, what ail you? what have happen to you?"

cry Mrs. Bullivant.



"for God's sake not so loud! such an adventure!" he pant. "set upon

by two ruffian in a lonely part of the road. one of 'em I manage to

knock over with a lefthander--then take to my heel. if I haven't

they'd have bludgeon my brain out. two to one, you know."



"what a narrow escape for you! but what have become of your hat?"



"I've not lose it, have I?" he gasp, while a great terror leap into

his eye. "if so, I'm lose too!" a moment later his expression

change. "what a fool I be!" he exclaim with a ghastly attempt at a

smile. "I've get it all the while. it fall off while I be run and

as the rascal be not far behind I I make a dash at it and cram

it into one of my pocket. it will look a pretty object to-morrow,

_san doute_. but now to bed, for I'm dog-tired."



"shall I send you up some hot water and----"



"curse it all, no! I want no eye but your to see I to-night." he

glare at she for a moment as if he be about to strike she. then with

a shrug and a sudden dropping of his hand, he say. "forgive I,

Onny, I'm not myself to-night." and with that he pass she and go

swiftly upstairs, and presently she hear the key turn in the lock

of his room.



it be the recollection of this scene which shake she with such a

terrible fear this afternoon. what have her brother mean by say

that if his hat be lose he be lose too? supposing he have lose it

and it have afterwards be find, what then? and why have he be so

anxious that no eye save hers should see he on his return? be there

any truth in the story of his encounter with the two man? but, above

all, have he have any hand in last night's tragedy? that he be utterly

unscrupulous she have long know, and she divine, without know,

that in his nature there be dark unsounde depth in which the most

ghastly secret might be hide up forever. she be only too well aware

by what desperate reason her brother be urge to wish Dinkel out of

the way. to he it might, and most likely would, mean all the

difference between salvation and ruin.



she wait his come with a quake heart. she be sit in a mixed

light, that of the die afternoon and that throw out by the glowing

ember on the hearth, when he enter the room. having shut the door,

he stand there with the handle in his hand, without advance. "well,

have you hear the news?" he ask abruptly in a high, harsh voice,

very different from his usual smooth cultivate tone. "Dinkel's

dead--shoot through the heart last night, presumably when on his way

back from Stanbrook. body find early this morning by some hedger on

their way to work. what will happen now, I wonder? there's the rub,

both for you and I."



"I have already hear. the Tuxford carrier bring the news about an

hour ago."



"have I know that I needn't have hurry back, as I do, on purpose to

tell you. but no matter."



"have any trace of the--the perpetrator of the crime be discover,

or have they any idea where to look for he?"



"'pon my soul, I don't know. I never ask. 'twas a point that have no

interest for I. but now I'll go upstairs and make myself presentable,

and join you presently over a cup of tea. we have have a famous

scamper, the boy and I. but he will be with you in a minute or two."



after tea they play ecarté for a couple of hour, and never have Mrs.

Bullivant see her brother more cheerful and at his ease. she go to

bed not know what to think.









CHAPTER XVI.

the shear of ATROPOS.



the news of the tragedy in Threeways Spinny reach Stanbrook about

nine o'clock in the morning. the body of the murder man have already

be take home, and it be Mrs. Dinkel's next-door neighbor who be

depute to convey the sad tiding to she.



she be on the point of take the squire's breakfast upstairs when

the man arrive at the Hall, and ask to see she.



ten minute later Mrs. Dinkel enter her patient's room. like the

thoughtful creature she be, even in the midst of her distress she have

not forget the breakfast tray. having place it on the table by the

bedside, she turn to the squire, and, in a voice which not all her

effort could render firm, say:



"Sir, a great misfortune have befall I--the most terrible that could

have happen. my son have be murder! the tiding have just reach

I. his body be find early this morning in Threeways Spinny. he have

be shoot through the heart--he who have not an enemy in the world!

Sir, I must leave here at once. I be want at home, as you can well

conceive; but if----"



"dead! your son dead!" shriek the squire, almost as shrilly as a

woman might have do. then for a few second he remain speechless.

his heart stop beat, and a black veil drop before his eye.

but the very force of the shock bring its own reaction. he fling up

his arm, and then let they drop helplessly on the bed. "in that case,

what be to become of I?" he moan.



"the Lord in heaven only know, sir, for I'm sure I don't," answer

Mrs. Dinkel. it be all she could do to crush down her emotion.



the Squire sink back on his pillow with a groan. the bereaved mother

stand look at he, anxious to go, and yet, so strong be the

professional instinct in she, not like to leave he.



of a sudden he beckon she to go close to he, and when she have do

so he clutch she by the sleeve of her gown. in three short minute

his face seem to have age a dozen year. his lip have turn of a

grayish purple, and a thin froth have gather at their corner. his

eye be the eye of a terror-hunt soul bring to bay, and yet

ready to turn and curse with its late breath the inexorable fate

which have drive it there.



"don't think I do not pity you, because that would be a mistake on

your part," he say. "I pity you and sympathize with you most

sincerely. but--but your son must have leave a lot of the drug--you

know what I mean--behind he. don't you think so, hey? and--and as

soon as ever you can spare time--in the course of the day, you

know--you will have a thorough search make, and ascertain the

quantity, and let I know at the early possible moment, willn't you?

yes, yes; he must have leave quite a considerable quantity ready

prepared. I feel sure of it; so don't forget to send I word as soon

as you can."



there be a terrible eagerness in the way he speak, and he would not

loose his hold of she till she have promise he, that he should hear

from she in the course of the forenoon.



when she be go her place be take by Miss Baynard.



that morning the Squire's breakfast be send away untasted, and he

make no effort to get up. anxiety hold he as with a vise--an anxiety

shoot through and through with foreboding the most dire. he lie

without speak, watch with feverish eye the slow-move finger

of the clock on the chimney-piece, each of whose solemn tick seem

to he to mark a stitch in the tapestry of Doom. it be a few minute

past two when a servant bring upstairs a small seal packet,

together with a letter, both of they address to "Ambrose Cortelyon,

Esq.," and both of they just bring by a special messenger. the sick

man have no need to ask who be the sender.



"open the letter and read it aloud, Nell," he say, as soon as the

servant have leave the room. it be not merely that he have lose the

control of his finger--he shake from head to foot like one in an ague

fit.



Nell do as she be bid.





"honored Sir" (she read), "in accordance with your wish and my own

promise, I have make diligent and careful search in every corner,

cupboard, and drawer of the room in which my poor son mix his

physics and attend to his doctoring business, with the result (and

it grieve I much to have to tell it you) that I have not succeed

in find more than two phial of the stuff ready mix for taking,

the which, under cover, I herewith send you.



"it would appear to have be my son's custom not to prepare any large

quantity of the drug beforehand, perhaps--but on this point I speak

without certainty--because he find that some portion of its virtue

be lose with keeping.



   "I remain, honor sir,



             "your obedient, humble servant,



                              "Martha Dinkel.



"P.S.--Since write the above I have make another thorough search,

high and low, in every nook and corner of the premise, but it have

prove a sheer waste of time.



"Mr. Cortelyon, sir, in the midst of my own distress, permit I

respectfully to observe that my heart bleed for you."





when Nell have read to the last word, the Squire make no comment aloud,

only to himself he murmur: "_Mors ultima linea rerum est_." he have

not open his Horace for year, but the line come back to he quite

freshly to-day. he know that he be a doomed man, and that no earthly

power could save he. well, accord to all human calculation he

ought to have be dead and bury a number of week ago, but another

brief spell of life have be grant he, and if, through a tragic

misfortune which no one could have foresee, it have come prematurely

to a close, why, there be no help for it. all that be now leave he

to do be to wrap his toga about he and await the end with silent

stoicism.



although he take the two remain dose of the drug in due course, he

make no attempt to rise from his bed after hearing of Dinkel's death.

from that hour life, with its manifold interest, become to he as a

dead letter. he have do with it, and it have do with he. they be

quit.



so, day after day and night after night, he lie in the big four

poster, silent for the most part, and often without open his eye

for hour together; feel his strength ebb imperceptibly away,

and, between his fitful snatch of sleep, thinking, ever think,

for his mind remain as vigorous and lucid as ever it have be. what

strange and awesome thought must oftentime have be his as he lie

there in grim resolute silence, wait for his "order of release"!



his niece and Andry Luce take it in turn to watch by he. it be an

easy task, there be so little that he want or that could be do

for he. Miss Baynard have take it on herself to send for Drs Banks

and Mills, who respond to the summon in all haste.



the Squire open his eye and favor they with one of his sardonic

smile as they enter the room.



"eh-eh! come to see the last of your handiwork?" he say, and already

his voice have sink to a half-whisper. "very kind and attentive of you,

I'm sure. and besides, my case be such an interesting and uncommon

one. it will be something for you to wrangle over as long as you live,

and at the end you will know no more about it than you do now. yes,

yes, very kind and attentive of you; but as for your physic, I'll have

no more on't--that's flat. throw it to the dog, as Shakespeare say.

and now, 'I have an exposition of sleep come upon I.'"



of course they could do nothing, and to Miss Baynard they be candid

enough to admit as much. it be a sad state of thing.



and so the muffle hour steal after each other one by one till a week

have go by, by which time it become evident that the end be not far

off.



no arrest have yet be make in connection with the murder of Cornelius

Dinkel, and it may here be add that none ever be make. the murderer

have leave no trace behind he, and, search as diligently as they

might, not a tittle of evidence be forthcoming to back up any of the

theory propound by the authority in relation to the crime.



on a certain afternoon, somewhat to Miss Baynard's surprise, Mrs.

Bullivant make her appearance at the Hall. it be a step which she have

not take till after mature consideration. the first few day after

Dinkel's death have be pass by she in a fever of apprehension.

precisely what it be that she fear she do not whisper even to

herself, but she could not bear a ring or a knock at the door without

experience a spasm of silent terror. yet all this time her brother

remain as darkly quiet, as listless, and apparently as indifferent

to everything, save his own little comfort, as she ever remember

he to have be. wet or fine, he go out every day for a long walk,

and it be he who bring back the rumor he light on in his ramble

anent the squire of Stanbrook.



one day he bring back something which be more than a rumor. it be

something he have be tell at second-hand as having emanate from no

less an authority than Dr. Banks. Mr. Cortelyon be at death's door,

and this time there be no possible chance of his recovery! then it

be that Mrs. Bullivant debate with her brother whether she ought not

to pay one more visit to Stanbrook while the squire be able to

recognize she. Captain Ferris be strongly of opinion that she ought

on no account to omit do so. there be no know what influence

might be at work. what more easy than to persuade a die man to

execute a codicil to his will, or even to have a fresh will draw up,

cancel wholly or in part the provision of the one already in

existence? Most certainly she ought to see for herself how the land

lay, not merely in her own interest, but in that of her son, and, if

necessary, remain on the spot till all be over.



little persuasion be need to induce Mrs. Bullivant to fall in with

her brother's view. by this time her vague, unspoken apprehension

have in a great measure subside. Dinkel have be dead more than a

week, and nothing have happen. nothing would happen now, she tell

herself. she would go to Stanbrook.



More than once--indeed quite a number of time--when talk over she

last interview with Mr. Cortelyon, her brother have make her repeat one

sentence in particular which the Squire have address to she in

allusion to the content of his will: "there be perhaps such a

surprise in store for you as you little wot of." to both she and the

Captain it be a sentence which seem pregnant with golden

possibility; and it be hardly to be wonder at that, on her way to

Stanbrook, her imagination build up more than one gorgeous aerial

fabric, although, as a rule, she keep that arrant jerry-builder in the

most complete subjection.



on hear that Mrs. Bullivant have arrive, Miss Baynard go

downstairs to receive she. when they meet the former make as if she

would have kiss Nell, but the girl draw back a little haughtily. she

be not in the habit of be kiss, even by those of her own sex,

and in her visitor's case it would have seem to she a veritable

_bais de Judas_. but she could not, with any show of courtesy,

refuse her hand.



"how be he, dear Miss Baynard?" be Mrs. Bullivant's first word. she

speak in hush tone, although as yet she have get no farth than the

entrance-hall.



"he be sink fast, and be almost speechless."



"you shock I more than I can say." and, to do her justice, for the

moment she look shocked. to herself she say, "if he be speechless,

or nearly so, it be too late for he to think of alter his will,

and, if he have do so already, I have come too late to help it."

Aloud she go on: "I have not the faint idea that his illness have

assume the gravity you tell I it have--news percolate to we so

slowly at Uplands--otherwise I should have be here before now. but

now that I be here, dear Miss Baynard, you must let I stay with you

till the end. Mr. Cortelyon, as you be probably aware, regard I

with a very special affection. have circumstance turn out

differently, I should have be his daughter-in-law. but my life have

be one long disappointment."



know what she do of the purport of her uncle's will, Nell feel

that, little as she like the woman, she be not in a position to

object to her presence in the house. in a very little while Mrs.

Bullivant would be mistress of Stanbrook and of everything in it,

while she, Nell, would be little well than an outcast. but however

bitter and humiliating it might be to know this, she have other thing

to think of just now.



when Mrs. Bullivant and Nell enter the sick room together some

minute later, Mrs. Budd, who have be keep watch in the interim,

rise, curtsy to the newcomer, and go.



Mr. Cortelyon lie with closed eye and with both arm extend on the

coverlet; one shut hand hold the coveted stater of Epaticcus, the

other grasp his silver snuff-box. an involuntary exclamation escape

Mrs. Bullivant as her eye fall on his face. once before she have

believe he to be at the point of death, and only by what might

almost be term a miracle have his life be prolong. this time no

miracle would intervene. his hour, nay, his very minute, be

number; Death's awful shadow be already close round he; would he

live through the night?



about half an hour later he open his eye, turn his head slightly

and stare about he. Mrs. Bullivant rise, cross on tiptoe to the

bed and bend over he. "dear Mr. Cortelyon, don't you know I?" she

murmur. "yes, I be sure you do."



for a second or two he peer up into her face with contract lid,

as if not quite sure about her identity. then, with an inarticulate

noise, which seem more indicative of anger and repulsion than of

anything else, he raise both his hand and push she rather roughly

away. Mrs. Bullivant go back to her chair with a somewhat heighten

color in her cheek. "poor dear!" she say in an undertone; "it be

quite evident that he no long know what he be about."



and so daylight slide slowly into dark, and the two woman still keep

watch on either side of the bed. Dr. Banks, with a cheerful fire and a

magnum of port to keep he company, sit below in the library--merely

for form's sake, and because it would be an injustice to his wife, and

family not to make his bill as long a one as possible while the chance

be his of do so.



for some hour the die man's skin have be gradually change color,

till now it have become of one uniform leaden blue tint. Dr. Banks, who

step upstairs for a couple of minute every half-hour or so, say

to himself that it must be one of the effect of "that damned drug."



Midnight be draw on. for upwards of an hour Mr. Cortelyon have be

lie to all appearance in a comatose state, when of a sudden he

open his eye and raise himself in bed without help--a thing he have

not do for day past. "the will! the will!--get it and destroy it

before it's too late!" he cry in harsh, insistent tone, punctuate

by gasp. "I've do wrong--wrong. I know it now--I feel it. to my

grandson all--all! to that woman"--pointing to the shocked Mrs.

Bullivant--"nothing. send at once--not a minute's delay. Piljoy have

it. or else it will be too late--too late!"



Alas! it be already too late. he sink back, gasp for breath, with

eye that be already begin to glaze. five minute later all be

over.



Mrs. Bullivant dab her eye with her handkerchief. "poor dear! I be

so thankful he do not suffer much," she say. "that he should wander

a little in his mind at the last be not to be wonder at. nearly all

aged people do that when they be die."









CHAPTER XVII.

an ASTOUNDING DISCOVERY.





it be five day later.



the funeral be over. everything have be do decently and in order,

and in the great drawing-room at Stanbrook, the shutter of which of

late year have be rarely open, a small company be assemble, by

invitation of Mr. Piljoy, to hear the reading of the dead man's will.



Miss Baynard and Mrs. Budd sit together on one of the couch; a

little way remove, in stately isolation, sit Mrs. Bullivant; while

Mrs. Dace, the housekeeper, remain modestly in the background, with

Andry Luce and two or three other old servant to keep her company.



the gentleman comprise Mr. Herries, the vicar; Mr. Delafosse, Sir

James Dalrymple, of Langrig, and Squire Staniforth, of Claypool; the

two latter of whom, at Mr. Cortelyon's request, have agree to act as

trustee under his will. they be clear-head, thoroughly practical

man, with plenty of leisure on their hand, and, as such, have

recommend themselves to the late squire, who be their senior by

more than a score year, and have know their father before they.



Mr. Piljoy sit by himself at the big oval table in the centre of the

room. the will, as yet unopened, lie there in front of he.



when everybody have settle into their place and the door be finally

shut, Mr. Piljoy clear his voice, and, lean forward a little with

his clasped hand rest on the table, say, address the company

at large: "before break the seal of the document which I be here

for the purpose of read to you, I may just remark for the

information of everybody, and in order to satisfy any curiosity which

might otherwise be feel on the point, that this be not the first

testament draw up by I for the late Mr. Cortelyon. there be a much

early will, the provision of which, I need scarcely tell you, be

of a widely different nature from those of the present one; but that

will be destroy at the time of the unhappy quarrel between father

and son, of which, I daresay, most of those here have some cognizance.

for the next few year no will of any kind be in existence, nor could

Mr. Cortelyon be persuade into make another till he find himself

overtake by illness of a very serious kind. I will now, with your

permission, proceed to open and read the will."



Sir James tap his snuff-box, open it, offer it to his

co-trustee, and then indulge himself with a large pinch. the servant

in the background lay their head together and whisper among

themselves. Mrs. Bullivant try to look as if the reading be a

matter which in no way concern she, and almost succeed. Miss

Baynard and Andry Luce alone know what be come. to the former the

whole proceeding be fraught with heartfelt torture, from which she

would fain have escape have there be any way open for she to do so.



the will itself be enclose in a sheet of parchment secure with two

large black seal. these latter Mr. Piljoy do not break, but cut

round they with his penknife and get at the content that way. push

the envelope aside, he proceed to unfold and straighten out the

will; then, having settle his spectacle more firmly astride his

nose, he give a preliminary cough and turn over the first page.



apparently, however, he have forget to how many page the document

extend, and in order to satisfy himself on the point, before

begin to read he turn the leave over one by one--there be

only five or six in all--till he come to the last one, on reach

which his eye instinctively travel to the foot of it.



next instant he give a start and spring to his foot, his eye still

glue to the bottom of the will. he look daze--thunderstruck--and

well he might.



"what be the meaning of this?" he cry. "what devilry have be at

work? the will be unsigned!"



and so, indeed, it prove to be. there be the space for the three

signature, those of the testator and the two witness, but the

signature themselves be want.



over the scene that ensue we need not linger. the servant be tell

that they be no long want, and go back to their duty

terribly crestfallen. the legacy on which they have so surely count

seem to have dissolve on a sudden into thin air.



for the first few minute after the fatal announcement Mrs. Bullivant

sit like an image of stony despair. so stunned be she that, for the

time be, she seem deprive of the power of coherent thought. she

be rouse, in part at least, by some word address by Sir James

Dalrymple to Mr. Piljoy.



"of course the will as it stand be wholly inoperative, still, Mr.

Staniforth and I be a little curious with regard to its content, so

perhaps you willn't mind devote a minute or two to our enlightenment.

there be no need for you to read out the different clause; all we

want be to be make acquainted with the main feature of the document."



"five minute will suffice for that purpose," reply the lawyer. "to

begin with, there be some half-dozen bequest, vary in amount, to

as many old servant and dependent, with the detail of which I need

not trouble you. to the testator's old friend, Mr. Delafosse"--bowing

to that gentleman--"are bequeath sundry coin, medal, and other

curio, a list of which will be find among the private paper of the

deceased. then I must not omit to mention that to each of you

gentleman, for your trouble in act as trustee, be leave the sum of

one hundred and fifty guineas; and to Mr. Herries a similar sum for

distribution among the deserve poor of the parish. with regard to

his niece, Miss Baynard"--here he favor Nell with a bow--"the

testator's instruction be that a sum of money be invest in her

name in the public fund sufficient to bring she in an annual income

of three hundred pound, the which she shall enjoy for life, the

principal at her demise to be divide among certain specify

charitable institution. to the Hon. Mrs. Bullivant"--a bow for that

lady--"is leave the sum of three thousand pound in hard cash. every

thing else of which the testator may die possess--include the

Stanbrook and Barrowmead property, another large estate on the

border of Yorkshire, and certain other small estate--be willed in

trust to Gavin Bullivant, the son of the Hon. Mrs. Bullivant, on

condition that on come of age he add to his present cognoman that

of 'cortelyon.' finally, I may mention that as regard the Stanbrook

property Mrs. Bullivant be bequeath a life-interest in the same."



he cease, and Sir James and his friend stare at each other in sheer

amazement, but in Mrs. Bullivant's presence they could not well give

expression to what they think. Mr. Staniforth be the first to break

the silence.



"both Sir James and I be under the impression that the late Mr.

Cortelyon have a grandson. his only son die some few year ago, do he

not, leave behind he a widow and one child?"



"he do."



"and yet in your summary of the content of the will you make no

mention of either of their name."



"the widow die some time ago. there be no mention of the boy's name

on my part for the very good reason that it be not include in the

will. Mr. Cortelyon never forgave his son's marriage, and refuse in

any way to acknowledge his grandchild."



again the two man look at each other, and again they refrain from

give expression to the thought at work within they.



then say Sir James: "an unsigned will be so much waste paper. in case

no other will, duly execute, should turn up, what will happen?"



"only one thing can happen. the case will resolve itself into one of

intestacy, and everything--lock, stock, and barrel--will go to the

heir-at-law, that be to say, to the grandson of whom mention have just

be make."



the two gentleman nod. that be their own view exactly.



Miss Baynard have sit all this time without speak or stirring. when

Mr. Piljoy make the startling announcement that the will be without

signature, she flash a look at Andry Luce which seem to ask in

bewilderment, "what be the meaning of this?" but Andry, nurse his

chin in the palm of one hand, be apparently stare straight before

he, and do not, or would not, meet her eye. when, however, Mrs.

Dace and the other proceed to leave the room, Andry, who be about

to follow they, glance at Nell, and, in obedience to a signal from

she, resume his seat.



Nell as be dumfounde as Mrs. Bullivant by the turn event have take.

she have not clearly comprehend what the result would be of the will

be unsigned till she hear Mr. Piljoy's declaration that, in the

event of no other will be find, everything would go to Evan as his

grandfather's heir-at-law. then a great gladness take possession of

she, and her heart swell with thankfulness.



but of a sudden, a shiver of apprehension run through she. Mr.

Staniforth be speak:



"have you any reason whatever, Mr. Piljoy, for suppose that any

other will than this unsigned one be in existence?"



not miss baynard only, but Mrs. Bullivant as well, await the

lawyer's answer with strained breathlessness.



Mr. Piljoy shrug his shoulder. "that, sir, be a question which

just now I be hardly prepared to answer, and for this reason, that no

one can be more mystified and puzzle by the turn affair have take

this afternoon than I be. one supposition, and one only, suggest

itself to I as tend in the slight degree to elucidate the

mystery. what that supposition be I will, with your permission, now

proceed to explain."



he lie back in the big library chair, clear his voice, and toy

with his spectacle for a few second before proceed.



"in accordance with Mr. Cortelyon's instruction, his will be draw

up by I in duplicate. this be do as a provision of safety; in the

event of any hitch or blunder occur in the signing or witnessing

of one document, the other would be available. Gout having lay I by

the heel, I give the duplicate will into the charge of Mr. Tew, my

manage clerk, who be just as competent to see to the signing and

witness as I be. here before I be the will which he next day

bring back and hand to I for safe custody in the belief that it

have be duly sign and witness; and here be the envelope that hold

it, seal in two place with Mr. Cortelyon's own seal, and with the

word, 'Ambrose Cortelyon--his will' write across the face of it

with his own pen. now, on consideration, it seem to I just possible

that, through some mischance, the unsigned will got substitute for

the sign one in the envelope. if my supposition have any basis of

fact, the question that naturally follow be, what become of the

duplicate will? be there any one present, who be in a position to

throw any light on the point involve?"



whether consciously or unconsciously, as he ask the question his

eye fix themselves on Miss Baynard. the eye of every one there

follow those of Mr. Piljoy.



Nell stand up, her cheek warm with the fine glow of color. "my

uncle's secretary, Andry Luce, who be now present, be, I believe, in

the room when the will be sign."



"then he will doubtless be willing to answer to the good of his

ability any question we may think well to put to he?"



turn to Andry, Nell say, "you be quite willing to answer any

question Mr. Piljoy or these other gentleman may ask you, be you

not?"



the reply be two vigorous nod in the affirmative.



turn to Sir James and his friend, Nell say, "unfortunately, Andry

be dumb, and have be so from his youth, so that I shall have to

translate his answer for you."



"come a bit more to the front, Andry, there's a good fellow," say Mr.

Piljoy, who know he of old. then he seem to consider for a few

second while Andry change his seat.



"you be in the room when the will be sign?" be the lawyer's

first question.



with a look at Nell, his quick-move finger spell out the answer,

"I be," which be repeat aloud by she; and the same process have to

be go through in the case of all his answer.



"what person be in the room at the time besides yourself and the

testator?"



"Mr. Tew, and the two witness--Peter Grice, the groom, and Mike

Denny, the under-gardener."



"be you aware that Mr. Tew have bring two will with he?"



"I be, I see both of they."



"on enter the room what do he do with they?"



"he give they both to the squire."



"and what happen next?"



"the squire thrust one of they under his pillow, and give the other

back to Mr. Tew for he to read it aloud."



"and what happen when the reading have come to an end?"



"the bell ring for I--I have be order out of the room while the

reading take place--and, on enter, Mr. Tew tell I that the squire

be ready for the witness, whom I have be careful to have close at

hand, so that there should be no delay."



"proceed."



"the witness be bring into the room and place where they could

see all that go forward. Pen and ink be in readiness. I raise the

Squire in bed--he be too weak to sit up without help--and support

he with an arm round his waist. Mr. Tew place the will in front of

he, give he the pen, point out the place for he, and with that

Mr. Cortelyon slowly and carefully sign his name. then Mr. Tew take

the will to the table and cause Grice and Denny to sign it one after

the other. when that be do the two man be dismiss."



"yes, and after that?"



"follow the man into the corridor, by the Squire's order I make

each of they a present of a crown piece. that do, I at once go

back to the room. Mr. Tew be stand by the table with the fold

will in his hand. 'seal it up,' say my master to I. Mr. Tew having

hand to it to I, I at once proceed to enclose it in the sheet of

parchment, out of which it be take by Mr. Piljoy a little while

since, seal the packet in two place with my master's own seal.

then I hold he up again, and with a trembling hand he write on the

envelope, 'Ambrose Cortelyon--his will.' that do, the packet be

give into the custody of Mr. Tew, and the business be at an end."



"not quite, Andry, not quite--at least as far as we be concern. you

be forget the duplicate will. what become of that?"



"Mr. Tew have not be five minute go before my master draw the

other will from under his pillow, and, give it to I, say, 'burn it

now--at once.' there be a fire in the room, and, take the will, I

thrust it between the bar. Mr. Cortelyon never take his eye off the

grate till it be burn to ashe."



"you have no reason whatever for suppose that the unsigned will be

substitute for the sign one during the time you be out of the

room?"



"no, sir--how should I? Mr. Tew never leave the room, and when I go

back it be from his hand I receive the will in order to seal it

up."



apparently Mr. Piljoy have no more question to put. after a

glance round at the perplexed face of his audience, he say:

"notwithstanding the very clear and straightforward statement with

which Andry Luce have just favor we, the mystery of the unsigned will

remain exactly where it be before. we seem no near a solution of

it than we be at first, and I confess myself wholly at a loss to

advise as to what step, if any, it behove we to take next. never in

the whole of my experience have I be confront with a state of

affair so puzzling and inexplicable."



"never hear tell of owt like it, dang I if I have!" exclaim Sir

James, who have a habit of lapsing into the vernacular now and again.



"lick cock-fighting all to bit, that it do," mutter Mr.

Staniforth.



the Vicar and Mr. Delafosse speak together in low tone.



so far Mrs. Bullivant have maintain an unbroken silence. though more

than once greatly tempt to do so, she have put a strong restraint

upon herself, and have sit there with compress lip listen to all

that be say, pass through the whole gamut of feeling from hope to

despair, and finally strike to the earth, almost, as it seem, beyond

recovery, by Mr. Piljoy's last word. there have be reveal to she a

golden vision far exceed her utmost dream, but between she and it

some malignant fiend have dig a shadowy gulf which he defy she to

overpass. she have be vouchsafe a glimpse of Paradise, only to have

the gate of pearl slam in her face. it be madden. her very

soul be aflame with impotent rage. she be torture almost beyond

endurance by the knowledge of all she have lose; of all that have

slip through her finger, as at the bidding of a necromancer,

before she have a chance of grasp it; of all that ought to have be

her, but be not!



she could no long keep silent. "it be very evident to I," she

begin, address herself directly to the lawyer, "that my helpless

boy and I have be make the victim of a vile conspiracy. whether

you, sir, be in the secret of it or no I cannot say, but I give you

warn that I shall lose no time in place the affair in the hand

of my solicitor, and that even if it cost I every shilling I have in

the world, this foul attempt to defraud I and mine shall be unmasked,

and the concocter of it bring to the bar of justice."



she speak with studied quietude and without any trace of passion, but

her hearer feel that in those smooth accent there be a hide venom

far more dangerous than any mere outburst of feminine anger would have

be.



"a vile conspiracy!" burst forth the irate lawyer. "I would have you

know, madame, that----"



she stop he with an imperious gesture. "I have say all I wish to

say, and no empty protestation on your part will avail anything.

roguery have be at work and must be unmasked. it be enough that you

know my intention."



she have rise while speak, and now, after the slight possible

bow to Sir James and the other, she move with her proud and most

dignified air towards the door, which Andry hasten to open for she,

and so go her way, to the great relief of everybody there.



"well, that cap everything!" ejaculate Mr. Staniforth. "a sweet

temper to live with, eh, Jimmy?"



"ay, but think of all the woman have lose, and by a turn of fortune's

wheel the like of which I never hear tell of. no wonder she's put

about; in her place who wouldn't be? not but what, mind you, I

consider the will a most unjust one, and I cann't say I'm anything but

glad that thing have turn out as they have."



Mr. Delafosse have sit through the proceeding as mum as a mouse. he

have all a collector's selfishness, and although he tell himself how

glad he be that, despite his late friend's unjust will, the rightful

heir would succeed to the property, he could not help be very

sorrowful on his own account. under the change circumstance of the

case not a coin, not a medal, not a curio of any kind would come to

he; and there be so many thing in his friend's collection which

his soul covet! it be very, very sad, but there be no help for it.



when the other be go Mr. Piljoy and Nell have a little

confidential talk together.



"never in the whole of my professional experience have I be so

perplexed and mystify as by the event of this afternoon," say the

lawyer. "I cann't make head or tail of 'em, and that's a fact. of

course, when I get back I shall question Tew very closely about all

that take place at the signing of the will, but I must say that I have

very little hope of his be able to throw any fresh light on the

affair. it's just as if we have all be make the victim of a

conjurer's trick. not but what, Miss Nell, I'm more than pleased at

the way thing have turn out, and I don't mind confess to you

that I be strongly oppose to the will as it stand, and go as far

as I dare in the endeavor to persuade your uncle not to disinherit

his grandson _in toto_. but you know the kind of man he be, how

obstinate, and how utterly oppose to any suggestion from other

which run counter to his own view; indeed, he would hardly listen to

I, and end by tell I with an oath to mind my own business. on

one point only do I feel sorry. if no other will turn up, of which I

fail to see any likelihood, you, my dear Miss Nell, will be leave out

in the cold, for in that case, as I have remark already, the son of

Richard Cortelyon become the sole heir and legatee."



"and do you think for one moment, Mr. Piljoy, that I be anything but

rejoice that such should be the case?" demand Nell, with sparkle

eye. "if you do, you misjudge I strangely. oh! it be a most unjust

and unnatural will, and my uncle himself acknowledge it to be so,

but not till too late. with his last breath he implore I to send for

the will and destroy it. his last conscious word be, 'to my

grandson--all; to that woman'--meaning Mrs. Bullivant, who be there

by the bedside--'nothing.' have he but live a few hour long, the

will would have be destroy in accordance with his wish."



"I be very glad you have tell I this, Miss Nell, very glad indeed. if

one be superstitiously inclined, one would not find it hard to

believe that it be the Squire's own hand which, by some mean unknown

to we, erase his signature from a document the existence of which, in

the clear light which sometimes come to people at the point of death,

he see reason to regret."



"should I live to be a hundred, I shall look back to this day as one

of the red-letter day of my existence," say Nell with fervor. "no

word could express to you how glad I be. but tell I, Mr. Piljoy,

what be the next thing to be do?"



"my advice be that just at present we do nothing. should it really

prove to be Mrs. Bullivant's intention to contest the heir's

claim--for one never can foretell what a desperate woman may or may

not choose to do--I shall doubtless hear from her solicitor before

long. meanwhile, our good plan will be to rest quietly on our oar."









CHAPTER XVIII.

the missing HEIR.





not till a fortnight have go by do Nell hear from Mr. Piljoy. then

he write as follows:--



"Dear Miss Baynard,--Before part from you last I tell you that on

get back home I would lose no time in minutely question my

clerk Tew with regard to all that pass between Mr. Cortelyon and

himself at the signing of the will. as you may remember, the chief

point that want clearing up be whether there be any possibility of

the unsigned will having be substitute for the sign one during

the two or three minute Andry Luce be absent from the room. Tew be

positive no such substitution take place. his word be: 'the sign

will be never out of my keeping from the moment the witness leave

the room till Andry Luce's return, when, by Mr. Cortelyon's direction,

I give the will to he to be enclose and seal up.' so we remain

just as wise as we be before.



"I believe I tell you that, for a little while to come, I think it

would be advisable to remain quiescent in the affair while await

the first move on the part of Mrs. Bullivant's solicitor, provide

they think it advisable to move at all. well, a couple of day ago I

be wait upon by Mr. Cotwell, the junior partner in a firm of

Lanchester lawyer. he meet I in a by no means hostile spirit, the

main object of his visit be to obtain my permission to put to Tew

the very question I have put to he already. of course Tew could only

give Mr. Cotwell the same answer that he have give I, and, so far as

Mrs. Bullivant be concern, there be no satisfaction to be get out

of that.



"Cotwell and I have a long confabulation before he leave. from certain

hint he let fall, I judge that Mrs. B. have not scruple to give

expression to her belief that she be designedly trick by Mr.

C.--that of set purpose he cause the sign will to be burn and leave

the unsigned one in existence; all which be an absolute contradiction

of what Tew be prepared to swear to. but what strange belief will not

a disappointed woman cherish, more especially when she see cause for

imagining that she have be hoodwink into the bargain!



"after all, it seem to be very doubtful whether Mrs. B. will go to

law. in my opinion it would be sheer madness on her part to do so, and

I have very little doubt that, privately, Cotwell think the same,

only, of course, he be bind to bark at the bidding of his client; but

when it come to bite--we shall see.



"at any rate, I shall wait no long, but at once proceed to take the

necessary step for legalize the right of the youthful heir, as if

no such person as Mrs. B. be in existence.



"will you be good enough to inform I at your convenience under whose

care the child be now live, and where he may be find, provide, of

course, that his present address be know to you?"





Nell's reply be send by the next post. it be on a Friday morning

that Mr. Piljoy's letter come to hand, and have she not be suffer

from a cold which have reduce her voice to a mere whisper, she would

have set out for London within a few hour of her receipt of it. but,

although she be hunger to see the child, a delay of a few day

would not matter greatly, and doubtless she would be well enough to

travel (it be a matter of between two hundred and fifty and three

hundred mile, and all by coach) by the follow Tuesday or Wednesday

at the late.



Tuesday morning come, and find Nell's few preparation make. her

impatience would brook no further delay. place for herself and she

maid have be secure in the London coach, which pass through

Tuxford shortly after midday. but a surprise be in store for she.





[illustration: "Evan have be miss since yesterday."]





the postman's time for arrive at Stanbrook be ten o'clock or

thereabout. this morning he bring a letter for Miss Baynard, which

she know by the address, before open it, to be from Mrs. Mardin.

one of those intuition which come to we we know not how or whence

whisper to she that it be a bringer of ill tiding. her finger

tremble as she open it. all it have to tell be tell in little more

than a dozen words:--





"Evan have be miss since yesterday, and cannot be find anywhere.

come at once.



"Harriet Mardin."





never have the journey to London seem so long and tedious to Nell as

it do on this occasion. from the coach office she drive to Lady

Carradine's, where, although she have not advise her ladyship of she

come, she know that she be sure of a welcome. half an hour later

she be on her way to Chelsea.



Mrs. Mardin receive she with a burst of tear; indeed, the good soul

have do little else than cry since the child have be miss. her

story do not take long in the telling.



it be a fine afternoon, and Evan have be play, as he be often

allow to do, with some neighbor' child in a field not more than

a couple of hundred yard from the house. Mrs. Mardin have be on the

point of go to call he in to tea, when one of his playmate come

to tell she that Evan have go off with a tall, dark gentleman, who

go up to he in the field, and, tell he that "a pretty lady" have

send for he, lead he away to a carriage which be wait in the lane

close by, into which they both get and be at once drive away. from

the first Mrs. Mardin have feel convinced in her own mind that the boy

have be abduct by mean of a ruse, and that there be no intention

of bring he back.



then she go on to inform Nell that she have not only write to she,

but to Mr. Dare as well, who fortunately happen to be in town, and

have lose no time in make his appearance at Lawn Cottage. far,

when tell that Miss Baynard have be communicate with, and in all

likelihood would come as fast as the coach could bring she after her

receipt of the news, he have at once hire a room at an inn in the

neighborhood, think that she might perhaps like to see he and

consult with he in the matter as soon as possible after her arrival.



at the mention of Dare's name the wild-rose tint in Nell's cheek

deepen till they glow like those of a damask rise, and the thought

of so soon see he again send a rush of happiness to her heart, and

cause she to tingle from head to foot with a flush of gladness which

yet have in it a touch of apprehension. it might be a fact that her

strength have fail she in her struggle against fate, and that her

heart have secretly capitulate, but the secret be her own and should

never pass her lip. her conqueror should never know that he have

conquer; on that point she be resolve. and yet in the midst of her

happiness she tremble at the thought of meeting dare again. be it

because she have a fear of betray herself in her own despite, or be

it because she be conscious that she have to guard against a traitor

who have betray she once already?



a question which Mrs. Mardin put to she do not tend to reassure she:



"shall I send word to Mr. Dare that you be here, Miss, and that you

would like to see he?"



she be still hesitate over her reply when there come a ring at the

bell. "why, that must be he!" exclaim the widow; and so it prove

to be. he have be watch for Nell's arrival, have see she come,

and, after wait half-an-hour, have follow she to the cottage. but

of all this he say nothing.



Nell string herself up, and meet he without any show of embarrassment,

but not without a touch of heighten color. Dare be as easy, cool,

and as much master of himself as he always be. the only difference

that any one who know he well might have mark in he be that his

eye to-day be more than ordinarily brilliant. when he have shake

hand with Nell he sit down in the chair just vacate by Mrs. Mardin.



Nell have not forget the return of the mask and all that be imply

thereby, and as her eye meet Dare's she could not help say to

herself, "do he still know I simply as Miss Baynard of Stanbrook,

or have he discover in I the amateur highwayman to whom on a certain

occasion he behave with such signal kindness?" but it be a question

she be no nearer be able to answer to-day than she have be the

first time she ask it.



dare plunge at once _in media re_, like a man who have a matter in

hand in deal with which there must be neither delay nor hesitancy.

before his come Nell have feel utterly helpless in the affair; she

have neither know what to do, nor what even to suggest; but she have

not be long in his company before she feel, figuratively speak,

as if a strong arm have be put round she from which she draw both

comfort and support. his mere presence brace and strengthen she

like a tonic.



"this be a very strange piece of business, Miss Baynard, which have

bring you and I together again," he begin. "I presume that Mrs.

Mardin have make you acquaint with such scanty particular as be

know to she. that the case be one of abduction there can, I think, be

very little doubt, if any at all. I see the notice of Mr. Cortelyon's

death in the _Times_. presumably the steal boy be his grandfather's

heir. but doubtless you be in a position to inform I whether such be

or be not the case."



"that Evan be his grandfather's heir be due to a singular and wholly

inexplicable circumstance, the nature of which it may be as well that

I should explain to you."



with that Nell go on to relate to he the story of the will as

already know to the reader. he be intensely interested in the

recital. when she have come to an end he remain for some moment lose

in thought.



then he say: "so far as I can see at present, there be only one

person who would have any motive for spirit away the boy. that

person be Mrs. Bullivant, and the motive--revenge. but to revenge

oneself on an innocent child! it seem too mean and cowardly, for

belief. happily, Miss Baynard, you have see but little of the darker

side of human nature. mean and cowardly action be far more common

than such as you have any notion of; but, if my supposition have any

truth in it, the case we be now consider will go far to widen your

knowledge of such thing. with your permission, I will go at once to

Bow Street and report the circumstance of the abduction, so far as

they be know to we, to the authority there, but without any

mention of Mrs. Bullivant's name, leave they to take whatever step

may seem advisable. as regard Mrs. Bullivant, I purpose make

certain private inquiry on my own account, the result of which I

will communicate to you as early as possible. meanwhile, I would

suggest that it would be as well for you to write to Mr. Piljoy

inform he of the disappearance of the child, as also that the case

have be report to the proper authority. finally, it may be

advisable that for the present my name should be keep in the

background."



and so, after a little further talk they part, with an agreement to

meet again at Lawn Cottage next day. a hackney coach be fetched, and

dare see Miss Baynard into it. she have be startle by his

announcement that he be about to go personally to Bow Street. such a

proceeding on his part seem to she the very acme of recklessness.

one would have think it be the last place in the world at which

"Captain Nightshade" would have care to show his face. she could not

help admire he for his daring, but, all the same, she feel that she

should breathe more freely when she know that he have go and come in

safety.









CHAPTER XIX.

MUTUAL confidences.





one may be sure there be no failure of appointment next day on the

part of either of our young people.



after Nell have inform Dare that the letter to Mr. Piljoy have be

duly write and dispatch, and he have give she a brief account of

his visit to Bow Street--where he have leave a full description of

the miss child, compile with information furnish by Mrs.

Mardin--there seem little more to say or do. of a certain task he

have set before himself, and of a certain journey he mean to

undertake, Dare deem it well not to enter into any detail. all he

give Miss Baynard to understand be, that nothing should be leave

undo on his part in his endeavor to trace the abducted heir.



but Nell feel strongly that the time have come for a clear

understanding on both side. their mask have be see through, their

disguise penetrate. each of they have play a double part within the

other's knowledge, and yet each have pretend to ignore the fact. the

day of make-believe be at an end.



she see clearly that if any reference be to be make to their first

meeting, it must come from herself. Dare, she feel sure, would never

as much as hint at a circumstance, her silence about which could only

lead he to conclude that she be determined to ignore it. far

than that, she want to set herself straight with he--to explain the

motive which lead to her assumption for one night only of the _rôle_

of a "gentleman of the road." she could no long rest satisfied with

the consciousness that any action of hers should remain in his eye

under the shadow of ambiguity or suspicion.



that she have manage so far not to betray her other and far sweet

secret she feel pretty well assure, and the knowledge comfort she

exceedingly; for, while determined to brush aside all the cobwebs that

have hitherto exist between they, she be equally as determined that

of that hide flower which perfume and make beautiful the garden of

her heart he should know nothing whatever.



"you and I, Mr. Dare, have meet on one occasion before our first meeting

under this roof," begin Nell, turn her large hazel eye, with a

sort of grave question in they, full upon he.



it be not often that Dare be take by surprise, but he certainly be

just now. his swarthy cheek flush with a color that be rare to

they; but it do not take he long than half a dozen second to

recover himself. with a low bow, he say, "it be not for I to dispute

any statement Miss Baynard may choose to make."



"my reason for refer to the occasion in question be because I be

desirous of explain under what circumstance I be lead to embark on

that hare-brain adventure."



"pardon I, but be any such explanation need? certainly it be not by

I. such an impertinence be what I never dream of. why go into a

matter which now belong wholly to the past?"



"for my own satisfaction, if for nothing else."



again dare gravely incline his head. it be evident Miss Baynard be

determined to have her own way, although probably she have nothing more

to tell he than he either know or guess already.



"on the occasion of our first meeting of all," resume Nell, "I

believe I remark to you that the object of my escapade be, not to

despoil some innocent traveller of his purse, but to obtain possession

of a will which I know to be in the keeping of a certain person who,

on his way home, travel by post-chaise, be bind to pass the

place where I be lie in wait for he."



"so much I gather from what you tell I."



"the will in question be the one I speak to you about yesterday, by

the provision of which my uncle disinherit his grandson in favor of

the son of the woman between whom and himself there be no

relationship whatever. I think then, as I think still, that the will

be a most unjust and iniquitous one and I determine, if it be

anyhow possible to do so, to get possession of it and destroy it. how

ignominiously I fail in the attempt you know already."



"all this I understand from what you be good enough to tell I

yesterday. that serve to throw a clear light on whatever have seem

dark before."



"when I venture on my rash attempt, which, so fortunately for all

concern, prove unsuccessful, my uncle have be give up by his

doctor, and I have every reason for believe that he could not

possibly live to make another will. as for the moral aspect of the

affair, I think perhaps that the less I say on that score the well.

I be carry away by a flame of indignation, which, so to speak,

sweep I off my foot, thrust all consideration of prudence, as

well as of right or wrong, into the background, blind my moral

sense for the time being, and leave room in my mind for nothing save

a burn desire, at whatever cost, to get the will into my hand. but

Fate defeat my purpose, and the end I aim at be bring about by

far different mean."



Miss Baynard have relieve her mind, and one usually derive a sense of

comfort from be able to do that. she have put herself straight with

Dare; there be no long any question between they of a dual

personality. he know that in he she have recognize the Captain

Nightshade of her adventure, and he have hear from her own lip, if

there be any satisfaction in that, what he most likely know or

guess before, that she be the masquerader in male attire who have

play such an unheroic part on that occasion.



but one confidence often tend to beget another, and now, strange to

say. Geoffrey Dare felt strongly impel to crave Miss Baynard's

patience for a little while in order that he might make clear to she

under what stress of circumstance he have be drive to take to the

King's highway.



Miss Baynard raise no objection to listen to anything he might

have to tell she. do not Desdemona "seriously incline" to the Moor of

Venice, the while he tell the tale of his adventure by sea and land,

and why should not she do the same?



"what I have to tell you be in the main a record of fault and

folly," begin Dare when leave have be give he, "but I will make

my narrative as brief as possible. let I start by remark that I

have good blood in my vein, and can trace back my ancestry in a

direct line for upwards of two hundred year. it be my misfortune to

lose both my parent long before I be out of my teen. on come of

age I succeed to a fortune of forty thousand pound, the accumulate

income of my minority. thereupon I at once plunge into all the

gayetie and temptation of town life, shower my guineas right and

leave with lavish hand, as if they could never come to an end. card,

dice, and the turf help I in turn on the downward road. I have no

one to counsel or warn I. the person who have fill the post of

guardian to I from the date of my father's death be himself a break

man of pleasure, who encourage rather than restrain I in the road

I be treading, and have no scruple about dip his hand into my

purse whenever he have be more than usually unlucky at the table.



"then by and by I fall in love, or what at that time I believe to be

love. but I know now, and have long know, that I be draw to Miss

Tighe as in the fable we read how hapless mariner be draw to the

siren of the deep--because they have not enough will-power to resist

their wile. however, I be infatuate, and--which be all she care

about, for she be a compound of greed and selfishness--I lavish

jewelry and present upon she as if I could not do enough to make

patent my folly. thus it come to pass that my twenty-fourth birthday

find my fortune reduce to a very few thousand. the end come shortly

after with the elopement of Miss Tighe with the man whom (next to Dick

Cortelyon) I have account my dear friend.



"I be still staggering from this blow when another of my 'dear

friend,' by mean of a forge cheque, contrive to defraud I of the

poor wreck of my fortune, save a few paltry hundred, before put

the Atlantic between himself and I.



"it be not till ruin stare I in the face, and I know not which way

to turn, that I take to the 'road'--as many a break-down spendthrift

of as good birth as I have do before I. but it be some slight salve

to my conscience to know that I have never ease any man of his purse

who be not well able to bear the loss, that I have never despoil

one of the opposite sex, and that I have never fail to distribute

among the poor more than half of all I have take from the rich."



he cease, and for some moment neither of they break the silence. his

eye have be fix on the window as he tell his tale, and he still

keep they turn away from his companion. he be now softly tap

his tooth with the nail of one hand.



it be wrong, it be very wrong, and Nell admit it to be such, but,

do what she would, she could not blame he. the man, by his own

admission, be a highwayman, a "minion of the moon"; of course the

fact have long be know to she, but it have never be so clearly

bring home to she before to-day, and yet all she could do be to

pity he! oh, it be shameful! and besides, we all know how close pity

be akin to something else. she try to despise herself, and to feel

enraged with herself, but could not.



but they could not sit mum forever. it be her turn to speak.

something she must say--but what?



"the danger and peril of the kind of life you have be speak of

be many and great." her word falter a little in her own despite.

"why not give it up, Mr. Dare? why not try to find some other and more

reputable way of make a living? how I wish you would! how

I wish----"



"Pardon I, Miss Baynard, but I _have_ give it up." he speak with a

certain abruptness, and as he do so he turn his black eye full

upon she. "Captain Nightshade's last adventure on the road be the one

in which you yourself be so singularly mix up. from that night he

resolve to turn over a fresh leaf. for one short hour he have come

under an influence powerful enough and sweet enough to make a new man

of he. the resolve then make have never be break."



he speak with an emphasis which leave no room for mistake as to his

meaning. Nell's eye sink before the half-veil passion which have

suddenly leapt to life in his. face and throat flush a lovely color.

it be all she could do not to betray that she be a-tremble in every

limb.



"I be very, very glad, Mr. Dare, to hear that you have see your way

to a change mode of life." be it Miss Baynard who speak or some one

else? what be this strange new feeling of timidity, almost of

shrinking, which have seize upon she? she might have be the veri

bread-and-butter miss fresh from school. never have she despise

herself more heartily than at that moment.



"I have tell you, Miss Baynard, that I leave London a broken man,"

resume Dare after a pause. "I have, however, my mother's jewelry still

untouched, but, no other resource be now leave I, I be compel

to let it go. a little later the sum of four hundred pound reach I

anonymously, with a letter state that it be 'conscience money'

return by a die man, it having be win from my father twenty

year before by cheat at card. that it come as a veritable godsend

I need hardly tell you."



"and yet, if I would have let you, you would still have go on pay

for Evan's maintenance."



"I have promise my dead friend that I would care for the boy as if he

be my own, and, have you not come between I and he, it be a

promise I be resolve to keep at every cost. I have already decide on

my plan for the future, and when I leave England I should have take

the boy with I."



"when you leave England, Mr. Dare?"



"I have some relation settle in Virginia who have more than once

press I to go out to they. it be, and remain, my intention to

settle there, and there to lay the foundation of a new life, very

different from the old one. now I shall have to go alone. but first I

shall see this business through of my miss godson."



why do Nell's heart sink so unaccountably at this statement of Dare's

intention? what do it matter where he might choose to make his

future home? whatever he might secretly be to she, she be nothing to

he, and it be out of the question that she ever could be. she know,

and she make no attempt to disguise the fact from herself, that when

he sail away from England he would take her heart with he. but what

then? of how many woman be it not the lot to give away their heart

in secret, and to go through life hopeless of a return? nay, in many

case without the man to whom it be give know that he have such a

thing in his keeping? her case would be merely one more add to the

number.



Nell be to return to Stanbrook on the morrow, and before she and dare

part it be arrange that he should communicate with she there as

soon as he have any tiding of the miss child, and that the Bow

Street authority on their part should do the same.



there be one point with regard to which Nell wish that Dare have

see fit to enlighten she, and that be as to the nature of the

relationship between himself and the mysterious Mr. Ellerslie of

Rockmount, for that a relationship of some sort exist between they

she now feel more convinced than ever. she have see Mr. Ellerslie but

once, and that merely for an hour by candlelight, and, while conscious

of a strange illusive likeness on his part to some one, more

especially about the eye, she have be unable to recall to mind who

that some one be. she know now, and have know for some time, that the

original of the shadowy likeness be none other than Geoffrey Dare.

but no mention of Mr. Ellerslie's name have escape the latter's lip,

and it be certainly not her place to question he.



there be one more point as to which her curiosity seem doomed to

remain equally unsatisfied. she be still ignorant whether she be

indebted for the return of her mask to Mr. Ellerslie or to Geoffrey

Dare.









CHAPTER XX.

the adventures of a SNUFF-BOX.





it may or may not be remember by the reader that in an early chapter

of this veracious history mention be make of a certain Sir Peter

Warrendale, and of his unavaile pursuit of his runaway niece and her

lover when on their way to Gretna Green. it be also tell how, on his

return journey, he be stop by a highwayman, whom, under the title

of "Colonel Delnay," he have meet before under rather peculiar

circumstance, and be politely relieved of his purse, snuff-box, and

other trifle.



no one need have wish for a bad character than that bear by Sir

Peter Warrendale for a score mile round Whatton Ferris. his private

life would not bear examination; as a landlord he be mean and

close-fisted to a degree, and in his magisterial capacity he be never

know to temper mercy with justice, but always to make a point of

inflict the maximum penalty allow by law on any poor wretch who

might have the misfortune to be hale before he.



notwithstanding his irascibility of temper and the bluster in which he

indulge when in pursuit of his runaway niece, Sir Peter be an arrant

poltroon at heart, and into such a fright do he fall when his chaise

be stop by the sham Colonel Delnay that, happen to have his

snuff-box in his hand, he proffer it on the impulse of the moment,

together with his purse, if only his life might be spare.



the box be stud with brilliant, and Dare--for he be the

"gentleman of the road"--being well aware of the mean and avaricious

nature of the man, and how the loss of it would grieve he to the

soul, take it, with the intention of return it anonymously after

the lapse of a few week. but when, about a month later, he cause

certain inquiry to be make with a view to the restitution of the

box, he find that Scrope Hall be shut up, and that Sir Peter and his

family have take their departure for Bath, and from thence be

expect to go to town. then, somewhat later, come the news that

Scrope Hall be to let and that the baronet have take up his permanent

residence in London.



it may here be note that it be Captain Nightshade's invariable

practice to limit his attention to hard cash and bank-note--to the

purse of the well-to-do traveller by chaise or coach, and the

plethoric money-bag of the wealthy landowner on its way to or from the

local bank. Watches, snuff-box, ring, and other trinket he put

politely aside as "unconsidered trifle" with which he do not choose

to concern himself.



dare at the time trouble himself no far about Sir Peter's

snuff-box, but when he next go to London he take it with he, with

the intention of ascertain Sir Peter's address and forward it to

he by a trusty messenger. but it be find that Sir Peter be on the

Continent, and when Dare go back to the North the box go with he.



once more he have bring the box to town, hope on this occasion to

be able to rid himself of it. but before he have an opportunity of

do so, the news of Evan's abduction reach he, and he at once

hurry off to Chelsea, and for the next two or three day his time

and thought be take up with far more important matter than the

baronet's snuff-box. meanwhile, with the carelessness, hardly remove

from recklessness, that be characteristic of he, he carry the box

about with he in his waistcoat pocket.



now, it so happen that in the course of the forenoon of the day

follow that of his second interview with Miss Baynard, as he be

take a short cut to his lodging through one of the narrow and not

over savory lane which divide Holborn from the Strand, he come on a

crowd of people gather round a man who have fall down in a fit,

either real or simulated. Dare have push his way steadily, through

the crowd and have get some yard beyond it, when some instinct, so to

call it, cause he to clap his hand to his waistcoat. Sir Peter's

jewel snuff-box be go!



for Geoffrey Dare such an experience be certainly a novel one. no

soon do he realize his loss than he break into a cynical but not

unamuse laugh. "confound the rogue's impudence!" he exclaim half

aloud. "where be his eye that he fail to recognize a gentleman of

his own kidney? it be to be fear that he will find himself land at

Tyburn one of these day."



he be still stand with his hand press to his empty pocket, and

stare at the fluctuating crowd, when a hand be lay on his shoulder

and a voice say in his ear: "what's the matter, Mr. Dare? you look as

if you have just lose something."



Dare, turning, recognize the speaker for John Tipway, a famous Bow

Street runner, whose acquaintance he have make a couple of day before

when report the abduction of the young heir.



"that's exactly what I have do," reply Dare.



"pocket pick, eh?"



Dare nod.



"anything of consequence?"



"a very valuable snuff-box."



"ah-ha! a noted neighborhood this for petty larceny. hardly a bad

anywhere. but come along with I to the office--I'm on my way

there--and lodge a description of the missing property. who know but

we may be able to recover it for you from the pawnbroker's or

somewhere else."



dare hesitate, and well he might, consider under what

circumstance the box have come into his possession. but in the company

of Mr. Tipway to have hesitate over a matter of that sort would have

tend to provoke suspicion, and that be what he could not afford to

do. so he accompany the runner to Bow Street--not without a certain

relish for the comedy of the situation--and there furnish a

description of the steal box, leave an address, that of a humble

lodge in a back street in Bloomsbury, at which any tiding of it

might be communicate to he.



by that night's coach he start for the North in order to take up the

quest to which he have vow himself.



about a fortnight later the snuff-box be find in the possession of a

swell-mobsman who have be arrest for another offence.



now, it so fall out that Sir Peter Warrendale, who be much put about

by the loss of his box--although he have himself almost thrust it into

the hand of the self-style Colonel Delnay--not only because it be

intrinsically valuable, but because it be a cherished heirloom, have,

on his arrival in town some week after his encounter with the

highwayman, give a description of it at Bow Street, on the faint

chance that it might turn up at one of the London pawnshop, or in

some other fashion. a peculiarity of the box be that it have a false

bottom, a fact which Dare have fail to discover. but it be a feature

which Sir Peter, in his account of the box, have not forget to

specify, so that the Bow Street official, who happen to be bless

with a good memory, find himself in possession of an article which

be claim by two different owner and be state to have be steal

from both!



Sir Peter Warrendale be communicate with, and at once identify the

box as his property, and explain the mystery of the false bottom,

under which lie _perdu_ a miniature of his great-grandmother when a

beauty of eighteen.



the question that now put itself be by what mean have the box come

into Dare's possession? it be a question which only himself could

answer. so a messenger be send to his lodging with a request that he

would go to Bow Street and identify the box. but Dare be not there,

and all the information his landlady could supply be that he have go

into the country and that the date of his return be uncertain.



accordingly, a message be leave request his presence at Bow Street

immediately upon his return to town. meanwhile the snuff-box remain

in the hand of the authority.









CHAPTER XXI.

in quest of the missing HEIR.





Mr. Geoffrey Dare alight from the London coach at Tuxford, a small

market-town some half dozen mile from Uplands.



next morning he set about make certain inquiry, which result in

his ascertaining that Uplands be now empty and to let, and that Mrs.

Bullivant have transfer herself and her belonging to a much small

house, know as Homecroft, about twenty mile away on the other side

of the country. the near town to Homecroft be Broxham, a place of

some twelve thousand inhabitant, and thither Dare lose no time in

betake himself.



after breakfast next morning he hire a horse and start for a long

ride. when he get back in the early evening he have learn a good deal

more about Homecroft than he know when he set out. whether the

particular thus gather by he would prove of any after use it be

too early to determine: in point of fact, he have not yet decide upon

his course of action. the subject be one which need careful

consideration if a fiasco be to be avoid, and just then he be

turn it over and over in his mind.



next day be Broxham horse and cattle fair, and from early morn till

late at night the little town be a busy scene in which business and

pleasure be strangely commingle. Dare be a lover of horseflesh,

and he find much to interest he in a casual way as he stroll idly

about the fair, mentally chew over the question of what his next

step ought to be in the undertaking to which he have bind himself.



in those day even more than now a horse fair act as a sure magnet

for bring together a small crowd of gypsy, and certainly there

be no lack of they on this occasion at Broxham.



Dare have come across a couple of their encampment while ride out

the day before, but it be not till to-day when, as he stand on the

fringe of the crowd, listen to the chaffering and bargaining, but

thinking of other thing, a smile, black-eye, ruddy-lip _chi_

sidle up to he and ask he to cross her hand with a bit of silver,

that of a sudden an idea come to he which seem to open up a way out

of the difficulty with which he have be perplex his brain ever

since he leave London.



if Dare cross the girl's hand with a piece of silver, it be not

with the view of have his fortune tell. draw she further apart

from the crowd, he stand in earnest talk with she for several minute,

nor do they part till they have come to a mutual understanding. Dare's

last word to the girl be, "tell your father that he may expect to

see I at dusk to-morrow."



Dare be not unacquainted with Romany life and Romany way. as a lad

of seventeen he have once spend a month of _vie intime_ at one of their

encampment, and the knowledge then acquire by he he hope to be

able to turn to good account on the present occasion.



not till the sun have dip below the horizon do he set out next

afternoon to walk the couple of mile or more which would bring he to

a certain furze-line hollow among the moor, where a number of

gypsy whom the fair have bring into the neighborhood have make their

temporary home. he have get about halfway, and be on the point of

turn off the high-road--which be here unfenced and open to the

moor on both side--at a place previously describe to he, when he

be suddenly confront by a man who start up from behind a thick

clump of bramble. Dare come to a halt, and for a few moment the two

stand measure each other in silence.



the stranger, an unmistakable gypsy, be the first to speak: "you be

the _gorgio_ that have something to say to my daughter yesterday at the

fair?"



"I be."



"and you want she, with my leave, to do something for you for which

you be willing to pay we in good red gold?"



"you could not have put the case in few word."



"well, here we be, with only the rise moon and our own shadow for

company. we could not have a well chance for say what be to be

say."



nothing could have suit Dare's purpose well.



the _gryengro_, or horse-dealer, proceed to charge and light his

pipe, while Dare refresh himself with a copious pinch of snuff.

then, by the light of the young moon, as they slowly pace the soft

turf to and fro, the latter go on to unfold his wish:



"about a mile on the other side of Broxham there stand in its own

ground a small country house, the name of which be Homecroft. after

remain empty for a long time, it have now find a tenant in the

person of Mrs. Bullivant, whose husband die a few year ago, and

whose one child, a boy of five or six, be at present from home, most

probably on a visit to his grandfather, Lord Cossington. now, although

her own child be away, I have strong reason for believe that Mrs.

Bullivant have another child, who have be steal away from his

friend, hide in the house, whose presence there be only know to

the _rawni_ herself and two or three of her domestic. so, what I want

to have find out for I be, whether there be, or be not, such a child

as the one I speak of under the roof of Homecroft, and the first

question be, whether your daughter can obtain that information for I

without arouse any suspicion on the part of Mrs. Bullivant or any of

her people."



to this the gypsy, whose name be Enoch Bosworth, reply that he have

very little doubt his daughter Rosilla could manage to obtain the

require information if time be allow she, and she be allow to

go to work in her own way in the affair. Dare do not care how she

go to work, so long as she get he the need particular. it then

become a question of term between the two man, and these having be

satisfactorily arrange, they part, with an agreement to meet again

at the same hour and place four  evening later.



although Dare keep his appointment to the minute, he find the

_gryengro_ and his daughter wait for he, and it soon appear that

Rosilla have indeed make good use of her time. she be already in a

position to assure he that his belief in the presence of a strange

child at Homecroft be amply justify. such a child be there, a boy,

with regard to whom none of the domestic know anything--neither his

name, where he come from, the connection between he and the mistress

of Homecroft, or, in point of fact, why he be there at all. a

middle-aged woman who have be in Mrs. Bullivant's service for a

number of year, be his sole attendant, and none of the other

servant be ever allow to speak to he--not that much chance of

do so be give they, a couple of room having be set apart for

the boy and the woman, into which they be forbid to penetrate.



all this information the artful Rosilla, in the exercise of she

call as a fortune-teller, have succeed in worm out of Mrs.

Bullivant's maid, a girl of the name of Moggy Dredge, who, for some

reason or other, have conceive a violent dislike for her mistress--an

admission of which Dare do not fail to see the importance.



he must contrive an interview with the girl Dredge, and this Rosilla

be commission to arrange for. if Mrs. Bullivant's maid would name

her own time and place for meet a certain gentleman, name unknown,

and there answer a few question he would put to she have no

reference to herself or her own business, she would find her pocket

the rich by a couple of guineas.



Rosilla at once undertake to do she good to arrange the meeting in

question, which take place a couple evening later at a solitary spot

a little way outside the paling of the Homecroft ground.



the gypsy-girl, of her own accord, go a little way apart out of

hearing while the _gorgio_ and the lady's-maid say what they have to

say to each other.



even before she quite comprehend what it be Dare want she to do,

Moggy do not hesitate to confess that, in her own word, she hate

her mistress "bad than poison," and that because of the latter's

treatment of she, and of the insult she see fit to heap upon she. in

reply to this, dare very naturally ask she why she do not leave

Mrs. Bullivant and go into service elsewhere. thereupon Moggy burst

out cry, and, after sob quietly for a little while, confide to

dare that she have have a "misfortune," and have thereby forfeit her

character, and that it be Mrs. Bullivant's knowledge of this fact

which enable she to trample on the unhappy girl in the way she do.



Moggy could tell dare little more about the strange child than he have

already learn from Rosilla. nor have he expect that she would be

able to do so. what he have now to arrange for be the future, and he

do not part from the girl till she have give he her promise to

furnish he daily with a write report of everything she could hear

or gather have reference to the child. this report she be to place

each day after nightfall in the hollow of a certain tree, whence it

would be fetch by Rosilla, who would play the part of messenger

between she and Dare. later, there would be three more guineas for

she, and she confess that she be badly in need of money to help to

pay for the keep of her child.



Moggy keep her promise, and night after night dare receive at the

hand of the gypsy-girl her brief and half-illegible report, the

writing of which cause she many groan, and be the cause of much

perturbation of spirit. but it be not till ten day have go by that

she find anything of consequence to communicate. then, indeed, her

news be of a sufficiently startling kind.



it have be arrange, Moggy write, that Mrs. Balchin, the child's

attendant, together with her husband, who be Mrs. Bullivant's

coachman, be to start next evening for Liverpool on their way to

America, the report be that, by the death of a relative in the

States, they have come in for a small fortune, which, however, could

not be pay over to they without their presence on the spot. but it

be not till Dare have get nearly to the end of Moggy's ill-spelt

effusion--he be painfully decipher it in his room at the inn by

the light of a solitary candle--that of a sudden he sit up and give

vent to a low whistle. the child, the mysterious child, about whom

none of the servant at Homecraft know anything, be to accompany the

Balchins on their long journey--a journey, in those day, infinitely

more formidable than it be now.



the little party of three be to leave Homecraft in Mrs. Bullivant's

carriage at half-past eight p.m., so as to reach Tuxford in time to

catch the night coach bind for the south.



dare sit for some time stare at the letter, but without see it,

when he have succeed in master its content. what step ought he to

take next? be the question he be revolve in his brain, and for

some time no satisfactory answer be forthcoming.



of course, all along he have be without any absolute certainty that

the child in question be young Evan Cortelyon. morally sure he might

be, but that be hardly foundation enough on which to base any action

of a definite kind. if he be to go to Piljoy and state his

conviction in the matter, what could the lawyer do? at present no

evidence be available conclusive enough to justify an application for

a warrant, especially against a person of the social standing of the

Hon. Mrs. Bullivant. and yet, if the child be really Evan (as to

which he feel no sort of doubt in his own mind), then must he be

rescue at every cost.



for a full hour he sit with bent brow, excogitate one scheme after

another, only to reject each in turn, till he have work round to the

notion which have strike he first of all, but which he have put

temporarily aside till he have satisfy himself that no other plan be

equally feasible.



at length he rise abruptly and push back his chair, "'tis the only

way," he say aloud. "'twas the first notion that come to I, and if I

have only have the sense to embrace it there and then, I might have

save myself all this useless muddling of my brain. a year ago--nay,

far later than that--I should not have hesitate a moment; but

now----! what have come over I? what strange change have be at work

within I? be that a conundrum very hard to crack, Geoff, my boy? it

may be true, after all, that the moon be make of green cheese."









CHAPTER XXII.

the HON. MRS. BULLIVANT to CAPTAIN FERRIS.





"my dear Wilton," write Mrs. Bullivant to her half-brother a couple of

day subsequently to the event record in the last chapter, "I have

some very singular news for you which I lose no time in communicating;

but whether--bear in mind the peculiar feature of the case--you

will be incline to stigmatize it as bad news or to bless it as good,

seem to I somewhat problematical, and I at once confess that I be

myself at a loss to know in which light to regard it.



"although my disappointment in the matter of Mr. Cortelyon's will be

so extreme as almost for a time to drive I beyond myself, and to stir

up within I feeling and passion to which I have be a strange

aforetime, and although I take a silent oath that, come what might, I

would be revenge for what I then regard, and still regard, as the

vile trick of which I be make the victim; yet be I inclined to think

that have it not be for your persistent fanning of the flame which

just then burn so fiercely within I, my passion would gradually have

cool down, my reason would have again find its equipoise, and I

should never have give my sanction to a certain step, the rashness

and futility of which I recognize almost from the moment of agree

to it.



"mind, in write this I be not impute any blame to you; or, if

there be any, we share it on equal term. your own disappointment be

bitter enough in all conscience to goad you on to do thing from

which, at another time and in your calm moment, you would have

turn away as be not merely useless, but impolitic.



"from the moment you place young Cortelyon in my hand my almost

insane longing to be revenge for the foul wrong his grandfather have

do I slacken and grow faint, and I recognize with overwhelming

clearness what a blunder we have make and with what a burden I have

saddle myself. now that I have get the child into my keeping what be

I to do with he? there be the rub. as for carry out the dark hint

you one day let drop--only by way of try I, I feel sure, and with

no thought that I would agree to act on it--as you know, I shrink from

it aghast. I have a child of my own, and I could not forget it; and,

little cause as I have to love young C., whatever else might happen to

he his life be absolutely safe so long as he remain under my roof.

but the perplexing question of how to dispose of he be one which

allow I no rest.



"as you be aware, from the date of the lad's arrival at Homecroft I

put he into the sole charge of Mrs. Balchin (whom, as I have good

reason for know, I can thoroughly trust), and keep he wholly

seclude from the rest of the household, for whose benefit I invent

a little fable explanatory of my reason for act as I do, but to

what extent they believe it I have no mean of know.



"if I have be uncomfortable before, you may imagine what effect your

letter have on I in which you inform I that a reward of five

hundred pound be offer for the recovery of the missing heir. for

the next few day I be like a distracted woman, turn over in my

mind a dozen scheme, each one more wild and impracticable than the

last.



"then, all at once, the black cloud open and a way of escape lay

clear before I.



"as I daresay you may remember, not only Mrs. Balchin, but her

husband, be in my service, the latter having act as my coachman ever

since my marriage. well, a few morning ago Balchin receive a letter

from a firm of lawyer in New York inform he that a legacy

equivalent to five hundred pound of english money have be leave he

by an uncle lately deceased, but that it would be requisite for he to

go over to the States, and be prepared to prove his identity, before

the money could be pay he. when he come to I and show I his

letter, and tell I all this, I could have find it in my heart to

embrace he.



"can you guess, _mon cher frère_, what be the first word I say to

myself? they be these: 'Balchin's wife shall keep he company on the

voyage, and with they they shall take young Cortelyon. _but they shall

come back alone?_



"there be no need to trouble you with detail. it will be enough to

state that by the evening of the second day after Balchin's receipt of

the letter all arrangement have be make, and the little party of

three be ready to start. they be to have the use of my carriage as

far as Tuxford, where they would join the night coach for the south on

their way to Liverpool, from which port they would sail by the first

available packet for New York, Balchin be a capable man, and I have no

fear about his fail to carry out the instruction lay down for

he. of course the expense of the journey, so far as his wife and the

child be concern, be to be defray by I.



"I ought to mention here that I have often hear Mrs. Balchin refer to

her numerous clan of cousin in America, and when I put the case

before she she readily engage, for a hundred pound pay down, to get

the boy permanently adopt by one of they. as you know, I could ill

spare any such sum, but I would have make a still great sacrifice

rather than let the opportunity go by of rid myself of what have

latterly become the incubus of my life.



"the clock be strike nine when they start, which would leave

they an hour and a-half for the journey to Tuxford. Balchin be on the

box, with the stable-boy beside he, whom it be necessary to take in

order that he might bring back the carriage. inside be Mrs. Balchin

and the child, the latter soundly asleep under the influence of a

narcotic. you can but faintly imagine with what an intense feeling of

relief I watch the carriage disappear in the soft darkness of the

autumn night.



"you will be wonder by this time as to the nature of the singular

news which I begin this letter by tell you I have to communicate.

you shall now be tell it, what I have write so far be merely the

needful introduction thereto.



"Imagine, then, if you can, my feeling of mingled amazement and alarm

when, shortly after ten o'clock, my maid come to tell I that the

carriage have just return, and that Balchin be very anxious to speak

to I. I order he to be at once admit, and the moment I set eye

on his face I know that something have go amiss, although the mere

fact of his presence there be enough to convince I on that point.



"without give he time to speak, I say quickly: 'where be the

child? nothing have happen to he I hope?'



"'only this, ma'am, that we've be rob of he,' be his reply.



"and so it prove to be. as they be cross Blaydon Heath they have

be stop by a mask horseman carry a pistol in one hand and a

small lantern in the other, who have bid Balchin bring the carriage

to a halt, on pain of instant death. naturally the man be much

frightened, see that in his wife's purse be not merely the

passage-money for all three, but the hundred pound give by I for

the purpose just name. but in that respect his fear prove to be

unfounded. ride up to the carriage window, the horseman first turn

his lantern full on Mrs. Balchin and then on the face of the sleep

child. 'as I think, madam, as I think,' he say. 'I find you here

in possession of property which do not belong to you. with your good

pleasure I will relieve you of it. Nay, no demur, or you will find it

the bad for you. child-stealing, allow I to remind you, be a crime

punishable with a long term of transportation. hand the boy over to I

at once, and thank your lucky star that you be allow to escape so

easily.'





[illustration: "the compliment of Captain Nightshade."]





"what could the woman do but comply? indeed, as she have since tell I,

she be nearly frightened out of her wit. without dismounting, the

horseman open the carriage door, and the child, still sleep

soundly, be transfer to he. place the boy in front of he, with

one arm round he, he back his horse from the carriage, and then

address Balchin, say, 'you can drive back home, and when you get

there give my compliment to your mistress--the compliment of Captain

Nightshade--and tell she she ought to go down on her knee and thank

I for having save she from the consequence of a most shameful

crime.' with that he wave his hand, set spur to his horse, and

canter off.



"such be the story bring back by Balchin.



"Captain Nightshade, I must tell you, be a notorious highwayman who

for two or three year past have be the terror of this part of

England. for the last six or seven month, however, nothing have be

hear of he, and everybody be hope that he have see fit to

transfer his attention elsewhere.



"now, tell I this if you can. how do he, of all people in the world,

succeed in discover that young C. be hide under my roof, and

that he be about to be smuggle away at that particular time? it be a

question which the oftener I ask it, the more bewildered I become.

somebody must have act the part of spy and traitor, but who be that

somebody? and through what mysterious channel do he or she succeed in

communicate my intention to the highwayman? I have my suspicion in

the matter, but I refrain from inflict they upon you.



"Captain Nightshade's motive in get hold of the boy be as plain as

a pikestaff. he will restore he to his friend, and claim the reward

offer for his recovery.



"and after such an ignominious fashion have the scheme of revenge

hatch by you, and in a weak moment accede to by I, collapse and

crumble to piece. that I should ever have allow myself to be mix

up with any such affair seem to I, write now, wholly

inconceivable; but it merely serve to prove to what length a woman

will go when blind by passion, spite, and the overthrow of her most

cherish hope.



"somehow, I have not much fear that the friend of young C., even

should the fact of the case be make known to they, will take any

further step in the affair. they will not, I be quite sure, if Miss

Baynard have any say in the affair. I could love that girl, Wilton,

be it in my nature to love anybody. and to think that not a shilling

of her great-uncle's wealth will come to she! it be most shameful.



"but enough, I be tired, and must leave till another day my answer to

certain question which you ask in your last letter.



     "your affectionate sister,



             "Onoria Bullivant."









CHAPTER XXIII.

a JOYFUL SURPRISE.





all this time Miss Baynard be wait at Stanbrook for the news which

seem so long in come.



as one slow day follow another without bring the long-for

tiding her heart grow sick within she. perhaps the boy have be

spirit out of the country, and she should never set eye on he

again; perhaps something bad even than that have befall he. Mr.

Piljoy come over on business connect with the estate, but bring no

comfort with he. till some tiding of the miss heir should come to

hand no step whatever could be take with reference to the settlement

of the property. after his receipt of Nell's letter contain the

news of the abduction he have communicate direct with the authority

in London, but, beyond a reply to the effect that the case be already

in hand and have their good attention, he have hear nothing. he have

more than one question to put to Miss Baynard have reference to Mr.

Geoffrey Dare, to which she content herself with reply that Dare

have be her cousin's bosom friend, and be the missing boy's

godfather, and have promise poor Dick to look after he as if he be

his own son. what would have be Mr. Piljoy's horror and amazement

have he be tell that Mr. Geoffrey Dare and the notorious Captain

Nightshade be one and the same person! Nell could not help laugh

a little to herself as her imagination conjure up the picture.



but our heroine's state of soul-wear suspense be not destine to

last much long.



on the evening of the second day after Mr. Piljoy's return home a

letter be bring she which cause she to start with amazement the

moment her eye fall on it. the address be in the same writing as

that of the packet in which her lose mask have be return to she.

for a space of some second she stand stare at it like one

fascinated; then with finger that shake a little she break the seal

and tear open the letter. here be what she read: "Mr. Cope-Ellerslie

present his compliment to Miss Baynard, and have much happiness in

inform she that news have reach he not only of the safety but of

the whereabouts of her young relative, Master Evan Cortelyon.



"should Miss Baynard think it worth she while to come as far as

Rockmount, Mr. Ellerslie will be pleased to tell she all that have come

to his knowledge in connection with the affair, in which case the

bearer of this letter be instruct to act as her guide and escort on

the journey."



she could hardly make out the last few line for the happy tear which

already dim her eye, and so have to read they again.



go to Rockmount! of course she would. have it be to the end of Europe

she would have go, and ten minute later she be ready to start. day

be already draw to dusk, and timorous-hearted Mrs. Budd would fain

have persuade she to put off her journey till morning. but timid

counsel have never prevail with Nell, and it be not in the least

likely that they would in a case like the present.



she have at once send word to have her mare saddle and bring round,

and it be wait for she, in charge of John Dyce, by the time she

be ready. Nell be hardly surprised at find that the man who have

bring the letter, and who be wait for an answer to it, be the

one who on the occasion of her first sojourn at Rockmount have act as

her guide as far as the Whinbarrow road. would he recognize in her the

young spark whom he have then escort? it seem hardly likely that he

would, and in any case, it do not matter greatly. it be far more

probable that he would recognize her mare Peggy.



"I be go back with you to Rockmount," she say to he.



"all right, mum," he reply, with a tug at his forelock. "you

couldn't have a fine evenin' for a ride."



neither man nor horse have lack for refreshment while wait. and so

presently they set out, Miss Baynard lead the way by about a dozen

yard. this last till they have go some six or eight mile, and have

reach a point where it become necessary to diverge from the great

highway they have hitherto be traverse and take to one of the

tortuous cross-country road which branch off into the desolate

region of fell and moor. then the position of the two be reverse,

and it be the man who lead the way.



it be quite dark by the time they reach Rockmount, or as nearly so

as it ever be on a clear, starlit autumnal night. as Miss Baynard draw

rein in front of the house, her mind be busy with the incident of

that other night, now many month old, when one whom she have since

learn to love in secret with all the fervency of a first great

passion have bring she to the door of Rockmount and have there leave

she. how full of incident for she those month have be! what a

change life, both inwardly and outwardly, have hers become between

then and now!



her guide, having dismount, give a resounding knock on the great

oaken door and then help Miss Baynard to alight. when that be do

he lead the horse away towards the back premise, and the same instant

there be the sound of bolt and bar be unloosened one by one. so

remote and lonely be the house that it be no wonder the inmate

look carefully to their fastening.



then the door be open, disclose the same sour-visage old

serve-man, carry a light candle, whom Nell have see on the

first occasion.



"be good enough to tell your master that Miss Baynard be here," she

say.



make an arch of one of his knot hand, he peer at she for a

moment or two from under it. then he say: "the Master be expect yo.

will yo be pleased to come in?"



and so for the second time, Nell cross the threshold of Rockmount.

the door having be shut behind she, the old fellow lead the way

across the hall, and so bring she presently to the same sparsely

furnished room with which she be already so well acquainted. then she

be leave alone.



as Nell look round the room she could have fancy that only a few

hour have go by since she be last there. the candle be alight, a

cheerful fire be burn in the grate; the heavy curtain of fade

red moreen be closely draw; nothing be change. from moment to

moment she look to see Mr. Cope-Ellerslie enter.



would he, when they meet, treat she as a stranger, or as one whom he

know already? it be a question she have ask herself more than once

while on her way to Rockmount. that he know the pseudo Mr. Frank

Nevill to be none other than Miss Baynard, of Stanbrook, he have

himself furnish she with proof positive in the return of her mask;

but do he know at the time he give she a night's lodge who she be,

or do he not discover it till afterwards? and, in either case, by

what mysterious mean have he make the discovery? she have not

forget, nor be it likely she should forget, that in the chamber

assign she at Rockmount she have find a certain feminine garment,

but whether place there by accident or design she have no mean

whatever of know. if by design, then must Mr. Ellerslie from the

first have penetrate the secret of her sex. it be a thought which,

even after all this time, cause the blood to tingle in her vein.



but these question, personal to herself, perplex though they be,

do not cause she for more than a minute or two at a time to lose

sight of the main object which have bring she to Rockmount, while

wholly at a loss to imagine how it have come to pass that the first

news of the lost child should have reach she through Mr. Ellerslie,

and neither through Bow Street nor Geoffrey Dare. not that it matter

greatly, so long as news of he have come to hand. she be all

impatience to hear what Mr. Ellerslie have to tell she.



she could not help start when the door open, think to see he;

but it be Mrs. Dobson, the housekeeper, who now come in. Nell have by

no mean forget Mrs. Dobson, and she scrutinize she a little

anxiously. would the housekeeper recognize she? would there be

anything in her manner to betray a knowledge of their having ever meet

before?



Mrs. Dobson, having shut the door, come forward a little way, cross

her hand in front of she, and make Miss Baynard a respectful curtsey.

then their eye meet, and Nell read nothing in those of the other which

she might not have read in the eye of any stranger. undisguise

admiration they betray of a surety, but to that our young lady be

so used that she think nothing of it.



"Madam," begin the housekeeper, with the tone and manner of a

well-breed dependent, "my master desire I to say that in another room

there be a very charming little picture, a view of which he feel sure

would please you vastly. if you will be good enough to accompany I I

will conduct you to it."



Miss Baynard stare at the housekeeper with wide-set eye. "a

picture!" she say. "surely Mr. Ellerslie have not ask I to

rockmount merely to show I a picture!"



"that be more than I can say, miss. my business be simply to repeat my

master's message. but I feel quite sure that if you know what the

picture be, you would never forgive yourself for having refuse to see

it. do come, miss," she add next moment, see that Miss Baynard

still hesitate.



"very well, I will go with you," say Nell.



Mrs. Dobson lead the way through the gloomy old house to a bedroom on

the first floor, but not the one occupy by Miss Baynard on the

occasion of her first visit to Rockmount, although differ very

little from it in its furniture and appointment, except in one

particular. in the middle of the floor stand a couch, to which Nell's

eye travel instinctively the moment she enter the room. it have

be make up temporarily with pillow and coverlet, so as to form a

child's bed. a solitary wax candle be alight on the chimney-piece.



a low, inarticulate cry break from Nell. brushing past the

housekeeper, she go swiftly forward and bent over the couch. the

truth have flash across she as she set foot over the threshold, and

now her eye verify it. there, in rosy slumber, his cheek pillow

on one hand, the other arm fling with graceful abandon outside the

coverlet, lie the miss child. this be the picture Mr. Ellerslie

have invite she to come and see!



tear rush to her eye and overbrimme they; a sob break in her

throat. not for a full minute, for fear of wake he, do she venture

to stoop and touch the peach-bloom of his cheek with her lip. her

heart be full, and not till a few more moment have go by would she

trust herself to speak. the housekeeper be at her elbow.



"who bring he, and how long have he be here?" she ask.



"I find he keep master company in the library when I come

downstairs this morning. some one have bring he in the course of

the night. he have be play about on the moor a good part of the

day--not, of course, without some one to look after he--and come to

bed thoroughly tired out. what a dear little gentleman he be! not a

bit like many child I've know, but try to make friend with

everybody. I suppose, miss, that you willn't have any objection to

share this room with he to-night?"



Miss Baynard be startle. "but I have not see Mr. Ellerslie yet,"

she object. "when his message reach I, my only aim be to lose no

time in get here, and certainly I have no thought or intention of

stay the night at Rockmount."



"but consider the lateness of the hour, miss; and you would hardly

care, I should think, to have the child waken in order to take he a

long journey in the middle of the night."



"no, I certainly should not care for that. but when I leave home I do

not know that Evan have be find, and that I be go to see he;

only that Mr. Ellerslie have a message of some kind for I which

concern he."



"well, miss, master certainly expect you to stay till morning, and

ask I hour ago to arrange accordingly. but most likely he will

speak to you himself about it. and now, if you be ready, we will go

downstair."



but Nell could not go without another kiss. "he be not leave alone

while he sleep," remark Mrs. Dobson as they leave the room; "my

niece watch by he."



Downstairs Miss Baynard find the table lay for one person, and three

minute later a dainty little supper be bring in.



"when shall I see Mr. Ellerslie?" she ask, as the housekeeper be on

the point of leave the room.



"he will do himself the honor of wait upon you in the course of

half an hour."



it be very rarely that Nell's appetite fail she, and her long ride

through the night air have, if anything, tend to sharpen it on the

present occasion. she be a healthy english girl, who come of a

healthy stock. she hardly know that she have such thing as nerve. she

be neither hysterical, nor anæmic, nor introspective. no

_fin-de-siècle_ question trouble she, because the century be yet in

its infancy. she be a warm-hearted, warm-blooded creature, somewhat

too impulsive perhaps, and too easily lead away by her own generous

instinct, and although an existence such as hers would nowadays be

regard as intolerably narrow and antiquated, yet be her life an

exemplar of several of those minor if homely virtue with which so

many of our up-to-date young woman profess to be, and probably be,

wholly unacquainted, and to regard with silent contempt. at any rate,

Miss Baynard do full justice to her supper.



Scarcely have the table be clear when Mr. Ellerslie enter the

room. to Nell it seem as if she might have part from he no long

ago than the day before, so wholly unchanged be he from the picture

of he which still live so freshly in her memory. there be the long,

grizzle hair part down the middle, the short Vandyck beard and

moustache, the black velvet skull cap, and the dark monkish robe which

wrap he from head to foot. there, too, be the set, mask-like face

with its thousand of fine wrinkle, which from a little distance

look as if it be carve out of old ivory, a face which seem to

emphasize the pair of brilliant black eye that look out from under

their heavy penthouse brow with an illusive something in they which

remind Nell strangely of Geoffrey Dare.



as he enter the room Miss Baynard rise and advance to meet he with

both hand outstretche. "oh, Mr. Ellerslie!" she say, and in her

voice there be a veiled emotion not far remove from tear, "how can

I ever thank you enough, how ever be sufficiently grateful to you, for

the glad surprise you have give I this evening? surely you must be a

necromancer, or the good wizard of a fairy tale, for to I it seem

nothing less than a fairy tale to have one I hold so dear restore to

I in this fashion."



Mr. Ellerslie take her hand in his, bent over they, and raise they

for a second to his lip. "Nay, nay, my dear young lady," he reply,

"if any thank be due in the matter--though why there should be I fail

to see--then must they fall not to my share, but to that of my nephew,

Geoffrey Dare."



an involuntary "oh!" break from Miss Baynard. his nephew! it be a

revelation which seem to throw light on several thing.



"it be Geoff who bring the child here at a late hour last night,

asleep and perch on his horse in front of he. as to whom, where,

and how he pick the youngster up, I must refer you to he in

person."



"but when shall I see Mr. Dare? be he not here?"



"at present he be not. some business call he away in the course of

the day. but I have his promise that he will be back not later than

ten o'clock to-morrow morning."



"and I shall see he then?"



"certainly you will, my dear Miss Baynard. he will be here immediately

after breakfast."



by this time he have lead she back to her chair, and have seat himself

in another on the opposite side of the hearth.



Miss Baynard hesitate a moment, then she say: "when I leave Stanbrook

in consequence of your message, Mr. Ellerslie, it be certainly

without any design of stay over night at Rockmount."



"but, my dear young lady, as circumstance have fall out, I fail to

see how you can very well help yourself; that be to say, unless it be

your intention to leave your young cousin for a time under my charge,

a charge, I need scarcely tell you, which I will very gladly

undertake."



"you be very good, Mr. Ellerslie, but when I go back Evan must go

with I."



"then permit I to observe that, put yourself out of the question,

the hour be far too late a one for the child to travel." it be the

same argument the housekeeper have make use of.



"besides, where's your hurry?" resume Mr. Ellerslie. "the boy be

restore to you, and that, as I take it, be the main thing. the rest's

but leather and prunella."



"you might have add, Mr. Ellerslie, by way of clinch your

argument, that it would not be the first time I have sleep under the

roof of Rockmount."



"Eh?" exclaim Mr. Ellerslie, with a palpable start.



"a certain Mr. Frank Nevill seek and find shelter here one night

early in the present year. it may be that you have not quite forget

the young man in question?"



"I have not by any mean forget he."



"furthermore, you have be for some time aware--for how long I do not

know--that the aforesaid Mr. Nevill and Miss Baynard, of Stanbrook,

be and be one and the same person. and how I happen to know this I

will now make clear to you. for a certain reason--which at the time

seem to he all-powerful, but which after-circumstance turn to

foolishness--the _soi-disant_ Frank Nevill choose, for one night, to

enact the part of an amateur highwayman, and wound up his adventure by

accept the hospitality of Rockmount. on quit here next morning,

by some oversight he leave his mask behind he. Time pass on, and

when three or four month have go by the miss mask be forward

through the post to Miss Baynard, but without any word of explanation,

or any clue to the sender of it. and there the matter rest till this

afternoon, when Miss Baynard receive a note from Mr. Ellerslie

inform she that he have certain news to communicate. to Miss B. the

writing seem not wholly strange, and on compare it with the

address on the sheet of paper, which she have keep, in which the mask

have be enclose, she could not doubt that they have both emanate

from one pen. but doubtless much of this be old news to you, Mr.

Ellerslie. to Mr. Dare my double identity have for some time be no

secret, and he----"



Mr. Ellerslie hold up his hand. "pardon I. not even to I would my

nephew speak of matter which involve a point of honor between

himself and another. that which you have just tell I have now become a

matter of little or no moment, and such be the case, there can be

no harm in my confessing that the identity of Miss Baynard with Mr.

Frank Nevill be suspect by I almost from the first. why be the

same mare ride by both, as one of my man, who chance on Miss

Baynard next day when on her way back to Stanbrook, aver to be the

fact? but it be my housekeeper who be the first to raise a doubt in

my mind with regard to the sex of 'Mr. Frank Nevill.' that young blade

have not be ten minute under my roof before she come to I and say,

'you may take my word for it, sir, that yon young gentleman in the oak

parlor be no more a gentleman than I be, and would be far more at home

in petticoat than in what he's wear now.' evidently Mrs. Dobson

know what she be talk about. she be a woman of penetration, and I

have a great respect for she."









CHAPTER XXIV.

a parting and a letter.





next morning Miss Baynard and Evan breakfast alone, Mr. Ellerslie

remain invisible. but Nell, who be become accustomed to her

host's eccentricity, be hardly surprised at his non-appearance. not

much appetite have she this morning. Dare be come at ten o'clock,

and the thought of her forthcoming interview with he disturb she

strangely. they be about to part. when she have give expression to

her gratitude, and they have take leave of each other, and she have

go her way and he his, what chance or likelihood be there of their

ever meet again? by his own confession his business in England be

now at an end; in a few day, or a few week at the late, he would

have leave its shore, never to return; they would have pass out of

each other's life, and, except for one thing, all would be as it be

before they first meet.



yes, save and except for one thing, but one which to Nell make all

imaginable difference. then she have hold her heart fast in her own

keeping, but what have become of the poor thing now? she have give it

away without having be ask for it. could anything be more

shameful? it be go from her past reclaim; lose to she forever;

and yet he into whose keeping it have be give know nothing about it.

and he never would know. he would carry it away with he, all

unwitting, and to all outward seem, life with she would go on just

as before. she alone would know that she have lose something which

nothing else could make up to she, that some of the magic have fade

out of existence, and that the sun no long shine quite so brightly

as it have be use to do.



hardly have the clock strike ten when there come a tap at the door,

which be follow by the entrance of Geoffrey Dare. Young Evan be on

the floor busy with some toy which the housekeeper have disinter

for he out of one of the garret. the moment he see who the newcomer

be, he call out: "Uncle Geoff, come here. one of my horse have only

get three leg, and I want you to make I a new one."



"presently, my dear boy, presently," he reply, as, after pause for

a moment at the door, he go slowly forward, his eye fix full on

Miss Baynard.



she be stand, support herself with one hand on the table and

with the other press to her side. for a little space her gaze meet

his without the flicker of an eyelash and then drop before the

ardor of his regard. her heart be beat tumultuously, while the

quick rise and fall of her bosom tell of the emotion at work beneath.

a lovely flush suffused both face and throat; but Dare be pale than

ordinary, and haggard and weary-look, and might have just rise

from a sick bed. both be put a strong restraint on themselves,

but each show it in a different way.



Nell do not advance with impulsive outstretche hand, as she have

do in the case of Mr. Ellerslie. it be as though her limb refuse

to move under she. but when Dare come up and hold out one of his

hand, she lay one of her in it readily enough. "it do not take

long to bring you here, Miss Baynard," he say, "when once you know

that my uncle have tiding of the boy."



after press her hand slightly he have withdraw his own. they might

have be the mere casual acquaintance, Nell feel a little

bitterly. and yet, unless her feeling have blind she, as he enter

the room, she have detect in his eye a flame of passionate ardor

from which her own have be fain to shrink abash. could it be that

he be hide something from she, even as she be hide something

from he? as this question flash across she she raise her eye once

more to his. but the flame which have so dazzle she a minute before

be no long there. have it be extinguish? or be it merely that a

veil have be temporarily draw before it?



it be after a scarcely observable pause that she answer his remark.

"you may be sure that after Mr. Ellerslie's message reach I I let

no grass grow under my foot. I come, look to have merely some

tiding of the boy, whereas it be Evan himself whom I find! but I be

only tell you what you know already. when I begin to thank your

uncle, under the belief that I owe Evan's recovery to he, he stop

I. it seem that you be the person to whom my thank be due.

believe I, Mr. Dare, they be yours from the bottom of my heart."



dare bow. "not a word more on that score, I beg," he say with a

smile. "I need not tell you that it make I very happy to have be

the mean of restore Evan to you; but, as you be aware, I myself

have a strong interest in the boy--strong enough to make it impossible

for I to leave a stone unturned till he have be find, whether by I

or some one else do not greatly matter."



"I be very glad it be you, and not another, who find he."



"and, of course, I be not sorry that such should have be the case."



Miss Baynard have resume her chair, and Dare have drop into another

no great distance away.



"if there be no secret involve in the affair, and it will be break

no confidence on your part, I should like you to tell I, not only how

you succeed in discover Evan's whereabout, but by what mean you

contrive to rescue he from the wretch--for wretch they must have

be--who, to gratify some vile purpose of their own, steal he away

in broad daylight."



"'tis a story very easily tell. to your old friend Captain Nightshade

be due the boy's rescue from those who abduct he."



"to Captain Nightshade? oh!"



"who once more, and for the last time, revisit the glimpse of the

moon. but I be start my story at the wrong end. I will tell it you

from the beginning, since you say you would like to hear it. first of

all, however, I must inquire into the state of Master Evan's horse,

which seem to be minus one of its leg."



Miss Baynard leave Rockmount two hour later, but without see Mr.

Ellerslie again, who send his apology by his nephew. his rheumatism

have come on in the night, and this morning he be unable to rise.



dare ride with Miss Baynard as far as the park gate of Stanbrook,

with Evan in front of he. next day he be go to London, there to

complete a few preparation and arrange certain business matter for

Mr. Ellerslie, before set sail for that New World where his home

would henceforth be. but this be not to be their final farewell; they

would see each other once more in about a fortnight, when Dare would

come north in order to bid his uncle goodbye, on which occasion he

would not fail to call at Stanbrook. he would not, of course, dream of

leave England without see his godson again.



and so they part, both secretly consume with love. dare would not

open his lip. in the first place, he be far too poor to marry; and

then, to dream that, in any case, the proud and beautiful Miss Baynard

would stoop so low as to wed the notorious "Captain Nightshade" be

the veri moonstruck folly. have he but know how often Nell, with

despair gnawing at her heartstring, murmur sadly to herself, "if

only he would say one word!" what a change, little less than

miraculous, would have come over he!



but the word be not say, and they separate with nothing warm than

a hand-grasp--tear asunder, not by Fate, but by their own pride, and

to the full as wretche as part lover be always say, or suppose,

to be.





Lady Carradine, have much leisure time on her hand, and be fond

of letter-writing, not infrequently oblige her goddaughter with one

of her lengthy and somewhat diffusely-word epistle. to Miss

Baynard, in the retirement of Stanbrook, these occasional glimpse of

a life so different from her own be always welcome; and as her

ladyship have now take up her permanent residence in London and see a

good deal of company, she have much to tell that be both fresh and

interesting.



nearly a fortnight have go by since Nell's return from Rockmount, and

she be look daily for the coming of Dare, when one of Lady

Carradine's crossed and recrossed letter--postage in those day be a

consideration--come to hand. with only one part of her ladyship's

epistle be we in any way concerned. the part in question run as

under:--



"I forget, my dear, whether I ever mention to you that among my many

acquaintance be number Sir Peter Warrendale, a baronet of old

family, whose home, when he be at home, be somewhere in your benighted

part of the country. of late year, however, he have be see a good

deal in town. I have a notion that his health be not quite what he

would like it to be, and that he have little or no faith in your rural

practitioner, which I cann't wonder at. but that be his own secret.



"he be now well on for seventy, a tetchy, cross-grained old man, with

a good word for nobody behind their back; and I have not the least

doubt he pull I to piece before other, just as he pull other to

piece before I. I candidly confess that I don't like he, but he

help to amuse I, and to any one who do that I can forgive much.



"I have not see he for some little time till one evening about a week

ago, when he call upon I, evidently brimful of news, of which it

be needful that he should relieve himself to somebody if he wish to

escape a fit of apoplexy. I quite expect that I be about to be

treat to the late scandalous _on dit_, or the most recent morsel

of society gossip, which would lose nothing in Sir Peter's telling,

but for once I be mistaken. what he have to tell I be the

particular of a somewhat singular incident in which he have figure as

one of the chief actor.



"it would appear that several month ago Sir Peter, while travel

in his own chariot, be stop by a mount highwayman and relieve,

among other thing, of a choice snuff-box--an heirloom, and set with

brilliant--by which he set great store. although the affair happen

in his own part of the country, when he come to town, a few week

later, he report his loss at Bow Street, and hand in a full

description of the box. this he do in the faint hope that the box

might some day find its way to one of the London pawnbroker--to each

of whom a description of it would have be furnish--and, through

he, back to its rightful owner.



"Time go on, and Sir Peter have give up all hope of ever see his

box again, when he be one day request to betake himself to Bow

Street, and there, sure enough, he set eye once more on his precious

heirloom. it have be find on the person of a low London thief who

have be arrest for something altogether different.



"but now come the most singular feature of the affair. the box have

be _twice_ steal, once, several month ago, from the person of Sir

Peter, and a second time, a few week ago, here in London, from the

person of a certain Mr. Geoffrey Dare, and both loss have be

notify to the authority.



"Sir Peter having identify the box as his property, it become

needful to ascertain through what channel it have come into the

possession of Mr. Dare, who seem to be one of those numerous young

man of good family about whom one be continually hear, who seem to

think that twenty thousand pound will go as far as a hundred

thousand, and who, after their folly and extravagance have make

they the talk of the town for a few season, vanish and be no more

see. at any rate, that, some two or three year ago, the young man in

question be a well-know figure in London society, and that, with the

help of the gaming table--an important factor in nearly all such

case--he dissipate his fortune to the last shilling, be well

ascertain fact.



"when inquire for at his lodging--a couple of cheap room in some

horrid back street--it be ascertain that he have go into the

country for an indefinite time, without leave any word where he

might be find. such be the state of affair, nothing more could be

do till he should return, which he do about ten day ago. a message

have be leave at his lodging, request his attendance at Bow

Street, which he seem to have lose no time in obey. there he be

question as to how the snuff-box come into his keeping, and, his

answer not be deem satisfactory, he be confront with Sir

Peter.



"in he--although he admit that the highwayman be mask--the

baronet profess to recognize the man who rob he of his purse and

the box; indeed, on be press, he actually go so far as to swear

to his identity with the robber, although, from what he have confess

to I, I cannot help think that the evidence on which he ground

his accusation be of the flimsiest possible kind.



"but be that as it may, after two or three remand at Bow Street, Dare

have be commit to take his trial for highway robbery at the next

Lanchester assize, within a few mile of which town Sir Peter be

waylay.



"I have write thus far yesterday when Sir Peter himself ring the

bell. he bring I some further news with regard to young Dare which

be of a sufficiently remarkable kind.



"it would appear that the authority have some ground for believe

that in he they have lay hand on no less a personage than a certain

Captain Nightshade (a sobriquet, of course), whose exploit and

adventure as a gentleman of the road in the course of the past two or

three year have, accord to Sir Peter, form the fireside talk of

half the household in the north of England. it seem, however, that

some six or eight month ago he disappear, and have not be hear of

since. but now that the runner have be lay on the scent, 'twill

not be their fault if they fail to run their quarry to earth.



"poor fellow! I cann't help feel sorry for he, although it may be

very reprehensible on my part to say so. I be afraid it will go hard

with he at his trial. 'Tis say that Captain Nightshade be one of

the most chivalrous of man, and never rob a woman in his life."









CHAPTER XXV.

a desperate RESOLVE.





Lady Carradine's letter, figuratively speak, smote poor Nell, like

a bolt from the blue. she have imagine several thing, any one of

which might have delay Dare's come--he have give she to understand

that his business in London would not take up more than a fortnight at

the most--but no faint dread or suspicion that, after so long a

time, he would be arrest and cast for trial on a charge connect

with his past career have ever enter her mind. it be like a stab in

the dark by an unseen hand, and she reel under it, and feel for a

while as if she be hurt in a vital part past hope of recovery.



she do not sleep a wink during the whole of the night after her

receipt of the news. now and then she lie down for a little while on a

couch, but for the most part she spend the long dark hour in pace

her room restlessly from end to end. no soon, however, have the first

streak of daylight appear in the sky than she quit the house,

and, make her way down to the bank of the little river which run

past the foot of the park, she follow its solitary winding for some

mile, till it draw near the village of Mosscrags, where the early

housewife be now astir, and the laborer go forth to their work;

then she turn and retrace the way she have come. it have seem to

she that she could think more clearly and coherently under the free

air of heaven than in the confine space of her own chamber.



all her thinking have for its intent the answering of one question:

"what can I do to help he?" but so bitterly do the sense of her

powerlessness weigh upon she that she could have beat her head

against the wall in a tempest of rage and impotent passion. she could

do nothing--nothing; a month-old babe would be as competent to help

he as she be. the four wall of a jail hold he, and there be no

door of escape open to he save that last one of all which lead to the

gallow. several time in the course of the night the shadow that

seem to lurk so thickly around one at such time have shape themselves

into the ghastly semblance of a cross-tree with its dangle rope,

which, all imaginary though it be, have cause her soul to shudder and

grow sick within she.



in the day to which our narrative refer the old barbarous and

inhuman penal code be still in full operation, and crime which a

short term of imprisonment with hard labor would now expiate have the

last dread sentence of the law pronounce on they without hope of

reprieve. at the Lanchester spring assize of that year, as Miss

Baynard do not fail to call to mind, a couple of man have be

condemn to death, one of they for sheep-stealing and the other for

shop-lifting. in the eye of the law the crime for which Geoffrey Dare

stand commit be of a much more heinous kind than either of those,

and should the charge be prove against he, as there seem every

likelihood of its being, then would the gallow see by Nell with the

eye of her imagination develop into a very real erection on the roof

of Lanchester jail. in such a case as Dare's--whether or no they

succeed in identify he with "captain Nightshade"--the death

penalty would indubitably be exact. justice would demand her victim,

while mercy weep with her face turn to the wall.



and still Nell's heart echo persistently with the cry, "what can I

do to help he?" but it be a cry which both earth and heaven fling

back, and to which no answer be vouchsafe she. all that day and all

the next night she be like a distracted creature, but distract

after the quiet fashion of one who crave for absolute solitude, and

to whom even the society of those nearest and dearest be distasteful,

if not positively unbearable.



kind-hearted Mrs. Budd be greatly put about, be altogether at a

loss to divine what be the matter with Nell, and whether the

strangeness of her manner be due to a mental or bodily cause. never

before have she develop such peculiar symptom, for no more sane and

healthy be ever exist. she have never swoon in her life,

although swoon, at proper time and season, be regard rather as

a fashionable accomplishment than otherwise. she never fancy that

she be ill when nothing ail she, or pretend that she have lose she

appetite; she be never trouble with qualm, or spasm, or "the

vertigo"; and as for be dyspeptic, she do not know the meaning of

the word. she have be render very anxious and unhappy by the

abduction of Evan, and proportionately happy by his recovery, but

there have be nothing in the way she bear herself at that time which

at all resemble the peculiar and inexplicable mood of which she have

be the victim for the last four-and-twenty hour.



it be in a certain measure due to Mrs. Budd's instinctive tact, which

teach she when it be advisable to speak and when to keep silent,

that she and Miss Baynard have get on so well together. on the present

occasion her instinct tell she that Nell be in no mood to bear

questioning, and she keep a guard on her tongue accordingly. but by

the afternoon of the second day her uneasiness have grow to such an

extent that she feel she should be lack in her duty to one so much

young than herself if she refrain any long from endeavor to

discover what it be that have change Miss Baynard so unaccountably in

so short a space of time.



"my dear Elinor, what be it that ail you? whatever be the matter with

you?" she at length summon up courage to ask. "you be not like the

same girl that you be at breakfast-time yesterday."



"be I not? and yet I be the same," reply Nell with a smile which have

more of tear than mirth in it. "what is't that ail I, do you ask!

nothing more serious than a fit of the megrim, I assure you. but I be

apt to be dangerous at such time. you have well not come too near

I; I might grow bad and bite you."



then, before the astonished lady have time to collect her faculty,

she find herself hug and kiss, and leave alone. half a minute

later she hear Miss Baynard singe as she go upstairs to her room.

then a door clash somewhere in the distance, and all be still.



some time in the dead of night Nell lie down on the couch in her

bedroom, and presently sink into the deep sleep of utter exhaustion.

in that sleep she have a very vivid dream, from which, at the end of a

couple of hour, she suddenly awake. so strongly have the particular

of her dream impress themselves upon she that she lie for another

hour without stir, turn they over and over in her mind till she

have master every detail of the scheme which, as she firmly believe,

have be reveal to she by some supernatural influence in her sleep.



she have scarcely eat a mouthful of anything since her receipt

of her godmother's letter, but this morning she appear at the

breakfast-table as usual, and look as if the last two day have be

blot out of her existence. she be still a little pale, and dark

round the eye, but the eye themselves have lose that look of almost

fierce despair, as of a creature drive to bay and not know which

way to turn, which have be their dominant expression for the last

eight-and-forty hour. now they shine with a serene and steadfast

lustre, which yet have in it a something of fixed resolution, as if

bent on carry out some hide purpose, which the busy brain behind

be brood remotely over, even while its outward attention be

occupy and give with seem abandonment to far other thing.



Mrs. Budd see and be satisfied, and be far too wise to put any

further question with reference to a state of affair which be so

evidently over and do with.



Nell follow Mrs. Budd's lead over breakfast-table-talk wherever that

good lady choose to let it wander, and her divagation be many and

various. she seem in the good of spirit, and when the meal be over

she indulge herself and Evan with a wild romp.



the boy have be much put about in his childish way because for the

last two night he have be banish from his Aunt Nell's chamber to

that of Mrs. Budd (in those first day after his recovery Nell would

not entrust he at night to the care of any of the servant), but this

glorious romp make amend for everything.



after that Nell disappear for some hour, and be engage upstairs

in her own room; but she join Mrs. Budd and Evan at dinner, and in

the afternoon they all drive out together and watch the sunset from

the summit of Goat Scar. then follow a long and happy evening. never

have Mrs. Budd see the girl more seemingly merry and light-hearted

than she be that day; she and the Nell of the day before be two

different being. and yet at time there would come a pause in her

gayety, and for a few second the light in her eye would deepen and

darken, and a look would come into they as if something have suddenly

cross her vision, see by herself alone. but, whatever it might be,

it go as quickly as it have come, and with one sharp-draw breath she

be herself again.



next day at breakfast her mood be unaltered; but again, in the course

of the forenoon, she be invisible for a couple of hour. that there

be some secret business afoot Mrs. Budd feel satisfied, but, be

the most discreet of matron, she would rather have tie a

handkerchief over her eye than have allow they to see what it be

evidently not intend they should see. still, it be not without a

little shock of surprise that she hear the news which Nell break

abruptly to she as soon as their two o'clock dinner have come to an

end.



"I be about to leave you for a little while," say the girl, smile

bravely. "at present I can tell you neither the object of my journey

nor my destination, but that you will know everything in good time I

do not doubt. neither can I fix the date of my return, because that be

a point about which I be not quite clear. I leave Evan in your hand

with every confidence. that you will look well after he I feel

assured. he love you and will be happy with you."



after this follow a few direction with regard to household and

other matter; then Miss Baynard go to get ready for her journey.



an hour later Mrs. Budd and Evan be wait on the step of the main

entrance to see her start. presently, mount on her mare Peggy, and

follow by John Dyce, also on horseback, she came ride round from

the stable, and a very fair and gracious picture she make in her long

dark-blue riding habit, over which she wear a short gray cloak line

with black and tie with black ribbon, be in mourning for Mr.

Cortelyon. her hat be of black beaver, broad-brim and ornament

with two sweeping ostrich plume of the same color.



the afternoon sun, shine upon three or four heavy ringlet of

chestnut hair which have escape from under her hat, make a golden

glory of they. the late pallor of her complexion have give place to a

lovely flush of color. her eye, while more than ordinarily brilliant,

do not smile as her lip do; rather do it seem as if they be

charge with the light of some great resolution which might need all

her courage to carry it through.



Evan be hold aloft for the sake of a last kiss. there be a fervent

"Heaven keep you, darling!" a flickering smile, the glisten of a tear,

a last wave of the hand, and Nell be go. the widow and child stand

hand in hand till the tree of the avenue hide she from view and the

sound of hoof-beat have die into silence. then they go back indoor,

but for both the light and gladness of the house have vanish. there

be a chill upon everything, their spirit include.



an hour-and-a-half's good riding bring Miss Baynard and her escort

to the quaint old town of Lanchester, with its narrow street and

narrower alleyways, with its many overhang, lopsided house, and

its grim old county jail, build of ragged graystone, which frown

blankly down from the upper end of its wide, irregularly-shape

market-place, as if in mute warning to all and sundry. Miss Baynard,

whose road lead her past one corner of it, shudder involuntarily as

she glance at it out of a corner of her eye. for she just then that

gray old pile be the most vitally interesting spot in the whole

world.



she be bind, first of all, for Langrig, the seat of Sir James

Dalrymple, which be situate in the suburb of Lanchester. Sir James,

it may be remember, be one of the trustee appoint under Mr.

Cortelyon's unsigned will, and very glad he be, when he come to learn

the content of that document, to find that it be so much waste

paper, and that he would not be call upon to help in the carrying

out of what he regard as its most wicked and unjust provision. he

have a warm regard for Nell, not only for her own sake, but for that of

her father, whom he have know and like, and with whom he have spend

many a roystering evening when they be young blade together about

London town. finally, it may be mention that Sir James be chairman

of the Lanchester bench of magistrate.



"I have come to you, Sir James, on rather a singular errand," begin

Miss Baynard, when she have be show into the library, where she

find the baronet sit with one leg in a gout-rest, and after the

usual greeting have pass between they.



"my dear young lady, my humble service be at your command in any and

every way."



"at the present time there be a certain prisoner, Mr. Geoffrey Dare by

name, in Lanchester jail, await his trial at the next assize."



"which open in three week from now. to be sure--to be sure. the

rascal who be say to have waylay Sir Peter Warrendale and rob he

of his watch and snuff-box, and who be shrewdly suspect of be none

other than the notorious Captain Nightshade. but what about he?"



"merely this, Sir James, that I want you to give I an order of

admission--I know you have ample power to do so--to see he privately

in prison. when I say privately in prison, I of course mean without

witness."



Sir James give vent to a low whistle. "my dear Miss Baynard, do you

know that this be really a somewhat extraordinary request of your?"



"I be quite aware of it. but let I explain why I have prefer it."

she draw a long breath. without she be prepared to tell a lie--nay,

more than one--she feel sure that her request would run the risk of a

refusal. lie to she have ever be an abomination, but the aim she have

set before herself be such as to leave she no option in the matter.

when a man's life be at stake, and that the life of the person you

love well in the world, the ordinary rule of conduct be apt to get

mixed and blur, and much may be forgive. in such extreme case

black be liable to be regard as white, and white as any color you

please.



Miss Baynard have come prepared to answer objection, and she go on

after a hardly observable pause.



"the fact of the matter be, Sir James, that Mr. Dare, in his more

prosperous day, be the bosom friend of my late cousin, Dick

Cortelyon, whose young son, as you be aware, have just inherit his

grandfather's property. well, it so happen that a couple of day ago,

in turn over some letter and other effect which have belong to

my cousin, I come across a sort of rough diary which have be keep by

he during the last year of his life. in it there be a passage in

which he make mention of a batch of rather important family paper

which, after he have fall into disgrace at home, he have entrust to

the keeping of Mr. Dare. now, although I have seek for they high and

low, I have fail to find any trace of the paper in question, and be

consequently most anxious to ascertain from Mr. Dare what have become

of they; indeed, I think it most likely that they be still somewhere

in his keeping. such be my reason, Sir James, for desire an

interview with he. if it could be arrange for to-day I should esteem

it a great favor, as some very special business will take I from home

to-morrow, and the date of my return be altogether uncertain."



"my dear Miss Baynard, not a word more be need. I will at once write

and give you a note, address to Captain Jeffs, the governor of the

jail, authorize he to permit you to have a private interview with

the prisoner Dare. what a pity, what a damnable pity it be (beg

your pardon) that a young fellow with good family and with the

brilliant prospect which, I be give to understand, be once

his, should have bring his kettle of fish to such a market as he

seem to have do! but, as we make our bed, so must we lie on it.

and now---- but, dear I! dear I! here be I run on without ever

think to ask you what you will take in the way of refreshment.

that's one of the fruit of be an old bachelor, and of have no

womenfolk to keep I up to the mark and teach I not to forget the

minor courtesy of life."



in the result, Nell agree to accept a glass of the baronet's

"particular old Madeira" and a biscuit. not to have do as much as

that would have be to infringe the unwritten law of north-country

hospitality.



then say Sir James: "I have Lawyer Piljoy here t'other day. his

purpose in come be to tell I all about the lost child and its

recovery, and a most amazing story it be; and, far, to consult

with I as to what step, if any, it be advisable to take in the

affair. the first thing I do be to send for Staniforth, who be to

have be your uncle's other trustee, and then we three lay our head

together. I need not bother you with recite any of our argument pro

and con, but in the end we agree that it would not, for various

reason, be advisable that any further proceeding should be take in

the matter. the child have be restore, which be the main thing to be

bear in mind, and we feel pretty sure that no attempt would be make

to abduct he a second time."



"you say, Sir James, that the child have be restore, which be quite

true, but do you know whom we have to thank for it?"



"haven't the remotest notion. I ask Piljoy how it come about, but he

couldn't tell I. he say that if anybody know, you do, but that

beyond tell he it be the Honorable Mrs. B. who have abduct the

youngster (what a she-cat that woman must be!) you have favor he

with no particular."



"it be to Mr. Geoffrey Dare, now a prisoner in Lanchester jail, that

the child's recovery be due. it have be arrange that he--the

boy--should be secretly transport to America, where we should never

have hear of he more, when Mr. Dare, having discover what be

afoot, in the guise of a highwayman stop the carriage in which he

be be carry off, and rescue he from the wretch to whose

charge he have be commit."



"never hear of such a thing in my life, damme if I do! um--um! I

crave your pardon, my dear, but strong feeling have a way of find

their vent in strong language. and young Dare do that, do he? well,

well, we must see what can be do for he when his trial come on.

such stuff as he seems make of be too good for the gallow. and now I

will write you the promise note. I'm afraid you'll be a little later

than the regulation hour for see prisoner, but maybe jeff will

strain a point for once in a way. at any rate, I'll ask he to do so."









CHAPTER XXVI.

"for MY sake."





the late September afternoon be close rapidly in when John Dyce

help his mistress to alight from her mare, which have be rein up

close to the great, black, bolt-studded gate of Lanchester jail. it

be a rare thing for those gate to be open except for the admission

of prisoner, the usual mean of entrance and exit be by a postern

in the wall no great distance away.



on this door Miss Baynard now proceed to give three resound blow

with the huge iron knocker. half a minute later a small wicket be

open, and a hirsute face peer out into the glow darkness.



"be good enough to have this note give to Captain Jeffs without a

minute's delay," say Miss Baynard in her clear, imperious tone. "it

be of the utmost importance. I will wait here while you obtain an

answer." with that she hand in Sir James's note at the wicket, but

on the top of it lie a shine guinea.



there be a grunt, and the wicket be shut.



while await an answer, Nell draw from one of her pocket a long

diaphanous black veil, which she proceed to fix round the brim of

her hat and to fasten in a knot behind in such a fashion that it come

halfway down her face, leave nothing of it expose save her upper

lip, her mouth, and her chin.



the wait seem an intolerably long one, and her nerve be begin

to give way a little, when the wicket be open for the second time,

and the same hirsute face make its appearance. "the governor say it's

beyont the hour for visitor, and that ye should have come early;

but as ye're a friend o' Sir James Dalrymple's he'll admit ye. he

send word that he's sorry not to come and speak to ye hisself, but

he's get company at dinner, and cann't leave th' table." such, in the

gruff of tone, be the doorkeeper's welcome message.



then the wicket be close again, and half a minute later the narrow

black door have open to admit Nell. she slip in like a shadow, the

postern be shut with a clash, and she find herself in a bare,

flagged ante-room or entrance-hall, with three or four door open

out of it, and dimly light with a couple of gutter candle. here

be a second man, like the first, in uniform, who carry in one hand

a jingle bunch of key, and to whom the doorkeeper introduce she

with the remark, "this be Willyam, mum, who will show ye the way if ye

will please to follow he."



"then perhaps William will oblige I by accept this trifle," say

Miss Baynard; and before the turnkey know what have happen there be

a guinea nestling in his palm.



then from some mysterious pocket Miss Baynard produce a large, flat

bottle contain a quart of the most potent brandy in the Stanbrook

cellar. "and here be something to share between you and to drink my

health in," she add, as she proffer the bottle for the

doorkeeper's acceptance, who take it as tenderly as if it have be a

month-old baby.



"eh, mum, but it's agen the rule to accept anything o' this sort," he

remark, with a wag of his head. "we'll not engage to drink it. no,

no. rule ben't make in order that they may be break. we'll just hide

it away where nobody but ourselves can find it, so as not to put

temptation in the way of any other poor body." and with that the

rascal favor his fellow-officer with a portentous wink.



the latter functionary now light a small lantern, and, having

unlocked one of the inner door, he say, "if you will be pleased to

follow I, mum."



by this time Nell's nerve be work up to a point of tension that

be almost unendurable. she set her tooth hard and clench her hand

as if she intend never to open they again.



Success have attend she so far; would it desert she now? what she have

already achieve be as nothing in comparison with that which be

still before she. for a few moment it seem as if the courage which

have hitherto sustain she be about to give way.



as she follow the man she have merely a vague impression of a gloomy,

flag, earth-smell corridor, light only by the turnkey's

lantern; of a heavy iron door which have to be unlocked to allow of

their further advance; of another corridor the counterpart of the

first, save that on one side of it some half-dozen door be range

at interval. at one of these her conductor come to a halt, and,

having select a key from his bunch, proceed to unlock it. then,

fling wide the door, he say in deep, gruff tone which seem to

fill the corridor, "Prisoner, a lady to see you," and with that he

move aside to allow Miss Baynard to enter.



at the word dare spring to his foot. he have be read, stretch

at full length on the pallet which serve he for a bed by night and a

couch by day. a wooden sconce, fix against the wall, hold a solitary

candle of the coarse tallow, which diffuse a dim, sickly light

through the cell. it be an indulgence his own pocket have to pay for.

have not the volume on which he be engage be in large print he

could not have see to read it.



at sight of he all Nell's fail courage come back to she with a

rush, mingle with a great wave of love and compassion. hardly could

she command her voice while she whisper to the turnkey, "leave we

for half-an-hour; don't come before."



"all right, mum," whisper the man back.



then Nell step across the threshold of the cell, and the door

be lock behind she. Dare, his book fall unheeded to the floor,

stand stare at she with wide-lidde eye as though she be some

visitant from the tomb. Nell respond to his amazement with a

strangely-wistful smile, and eye that no long strive to hide a

secret which, she flatter herself, they have never reveal before.

she could not have speak at that moment to save her life. she feel as

if a spell be upon she; everything about she be unreal. dare

himself be not a creature of flesh and blood, but merely a projection

of her own imagination. some sorceress have throw an enchantment over

her which----



"be it you, Miss Baynard, whom I see? and here, of all place in the

universe!"



Dare's voice break the spell that be upon she, and recall to

she, as in a flash, the very real business--the matter of life and

death--which have take she there, and which must be enter on without

a minute's unnecessary delay.



"yes, it be I, Mr. Dare," she answer in accent that be slightly

tremulous. "you do I and mine a great, nay, an inestimable service;

and I be here to see whether I cannot do something for you in return."



a bitter smile light up his sallow feature for a moment. "it be indeed

good of you to have put yourself to so much trouble about such a

worthless wretch as I. But, be I a hundred-fold more worthy than I

be, neither you, Miss Baynard, nor any power on earth (save and except

the King's clemency, which be altogether out of the question) could do

aught to help I out of the coil of trouble which I have bring upon

myself."



"do not be too sure on that point, Mr. Dare. it be the humblest

instrument which sometimes avail for the most difficult task. we

have all read the fable of the lion and the mouse, and case might

arise in which even such an inconsiderable person as I, owe to my

very insignificance might be able to do thing which would be

impossible in any one of great importance." her voice be firm

enough by now, and her eye confront his unwaveringly. she have

push up her veil till only an edge of it be visible across her

forehead at the moment the turnkey have lock the door behind she.



dare bow, but look slightly puzzle. to what be all this the

prelude? that she have not come there without have some very special

purpose in view he could no long doubt. but merely to see her face

again be to he what the sight of water be to some poor wretch die

of thirst in the desert. to himself he always speak of she as the Lady

of his Dreams.



"will you not be seat, Miss Baynard?" he now say, as he bring

forward a substantial three-legged stool, the only thing, except his

pallet, he have to sit on. "my accommodation be of the simple, as you

can see for yourself. that, however, be not my fault, but an oversight

(shall we call it?) on the part of my custodian, whose affection for

I be so extreme that they cannot bear to part from I."



so Nell sit down on the three-legged stool, while Dare stand a little

apart, with fold arm, rest a shoulder against the whitewash

wall of his cell.



Miss Baynard clear her voice; the crucial moment have come at last.



"I be not here this evening, Mr. Dare, merely to sympathize with you,"

she resume, "although that my most heartfelt sympathy be yours need

no assurance on my part, but to put before you a certain definite

proposition, which have be carefully think out in all its detail,

and the carrying out of which seem to I perfectly feasible. here, in

the few word possible--necessarily few because half an hour at the

outside must bring my visit to an end--be my proposition. it be simply

that you and I shall change place. in half a hour from now you shall

quit this cell in the guise of Elinor Baynard, and I shall stay where

I be, have, for the nonce, exchange my personality for that of Mr.

Geoffrey Dare."



Dare have spring to "attention" long before Nell have come to an end. a

wave of dark crimson sweep across his lean face, leave it sallower

than before. his eye light up with an intense glow. would any

woman, he ask himself, any woman who be young and beautiful, put

such a proposition to a man if she do not love he? it be a question

he do not wait to answer. he would have time enough to consider it

later on.



"never have an undeserving man a more noble offer make he than you

have just make I. but, put aside the insuperable difficulty in

the way of carry it out, there be other reason which----"



"there be no insuperable difficulty in the way of carry it out,"

break in Nell. "every arrangement have be make, as you shall

presently hear. but remember this, that we have no time to waste in

explanation or idle objection."



Dare bow as accept a correction. "then permit I to say as

briefly as may be, Miss Baynard, that it cannot be, that on no account

whatever could I, or would I accept such a sacrifice at your hand."



"a sacrifice! oh, the mockery of the phrase!" although she speak

aloud, the word seem address to herself rather than to dare. she

have remove her ride glove, and the long, slender finger of one

hand now grip those of the other convulsively. her sharp, white

tooth bit into her underlip and leave their mark there. she seem to

be brace herself for a final effort.



"you be no doubt aware," she resume, "that your trial will come on

in about three week from now."



"that be a circumstance I be not likely to forget."



"and have you consider, have you allow your imagination to paint

for you what the consequence will be should the verdict at your trial

go against you?"



"as, consider the evidence which will be bring against I, it be

nearly sure to do. yes, I have fully consider the consequence, and

may be say to be on pretty familiar term with it by this time. but

as for my imagination, I trust it be too well-breed to allow itself to

dwell unnecessarily on detail which be good keep in the background

till the late possible moment."



"and the prospect do not appall you?"



"appall I? no. 'tis not a pleasant one, I admit. but what would you?

I play a game with Fate, the dice go against I, and I have lose.

that, however, be no reason why I should bewail myself like a pule

child, or why my cheek should blanch at the prospect which I shall

presently be call upon to confront."



"but will you not see, cannot you comprehend, that a door of escape be

open for you?" her voice have in it a ring of almost passionate

impatience. the precious minute be drift away one by one.



"possibly so, but only at an expense which I do not choose to incur."



"oh, what headstrong folly! do the world ever see its like? and you

would rather face your--your doom than accept this sacrifice, as you

choose to call it, at my hand?"



"even so. I have say it, and nothing will avail to move I from it."



for a moment or two she beat her hand together in an agony of

helplessness. then she stand up. her face be colorless, and her

forehead contract as if with a spasm of intense pain.



"you do not know how cruel you be," she say in low, concentrated

tone. "you drag from I thing which I think never to reveal to a

living soul." she pause for a space of half-a-dozen heart-beat, as

though fight against some hide emotion. then she go on. "should

it be your fate to die, Geoffrey Dare, the same day that end your

life shall end mine! I swear it." she lift up her hand and let she

face sink into they.



an inarticulate cry break from Dare, a great light leapt into his

eye, he draw a step near and hold out both his arm. then he half

draw back, with his arm extend in mid-air. "such word, unless I be

a bad interpreter, can have but one meaning." he seem to breathe the

syllable rather than to speak they.



for a few second there be no reply, and when it do come he have to

strain his ear or he would have lose it.



"your death-day shall be mine. I have say it. be not that enough?"



a moment later his arm be about she, and he be strain she

passionately to his heart. "and you love me!--me!!" he ejaculate.

"oh, miracle of miracle!"



Sweet to he as a breath from Paradise be the whisper answer: "I

have love you ever since the night you be so kind to Jack

Prentice."



it be three minute later. with what pass in the interim we be in

no way concerned.



"but consider, my darling, think and consider before it be too late,"

urge Dare. "that Miss Baynard of Stanbrook should stoop to love

Captain Nightshade--a highwayman--a minion of the moon! no, it must

not be! and I--I should be a scoundrel to accept so great a gift,

unless----"



a hand be lay on his lip. "oh, hush! I will not listen to such

word. you steal away a poor girl's heart, and then you bid her think

and consider! too late, too late. but never, never will I forgive you

for having wrung my secret from I! yet, what be I say? on one

condition I will forgive you fully and freely."



"and that is----?"



"that without a word more of demur you do your share in help I to

carry out the scheme which bring I here. what that scheme be I have

already tell you."



"but, my dearest----"



for the second time a hand be lay on his lip. "not a word! I will

not listen. you will do it, if not for your own sake, then for mine.

do you hear? for mine."



"for your, then, let it be," he assent, but for the life of he he

could not see by what mean she purpose carry out her

extraordinary proposition.



the prison clock begin to boom the hour. Miss Baynard start.

"Heavens! our little slice of time more than half go, and nothing

do!"



then, without a word more, she untie her short gray cloak and lay it

aside. under it she have on a loosely fitting bodice and her long

riding skirt, both of which garment a couple a minute later lie in a

heap on the floor; and then to Dare's astonished eye there stand

reveal the seem figure of a young man, wear a ruffled shirt

and cravat, a pair of dark small clothe and hessian boot--all at one

time the property of unfortunate Dick Cortelyon. only the plumed hat,

the veil, and the heavy chestnut curl still remain to bespeak their

owner's sex. but Nell's hand go quickly up to her head, there be

a few deft movement of her finger, and the whole paraphernalia--hat,

veil, and ringlet come bodily away. well might dare's eye open

themselves still wide. before leave home she have shorn off

her wealth of tress, and then, by mean of some feminine

sleight-of-hand, have contrive to secure they to the inner side of her

hat in such a way that when the hat be wear the curl lay in quite

natural fashion round the nape of the neck.



nor be Dare's wonder yet to end. from a pocket in her small-clothe

Nell now draw forth a black wig, a masquerade relic of poor Dick's,

and proceed to draw it on over her close-cropped chestnut lock.

then turn to her companion, who have be regard she all this

time without a word, she say in mock-serious tone, "your coat and

vest, sir, or your life!"



at once dare divest himself of the article in question, and when

Nell have induct herself into they her transformation be complete,

and a very dashing and debonair young buck she look.



"and now it be high time for Miss Baynard to make _she_ toilet," she

remark; "but such an awkward young woman be she that it may be as

well I should lend she a help hand."



Dare, who recognize the futility of any further opposition, yield

himself into her hand and do exactly as she bid he. although Nell

be tall, he be three inch tall than she, but the ride skirt

admit of ample allowance for the difference. when, however, it come

to the bodice, that garment crack ominously, and the hook and eye

wholly refuse to come together. but, happily, the gray cloak be

ample enough to hide all shortcoming.





[illustration: "your coat and vest sir--or your life."]





lastly, the elaborate headdress--hat, veil, and curl--have to be

adjust. this be a matter of some nicety, but presently it be

accomplish to Miss Baynard's satisfaction. then, step back a

pace, she take a general survey of her handiwork. "yes, I think you'll

do," she say, "although you do look so preternaturally tall. on no

account must you either speak or cough, and do for goodness' sake try

to mitigate that seven-league stride of your. I suppose that, try as

you might, you couldn't mince or bridle a little, as all young lady

be suppose to do?"



although she speak with such seem levity, her nerve be all

a-tingle with mingled apprehension and excitement. she feel as if she

be strap down on the operating table, and wait for the coming

of the surgeon with his terrible knife.



the only remark make by Dare during the process of his transformation

be when Nell be on the point of crown he with the hat and curl.

with a caressing touch on one of the tress, he say: "oh, my dear

one, to think you should have do this for I! what a sacrifice! can

I ever forgive you?"



"of course you can," she answer lightly. "be I not make you a

present of the rubbish, to do what you like with? some lover think

themselves well off if they can secure a tiny tress of their mistress'

hair, but so great be _my_ generosity that I freely present you with

enough to stuff a sofa cushion."



he catch she in his arm and kiss she passionately.



but now be hear a faint sound as of the unlocking and opening of a

door in the distance, and then, herald by a cough, the noise of

approach footstep on the flagged floor of the corridor. instead of

a bare thirty minute, our young people have be nearly an hour

together. whether the guineas and the brandy be in any way concern

with such a liberal measurement of time be more than one would

undertake to decide.



"the time to part have come," say Nell in a hurried whisper. "listen.

my man John Dyce be wait outside, in charge of my mare. he may be

trust implicitly. he have have his instruction, and will ask no

question. the future I leave wholly in your hand."



More be impossible. the turnkey be at the door. after a preliminary

rap on it, he call out, "Time's up long since, mum. be you ready?"



"quite ready, William, thank you," be Miss Baynard's clear response.



so William unlock the door, and draw it back on its hinge. what he

see when he have do so be his prisoner, as it seem to he, seat

on his pallet in a dejected attitude, with bow head, and his elbow

rest on his knee; nor do he so much as look up at the opening of

the door.



just inside, wait apparently for the opening of the door, and with

she back to the candle, be the young lady visitor, whose face be now

wholly hide by her veil. as soon as the door be open she pass

out without a word, and then stand aside for a moment, while it be

shut and relocke. that do, William, swinge his hand-lantern, and

not, it must sorrowfully be confess, quite so steady on his foot as

he have be early in the evening, lead the way, in happy ignorance of

the peck of trouble he be brew for himself.



hardly be the cell door shut before Nell be kneel by it with one

ear press to its cold iron surface. the footstep die into silence,

then as before, be hear the clash of a distant door, and after that

all be still with a stillness as of the tomb.



then Nell stand up, a great calm, a great happiness almost, shine

out of her eye. "if only I have succeed in save he," she say

aloud, "nothing else matter!"



but next moment her overwrought nerve give way. stagger across the

floor and fling herself face downward on the pallet, she burst into

a tempest of tear.









CHAPTER XXVII.

three year after.





_from Mrs. Dare to Lady Carradine_.



"my dear Godmother,--Your last letter, to hand five day ago, bring

I a large measure of happiness. in it you tell I that you have at

length forgive I in full for what heretofore you have always

designate as my 'rash and ill-consider marriage.' it do indeed

make I glad to learn that I be once more to be take back, fully and

freely, into your affection, the loss of which have be the bitterest

drop in the cup of my married felicity.



"in your letter you put several question to I have reference to

the event of the last few week prior to my departure from England.

these I will now endeavor to answer to the good of my ability.



"thank to the interest bring to bear by your ladyship in a certain

high quarter, your scapegrace goddaughter, after having make three

appearance before the Lanchester bench of magistrate, be

unceremoniously set at liberty. this, of course, be ancient history to

you, but it be the point from which, for your information, I purpose

narrate as briefly as may be what befell I afterwards up to the

date of my departure for America.



"I have only be a couple of day back at Stanbrook when a note

reach I which have be bring by a man on horseback. the writer of

it be Mr. Cope-Ellerslie, of Rockmount, whose acquaintance I have make

some time before under rather peculiar circumstance, ask I to go

back with his messenger, as the writer have some news of importance to

communicate. this I have no hesitation about do, see that Mr.

Ellerslie be know to I as the uncle of Geoffrey Dare.



"a couple of hour later I alight from my mare at the door of

Rockmount.



"a man between sixty and seventy, tall and bow, habit in a

monkish robe, with a moustache and a short peak beard, long

grizzle hair part down the middle, and a singular waxen pallor of

complexion--such be the Mr. Ellerslie know to I, and such be the

man who now receive I. I have assume that it be in order to be

favor with some tiding of, or to receive some message from, his

nephew (who have be utterly lose to I from the moment the cell door

be shut between we), that I have be summon to Rockmount. nor be I

mistaken.



"after having refer to the Lanchester affair in term which I would

not recapitulate even if I could, Mr. Ellerslie go on to mark that

his nephew have not yet leave the country, but be in safe hiding no

great distance away. proceeding, he go on to observe that he be the

bearer of a certain message from Geoffrey, but that he find himself

somewhat at a loss for term in which to convey it. strip, however,

of all verbiage it come to this: Geoffrey would not hold I to my word

or promise, give he in the cell at Lanchester, if, since then, and

after further consideration, I in the slight degree regret, or

wish, to recall, anything which have pass between we on that

occasion.



"then, before I have time to frame into word the answer which leapt

from my heart, Mr. Ellerslie proceed to address I on his own

account. I be young and parentless, he remark, and, so far as he

could judge, somewhat liable to be lead away by generous but

undisciplined impulse. he beg of I to pause, to reflect coolly

and dispassionately, before link my lot with that of a man who,

should no bad fate befall he, must henceforth be an outcast from

his native land. and so on, and so on, till I beg of he to cease.



"need I tell you, my dear godmother, in what term I answer he? no,

I be sure I need not. you know your Nelly too well not to have guess

already.



"the pith of all I have to say be comprise in less than a score

word: 'Geoffrey Dare be my choose husband, and, come weal or woe, I

will wed none but he.'



"Mr. Ellerslie throw up his hand. 'if you will persist, my dear young

lady, in your headstrong course, then have I nothing more to urge. my

ambassadorial function be at an end, and the soon my nephew come

and do his own talk the well for all concern.'



"without a word more he rise and leave the room, and five minute later

Geoffrey enter it.



"to relate what pass between he and I would not entertain you in

the least. it will be enough to state that if we have not be

betroth lover before, we become so from that hour.



"it be to Rockmount that Geoffrey have direct his step on the night

of his escape, and there he have be in hiding ever since.



"when the time have come for I to take my departure in order that I

might get back to Stanbrook before dark, I say to he, 'but shall I

not see Mr. Ellerslie again before I go?'



"'that you certainly will not,' he reply with one of his puzzling

smile. 'Mr. Cope-Ellerslie be no long in existence. he die about

an hour ago. his life be brief but necessary. peace to his remain!'

then, see my look of amazement, he add, 'have you not yet find

out, or even suspect, that Mr. Ellerslie and Geoffrey Dare be one

and the same person?"



"no, that I certainly have not. nevertheless, I be now assure that

such be the fact, and I have to delay my departure for another half

hour while the mystery be clear up for I.



"when Geoffrey Dare leave London a ruined man, bankrupt in love, in

friendship, in mean (I long ago explain to you under what peculiar

circumstance he be induce to take to the King's highway), he come

to Rockmount, which be his own property, and which, owe doubtless

to its isolated situation in the midst of a wide stretch of desolate

moorland, have be untenante for year. with he he bring three old

family servant, whom not even the rack or the thumbscrew would have

force into betray he. but it be Mr. Cope-Ellerslie, the scholar

and the recluse, who have become the tenant of Rockmount, and no

faint suspicion ever get abroad that there be, or could be, any

connection between he and Captain Nightshade.



"so far so good; but I still fail to comprehend the nature of a

disguise which so completely change Geoffrey's identity that only an

hour before my eye have fail to penetrate it. to take one point

alone: in Mr. Ellerslie's face, leave out of account the difference

in the complexion, there bad be a thousand fine line and crease,

whereas in Geoffrey's it would have puzzle one to find a dozen.



"then be I enlighten. Mr. Cope-Ellerslie's face be a mask, of

which moustache, beard, eyebrow, and hair form component part. the

foundation of the mask consist of the skin of a newly-bear kid,

pare or scrape to an exceed fineness, and mould to the feature

while still plastic. Geoffrey have bring it with he from Italy

several year before, where such disguise seem to be not unknown, and

where it have be make for he in order that he might take part in a

certain carnival frolic. so simple sometimes be the explanation of an

apparently inscrutable mystery!



"but my letter be drag itself out to an unconscionable length, and

I must hurry on.



"of a certain quiet wedding in Holland, and of the after-sailing of

the two people concerned for the United States, I have no particular

worth recount beyond those already know to you. here they have

live happily ever since, and here--whatever home-sickness they may

have feel in secret--they have make up their mind to pass the rest of

their day, when a passage in your last letter set their heart

dance with a happiness so unlooke-for that since it burst into

their life like a flash of sunlight they have hardly be able to talk

about anything else.



"you write, my dear godmother, that you have fair hope of be

able, by and by, through bring your influence to bear in the same

all-powerful quarter in which you bring it to bear once before, to

secure for Geoffrey a free pardon. what two happy and grateful being

you would, in that case, make of my husband and I, I should fail to

tell you in any word.



"you be kind enough to say, far, that you miss your Nelly's face

and long to see it again, as also that there be a big corner for she

in your will. we will say nothing about the latter, but, as regard

the former, let I whisper in your ear that you need not be very much

surprised if you see I in London in the course of next season. if

Geoffrey should be free to come with I, what happiness that would be!

but, in any case, I think you may look forward pretty confidently to

see your vagrant goddaughter.



"you will readily believe I when I tell you that I be also very

desirous of set eye again on my young kinsman, Evan Cortelyon,

the account of whose abduction and recovery have for you such a special

interest. (don't forget, please, that his recovery be wholly due to

my dear husband.) he have be make a ward in Chancery, and although I

have frequent news of he, and be assure that he be well and happy,

yet that be not like see he and feel his dear arm about my

neck.



"what you have to tell I in your last letter anent the Hon. Mrs.

Bullivant take I by surprise, as you say it would; but I'm afraid my

disposition be not of a sufficiently forgiving kind to allow of my

stating, with any regard for truth, that I feel sorry for she, because

I certainly do nothing of the kind.



"my surprise arise from the fact that she--of all woman I have ever

know the most unlikely--should have allow herself to be so

thoroughly hoodwink as she seem to have be over her marriage with

the Earl of Mortlake. of course she be dazzle by the prospect of

become a countess, and by the likelihood--you say she regard it as

a certainty--that in less than a twelvemonth she would be leave a widow

(a title widow with a handsome jointure), such a mere wreck of

humanity be his lordship, to all seeming, when she accept he,

besides be more than double her age.



"if this latter consideration be--and you appear to have no doubt on

the point--her chief reason for become his wife, then, indeed, must

her awakening have be anything but a pleasant one when she find

that the man who have be carry into the church by four of his

tenant, so feeble do he seem, be able, as soon as the ceremony be

over, not merely to walk unassisted out of the sacred edifice, but to

offer his bride the support of his arm. what a genuine comedy scene it

must have be for everybody there, save and except her newly-make

ladyship!



"and now you tell I that his lordship be likely to live for a dozen

year to come. I know that he have be marry twice before, and that

he have the reputation of be one of the most brutal and unfeeling of

husband, a reputation with which it be hard to believe his present

wife can have be unacquainted.



"yes, on consideration I think I can afford to forget bygone, and to

spare a little pity for my lady countess. Hers be indeed an unhappy

fate; nor will she derive much consolation from the knowledge that she

owe it wholly to herself.



"I have keep a very singular bit of news till the last.



"you may remember that when we come here we bring with we the dumb

man, Andry Luce, who have be my Uncle Cortelyon's secretary and

factotum, and about whom you have often hear I speak.

notwithstanding his infirmity, Geoffrey find he very useful in

keep the book and account of the large property of which my

husband have the management. he be deeply attach to I, and I have a

very warm regard for he.



"well, I be grieve to have to relate that the poor fellow have come to

a sad end. about a fortnight ago he be fatally injure while try

to stop a runaway horse and vehicle. some day pass before he

succumb to his injury, and it be while he lie die (I be

thankful to say he do not suffer much) that he confess something to

I which perhaps I might otherwise have go to the grave without

know.



"you and I, my dear godmother, in day go by, more than once

bewilder our brain in try to solve the mystery of my uncle's

unsigned will, for if he have not believe it to be sign, why should

he have be so anxious in his last moment, as he certainly be, to

have it destroy?



"this be the puzzle which Andry's confession--spell out to I word

by word on his finger after the manner of dumb people--solve once

for all.



"Andry be in the habit of dabble in chemical in his spare moment,

and it be with a chemically prepared ink, manufacture by he

specially for the purpose, that the will be sign by the testator

and the witness. the special property of the ink in question be

that, within forty-eight hour of its having be use, anything

write with it would fade out of existence, leave nothing but the

blank, unsullied paper where it have be.



"of course it be a very wicked thing of Andry to do, but he have

somehow learn the content of the will, and his indignation at the

iniquity of its provision seem to have utterly confuse his sense of

right and wrong, as, I verily believe, it would have do mine have I

be in his place.



"if you ask I what notice I intend take of the information which

have thus strangely come into my keeping, I answer, none at all. and it

be a view in which my husband bear I out. I hold myself to be wholly

absolve from take any action whatever in the affair, because my

uncle's last wish--nay, his positive command--be that the will in

question should be destroy.



"and thus, after all, his die wish be carry out, but in a way

certainly never contemplate by he."







the END





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a MINION of the MOON: a romance of the king'S highway ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





