The project Gutenberg eBook of a Barren Title: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Barren title: a novel



author: T. W. Speight



Release date: July 31, 2018 [ebook #57613]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by the

        Internet web archive (the Library of Congress)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a barren TITLE: a novel ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by the

Internet web archive (the Library of Congress)























Transcriber's Notes:

   1. page scan source: the internet web Archive

   https://archive.org/details/barrentitlenovel00spei

   (the Library of Congress)













Harper's Handy Series

issue Weekly



---------------------



copyright by Harper & Brothers November 27, 1885

Subscription Price per Year, 52 number, $15



---------------------



enter the Post-Office at New York, as second-class Mail Matter













a barren TITLE



a novel







BY T. W. SPEIGHT

AUTHOR of "the mystery of HERON DYKE" ETC.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------

_book you may hold readily in your hand be the most useful, after all_

Dr. JOHNSON







NEW YORK

harper & brother, publisher

1885













content

    CHAP.



       I. SHABBY-GENTEEL.

      II. AT the BROWN bear.

     III. negotiation.

      IV. TERMS PROPOSED.

       V. TERMS ACCEPTED.

      VI. mild LUNACY.

     VII. "SWEET COZ."

    VIII. "GOOD-BYE."

      IX. TRANSFORMATION.

       X. infatuation.

      XI. CONFIDENTIAL.

     XII. CECILIA and the COUNTESS.

    XIII. "YOUNG PILLBOX."

     XIV. "TWELVE IT be."

      XV. CECILIA philosophizes.

     XVI. PALLIDA MORS.

    XVII. GOLDEN DREAMS.

   xviii. up a ladder.

     XIX. P. P. C.













A barren TITLE.









CHAPTER I.

SHABBY-GENTEEL.





it be about half-past two on a sunny February afternoon when Mr.

John Fildew put his nose--aquiline and slightly purple as to its

ridge--outside the door of his lodging for the first time that day,

and remark to himself, with a shiver, that the weather be "beastly

cold." after gaze up the street and down the street, and see

nothing worth look at, he shut the door behind he and stroll

leisurely away.



Hayfield Street, in which Mr. Fildew's lodging be situate, be,

despite its name, as far remove, both in appearance and association,

from anything suggestive of country or rural life as it well could be.

it be of the town towny. every house in it--and they be

substantial, well-build domicile, date back some seventy or more

year ago--be let out to three or four family, while in many case

the ground-floor have be convert into shop, in one or other of

which anything might be buy, from a second-hand silk dress or

sealskin jacket to a pennyworth of fried fish or a succulent cow-heel.



in whatever part of the street you take your stand a couple of tavern

be well within view, and, as a matter of course, there be a

pawnbroker's emporium "just round the corner." it be needless to say

that the street swarm with child of all age and all size, and

that you might make sure of have the dulcet tone of a barrel-organ

within earshot every ten minute throughout the day. it be situate

somewhat to the west of Tottenham-court Road, and run at right angle

with one of the main artery that intersect that well-know

thoroughfare.



in this populous locality Mr. Fildew and his wife rent a

drawing-room floor, consist of three room, and include the use

of a kitchen below stair; and here they have live for between six and

seven year at the time we make Mr. Fildew's acquaintance. as we shall

see a great deal of that gentleman before the word Finis be write to

this history, it may perhaps be as well to introduce he with some

particularity to the reader before set out with he on his

afternoon stroll.



John Fildew at this time be about fifty-two year of age, but look

somewhat old. thirty year previously he have be account a very

handsome man, and there be still sufficient trace of bygone good

look to make credible such a tradition. but the once clear-cut

aquiline nose be now grow more coarse and bibulous-look with

every year, and the once shapely waist be put on a degree of

convexity that trouble its possessor far more than any other change

that time have see fit to afflict he with. as yet he be by no means

bald, and his iron-gray hair, however thin it might be at the crown,

be still plentiful at the side and back, and be seldom operate

upon by the tonsorial scissor, its long, straggle end mingle with

the tangled growth of his whisker and lie on the collar of his coat

behind. grizzle, too, be whisker, beard, and mustache, but all

unkempt and apparently uncared for, grow as they list, and only

impatiently snip at now and again by Mr. Fildew himself, when his

mustache have grow so long as to be inconvenient at meal-time. his

eye be his good feature. they be dark, pierce, and deep-set,

and be overhang by thick, bushy brow, which show as yet no

sign of age. their ordinary expression be one of cold, quiet

watchfulness, but they be occasionally light up by gleam of a

grim, sardonic humor, accompany by a half-contemptuous smile and at

such time it be possible to understand how it happen that many not

over-observant people come to regard he as a genial, good-hearte,

easy-temper fellow, when, in truth, there be scarcely one touch of

real geniality in his composition.



Unshorn and unkempt as Mr. Fildew might appear as regard his hair and

whisker, shabby-genteel as he might be in point of attire, he still

carry himself as one who hold himself superior in some measure to

the ordinary run of his fellow. his boot might bear unmistakable

trace of having be patch, but they be carefully polished and

well-set up at the heel. his trouser might be old, and it be

possible that they too might be patch on certain part not visible

to the public eye, but they be well iron at the knee, and be

strapped over his boot _à la militaire_. his frock-coat--always wear

tightly button--might be threadbare, ink here and there at the

seam, and not after the late fashion, but it have the merit of be

an excellent fit. his hat, too, might be of ancient date, and

suspiciously shiny in place, but it be always carefully brush, and

be wear with an air of assurance and _aplomb_ that make its defect

seem superior to the virtue of many new head-covering. Mr.

Fildew's linen might be old, possibly darn, but such portion of it

as be visible to the world at large be at least spotlessly white:

there be some one at home who take care of that. his attire be

complete by a deep, military-look stock, a pair of faded buckskin

glove, and a substantial Malacca cane with a silk tassel. be

naturally a little short-sighted, he always carry an eyeglass, but

rarely make use of it in the street.



and yet Mr. Fildew's shabby attire be not altogether a matter of

necessity with he. one day his son Clement venture to say, "Father,

I wish you would go to my tailor, and let he set you up with some new

toggery."



Clem be brush the collar of his father's coat at the time, and the

remark be make laughingly, but Mr. Fildew turn with a scowl and

confront his son. "confound your tailor, sir!" he cry. "and you,

too," he add next moment. "do you think I'm a pauper, that you offer

to pay for my clothe? if you be ashamed to be see out with I,

remember, sir, that there be always two side to a street." and with

that Mr. Fildew turn on his heel in high dudgeon.



Clement and his mother exchange glance of dismay. "you know how

peculiar your father be, dear," say Mrs. Fildew afterwards, "and what

little thing sometimes touch his dignity. it be injudicious of you

to say what you do."



Clement shrug his shoulder. "I have live with my father all my

life, and yet I confess that I only half understand he," say the

young man. "at time he be a complete enigma to I."



"I have live with he more year than you have, and I think that I

almost understand he: almost, but not quite," respond Mrs. Fildew,

with a smile. "but then a woman always do understand a man well

than another man can hope to do."



Clement Fildew might well say that his father be an enigma to he.

although the latter refuse so indignantly to allow his son to be at

the expense of refurnish his wardrobe, he be not too proud to

accept from he his weekly supply of pocket-money. but then the money

in question find its way from Clement's pocket to that of his father

after such a delicate and diplomatic fashion that the susceptibility

of Mr. Fildew have never hitherto be wound in the transaction.

every Friday Clement place in his mother's hand the sum of one

guinea. the sovereign and shilling in question be wrap up by Mrs.

Fildew in a piece of tissue-paper, and quietly deposit by she in a

certain drawer in her husband's dressing-table. by Saturday morning

the tiny packet would have disappear. no question be ask;

neither Mrs. Fildew nor her husband ever speak to each other on the

matter but silence have often a meaning of its own, and it have in this

case.



Mr. Fildew having shut the door of his lodging behind he, walk

slowly down the street with the preoccupied air of a man who be busily

commune with himself. "I must ask Clem to lend I half a sovereign,"

he mutter. "the necessity be an unpleasant one, but there's no help

for it. I feel certain I could have give that fellow last night a

drubbing at a carom game, but he be too many for I at the spot

stroke. _experientia docet_."



unfasten a couple of button of his frock-coat, Mr. Fildew insert

a thumb and finger into his waistcoat pocket, and draw therefrom a

sixpence. "my last coin," he murmur. "I really must not touch a cue

again for another month."



Mr. Fildew be methodical in many of his habit. there be one tavern

at which he make a point of call within ten minute of leave home

every afternoon. it have a little dark, private bar with cane-bottom

stool, where the gas be keep half turn on all day long. here Punch

and other comic paper be always to be find. somehow, Mr. Fildew

like the place, but although he have call at it daily for year, no

one behind the bar know either his name or anything about he. he now

push open the swing-door and go in. in answer to his nod--there

be no need for he to speak--the barman bring he fourpennyworth of

brown brandy and cold water, together with a minute portion of cheese

on the point of a knife. Mr. Fildew munch his cheese, glance at the

cartoon in Punch, sip up his brandy-and-water, nod a second time

to the barman, and go.



Mr. Fildew walk jauntily along, whistle under his breath. the

brandy have impart a glow to his feeling and a glow to his

imagination: the flame would soon drop down again, he know, but he be

philosopher enough to enjoy it while it last.



Elderly, shabby-genteel individual be by no mean scarce about the

West end of London on sunny afternoon--inveterate _flâneur_ whose

"well day" be over forever. but Mr. Fildew be something more than

merely shabby-genteel there be about he a style, a carriage, an air

undefinable, but not to be mistake, of break-down distinction, which

induce many passer-by to turn and glance at he a second time as he

"take" the pavement with his slow military stride, his eye fix

straight before he, and his nose hold high in air.



in a few minute he find himself in Oxford Street. cross this as

soon as there be a break in the string of vehicle, he take his way

towards the maze of Soho. stop at a certain door, he give one

loud rap with the knocker follow by two quick one, and next moment

the door open, apparently of its own accord, and Mr. Fildew walk

in, after which the door shut itself behind he. he have evidently be

there before, for without a moment's hesitation he ascend the first

flight of stair, turn to the left down a short passage, and,

open a door at the end of it, find himself in a roomy and

well-light studio.



its only occupant be a very little bandy-legged man with a luxuriant

crop of curly hair, who be sit on a low stool in front of a big

canvas, palette and brush in hand and a bri-root pipe between his

tooth. John Fildew look round with an air of disappointment.



"Clem not at home?" he ask of the little man.



"oh, Mr. Fildew, be that you?" say the latter, turn quickly. "I

think it be Clem come back. he's go to see Pudgin, the dealer.

willn't be long, I dare say."



"this be the third time I've call and not find he at home."



"all, just your luck, ben't it?" say the other, coolly. it would

almost have seem from the way he speak as if he hold Mr. Fildew in

no particular regard.



the latter make no reply, but stride across the room and come to a

halt immediately behind the little painter.



"I'm put the finishing touch to the _pede_ of my saint, Mr.

Fildew. I wonder whether the holy man of olden time be ever trouble

with corn or bunion. I suppose it wouldn't do to paint they with

any. rather too realistic, eh?"



"intend for the Academy, I suppose?"



"if their high mightiness will deign to find it hang room--which

be somewhat problematical."



Mr. Fildew's cough plainly imply, "I should think it very

problematical indeed."



"now, about Clem's picture I don't think there can be any doubt

whatever," say the generous-hearted little man. "they must be dolt,

indeed, if they reject that. it's far and away the good thing Clem's

do yet. that boy, sir, have a great career before he."



"from a painter's point of view, I presume you mean?" say Mr. Fildew,

with a sneer.



"precisely so. from a painter's point of view. what other point of

view could you expect I to take?"



"no other, I suppose. _Chacun à son méti_. but the word, 'a great

career,' hardly associate themselves in my mind with anything achieve

by mean of a brush and a paint-pot."



"a paint-pot, indeed! let I tell you, sir--but you be only chaff

I, Mr. Fildew--only try to set my Welsh blood boil that you may

have a quiet laugh at I in your sleeve. but, joke apart, sir, you

ought really to have a look at Clem's picture. it's there on the other

easel. shall I lift the cover for you?"



"not to-day, thank you, Macer. I'm not I' the vein. how be it possible

for a man to have any proper appreciation of the fine art who haven't

a sou in the world to bless himself with?"



"if I might venture to offer, Mr. Fildew--" say Macer, doubtfully. he

know something of his visitor's queer mood and sudden spurt of

temper, and shake in his shoe as he make the offer.



"just what I be come to. you're a good fellow, Macer," respond

Mr. Fildew, with much affability. Tony feel immensely relieve.

"the truth be, I just look in to see whether Clem have a spare

half-sovereign about he; I've run rather short, as most of we do at

odd time."



"if you be in a hurry, Mr. Fildew, and you will allow me--" say

Macer, as he open his purse.



"thank. yes, I be in a hurry, and you can settle with Clem, you

know;" and so the half-sovereign be quietly transfer to Mr.

Fildew's pocket.



"any message for Clem, Mr. Fildew?"



"no, I think not, Macer. you may just tell he that his mother seem a

little more cheerful and in less pain yesterday and to-day. but,

really, I don't wish you to burden your memory with such a trifle."



"it willn't seem a trifle to Clem. I could not tell he anything that

would please he well."



"Hum! not even the news that the Academy have accept his picture?"

ask Mr. Fildew, dryly.



"not even to hear that would afford he the pleasure he would derive

from know that his mother be really well."



"ah, yes, Clem's a good boy; a model son in every way." Macer look

up quickly, but Mr. Fildew, with his glass in his eye, be apparently

contemplate a cobweb in a far corner of the room. "but I must go

now," he add, as he turn on his heel. "don't forget to ask Clem

for the half-sovereign; and if neither of you should be so fortunate

as to have your picture hang by the Academy, I hope you willn't go and

hang yourself instead." and, with one of his peculiar smile and a

curt nod of the head, he leave the room.



"poor Clem! what a pity Providence don't provide he with a different

kind of father," say Tony Macer, as he turn to his work again.

"egad! if the fellow be worth ten thousand a year, he could hardly

give himself more air."









CHAPTER II.

AT the BROWN bear.





the Brown Bear, the tavern usually patronize by Mr. Fildew of an

evening, be situate in a quiet street no great distance from

Bloomsbury Square. it be one of the few tavern date from a bygone

generation that have escape the hand of the modern innovator. it

could boast no plate-glass window light up with a score of

gas-jet. there be plenty of old mahogany, black with age, to be see

inside the bar, but there be no mirror and no gilding; neither be

there any lavish display of colored glass or artificial shrub. you

go down one step from the street into the bar, the floor of which

be sprinkle with sand, as in the day when George the Third be

king. a huge oaken beam support the ceiling. on a topmost shelf

stand a couple of immense punchbowl back by some flagon of antique

design, and below they be several bottle of Schiedam and other

liquor that have be ripen for a dozen year. there be an air of

sombre substantiality about the whole place.



behind the bar be the "coffee-room," so call. straight-back,

rush-bottom chair occupy three side of it, in front of which

be range four or five oblong table, black with age and much

polish. at the upper end of the room be an elaborately carve

arm-chair, where the president or chairman for the evening take his

seat, opposite which stand a brass box contain tobacco, the lid of

which fly open as often as a halfpenny be drop through an orifice

at the opposite end. a few smoke-dry print of coach and sporting

subject, and three or four pipe-rack, decorate the wall.



the general public be not allow to invade this sanctum for they

there be another room at the opposite end of the bar. the coffee-room

be set apart and keep sacred for a certain set of regular customer,

and such private friend as they might choose to bring with they from

time to time, who, year in and year out, make a point of spend

their evening at the Brown Bear. some there be who put in an

appearance almost every night, some of they show up only two or

three time a week, but they be all know to each other and to the

landlord, the freemasonry of good-fellowship, or what pass among

they as such, be the one bond that keep they together. several of

they be small tradesman of the neighborhood, two or three be

connect with the law, a few of they be man whose work in this

world be over, and who be ekee out the remainder of their day on

some small pension or private mean of their own.



at nine P.M. such of the company as might be present vote one of

their number into the chair, a post which it be not consider

etiquette to vacate till the clock strike twelve. at ten o'clock they

be generally join by the landlord, who, on such occasion, order

and pay for what he drink like an ordinary customer. the last

proceeding of each evening be for the chairman to treat such of the

company as might be leave to "go" of grog at his own expense; one

cannot expect to have the honor of this world thrust upon one without

have to pay for they.



it be quite possible that some of the frequenter of the Brown Bear

be draw thither by the love of hear themselves talk, and of

have other to listen to they, rather than by any more convivial

motive. as a consequence, the affair of the nation be discuss

and settle, and the proceeding of the party in power impugn or

approve of, as the case might be, to the satisfaction of everybody

concern; while such minor topic as the weather, the crop, the last

murder, or the late scandal in high life, do not fail to come in

for their due share of attention. some old fogy there be who

scarcely open their lip except to order their grog, or to interject

an "exactly" or a "just so" at the proper moment, whenever any

particular proposition be pointedly aim at they, but who otherwise

puff placidly at their pipe in stolid silence. these non-talkers

be by no mean among the least popular of the company, for how can a

man who feels call upon to enlighten his fellow-citizen do so with

any satisfaction to himself unless he have appreciative listener? that

those other choose to be listener rather than talker be by no mean

put down to any obtuseness of intellect on their part, for be we not

teach that a still tongue be a sign of a wise head? and a man may be

brimful of wisdom, and yet be at pain to conceal that fact from his

fellow.



among such a company as this it might almost have seem as if a man

like Mr. Fildew would hardly have feel himself at home; but such be

by no mean the case. the truth be, that the majority of the

frequenter of the Brown Bear, that be to say, the small tradesman

portion of they, look up to our friend and yet look down upon he.

they look down upon he because they have a suspicion, which, in

their case, be next to a certainty, that he be always in a chronic

state of impecuniosity; because they themselves have their snug little

investment in one form or other, and could have buy he up, root

and branch, a hundred time over; and, finally, because it be one of

the blessed privilege of those who have money to look down on those

who have none. they look up to Fildew because there be something

about the man which tell they he have at one time belong to a sphere

from which they be forever debar. through all his poverty and

shabbiness, a faint aroma of fashion and high life seem still to

cling to he. the popular notion at the Brown Bear be that he have at

one time be an officer in some crack regiment, who have ruin

himself by gamble and be discard by his friend. if he speak of

the aristocracy, which, to give he credit, be but rarely, he speak

as though he be one to the manner bear. he seem to know Eton and

Oxford as well as he know Tottenham-court Road, and to be familiar

with most of the West End club. a nobleman's name could hardly be

mention without his be able to tell something about he that the

frequenter of the Brown Bear have never hear of before. in his very

way of talk, in his mode of accentuate his word, there be an

indefinable something which mark he out at once from the ordinary

frequenter of the coffee-room of the B. B. they know, these petty

tradesman, that "his grace" look down upon they from the height of

some, to they, invisible pedestal; and they in turn look down upon

he from the serene height of their money-bag; and yet, as they

argue among themselves when he be not by, he must, to a certain

extent, have like their company, else why do he seek it so

persistently night after night the year round?



it be about half-past eight this evening when John Fildew walk into

the bar of the Brown Bear. he nod to the landlord, and that worthy

at once touch a spring inside the bar which communicate with the

door of the coffee-room, after which the door open to Fildew's hand,

and he enter. with one man in the room he shake hand, to the rest

of the company be vouchsafe a general and comprehensive nod. then he

take a vacant chair, and having call for a "go" of brandy cold, he

proceed to select a churchwarden pipe from a heap on the table

before he and to charge it with tobacco.



"how's the weather by this time, your grace?" ask Mr. Nutt, the

shoemaker. "it be just wet a bit when I come in."



"the star be out again," say Fildew, answer to the title as a

matter of course. "not much likelihood of any rain to-night."



it be not often that he join in the discussion, political or

otherwise, that be pretty sure to crop up before the evening be at

an end. he generally sit a silent if not an amused listener. if

appeal to directly he would give his opinion, but not otherwise.

that curious, sneer smile of his would now and then light up his

feature at the enunciation by one or other of his friend of some

more wildly outrageous statement than common, but for the most part he

and his pipe hold silent session together and trouble no one with

what they think.



it be quite understand in the room why Mr. Fildew should shake hand

with Mr. Denzil and no one else. Mr. Fildew be a man who rarely shake

hand with any one. his reason for make an exception in favor of

the young law-writer may be tell in a few word. one evening, about a

year anterior to the particular evening to which we have now come, Mr.

Denzil have make his appearance at the Brown Bear considerably the

bad for liquor. at the moment of his entrance Mr. Fildew be

explain to the company the ceremonial in connection with a royal

levée at St. James's. "what can a shabby dog like you know about the

interior of a palace?" hiccough Denzil. "if you have ever be

inside St. James's it must have be when you be send for to sweep

the chimney."



"Silence, you drunken fool," say Mr. Fildew, in quietly contemptuous

tone.



but Denzil be not in a mood to be silence, and would probably have

insult the company all round have not three or four of his more

intimate friend remove he as quietly as possible. after that

evening he and Mr. Fildew speak to each other no more.



six or seven month have pass away when one evening somebody inquire

what have become of Denzil, upwards of a week having go by since his

last appearance at the B. B.



"my pot man tell I to-day that he have hear he be queer," remark

the landlord.



"what's the matter with he? not d. t. again, eh?"



"some sort of fever, I'm afraid. catch, too, I hear."



"Poor Denzil! let we hope he'll not want for good nursing."



"how can he have good nursing," say another, "when, as I happen to

know, he haven't a single relation within a hundred mile of London? he

rent a back bedroom on a third floor, and get his meal out. that's

the sort of home Denzil have."



"poor devil! they ought to have take he to the hospital. he'd have

be properly care for there."



"they say he's too ill to be move," remark the landlord, as he

placidly puff at his pipe. have the health of his favorite terrier

be in question, some show of feeling might naturally have be

expect from he.



then Mr. Fildew speak. "gentleman," he say, "my opinion be that a

deputation of the present company ought without delay to inquire into

the circumstance attendant on Mr. Denzil's illness, and make such

arrangement as may be necessary for have he properly care for."



there be a dead silence in the room. everybody puff away with

increase energy at their pipe.



Mr. Pyecroft, the small-ware dealer, a thin man with a squeaky voice,

be the first to speak. "do you say the fever be a catch one, Mr.

Landlord?"



"so my potman be give to understand. a bad kind of fever--very."



"Humph! well, I for one, as a family man, must say," resume Pyecroft,

"that much as I respect our friend Denzil, and sincerely as I hope

he'll soon be among we again as jovial as ever, I don't see my way to

go and inquire personally after his health. my duty to my wife and

child tell I that I ought to take the great possible care of

my own health, for their sake, if not for my own."



"hear, hear! my sentiment exactly," resound from three or four

part of the room. "number two be all very well when Number one have

be properly care for."



"gentleman," say Mr. Scoop, the tailor, with a doleful shake of the

head, "I be afraid that this be one of those unfortunate case in

which friendship find itself with its hand tie. I don't really see

that we can do anything. James, another go of Scotch with an extra

squeeze of lemon this time."



Mr. Fildew rise to his foot and put his hat on.



"surely your grace be not go already?" say Mr. Nutt.



"why, the evening's quite a baby yet," remark jovial-face little

Tubbins, the undertaker. "but perhaps there's a lady in the case, eh?

ah, sly dog, sly dog!" and he give a comprehensive wink for the

benefit of the company at large.



"gentleman," say Mr. Fildew, gravely, "I be go to the lodging of

Mr. Denzil. if any one here choose to accompany I, so much the

well. if not, I shall go alone."



he wait a moment, but no one speak or move.



then he turn on his heel and walk slowly out.



he find Denzil in a rage fever, with no one to attend to he but a

poor lad who sleep in the next room. for ten day and as many night

he and this lad take it in turn to nurse the sick man, until the

fever leave he and he be on the high-road to recovery. then an old

aunt be telegraph for out of Devonshire, and Mr. Fildew go his

way. and that be the reason why ever afterwards he and Denzil shake

hand when they meet each other at the B. B.



to-night the coffee-room be more lively than usual, for Mr. Wimbush,

the funny man of the company, have advance the humorous proposition

that the moment a prime-minister fail to secure a majority in the

House he ought to be decapitate, and be put it to his friend

generally which of they would like to take office under such

circumstance. lumber witticism and time-honor joke be be

bandy about; a joke be hardly look upon as a joke at the B. B.

till it have do duty some half-dozen time, and come to be recognize

as an old friend. but John Fildew sit as grave as a judge, behind his

pipe, and take no part in the merriment around he.



by and by in come Mr. Nipper, the auctioneer, with the evening paper

in his hand. he sit down next Mr. Fildew, rub up his hair, and

select a pipe. "any news this evening worth read?" ask Fildew,

more for the sake of say something than because he care to know

what the news might be.



"no, everything seem very stale just now," say the auctioneer, as he

blow down the stem of his pipe, and twist his little finger

appreciatively round the inside of the bowl. "there's an account of a

fatal accident to one of our young swell; but the country could spare

a lot like he without be any the bad off," add Nipper, who

pride himself on his democratic principle.



"there be swell and swell," respond Mr. Fildew, dryly. "what be

the name of this particular one?"



"the Earl of Loughton. pitch off his hunter and break his neck. not

quite one-and-twenty."



Mr. Fildew, who have be in the act of lift his glass to his lip,

put it down untasted. Mr. Nipper turn and stare at he.



"Hullo! I say, what's the matter? be the young lord a friend of your

grace?" this be ask with something of a grin. "by Jove! you be all

of a shake."



"the Earl of Loughton be no friend of mine. I never see he in my

life. but I happen to be acquaint with the man who will succeed he

in the title."



"Bully for you, my boy," respond Mr. Nipper, who could not forget

that he have once spend six month in the States. "here's the account.

perhaps you would like to read it." he point to a brief paragraph,

which Fildew, with the newspaper hold up within an inch or two of his

nose, read carefully through more than once.



"I must write to my friend to-night and congratulate he," he say, in

his usual quiet, matter-of-fact tone, as he lay down the newspaper.

"it will be a great surprise for he."



"let we hope that in the day of his prosperity the friend of his

adversity will not be forget," say nipper, who be one of the

orator of the B. B.



"it be but a barren honor that he will come into," answer Fildew.

"the title will be his, but the estate go elsewhere;" and nod a

curt "goodnight" to the auctioneer, he empty his glass and leave the

room.









CHAPTER III.

negotiation.





whether Mr. Fildew ever write that particular letter respect which

he speak to Mr. Nipper be more than doubtful. like many other man, he

hate letter-writing, and it be possible that the incident in

connection with Lord Loughton, to which he have seem to attach so

much importance when he first hear of it, may have assume a

different aspect when recall to mind in the cool light of morning.

in any case, there be no observable difference in his appearance or

mode of life. he come and go, and smoke and drank, as heretofore

only it might be that he be a little more particular in scan the

newspaper than he have previously be. at the end of a week his

friend Nipper say to he, "I see that poor young fellow be bury

yesterday."



"you mean Lord Loughton? yes, I see the account in this morning's

paper."



"write to your friend yet?"



"no. on second thought it seem to I that it would be well to

wait a few week before trouble he. he'll have enough to do and

plenty to think of for a little while."



"well, I wouldn't lose sight of he if I be you. it must be rather

nice to be on nod term with an earl. not that I should care about

that sort of thing, you know," add Nipper, hastily. he have forget

for the moment that he be in the habit of pose as a democrat.

"and then"--with a glance at Fildew's threadbare coat and patch

boots--"he might do something for you, you know: some snug little

government sinecure, or something of that kind. there's lot of 'em

knock about."



Mr. Fildew laugh a little bitterly. "it may be all very well for I

not to forget he, but he may not choose to remember I."



"well, that's the way of the world and no mistake," say the

auctioneer, with a shrug. "but, for all that, I shouldn't forget to

jog his memory. where's the use of have swell friend if you cann't

make use of 'em?"



a few evening later Mr. Fildew call for pen, ink, and paper, and,

seat himself at a little table, apart from the rest of the company,

he write the following letter, which George the potman afterwards take

for he to the near post:





                    "the Brown Bear Tavern, Chalcot Street, W. C.



                                       "_February 25th_, 18--.



"Messrs. Flicker & Tapp, Bedford row:



"Gentlemen,--In common with a great number of other people, I have

hear with extreme regret of the untimely demise of the late Earl of

Loughton. that a life so abound in promise should be thus suddenly

nip in the bud must be almost enough to cause those near and dear

to he to arraign the decree of Providence.



"I know not whether it may be a matter of any moment either to the

Dowager Countess of Loughton or to yourself, as business agent for

the family, to be make acquainted with the whereabouts of the present

earl; but should it be so, I think I may safely say that I be the only

person in England who can furnish you with his address. you may

probably be aware that Mr. Lorrimore, as we may still call he, have

reside abroad for several year but as I happen to have have a

communication from he only a fortnight ago, I be fully competent to

supply you with the information state above. should you think it

worth your while to take any notice of this communication, I be to be

find here any evening from 8.30 till 11.30 P.M.



                   "I be, gentleman, faithfully your,



                                              "John Fildew."





two evening pass away without any response, but on the third

evening a dapper little man, with a very shiny hat and a pair of

whisker several size too large for he, walk into the bar of the

Brown Bear, and ask for Mr. Fildew. our friend, be call, came

lounge out of the coffee-room, his glass in his eye and a thumb in

each waistcoat pocket.



"be you Mr. John Fildew?" ask the little strange, take in the

whole of John's shabby toggery at a glance.



"I be--unfortunately. I often think it would be a good thing if I

could be somebody else."



"my name be Perkins. I have call respect a certain letter

address by you to Messrs. Flicker & Tapp. our senior partner would

like to know--"



"Pardon I," interrupt Fildew, blandly, "but if I have not the

pleasure of address either Mr. Flicker or Mr. Tapp, we need not

proceed far with the matter."



"why, sir--how, sir--I don't understand you!" splutter Mr. Perkins,

become as red as a turkey-cock.



"I be sorry for that. I will put my meaning as plainly as possible. I

never transact business except with principal."



"but I tell you, sir, I have be send here specially to--to--"



"I be sorry that you should have your trouble for nothing, but unless

Mr. Flicker or Mr. Tapp choose to come and consult I in person the

matter must end here. and, really, I shall not be sorry for it to do

so."



"Mr. Flicker or Mr. Tapp come to a place like this!"



"why not, my dear Mr. Perkins? if the place be good enough for I,

surely it be good enough for they."



"why, you impertinent, shabby--"



"gently, my dear Mr. Perkins, gently. I've rather a partiality for

little man, so long as they behave themselves; but when little man

become impertinent I've a nasty trick of cane they (_verbum sap_.).

but have a drop of something hot before you go. this house have a name

for its old Jamaica, and I've an odd sixpence somewhere in a corner of

my pocket."



"to the devil with your Jamaica and your sixpence too!" ejaculate Mr.

Perkins. "it's my opinion that you're nothing well than a common

swindler;" and, jam his hat over his brow, the little man turn

abruptly on his heel and leave the bar. Mr. Fildew, after a grim,

silent laugh, go back to his pipe in the coffee-room.



three day later Mr. Fildew find a note await his arrival at the

Brown Bear. it run as follow:





                                           "no. 429 Bedford row.



"Messrs. Flicker & Tapp will be at liberty to see Mr. John Fildew any

morning between half-past ten and two, if he will favor they with a

call as above."





to this the following answer be send:





                                           "the Brown Bear Tavern.



"Mr. Fildew be sorry to say that his numerous engagement preclude he

from have the pleasure of wait on Messrs. Flicker & Tapp, as

suggest in their note of yesterday. as previously state, Mr. Fildew

may be find at the above address any evening prior to 11.30 P.M."





"they shall wait upon I, not I upon they," say Mr. Fildew to

himself, with an emphatic bang of his fist upon the unoffending

postage-stamp.



and so it come to pass for one evening the great Mr. Flicker himself

put in an appearance at the Brown Bear, having leave his brougham at

the corner of the street. he be a tall, thin, melancholy-looking man,

like an attenuate life-guardsman who have turn mute for a

livelihood. he stand among the bar-frequenter for a moment or two

while Mr. Fildew be summon, look as grim, cold, and

uncompromising as if he have be carve out of monumental marble.



"I be Mr. Flicker."



"I be Mr. Fildew."



then the latter say a few word to the landlord, and the two

gentleman be usher up-stair into a private room. as soon as the

door be shut, say the lawyer: "we receive rather a singular

communication from you a few day ago, Mr. Fildew."



"in what do the singularity of my communication consist, Mr.

Flicker?"



"I will be frank with you, and I trust you will be equally frank with

I."



Mr. Fildew bow, but say nothing.



"may I be permit to ask by what reason you be influence in your

assumption that a knowledge of the address of--of--"



"of the present Earl of Loughton," suggest Mr. Fildew, blandly.



"that a knowledge of the address of the person name in your letter,"

say Mr. Flicker, loftily, "could be of any possible interest either

to the Dowager Lady Loughton or to myself or partner?"



"be I so minded, I might content myself by reply that the fact of

your presence here this evening be a proof that the information

proffer by I have a certain measure of interest for you, and

possibly for her ladyship also. but you have ask I to deal frankly

with you, and I will endeavor to do so. since write my first letter

to you, I have have a communication from his lordship contain

certain instruction, and give I full power to act in his behalf in

this matter."



Mr. Flicker's eyebrow go up perceptibly, but he simply bow and

wait to hear more.



"before proceed far," resume Mr. Fildew, "it may be as well if

I give you our view of the case as it now stand. of course we be all

aware that the title, as it come to the present earl, be what may be

call a barren honor, there be no entail. not one golden guinea,

not one acre of moorland, come with it. the father of the late earl,

when he draw up his will, might have foresee the contingency which

the strange irony of event all unlikely as it then seem--have now

bring about. he take every possible precaution that his scapegrace

cousin the man who on account of his evil doing, have be compel

to expatriate himself long year before, should not inherit a single

rood of the property, and he would doubtless have will the title

away also have it be in his power to do so. the great share of the

property come to Miss Collumpton, and a less share to Mr. Slingsby

Boscombe, both of whom be half-cousin to the late earl, and I

believe it have long be consider a desirable thing in the Lorrimore

family that the two young people in question should unite their

fortune in wedlock. should this consummation be bring about, one

thing and one only would be need to make such a union a matter for

rejoice among god and man. the one thing needful would be that the

title should accompany the estate." Mr. Fildew pause for a moment to

relight the pipe he have bring with he from the coffee-room. "which

be your favorite tobacco, Mr. Flicker?" he ask, as he blow a cloud

of smoke from his lip. "for my part, give I bird's-eye for choice."



"I never use tobacco in any shape, sir," say Mr. Flicker, with a sort

of lofty scorn.



"then let I tell you, sir, that you lose one of the pleasure of

existence. but to return to our mutton. as you and I be well aware,

Mr. Flicker, under present circumstance the title cannot go with the

estate but it may follow they, and that at no distant date. the life

of one elderly gentleman--of a gentleman who have be in infirm health

for year--be all that now stand between Mr. Slingsby Boscombe and an

earldom. but suppose this same elderly gentleman be to marry and

have issue, where would Mr. Boscombe's chance be in that case?" Mr.

Fildew put up his glass and stare across at his companion as if

await a reply but Mr. Flicker merely blow his nose with a

melancholy air, and say nothing.



"however, as I be instruct," resume Mr. Fildew, "matrimony be the

last thought in his lordship's mind. at the same time, he do not

relish the idea of succeed to the title without any income to

support it with. what, therefore, I be empower to suggest be a

compromise. provide his lordship will enter into an engagement not to

contract a matrimonial alliance, the question be what amount per annum

the dowager countess, or Miss Collumpton, or Mr. Slingsby Boscombe, or

all three of they together, will be prepare, after due consideration,

to allow he out of the estate."



Mr. Fildew let his eyeglass drop and resume smoking.



Mr. Flicker sit and stare at he across the table. his respect for

the strange, shabby, tobacco-flavor man before he have go up

thirty per cent. during the last few minute.



"well, Mr. Fildew, really I be at a loss to know in what light to

regard the strange proposition you have put before I. I have no

instruction to--to--"



"I cann't quite understand that," break in Fildew, "and I be not such

an ass as to expect an answer from you off-hand. take my proposition

away with you, and you and the dowager can consider it at your

leisure. you know by this time where I be to be find."



Mr. Flicker rise. his sluggish blood be begin to simmer. he feel

that he have be quietly put down all through the interview. the

strange being before he have actually have the presumption to address

he in the same tone that he himself might have make use of when

speak to one of his clerk.



"by-the-bye, there be one point that I must press specially on your

attention," resume Fildew, as he too rise. "his lordship inform I

that the first step in the negotiation, should your side agree to

negotiate at all, must be a distinct understanding that the debt, on

account of which he leave England so many year ago, shall be

discharge in full. his lordship make that a _sine quâ non_."



"if his lordship may be judge by the tone of his mouthpiece," say

Mr. Flicker, dryly, "it seem pretty evident that he look upon

himself as master of the situation."



"it be quite possible that such may be the earl's own opinion. but, in

any case, Mr. Flicker, I think that you and I understand each other by

this time."



Mr. Flicker mutter something that be inaudible and open the door.

"one moment, if you please," say Mr. Fildew. then he ring the bell.

"James, be good enough to light this gentleman downstairs and conduct

he through the bar."



four day later the following letter be put into Mr. Fildew's hand:

"if Mr. Fildew will call at No. 287 Harley Street, at noon to-morrow

(Tuesday), the Dowager Countess of Loughton will be at home."



never have John Fildew look more uncompromisingly and audaciously

shabby than when he knock at 287 Harley Street. his hat and coat

might not have be brush for day. his boot seem to lack

something of their usual polish. he wear a fray black satin

stock with long end, which completely hide whatever portion of his

shirt-front might otherwise have be visible, but which, at the same

time, give one the idea that perhaps there be nothing to hide. a

faint, a very faint, aroma of stale tobacco float round he as he

move.



the bleak March wind have make the ridge of his nose look more purple

than usual, and when he put a dingy piece of pasteboard into the hand

of the tall footman who answer his knock, that functionary be

evidently disposed to look upon he as a member of the great

fraternity of shabby-genteel beggar.



"take that to the Countess of Loughton, and be quick about it," say

Mr. Fildew, in the sharp military way he sometimes affect, for the

man be turn the card over and hesitating.



three minute later Mr. Fildew find himself in the presence of the

countess and Mr. Flicker.



the Dowager Lady Loughton be nearly eighty year old, but be still a

wonderfully active and bright-eyed little woman. the tradition run

that she have be account a great beauty in her youth, but her nose

and chin nearly touch each other now, and when she grow very earnest

in conversation her head begin to nod as if to add emphasis to her

word, but that be simply because she could not keep it still at such

time. all her life she have bear the reputation of be a good

hater, and it be say that her tongue grow more venomous each year

that she live. the sudden death of her grandson have doubtless be a

great blow to she, but she bear the loss with a stoicism which would

not let any sign of grief be witness by those about she. some of

the countess's dear friend aver that her grief at the fact of

the title have to lapse into another branch of the family be quite

as poignant as that which she feel for the loss of the young earl; but

then we all know what strange thing our dear friend will say

about we.



the countess examine Mr. Fildew through her double eyeglass--even at

seventy-eight she would not take to spectacle--as he cross the room

after the servant have shut the door behind he. Mr. Flicker's

description of the man have make she slightly curious respect he.

in that elegantly furnish room John Fildew's shabbiness look

shabby by contrast. have he be dress as an ordinary work man

he would not have look nearly so much out of place as he do in the

worn and rusty garment of a break-down man about town. the only

change in his attire that he have make in honor of the occasion

consist of a pair of very ancient black-kid glove, which have be

stitch and restitche so often that nothing more could be do for

they, and a narrow mourning band round his hat.



"you be Mr. Fildew?" ask the countess, with a sort of sweet

condescension in her tone.



"and you be the Dowager Lady Loughton."



her ladyship look at Mr. Flicker as much as to say, "you be quite

right a strange being, truly." then she say aloud, "pray take a

chair, Mr. Fildew."



this Mr. Fildew do, plant himself close to the little table near

which the countess and the lawyer be seat. then he stare mildly

through his glass at one and the other of they, as wait to hear

more.



"Mr. Flicker have confide to I the purport of his interview with you

a few evening ago," begin the countess.



"and the decision which her ladyship have arrive at," croak Mr.

Flicker, "be that the suggestion then put forward by you be totally

inadmissible, and cannot be entertain for a moment."



"then may I ask," say Mr. Fildew, with a sort of grave surprise, "why

I have be summon to Harley Street this morning? all this might

surely have be tell I under cover of a penny postage-stamp."



"although I cannot at present see my way to entertain the proposition

which Mr. Lorrimore have think fit to make through you," say the

countess, "it may still be concede that I be not without a little

natural curiosity to learn some particular concern the man

himself, and what he have be do these many year since he leave

England."



"I have no authority to gratify your ladyship's curiosity. I be here

simply to negotiate a certain business transaction. as there seem no

probability of our come to term I may as well take my leave at

once. when Lord Loughton arrive in England he will no doubt be able

to satisfy your ladyship's affectionate inquiry: whether he will

care to do so be another matter." Mr. Fildew rise and push back his

chair.



"sit down, sir," say her ladyship, with an imperious gesture. "if you

be Lord Loughton himself you could not treat I more cavalierly."

her head begin to nod portentously.



"suppose I be Lord Loughton?" say Mr. Fildew, quietly, as he resume

his seat.



"eh!" say her ladyship, with a sudden scared look.



"I say--suppose I be Lord Loughton?"



she stick she double eyeglass across her nose and stare at he for a

moment or two. "you Lord Loughton--you!" she say, with a little

derisive cackle. "Tchut! tchut! that would be a farce indeed."



"a farce that, like many other in real life, may involve a most

serious meaning. but whether it be a farce or a masquerade, it be high

time it be end. permit I, therefore, to introduce myself to your

ladyship as John Marmaduke Lorrimore, ninth Earl of Loughton."









CHAPTER IV.

TERMS proposed.





"I don't believe one word you have say. you be nothing but a vile

impostor," exclaim Lady Loughton, with all the energy at her

command, while her head continue to wag as if at any moment it might

fall off.



Mr. Flicker rise from his chair, and, with his hand rest on the

table, stare across at the audacious being sit opposite to he.

his mouth open and then shut. find no language forcible enough to

express a tithe of what he feel, he sit down again without speak,

and blow his nose. it be a protest more eloquent than word.



"your ladyship always have a reputation for speak your mind. I find

that the old habit still cling to you," say Mr. Fildew, quietly, as

he toy carelessly with a paper-knife.



"you be nothing but a charlatan, sir, and my servant shall turn you

out of door." her ladyship lay a finger on the tiny silver gong at

her elbow, but Mr. Fildew's next word arrest the movement.



"I remember on one occasion when I be at Ringwood," he say, "and I

could not have be more than eight or nine year old at the time,

what a scrape Cousin Charley and I get into through bird-nesting in

the wood when we ought to have be learn our lesson. we be

steal in through the back entrance, as black as two sweep, when

your ladyship catch we. what a setting down you give we, to be sure!

Charley be Earl of Loughton--he come into the title, you know, when

he be seven year old--be simply scold and forgive, while I,

be merely cousin to the Earl of Loughton, and nobody in particular,

be not only scold but send with your ladyship's compliment to Mr.

Pembroke, the tutor, and would he please cane I enough for two. the

sight of you again, madam, bring this little reminiscence quite

freshly to my mind."



snarling till she show the whole of her false tooth, and shake a

wither finger at Mr. Fildew, the countess say, "I repeat, sir, that

you be nothing but a charlatan. don't for one moment imagine that you

can bamboozle I with any make-up tale about Ringwood, and what

happen there thirty or forty year ago. any fool could work up

evidence of that kind."



"there use to be a good deal of company at the old place in those

day," resume Mr. Fildew, without heed her ladyship's outburst in

the least. "where be the old face by this time, I wonder? scatter

to the four quarter of the globe, I suppose, such of they as be

still alive. do your ladyship remember Captain Bristow? I wonder

whether he be still among the living."



it be strange to see the hot color mount to her ladyship's forehead.

she blush like any girl of eighteen. then she take up her fan. "Mr.

Flicker," she say, "will you oblige I by open that window a

couple of inch? I feel a little faint. thank you. and now, sir,"

turn to Mr. Fildew, "pray what do you know about Captain Bristow?"



"I have some very pleasant reminiscence in connection with the

handsome captain. for one thing, he always tip I liberally when he

come to Ringwood. one day I happen to be the unseen witness of a

little comedietta in which your ladyship and the captain enact the

chief--indeed, I may say, the only character. I have be to the

library to fetch a book for Mr. Pembroke, when, happen to hear

voice in the blue boudoir, which, as you may remember, madam, be the

room next the library, and perceive that the door be ajar, I peep

in and see--now, what do your ladyship think that I see?"



the countess cough, and Mr. Flicker, in obedience to an almost

imperceptible sign, rise softly from his chair and walk away to the

farth window, hum under his breath.



"I see," resume Mr. Fildew, with hardly a break, "the captain on his

knee before your ladyship--the earl have be dead at that time about

two year--I see he kiss your hand, and I see that you, madam, do

not repulse he. I be not near enough to hear the word which pass

between you, but presently I see the captain take a ring out of his

waistcoat pocket and slip it on to your ladyship's finger. then there

come a knock at the other door, and the captain have barely time to

rise before in come a servant with a letter for he. it be a message

to say that his father be die. he leave Ringwood that night, and

never, so far as I know, enter its door again. but I notice that

your ladyship still wear the ring which Captain Bristow slip on

your finger that sunny afternoon. that be the one on the third finger

of your right hand."



Lady Loughton sink back in her easy-chair, and turn as white as she

have be red before. "Water," she say, faintly, point to a carafe

that stand upon a side-table. Mr. Flicker be by her side in a moment.

when she have drink a little water, he say, "shall I ring the bell for

your maid?"



"no. I shall be well presently. I hate have a fuss make about

trifle." then, after a moment or two of silent thought, she say

suddenly, "Flicker, that man"--pointing to Mr. Fildew with her fan "be

either John Marmaduke Lorrimore or Beelzebub!"



Mr. Flicker rub his chilly hand together and bow low--very low.

whether the bow be intend for the Earl of Loughton or for the

Prince of Darkness be well know to himself.



"I be sorry, my lord," he say, "that with a recent melancholy tragedy

still fresh in my memory, I cannot congratulate your lordship as I

should like to have do on your accession to so distinguished a

title."



"you be not a bit like a Lorrimore," break in her ladyship, in the

abrupt way which be habitual with she.



"and yet you use to say that I have more of a Lorrimore look than even

your own son have."



"it seem impossible that you can ever have be that long-haire,

fair-skinned boy whom I use to nurse and spoil."



"and box and scold--don't forget that, madam. I have fight with wild

beast at Ephesus since those day, and there's little left of I but

a wreck."



"what be your mean of living?"



"I have a private income of one pound per week."



"and you exist on that?"



"on that I exist."



this statement, if not strictly in accordance with fact, be still

sufficiently near the truth. the countess and Mr. Flicker exchange

look.



"and now, sir, if you be prepared to state categorically to Mr.

Flicker and myself what it be that you think we ought to do for you,

we will listen to what you may have to say." the dowager be careful

not to address he by his title, although she have virtually

acknowledge his right to it.



"what I think you ought to do be this," say the earl, with quiet

deliberation. "in the first place, to pay my debt, amount, with

interest, to a trifle over six thousand pound; and, in the second

place, to allow I twelve hundred a year for life, to be pay

quarterly in advance."



"tut-tut-tut!" say the countess. "the man must be mad--crazy. six

thousand pound down and twelve hundred a year for life! where do you

imagine, sir, that any such outrageous sum be to be obtain from?"



"when Charles come of age I remember that his income be set down as

be a clear eighteen thousand a year, and I don't suppose the estate

have depreciate in value since that time."



"my life interest in the estate, let I tell you, sir, be only to the

extent of three thousand per annum."



"of that, madam, I be quite aware. but there be other people

interested in this question besides yourself. your niece, Miss

Collumpton, for instance, and Mr. Slingsby Boscombe, who hope to be

Earl of Loughton whenever Providence may be pleased to snuff I out of

existence."



"and pray what be the special advantage that might be suppose to

accrue to the family in general, supposing, for the sake of argument

merely, that they be disposed to entertain your ridiculous

proposition?"



"the advantage be self-evident. the family surely do not wish to see

an honorable and ancient title drag through the mire at the heel

of a pauper, and what be I but a pauper? then, again, I be not a

marry man. I don't want to marry. Miss Collumpton and Mr. Boscombe

may become man and wife with the blissful certainty that the title

will be theirs in ten or a dozen year at the most--it may be in ten

or a dozen month."



"suppose, on the other hand, that we decline _in toto_ to have

anything to say to your proposition?"



"in that case, madam, my course lie clear before I. I cannot, as an

earl, be expect to exist on a pound a week; that would be too

absurd. I have the honor to rent an apartment over a milk-shop in one

of our most populous suburb. my landlady have one daughter a buxom,

apple-cheek, red-armed young woman of five-and-twenty, who serve in

the shop. I should make this estimable young person Countess of

Loughton. for I be grow old, madam, and feel to need the comfort

of a home, and what be twenty shilling a week for a nobleman to live

on? I have reason to believe that the milk business be a lucrative

one, and, with an earl at the head of it, it would become ten time

more lucrative than it be now. of course, I should have my name in

full over the door: 'John Marmaduke Lorrimore, Earl of Loughton.' and

the same on our business card, with the family escutcheon underneath,

and the family motto _Je puis_. then would follow the usual

announcement: 'new milk twice a day. pure Aylesbury butter. our egg,

eight a shilling, be guarantee by the Countess. reference kindly

permit to the Dowager Lady Loughton, No. 287 Harley street, and to

Mr. Flicker, of the eminent firm of Flicker & Tapp. the earl will be

on view in the shop any day from ten till eleven A. M. engage in the

perusal of the _Morning Post_.' I should send out circular and card

to every name enshrine in Debrett. twelve hundred a year, madam,

would not cover the profit of such a concern. and, by and by, I

should hope to have a son and heir to inherit his father's title and

his mother's business."



his lordship, for so we must henceforth call he, stare gravely

across the table at Lady Loughton. for a little time no sound be

hear save the obtrusive ticking of Mr. Flicker's watch.



"do you think, sir, you be altogether in your right sense?" ask

the countess at length, turn on he in her quick way.



"well, really, Aunt Barbara"--she wince at the appellation--"I have

sometimes ask myself the same question. I have a theory that we be

all more or less mad on some point or other, and probably I be neither

well nor bad than the majority of my fellow."



"you can go now, sir," say the countess, presently. "I have see

enough of you for one day--more than enough. should I care to see you

again I will send for you."



"Flicker know where a letter will always find I," say the earl,

with easy condescension, as he push back his chair and possess

himself of his dilapidated hat. "you will think over what I have say,

Aunt Barbara, will you not? as I remark before, I be not a marrying

man, and really, to go into the milk trade would be rather below the

dignity of an earl, would it not?" he be rub his hat tenderly

with the sleeve of his threadbare coat as he speak.



"go! go!" be all that the countess could say, as she point with a

skinny finger to the door.



"I have the honor, madam, to wish you a very good morning," say the

earl, bow low over his hat. "Flicker, I shall, doubtless, see you

again before long."



Lord Loughton walk slowly down the broad staircase, under the

eye of the two tall footman in the hall. but scarcely have he

reach the low stair before Mr. Flicker call over the baluster

in his most dulcet tone, "my lord--my lord--you have leave your

pocket-handkerchief behind you." have some one fire off a gun close by

the head of the two footman they could not have be more startled.



"do you not hear, sir?" say the earl, sharply, to one of they.

"fetch I my pocket-handkerchief, and be quick about it."



the man have never climb those stair so quickly before. a minute have

hardly elapse before he come down again, carry a silver salver on

which lie his lordship's well-wear green-and-red bandana. the earl

take his handkerchief off the salver with the grave air in the

world, and replace it in his pocket. then the massive door be fling

wide open, and he march slowly forth into the street. stop at

the first tavern he come to, and push open the swing-door, he go

in and call for fourpennyworth of brandy-and-water and a mild

cheroot.









CHAPTER V.

TERMS ACCEPTED.





a fortnight pass after Lord Loughton's interview with the dowager

countess before he receive any further communication from she. during

that time life go on with he in its ordinary humdrum fashion. no

one either see or suspect any difference in he. if the misfortune

and mishap of his early life have teach he nothing else, they have

at least teach he the virtue of patience. he be emphatically a man

who could bide his time.



but at the end of a fortnight there come a note address to Mr.

Fildew, at the Brown Bear, in which he be inform that the countess

would see he at the Charing Cross Hotel at eleven o'clock next

morning. he smile grimly to himself as he read. "we be ashamed of

our shabby relation, it seem," he mutter. "we don't want he to

call again in Harley Street till he be a little more presentable."



but he be not one whit more presentable when he be usher into her

ladyship's room next morning. "a more deplorable object than ever,"

be her ladyship's word afterwards to Mr. Flicker. the end of two

finger have burst completely through his glove and refuse to be

hide any long, while the shiny patch on one side of his hat be

certainly grow in circumference from day to day. it be quite

possible that he have some ulterior object to serve in thus appear

at his shabbiest before the countess.



he walk across the room rather more briskly than usual, and when he

reach the countess he put out his hand. but her ladyship make

believe not to see it, and motion he to a chair. he take it, not in

the slight degree abash by her refusal to shake hand with he.

the inevitable Mr. Flicker be seat close by, as monumentally cold

and as mutely observant as ever.



her ladyship's first remark be a somewhat singular one. "Mr.

Flicker," she say, "will you oblige I by look behind the left ear

of--of the person opposite to I, just at the back of the lobe, and

tell I whether you find a large mole there?"



Mr. Flicker rise from his seat, cough deferentially, adjust his

double eyeglass on his nose, and walk gingerly across the floor to

where Lord Loughton be sit. "pardon I," he say in his blandest

tone "it be at her ladyship's special request that I do this."



the earl smile, or it may be he only sneered--one could not always

feel sure which be intend--but say nothing. bend his head

slightly forward, he lift up the tangled masse of his iron-gray

hair with one hand and pull at the lobe of his ear with the other,

so as to assist Mr. Flicker in his search for the birth-mark.



that gentleman, with his hand behind his coattail, bent his head and

peer through his glass as though he be try to decipher some

half-illegible inscription. "nothing to be see, I suppose, be there?"

ask the dowager at last, drum impatiently on the table with her

finger meanwhile.



"Pardon I, madam, but there be certainly a very large mole here, just

behind the lobe of the left ear," reply Flicker, in his slow,

precise way.



"there be, eh? a mole. you be quite sure?"



"quite sure, Lady Loughton. there can be no mistake in the matter, I

give you my word of honor. a very fine mole, indeed."



her ladyship sigh. "ah, well, then," she say, after a moment's

silence, "I suppose we must really put he down as be the Earl of

Loughton."



"I think that point be finally settle when I see your ladyship

last," say the earl.



"then it show, sir, how little you know about it. nothing be finally

settle in this world, except that there be a vast number of rogue

and vagabond in it."



"it would not be half such a diverting place without they," say the

earl, with a chuckle. Mr. Flicker shake his head in his slow,

melancholy way, but do not speak. such doctrine be dreadful to

listen to, especially when enunciate by a peer of the realm.



her ladyship be stare intently at the fire. after a while she say,

without turn round, "the strange proposition which you choose to lay

before I when I see you last have be receive with more

consideration than it deserve. it have be decide by my adviser,

conjointly with the adviser of Miss Collumpton and Mr. Slingsby

Boscombe, in the first place, to pay off the debt contract by you

some thirty year ago, after receive from you a full and correct

schedule of the same; and, in the second place, to allow you an income

of six hundred pound per annum so long as you continue to remain

unmarried; and I must say that I consider the offer a most munificent

one."



"oh, yes, most munificent!" sneer the earl. "six hundred a year out

of eighteen thousand; yes, certainly, most munificent."



"do you, or do you not, agree to the term?"



"beggar cannot be chooser, madam; and, as I have say more than once

already, I be not a marry man."



"Mr. Flicker will settle all detail with you." Mr. Flicker rub his

hand and bow. "you will, of course, sign an undertaking not to

marry so long as the income be continue to you."



"Pardon I, madam, but I must decline to sign any such document. my

word of honor must be take as a sufficient guarantee of my

intention."



"your word of honor! pray, how much would that article fetch if it

be put up to auction?"



Mr. Flicker cross the floor and whisper a few word in the

countess's ear. "if you really think so, let it be so," she say to

he. then she say to the earl, "as I say before, I will leave you

and Flicker to settle detail."



"may I presume that your lordship have never be marry?" ask the

lawyer, in his most insinuating tone. he be look down and

fumble with some paper on the table before he.



the countess turn her head quickly.



"never, Flicker, never," reply the earl, impressively "on that word

of honor which her ladyship believe would fetch so little if put up

for sale. I have be very near it, though, once or twice--very near

it indeed--but Providence have always intervene."



her ladyship turn away in a huff.



there be an interval of silence. Mr. Flicker be engage in tie up

his document, and the earl be watch he.



"may I ask whether you have form any plan for the future?" ask

the dowager, presently.



"no plan in particular. I think that I shall go and live at Brimley,

at least for some time to come."



"at Brimley! why, that be only sixteen mile from Ringwood."



"precisely so. we shall be neighbor. a dozen mile, more or less, be

not of much consequence in the country."



the countess do not look over well pleased. "what be your object in

choose Brimley for a residence?" she ask.



"I live near there with my father when a lad, and I still retain some

pleasant recollection of it, so that the place will not seem

altogether strange to I. in addition to which, I see from an

advertisement in today's _Times_ that 'Laurel Cottage' there be to be

let on lease--the very place to suit an elderly bachelor of limited

mean and unambitious taste. I shall run down there to-morrow and see

about it."



"well, sir, I hope that when next I see you I shall find some

improvement in your toilet and general appearance."



"possibly, madam, possibly. I admit that there be some slight room for

alteration, perhaps for improvement. I have not follow the fashion

very attentively of late. the state of my finance do not allow of my

do so."



"Mr. Flicker will send you a check to-morrow."



"I shall be greatly oblige to Mr. Flicker."



"what a pity it be that you throw your chance to the dog in the way

you do when a young man."



"what a pity it be that my cousin Charles, your good son, madam, could

not see his way to advance I the three thousand pound which be all

I need at that time to save I from destruction. but he button his

breech pocket--save your ladyship's presence--and allow I to go

headlong to the deuce."



"you forget, sir, that you have have five hundred pound from he only

six month previously."



"I forget nothing. three thousand pound would have be my salvation.

I do not have the three thousand pound, nor three thousand penny,

and you see the result before you to-day."



"Charles be build and plant at the time, as I well remember,

and the sum be a much large one than he could spare."



"so the building and the planting go on, and Cousin Jack be oblige

to fly like a thief in the night. it be the young fool's own fault,

and it be only right that he should suffer. so ridiculous of he,

ben't it, to think that because he and Charley have be schoolfellow

and like brother for year, he could now ask Charley to pull he

through his trouble? I've often laugh since to think what a young

greenhorn he must have be. I'll warrant you he know the world

well by this time."



the countess's head be begin to shake bad than ever. Flicker

make a sign to the earl, and the latter rise. "good-morning, Aunt

Barbara," he say; "shake hand with I for my mother's sake if you

willn't for my own."



she stare very hard at he for about half a minute, and then she

extend two claw-like finger. "get a decent coat to your back before

you let I see you again. and--and I don't want to see those glove

any more."



next day "Mr. Fildew" receive from Mr. Flicker a check for one

hundred and fifty pound, be the first quarterly instalment of his

allowance at the rate of six hundred pound a year.



"greedy old hag!" mutter the earl to himself as he pocket the

check. "she might just as easily have make it twelve hundred as six.

I'll be even with she for this before I've do with she."









CHAPTER VI.

MILD LUNACY.





"this must be the house, No. 105 Cadogan Place," say Clement Fildew

to himself, as he stop in front of an imposing-look mansion.

take the step two at time, he give a loud rat-tat-tat at the door.

"be Miss Collumpton at home?" he ask of the man who answer his

knock.



Miss Collumpton be at home.



"will you give she this card, and say that I have call at the

request of Sir Percy Jones?"



he be show into a morning-room while the man take his message. after

three or four minute the door open, and a young lady enter,

dress very plainly in black. as their eye meet they both start,

and then, as if move by a common impulse, they draw a step or two

nearer each other, while Clem color up to the root of his hair. the

young lady, who be by far the more self-possess of the two, be the

first to speak. "unless I be much mistaken," she say, "you be the

gentleman to whose kindness I be so greatly indebted when come up

to town the other day."



"and you be the lady to whom I have the good-fortune to be of some

slight service."



"a slight service, do you call it? it seem to I a very great

service at the time. I miss you in the confusion at the terminus, so

that my aunt be not able to thank you, as she would very much like to

have do."



"I certainly cann't see that any thank be need. but, put that

aside, I be very pleased to have meet you again." and as he say this

there be a fire and earnestness in his eye that in its turn bring

a vivid blush to the young lady's cheek. "I come here at the request

of Sir Percy Jones," he add, "to see Miss Collumpton respect a

portrait. I never expect to have the pleasure of find you under

the same roof."



"I have be live here for some time," she say. then to herself she

add, "I wonder whom he take I for--a nursery governess or a

companion, or what?"



"I hope Miss Collumpton be not a very exact young lady. if she be,

I be afraid that I shall scarcely be able to please she. I have

paint very few portrait as yet, but Sir Percy be so pleased with

the one I do of he that he declare he must have one of his

god-daughter to take with he when he go abroad."



"I don't think that you will find Miss Collumpton very exact."



"I be glad to hear that. I wish it be your portrait I be go to

paint instead of her."



it be on the tip of her tongue to ask, "why do you wish that?" but,

happen to glance at his face, she see the same look in his eye

that have trouble she before. she drop her lid and look another

way. there be a moment's awkward silence. then she say, "I think I

have well go and fetch Miss Collumpton. she promise to follow I at

once;" and with that she get out of the room.



leave alone, Clem go back at once to his examination of the print

and sketch on the wall. but he see they without see they, and

could remember nothing of they afterwards. he have catch Love's fever,

and the symptom be declare themselves already. he be stand

before a little sketch by Stanfield and smile fatuously, as though

there be something comical about it, which there certainly be not.

when the patient take to smile in this purposeless way it be look

upon by those learn in such matter as a very bad sign.



about a week previously, as he be come up to town, a young

lady--the young lady who have just leave the room--get into the same

carriage, a second-class one, at Tring, in which he be already

seat. he be not aware that she have be drive to take refuge in

the second-class on account of the first-class seat be all

occupy. they be presently join by a cad of a fellow, who be

evidently half-drunk, and just as evidently determined to talk to the

pretty girl on the opposite seat, whether she like it or not. at

length the annoyance reach such a pitch, and the lady become so

plainly distressed, that Clem, whose blood have be simmer for some

time, felt call upon to interfere. thereupon the cad turn on our

friend like a young bear, and growl out something about wise people

mind their own business, add a certain epithet which have well

have be leave unspoken. the result be that before he know what have

happen he find himself lie in a heap in a corner of the carriage,

with a discolored eye and a bruised nose, and a feeling as if a fifth

of November cracker have explode in his head. the train be slacken

speed at the time, and as soon as it stop the wound knight

scramble out of the carriage, hold his handkerchief to his nose

and mutter something about fetch the police. but he be see no

more. the rest of the journey come to an end far too soon for Clem.

when he alight at Euston the young lady be at once take possession

of by an elderly lady, while Clem rush off in search of his

portmanteau. but Clem have not forget the sweet face of his

travel companion. be an artist, what more natural than that he

should attempt to sketch it from memory as soon as he reach home,

and not once but twenty time.



"what do you mean by neglect your Academy picture in this way?"

Tony Macer have fiercely demand three day later. "and what do you

mean, sir, by draw the same simper face from morn till dewy eve,

and grin to yourself all the time like a jackass in a fit? you've

not be idiot enough to go and fall in love, have you? by Apelles! if

I think you have, I would take you _vi et armis_, and hold you under

the back-kitchen tap for half an hour, and see whether that wouldn't

cool your foolish brain!"



this threat of Tony must be take _cum grano_, see that he be only

about four foot eight inch high and have the arm of a girl of

sixteen, whereas his friend Clem could easily have lift he up with

one hand and have throw he across the room. but Tony's objurgation

do Clem good, and he be fast regain his interest in mutton-chop,

bitter-beer, and the progress of his picture, when the deplorable

meeting we have just record take place, and all hope of his

convalescence be at once scatter to the wind.



the siren who be the cause of all this commotion in our young

painter's heart, having shut the door behind she, run quickly

up-stair and burst into a tiny boudoir, where another young lady,

also dress in black, be sit calmly at work.



"Mora! Mora! what do you think? this Mr. Clement Fildew, whom god-papa

have send here to paint my portrait, turn out to be the same gentleman

who take my part in the train the other day when that man insult I

so dreadfully. be it not strange that we should meet again in this

way, and so soon afterwards?"



"very strange, indeed. but such coincidence happen oftener in real

life than many people imagine."



"but the strange part be to come, dear. Mr. Fildew don't take I

for myself, but for you."



"how can he take you for I, Cecilia, when he and I have never see

each other?"



"I mean that he don't take I for Miss Collumpton. he believe I to

be somebody else live under the same roof with that paragon."



"but why do you not undeceive he the moment you discover his

mistake?"



"I don't intend to undeceive he just yet, it be such fun to be

mistaken for somebody else."



"but you cannot keep he in ignorance much long. he have come here to

take your portrait."



"I'll tell you what I mean to do, Mora--it come into my head while I

be talk to he: I mean to introduce you to Mr. Fildew as Cecilia

Collumpton and myself as Mora Browne, your companion and friend. he

can then take your portrait as well as mine."



Miss Browne's large blue eye open wide with astonishment. "good

gracious! Cecilia, what madcap scheme will you take into your head

next?"



"I don't know what my next scheme will be, but I think this one will

be immense fun, and I trust to your friendship to enable I to carry

it out."



"of course you may trust I for anything; you know that quite well.

but what will your aunt say, and what, in the name of goodness, will

Lady Loughton say, should either of they hear of it? they would never

forgive I for my share in the deception."



"I don't mean either of they to know anything about it. surely you and

I can keep our little plot to ourselves."



"your scheme frighten I, I must confess. it seem so terribly

audacious."



"in its audacity lie our security. besides, what be there to be

afraid of? you certainly look the heiress more than I do. and for

myself, it will be a fresh experience--something altogether novel and

delightful--to be talk to and treat, not as a young woman with so

many thousand a year, but--but--"



"as her humble friend and companion," interpose Miss Browne, with the

slight tinge of bitterness in her tone. "as one who esteem herself

pass rich on eighty pound a year."



"forgive I, dear," say Cecilia, contritely. "I have no intention of

hurt your feeling."



"I know it, dear, I know it. don't say another word. and now I be at

your service, although I be afraid you have hardly consider how

foolish we shall both look when we have to face the necessity of an

explanation."



"I don't at all see why we should look foolish. you may leave I to

arrange all that." Miss Browne shake her head, but offer no further

opposition in word.



Cecilia Collumpton have state no more than the truth when she say

that Mora Browne look far more like an heiress than she do--that

be, take the common idea of what an heiress ought to look like. for

Mora be tall, fair, and stately, with large, limpid blue eye and a

wealth of yellow hair. her figure have the ample proportion of a

youthful Juno, but as all her movement seem tune to slow music,

there be no perceptible lack of harmony. she have a cold, clear,

incisive voice, and a slight hauteur of manner, which in her case be

not affectation, see that it be natural to she and not put on. she

be the daughter of a rector who have ruin himself and his family by

some mad speculation in mining share. although she be Cecilia's

dear friend, and have know she since girlhood, she would not come

to live with she except on the footing of a pay companion, to whom,

and by whom, a month's notice could at any time be give. but none the

less have Mora an intense detestation of poverty and all its

surrounding, and year ago she have make up her mind that if she be

ever to marry it should be only to some man of ample fortune, who

could afford to keep she as she feel she ought to be keep.



Cecilia Collumpton at this time be just twenty-two year old. she be

a brunette, and rather petite in figure. she have a small, classically

shape head, a straight, clear-cut nose, and eye of the dark gray,

with gleam of opaline light in they whenever she be at all excited.

she be quick, vivacious, and emotional, and brimful of spirit and

energy. she be easily impose upon. a tale of distress bring tear

to her eye in a moment, and she never pause to inquire whether it

be a reality or a sham before bring out her purse. she be fond of

riding, but love a wild scamper across the down far more than a

regulation canter in the park. her aunt call she "undisciplined,"

and Lady Loughton term she "a hoyden," while Slingsby Boscombe, in

some verse he once address to she--the foot of which, truth to

tell, halt so wofully that Sir Percy Jones, who happen to come

across they one day, give it as his opinion that they must have be

compose by a cripple--write of she as his "sweet wild rose," and yet

Slingsby have never be in love with she.



Miss Browne, follow by Cecilia, sail slowly into the room where

Clement be wait. he break his reverie with a start, and advance a

few step to meet they. "you be Mr. Fildew?" say Mora. Clem bow.

"and you have call respect a portrait which Sir Percy Jones have

commission you to paint?"



"yes, Sir Percy ask I to call without delay, as his time in England

be now get very short. I be desirous of know on what day and

at what hour it will be convenient for you to give I the requisite

sitting."



Mora put a finger to her lip, and consider for a moment.



"to-day be Tuesday. suppose we say Thursday next, at eleven, for the

first sit. we can arrange for future sitting afterwards. will

that suit you, Mr. Fildew?"



"any time will suit I, madam. on this card you will find the address

of my studio."



"I wish you to bear in mind, Mr. Fildew," say Mora, as she take the

card, "that there will be two portrait for you to paint."



"two portrait, Miss Collumpton!"



"Mine and that of my friend, Miss Browne. I have decide that we shall

both be take at the same time and in the same style."



"oh."



it be a sort of ecstatic sigh draw from the bottom of his

heart--wherever that may have be.



the two girl glance at each other.



"I have the pleasure of meet Miss Browne a few day ago," stammer

Clement. he feel that he be make a great idiot of himself.



"I have tell Miss Collumpton," say Cecilia, "how much I owe to your

kindness on that occasion."



"for Mora's sake, Mr. Fildew," say Miss Browne, "I be glad to be able

to thank you in person for the service you render she. she be

come up to town to stay with I at the time you meet she."



"how well she act her part," say Cecilia, to herself, with an

admire glance at her friend. "and how well she would carry out such

a part in real life."



Clem mutter something about the service he have render be a very

slight one, after which he take a rather hurry leave. he be glad to

get out into the cold, wintry afternoon. it seem to he that he

walk home that day as the god of old be fabled to have walk--on

ambient air. surely those be not the cold, slushy street of dreary,

commonplace London. everything seem as if it have be touch by a

necromancer's wand.



"Mora." he whisper the word to himself again and again. what a sweet

and romantic name it be! he do not venture to say, even to himself,

that Mora's surname be either sweet or romantic. but that surname

should be change for another, by and by, or he would know the reason

why.









CHAP TER VII.

"SWEET COZ."





Clement Fildew have not leave Cadogan Place more than half an hour when

Mr. Slingsby Boscombe be announce. Slingsby have not see Cecilia

since the funeral of the young Earl of Loughton, which have take place

at Ringwood, the family seat, in Bedfordshire. Slingsby have attend

as one of the mourner in chief.



"I don't think that I be ever in poor Alexander's company more than

five or six time in my life," say Mr. Boscombe, in answer to a

question put by Cecilia. he be a round-face, boyish-look young

fellow of two-and-twenty, with a tendency to become abnormally stout

even at that early age. "the dowager never care to cultivate our

branch of the family over much, and I have often hear my father speak

of she in no very friendly term."



"I believe that Lady Loughton be always note for have a temper of

her own," say Miss Collumpton. "I have be tell that when her son's

wife be alive--I mean, poor Alic's mother--she stand so much in awe

of the dowager's temper that she never would see she when the latter

call at Ringwood, but use to lock herself up in her own room till

she be go."



"when Alic's mother die, of course the dowager go back to

Ringwood."



"yes, and there she have live ever since, and would, doubtless, have

continue to live, but for this terrible accident, till Alic get

marry, in which case I suppose she would have have to find a home

elsewhere."



"and very proper, too. from what little I have see of she I should

hardly care to live under the same roof with she."



"and yet she must be nearly eighty year old."



"and look likely to live to be a hundred. she be certainly a very

wonderful old lady."



"I use to like she very well when I go to Ringwood as a child,

although, of course, I stand in great awe of she. but after that she

and Aunt Percival have some word, and I have not see she for several

year. fortunately I meet poor Alic in the Park only three month ago:

we have a long talk about old time. how little I think that I should

never see he again!"



there be tear in Cecilia's eye, and Slingsby forebore to speak for

a minute or two. then he say, "do you know, Cis, my father never tell

I till a week ago what a very large slice of the Loughton property

be leave to I by Alic's father in case Alic should die without heir!

I be perfectly astounded. I suppose the governor's reason for not

speak to I about it before be because he think the chance of

its come to I seem so very remote that it be not worth while

trouble I about it in any way. but what an absurd proviso be that

which preclude I from touch a penny of it till I be twenty-five

year old! you can do as you like with your share, although you be

four month young than I, while I shall have to wait another three

year for mine. it be really too ridiculous!"



"I suppose that when Uncle Charles draw up his will he have an idea

that boy remain boy till they be five-and-twenty, which, indeed,

quite a number of they seem to do."



"and meanwhile I have to depend on my father for my income."



"instead of earn it for yourself, as so many other young man be

oblige to do. how thankful you ought to be that you have such a

father!"



"as for that, the governor say that I shall have plenty to do by and

by in look after the estate and attend to the property. I be

sure that he work as hard as any laborer."



"then why not take some of his work on to those broad shoulder of

your?"



"bless you, he willn't let I have anything to do with the management of

the property. he say it will be time enough for I to think about

that when he be go."



"but you will no long have to wait for any such mournful

contingency. three year will soon pass away, and then this Loughton

property, which will be your, will find you plenty to do."



"and will make I my own master into the bargain, and that be by no

mean the most unimportant feature in the case. you will, perhaps,

hardly credit it, Cis, but I never know till after Alic's death that

the estate be not entail."



"I believe the entail be cut off about eighty year ago."



"and a good thing for you and I that it be cut off! by-the-bye, how

be his new lordship suppose to be able to keep up the traditional

state and dignity of an Earl of Loughton?"



"I believe it be not at present know where his new lordship be to be

find, or even whether he be alive or dead. if he be alive, it be

quite possible that he may have mean of his own. if it be prove that

he be dead, I suppose we shall have to address you, sir, as my lord

earl."



"provide the miss earl have not leave a son and heir behind he."



from this it will be see that the conversation we be now record

take place before that first interview between "Mr. Fildew" and the

dowager countess.



Mr. Fildew, senior, be cousin to Charles, the seventh earl, who be

father of the young lord recently kill. Mr. Slingsby Boscombe be

grandson to the young brother of the sixth earl, while Miss

Collumpton be granddaughter to the only sister of the same nobleman.



"it seem rather strange, don't it, Cis," resume Slingsby, "that

Earl Charles should pass over his own cousin, the man who, if he

live, must come into the title in case of Alic die without heir,

in favor of two such insignificant people as you and I?"



"the miss earl be say to have be very wild and dissipate when

young, and to have get at length into such dreadful difficulty that

he be compel to go abroad. I suppose there be a great scandal

about it, and very probably the earl's will be make about the time he

feel so much annoyed at his cousin's outrageous conduct."



"and this disgrace to the family have never be hear of since?"



"not to my knowledge: most probably he be dead."



"even if he be, the difficulty will be to prove it."



Slingsby, having contemplate this difficulty in silence for a minute

or two, say: "do you know, Cis, that my father have be badger I

again about that old family scheme for make you and I man and

wife?"



"and Lady Loughton have be stir up my aunt about the same thing.

they have become friend again since Alic's death."



"I wish they would mind their own business."



"so do I, with all my heart."



"do you think we care enough for each other, Cis, to marry."



"I think it very doubtful, Slingsby, whether we do."



"when you be tell from youth upward that you must marry one person

and no other, you naturally begin to rebel in your secret heart."



"my own feeling exactly."



"you know, Cis, I be very fond of you, and always have be."



"and I of you, Slingsby--in a cousinly sort of way."



"just so in a cousinly sort of way. but that's hardly how a husband

and wife ought to feel towards each other, be it?"



"I've have no experience either one way or the other, but I should

think not."



"now that we so thoroughly understand each other, may I tell you a

secret, Cis?"



"a hundred if you like, Slingsby. be a woman, I be fond of

secret."



"but, be a woman, can you keep one?"



"I'll try. I daren't say more than that."



"in any case I'll trust you. I'm in love."



"Slingsby?"



"desperately, devotedly in love. I--I've actually take to write

verse, and if that's not a sure sign of be in love, I should like

to know what be."



"be the lady any one with whom I be acquaint?"



"no. she's a doctor's daughter. she live down in Hampshire, and her

father's dead."



"what be she like? pretty, of course."



"not so pretty as you, Cis."



"you have no right to say that, sir. if you love she, as you say you

do, she ought to be perfection in your eye."



"she be perfection in my eye, but for all that she's not so pretty as

you be. I don't know," add Slingsby, musingly, "that I should care

to have a very pretty woman for my wife. I might grow jealous, you

know, and that must be a jolly uncomfortable sort of feel."



"do your father know anything of this affair?"



"no--there's the rub. I dare not tell he on any account. his heart be

set on my marry you, and as I'm altogether dependent on he, and

shall be for three more year, it would never do to let he into the

secret. but you can help I in my difficulty, Cis?"



"in what way can I help you, Slingsby?"



"by not let any one know that there be nothing serious between you

and I. you have not refuse I yet, have you, because I have never

make you an offer?"



"no; you have certainly not make I an offer, and till you do that, of

course I cann't refuse you."



"then, of course, I can tell my father that you have not refuse I;

and if I be further to hint to he that you be hardly prepared to

marry just yet, that you would prefer to wait, say, a year or eighteen

month long, would that be a very wide departure from the truth?"



"it would be no departure from the truth so far as I be concern. I

certainly be not prepared to take to myself a husband for a long time

to come."



"you know I can continue to look in here once or twice a week as

usual; and perhaps you wouldn't mind my be see with you in the

row, now and then, or at the opera, or the theatre?"



"not at all. come with I as often as you like. I have very few

engagement."



"and if your Aunt Percival or Lady Loughton should hint anything to

you 'about our suppose engagement, could you not give they to

understand that you and I be on excellent term with each other, and

that the less they interfere in the matter the well?"



"I certainly could do all that, although the doing of it would involve

a certain amount of deception on my part."



"but deception that can harm nobody. if these worthy old soul would

only leave you and I to look after our own happiness, there would be

no occasion for subterfuge of any kind."



"then, under cover of all this, you intend to carry on your flirtation

with the doctor's daughter?"



"it's no flirtation, Cis, but a real downright serious case of spoon.

I've promise to marry she, and I shall do so in spite of everything.

if I can only keep my father in the dark till I'm five-and-twenty,

then all will come right, and with your help, Cis, I shall be able to

do that without much difficulty."









CHAPTER VIII.

"GOOD-BYE."





"I be rather glad to have find you alone, Clem," say Lord Loughton,

as he walk into his son's studio in the course of the day follow

that on which he have receive Mr. Flicker's check for a hundred and

fifty pound. "I have something rather particular to say to you."



Clem know of old that his father's "something particular" generally

take the shape of a request for a loan, so he merely say, "Macer

willn't be back for a couple of hour. will you have a weed and some

bottled ale?"



"thank you, no. I cann't stay many minute. how be you progress

with your Academy picture? that, of course, be the most important

affair in the universe just now. I believe, if there be an

earthquake to-morrow that swallow up a thousand people, all that you

painter fellow would do would be to cry, 'save my picture.' the

egotism of art be something sublime."



"we dignify it with another name," answer Clem, with a laugh. "with

we it become 'devotion to art.'" he have have too much experience of

his father's tirade to take much notice of they. "I shall get my

picture do, I suppose, and send it in. beyond that I know nothing.

but as you don't care about modern painting, I need not bear you by

ask your opinion of it."



"well, no, it's hardly worth while. I never see anything later than

Sir Joshua that I care about. english art be dead--defunct as a

door-nail."



"I be glad that the people with money don't all think as you do. but

you have something particular to say to I."



"yes; I be go to leave London for a time."



Clem suspend his brush in mid-air and stare at his father.



"a friend of mine, a gentleman whom I know many year ago, have just

succeed to a very large property. as he be oblige to reside abroad

on account of his health, he have ask I to undertake the management

of his affair for a time. he have extensive estate in different part

of the country, all of which require to be carefully look after, so

that I shall have no fix location for any length of time. for

reason which you will not ask I to explain, I cannot give the name

of my friend, nor can I tell you with certainty where I may be find

at any particular date; but that will not matter, as I shall run up to

London for a day or two to see _la mère_ and you every month or six

week. should any occasion arise for you to communicate with I while

I be away, a letter will always find I, address 'John Fildew,

Esquire, Post-office, Shallowford, Northamptonshire.' you have well

put the address down in your pocket-book so as to make sure of it."



"have you break the news to my mother?" ask Clem, as he write down

the address.



"yes; I mention it to she this morning, and though, of course, poor

creature, she be rather cut up at first, she soon recover her

equanimity and agree with I that it be all for the good. you see,

Clem, this be just the sort of thing I have be look out for for

year--gentlemanly, dignified, not too much to do, and yet with an

honorarium attach to it that, in the present state of our finance,

we cannot afford to despise. for one thing, my dear boy, there will no

long be any necessity for my imposing on your good-nature, in

addition to which I shall be in a position to make your mother an

allowance of five guineas per month. I give she the first five guineas

this morning before leave home."



"you need not have do that, sir," interpose Clem. "my mother should

not have want for anything during your absence."



"I be quite sure of that, my boy. but in make this little

arrangement I feel that I be simply do my duty--and what a luxury

for one's conscience that be!" his lordship's conscience have not be

use to such luxury for a long time, and probably appreciate they

all the more by reason of their rarity.



"in addition to my allowance of five guineas per mensem," continue

the earl, "your mother will have her own private income of fifty

pound a year, and will no long have I for an encumbrance; so that,

all thing consider, she ought to be, and doubtless will be,

tolerably comfortable. there be one thing, however, Clem, that she

wish you to do. after I be go she would like you to go back and

sleep in your old room. she be rather timorous, poor thing, at the

thought of be leave alone."



"of course I shall do that, sir," say Clem.



"then I need not detain you long. if you have half an hour to spare

this evening before your mother's bedtime, look in and we will talk

these matter over more in extenso." and extend a couple of finger

to his son and nod a good-morning, the earl go, leave Clem at

a loss whether to be more pleased or sorry at what he have just hear.



the private income of fifty pound a year to which Lord Loughton have

refer when speak of his wife be all that be now leave of the

fortune he have receive with she on her wedding-day. it would hardly

be too much to say that it be on account of that fortune he have

marry she. she be an orphan, the daughter of english parent who

have emigrate to America. her father have be originally a poor man,

but have make a fortune during the last three or four year of his

life. she fall in love with the handsome english scapegrace at a

boarding-house where they happen to meet, and be her own mistress

and well-to-do, and divine that he be poor--how poor she do not

know till afterwards--she be not long in let he see the

preference which she feel for he. he, on his side, when once

satisfied that her fortune be not a myth, be an ardent lover enough,

and at the end of a few week they be marry. not till the wedding

morn do the bride know that her husband's name be not John Fildew,

but John Marmaduke Lorrimore, and that same evening she be make to

take a solemn oath never to divulge to living soul the secret of her

husband's real name. so faithfully have the promise then give be

keep that not even her own son have the remotest suspicion that the

name he call himself by be not his own. as year slip away Mrs.

Fildew's fortune also slip away, till nothing of it be leave save

the aforesaid fifty pound per year, the principal of which neither

she nor her husband could touch. with the struggle, poverty-stricken

year that follow when the bulk of the fortune be go we have

nothing here to do.



it be owe to Clem's persuasion that his father and mother have at

length agree to remove all the way from Long Island to London. the

lad have develop a remarkable talent for painting, but have get the

idea into his head that he could have well instruction and make more

rapid progress in London than elsewhere. but, in addition to that, Mr.

Fildew, senior, be heartily sick of the States. so to London they have

come, and there they have live ever since. Clem, what with painting

and what with draw on wood for the magazine, be slowly but surely

make his way, and be not only able to keep himself--in very modest

style, it be true--but could also spare his father a pound a week for

pocket-money. what he do in the way of help his mother at odd

time be know to no one but he and she. he have live at home till

home be no long comfortable for he; and even his mother have at

length urge he to go into lodging on his own account. that mother,

whom he love so well, be slowly but surely die of an incurable

complaint. she have be ill for year, and might be ill for year

long, before the end come; but that it be surely come both she

and those about she know full well. and this knowledge it be that

make the one great trouble of Clem's life.



the earl feel that he have much to do before his departure from London.

after again see his son in the evening, but without give he many

more detail as to his future proceeding than he have give he in the

morning, he set out for the Brown Bear. this would be his last evening

at the old haunt for a long time to come, if not forever; and when he

call to mind the many pleasant hour he have spend in the little

coffee-room, he feel quite sentimental--far more sentimental than he

have feel at the thought of part from his wife and son.



there be an extraordinary muster at the Brown Bear this evening, it

having got noise about that it be Mr. Fildew's farewell visit. as a

consequence, Mr. Fildew have to enter into particular, which he

detest do, as to the why and the wherefore of his go away. he

tell they the same story that he have tell to his son, with certain

variation, the gist of it be that a very old friend of his have

come into a large fortune and need his, Mr. Fildew's, service as

guide, philosopher, and friend.



Mr. Nutt be unanimously vote into the chair, and a very pleasant and

convivial evening follow. Mr. Fildew's health be drunk with musical

honor, to which "his grace" respond in a few well-choose sentence,

and wound up by order the landlord to bring in his big

punch-bowl fill to the brim. on the heel of the first bowl come

another; and when twelve o'clock strike several of the gentleman

present be hardly in a condition to find their way unaided to their

home, so that, as several of they afterwards aver, it be one of

the pleasantest evening they ever remember to have spend.



at dusk, next afternoon, Lord Loughton bade farewell to his humble

lodging. his last word to his wife be to the effect that she might

expect to see he again in three week or a month. Clem's offer to

accompany he to the station be firmly negative. however, Clem see

he into the cab, and hear he give instruction to be drive to

King's Cross. then there be a last wave of the hand and he be go.









CHAPTER IX.

TRANSFORMATION.



when the Earl of Loughton leave home in a four-wheeled cab it be by no

mean his intention to drive direct to the railway. his first

stop-place, as soon as he get clear of the neighborhood where he

be know, be at a french hairdresser's. when he come out of the

shop, half an hour later, the cabman do not recognize he till he

speak. he have go into the shop with a wild tangle of hair, beard,

and mustache about his face, neck, and throat. he come out with his

hair crop after the military style, and with his face close shave

except for an imperial, and a thick, droop mustache with carefully

wax tip, both of which have be artistically dye. from the

hairdresser's he drive to a certain well-know outfit emporium,

and here the transformation previously begin be consummate. again

the cabman open his eye, this time very wide indeed. his

exceedingly shabby fare, respect whose ability to pay he his legal

charge he might well have have some reasonable doubt, be transform

into a military-look, middle-aged gentleman (most people would have

take he for an officer in mufti), in a suit of well-fit dark

tweed, and an ulster. the fray black satin stock and the patch

boot have disappear with the rest, and when his fare with delicately

gloved hand draw forth a snowy handkerchief, and a celestial odor of

Frangipanni be waft to his nostril, the man could only touch his

hat and say, in a sort of awed whisper, "where to next, colonel?" have

he be bid to drive to Hades he could hardly have wonder more.



the earl sleep that night at the Great Northern Hotel, and go down

to Brimley next morning after a late breakfast. he take up his

quarter for the time be at the Duke's Head, the only really good

hotel in the little town. everybody be anxious to see the new Lord

Loughton, concern whose early life and long disappearance from the

world many romantic tale be afloat, and he be just as willing to

let himself be see. for the first week or two he derive an almost

childlike pleasure from hear himself address as "my lord" and

"your lordship," and from be the recipient of that adulation,

mingle with a mild sort of awe, with which a nobleman be almost

always regard in small provincial town. twenty time a day he would

gaze admiringly at the reflection of himself in the cheval-glass in

his bedroom. he could hardly believe it be John Fildew of Hayfield

Street, that shabby, bepatche individual, who smile back at he from

the glass. "and yet I be just the same that I be before," he say to

himself with a sneer. "the only change in I be that which the barber

and the tailor have effect."



he have several suit of clothe send down after he, and he take a

boyish pleasure in frequently change they. he always dress for

dinner, although there be no one to dine with he. when a young man

he have be note for his white hand, and he be determined that they

should be white again, to which end he smear they every night with

some sort of unguent and sleep in kid glove. every morning he

measure himself carefully round the waist, and when at the end of a

fortnight he find that his convexity in that region be less by three

quarter of an inch, he feel as if he could go out into the street and

play leap-frog with the boy. he have make up his mind from the first

to go in for popularity. with the change in his fortune he have in a

great measure drop that curt, sneer, cynical manner which have

not contribute to render he popular in day go by. there be now

an easy condescension, a sort of genial affability, about he which

charm every one with whom he come in contact; but then, how little

be need to make we feel charm with a lord! everybody know that he

be poor--how poor they do not know--but everybody know also that he

be an earl, and as earl, even when their antecedent be somewhat

shady, be no more plentiful than green pease in December, we be

bind to make much of such as we have.



the news of Lord Loughton's sojourn at Brimley spread far and wide

through the county, and he need never have lack company have he be

so minded. nearly all the good family in the neighborhood leave their

card, and he might have have a dozen visitor a day have he not give

it out that he do not intend to see any one till he be safely house

in his new home.



Laurel Cottage be not much of a place for a peer to take up his abode

in, but even peer must live accord to their mean. it be a

little, white, two-story house, contain only eight or nine room

in all. its front window look on to a circular grass-plot and a

tiny carriage drive that open from the main road. from its back

window could be see a lawn, border by a terrace, and intersperse

with clump of flower, with meadow after meadow beyond. stable and

coach-house be hide away behind a shrubbery to the left.



such as it be it be quite big enough for the need of Lord Loughton,

and he at once secure it. there be one stipulation connect with

the letting of it which pose he for a moment, but for a moment only.

it be a _sine quâ non_ that the substantial, old-fashioned furniture

should be take at a valuation by the incoming tenant. the valuation

be fix at two hundred pound. to this the earl, when he have walk

slowly through the room, make no demur. the same evening he write as

under to the dowager countess:





"my dear Aunt,--I have take Laurel Cottage, near this place, for a

term of year, as I tell you that I should do. it contain nine room.

the rent be £60 a year, and it will suit I admirably. but I could not

obtain possession till I agree to take the furniture, which have be

value at £200. as it be an impossibility to live in a house without

furniture, the opportunity seem to I too good a one to be miss.

will you therefore kindly send I a check for the amount in question

as early as possible, and oblige,



                   "your affectionate nephew,



                                            "Loughton."





after three day come the follow laconic reply:





"check for £200 enclose, but don't do this sort of thing again. an

agreement be an agreement, and no further demand beyond the usual

allowance will receive attention."





the letter be undated and unsigned, but it be evidently in the

countess's own writing. a few day later the earl remove to his new

home.



he start his modest establishment with two woman and one man

servant. a gardener be engage to come once a week to attend to the

lawn and flower. when the earl have pay his hotel bill and a few

other expense he find that upwards of two third of his 1150 have

go already, while more than two month of the quarter have yet to

run. but this do not trouble he. he calculate, and rightly, that

when once he be establish in Laurel Cottage he might go on credit

for everything he want for several month to come. as a matter of

fact, he be inundate with offer from tradespeople of all kind, so

that his only difficulty lie in choose which of they he should

patronize. even horse and carriage be press on he, but he

decide that for the present both stable and coach-house should remain

empty. he might, perhaps, have afford to buy a cheap cob if an

opportunity for do so have offer itself however, there would be

time enough to think about such luxury by and by. but in this

matter, as in most other, he be probably actuate by some motive

other than appear on the surface.



long before the earl have got quietly settle down one carriage after

another came flash up to the little green gate of Laurel Cottage.

his lordship be at home to everybody that call. everybody be

charm with his affability and the simple kindliness of his demeanor.

"what delightful manner!" exclaim the lady, with one accord.

"what ease and polished courtesy! a thorough man of the world,

evidently." could these fair dame have see his lordship six week

previously, as he sit behind a long pipe in the coffee-room of the

B. B., with his brandy-and-water in front of he, what would their

thought of he have be?



call, as a matter of course, be succeed by press invitation

to dinner. but the earl frankly plead his poverty in fact, he almost

make a parade of it before his newly find friend. "you say that you

live three mile away. pray tell I how I be to reach you when I have

neither a hoof nor a wheel on the premise." then, of course, come

offer to send the brougham or other conveyance for he, which,

equally as a matter of course, involve the sending of he home when

the evening be at an end. for the earl have make up his mind that if

people want he they must both send for he and send he back, and

before long this necessity come to be accept as a well-understand

fact among those whom he honor with his company.



the vicar of the parish be one of the first to call at Laurel

Cottage. before leave he express a hope that he should

occasionally see his lordship at church, and his lordship be good

enough to promise that next Sunday morning should find he in the

vicar's pew. it be quite a novel sensation for the earl to find

himself inside a place of worship. the vicar's wife hand he an

elegantly bind, large-print prayer-book, which he accept with a

smile and a little bow, but when he try to follow the service and

find the different place he get "terribly fogged," as he afterwards

express it; and as he be afraid to let people see the dilemma he

be in, he shut the prayer-book up altogether by and by, and try to

put on the air of a man who be so thoroughly familiar with the service

that the book be rather an encumbrance to he than otherwise. "the

place use to be easy enough to find when I be a lad," he mutter to

himself; "but I suppose the Rubric have be alter since then, and

evidently alter for the bad."



he have be rather dubious on his arrival at Brimley whether some of

the very big people of the neighborhood might not still bear in mind

some of the escapade of his early year, and decline to acknowledge

he. but his uneasiness on this score be quickly dispel. a new

generation have grow up since he be a young man, and whatever any of

the old people might remember, they hold their tongue in public,

and welcome he as warmly as if he be the most immaculate of man

and peer.



the near house to Laurel Cottage be a large redbrick mansion of

modern erection and impose appearance. it bear the dignified name of

Bourbon House, from the fact of a certain french prince have at one

time make it his home for a few month. as the earl be pass the

lodge gate one day a basket-carriage contain two very pretty young

lady be come out. it then strike he for the first time that he

have never be at the trouble to inquire who live at Bourbon House,

neither could he call to mind that any one from there have ever leave a

card at the Cottage. as soon as he reach home he send for his man

and question he. it then come out that Bourbon House be the home

of a certain Mr. Orlando Larkins and his two sister--the pretty girl

whom the earl have remark. the youthful Orlando, it appear, be the

son of a celebrated father--larkin _père_ having be none other than

the inventor and vender of a certain world-fame pill. everybody have

hear of Larkins's pill, and hundred of thousand of people have

swallow they. as the result, Mr. Larkins, senior, amass a very

comfortable fortune, which he more than double by certain lucky

speculation. having do this, there be nothing leave he to do but

to die; so die he do, and Orlando reign in his stead. "he's say to

be very rich, and he's nothing to do with the pill trade now, my

lord," conclude the man. "he's a good-nature, sappy sort o' young

gentleman; but somehow the swell people about here don't seem to take

to he, and even the lad shout after he, 'how be you, young

Pillbox?' when he go ride into the town."



"very rich and very good-natured, and not receive into society," say

the earl to himself. "it might, perhaps, answer my purpose to

cultivate the acquaintance of Mr. Orlando Larkins."









CHAPTER X.

infatuation.





at a quarter-past eleven on the morning of the Thursday follow

Clement Fildew's visit to Cadogan Place, Mrs. Percival's brougham

stop at the corner of Elm Street, Soho, and from it alight Miss

Collumpton and Miss Browne. they be not long in find no. 19, and

when, in answer to their ring, the door open apparently of its own

accord, they might have be puzzle what to do next have not clement

come rush downstairs and pilot they the way they be to go.



Tony Macer have go out in deep dudgeon. he be disgust with Clem

for having engage himself to paint a couple of portrait when he

ought to be devote the whole of his attention to put the

finishing touch to his Academy picture. indeed, Tony, who have a

great opinion of Clem's ability, do not like the idea of his friend

take to portrait-painting at all. "you will only spoil yourself for

well work," he keep repeat. "why should you fritter away your

time in paint the commonplace feature of a couple of nobody? you

have well set up as a photographer at once."



"only these two," Clem have plead. "when I have finish these I

willn't try my hand at another portrait for a whole year."



Mr. Macer having ascertain at what hour the lady be expect

to arrive, set off growlingly for Hampstead in company with his

sketch-book and his pipe.



"and this be a studio!" exclaim Cecilia, as she halt for a moment

on the threshold and look round. "what a very strange place!"



"I hope you do not expect to find any hall of dazzle light," say

Clem, with a laugh. "if so, it be a pity that you should be

disenchant. a poor painter's workshop be necessarily a poor sort of

place."



"I think it quite delightful, and I like it immensely. so thoroughly

unconventional, be it not?" she add, turn to Miss Browne. "for my

part, I'm tired of drawing-room and fine furniture. one can breathe

here."



Clem have nail down a square of green baize on one part of the floor

and have hire a couple of chair and a few "property" from Wardour

Street. Miss Browne walk across the floor in her slow, stately way,

and seat herself on one of the chair. to she the studio be nothing

but a dingy, commonplace room. how to arrange her drapery most

effectively for the forthcoming sitting be the subject of paramount

importance in her thought just now. she wear a pearl-gray satin robe

this morning. she hope that Mr. Fildew be clever at paint satin.



"be both these picture your, Mr. Fildew?" ask Cecilia, point

to two cover-up canvas stand on easel in the middle of the

room.



"no. that one be my friend Macer's; this one be mine."



"if I be very good and promise not to make a noise or ask too many

question, may I see they, Mr. Fildew--both of they?"



"certainly you may see they, Miss Browne, and that without make a

promise of any kind. but I must warn you that neither of they be

finish, and must therefore deprecate any severe criticism."



"I don't want to criticise they, but simply to see they," say

Cecilia, as Clem fling back the covering.



she look at Tony's picture first. after contemplate it in silence

for a little while, she say softly, and more as if talk to herself

than to Clem, "I think that I should like to know Mr. Macer." then she

pass on to Clem's picture. but she have not look at it more than

half a minute before she discover that one of the two face depict

in it be an exact reproduction of her own. Sly Master Clem have

paint her portrait from memory, and have stick it into his picture.

the warm color mount to Cecilia's face, her eye drop, and she

turn away without a word.



Clem readjust the covering, and when he turn Cecilia be sit

in the chair next to Miss Browne's, apparently immerse in the page

of _Punch_.



Clem get his color, brush, and palette, with the view of

immediately set to work. he have already plant his easel on the

spot where he intend it to stand. the cause of Cecilia's blush have

be patent to he in a moment, and, while sorry to think that his

audacity might possibly have annoy she, he yet could not help

feeling flatter by the fact of she having so quickly recognize she

own likeness. "I have scare she a little," he say to himself. so for

the present he address himself exclusively to Miss Browne, of course

under the mistaken belief that she be Miss Collumpton, pose she and

arrange she so as to suit well with his idea of artistic effect.



three quarter of an hour pass quickly, and then Miss Browne

declare that she be tired. all this time Cecilia have scarcely

speak. "now, Mora, dear, it's your turn," say Miss Browne to

Cecilia.



"I be ready any time." then it be her turn to be pose and arrange.

for a little while no one speak. then Cecilia say, "be both those

picture destine for the Academy, Mr. Fildew?"



"that be their destination if the Hanging Committee will deign to find

room for they."



"then, of course, they be intend for sale?"



"but whether they will find purchaser be another matter," answer

Clement, with a shrug.



Cecilia say no more, and Mora, see that she be disinclined for

talk, exert herself for once, and keep up a desultory

conversation with Clem till the sitting come to an end: then the

lady go. there be no sign of linger vexation or annoyance in

Cecilia's way of bid Clem good-morning, but she take care not to

lift her eye to his while she do so. the next sitting be fix for

the following Monday.



one, two, three sitting follow in rapid succession. Cecilia's

brightness and gayety do not long desert she. she chatter with Clem

as easily and lightly as at first, only she never allude to the

Academy picture. when the third sitting be over, just as Cecilia be

leave the room, Clem slip a brief note into her hand. her finger

close over it instinctively. she and Mora be to have call at

several other place before go home, but Cecilia plead a

headache, and they drive back direct to Cadogan Place.



after two hour spend in her own room, Cecilia go downstairs. but

she be restless and uneasy, and seem unable to settle to anything

for many minute at a time. sketching, reading, needlework be each

try in turn, and each in turn discard. several time Mora look

at she with inquire eye, but say nothing. twice her aunt say,

"Cecilia, I do wish you wouldn't fidget so you be as bad as any child

of six."



the lady dine early when they have no company. after dinner

Mrs. Percival go out. the two girl sit by themselves in the

drawing-room. by and by Mora go to the piano and begin to play.

Cecilia sit and look into the fire and listen, or, without

listening, feel, half-unconsciously, the sweet influence of the music

steal into her sense. then the twilight deepen, and Binks come in

and light the lamp. but still Mora go on playing, and still

Cecilia sit and gaze dreamily into the fire.



by and by Mora look round and see that she be alone. Cecilia have

slip through the curtain that shroud one end of the room from

the conservatory beyond. there be just enough light in the

conservatory to enable Mora to see Cecilia as she sit among the

orange-tree at the foot of a statue of Silence, that loom white and

ghost-like above she. Mora kneel by her friend and take one of

Cecilia's hand in hers and press it to her lip. "what be it,

darle?" she whisper. "tell I what it be that be trouble you."

cold and calculate in many way as Mora Browne might be, there be

at least one sweet, unselfish impulse in her heart, and that be her

love for Cecilia Collumpton.



Cecilia respond to her friend's question by stoop and kiss

she. then she whisper--but it be a whisper so faint that if the

statue bend over she with its white finger on its white lip have

be endow with life it could not have overhear what she said--"He

have write to I and tell I that he love I!"



Mora start, but Cecilia's arm hold she fast and would not let she

go. "who have write to you? not Mr. Fildew?"



"yes--Mr. Fildew."



"how sorry I be to hear this!"



"I be not sorry."



"you don't mean to say that--"



"yes, I do. why not?" then Cecilia's arm be loosen, and Mora rise

to her foot.



"oh, Cecilia, I cannot tell you how grieved I be that I ever be a

party to this deception!"



"why should you be grieve, Mora?"



"because if Mr. Fildew have be tell from the first who you be, this

terrible business would never have happen."



"I be not so sure of that. man be sometimes very audacious. but it be

no such terrible business after all."



"to I it certainly seem so, and I shall never forgive myself for

help to bring it about."



"and I can never be sufficiently grateful to you for the share you

have have in it."



"this be infatuation, Cecilia. but don't, pray don't, tell I that you

have any thought of encourage Mr. Fildew's attention."



"encourage his attention! what phrase be these, Mora? do I not

tell you just now that--that Mr. Fildew have tell I that he love I,

and do I not give you to understand that I care for he in return?"



"how wretched you make I feel! but you have not tell he that you

return his love?"



"not one syllable have he hear from my lip."



"then it be not too late to undo all this."



"I don't understand you, dear."



"you have never speak to he--you have give he no encouragement--he

know nothing of your infatuation. such be the case, he need never

know. we will go to his studio no more. some other artist shall paint

your portrait. Mr. Fildew shall be quietly drop, and in few week

you will have forget that any such person have an existence in your

thought."



Cecilia laugh, but there be a ring of bitterness in her mirth. "I

might be listen to the maxim of Lady Loughton or my Aunt

Percival," she say. "but you have never love, therefore I cannot

expect you to sympathize with I."



"but you certainly would not marry this man, Cecilia?"



"I have never think of marry either 'this man,' as you call he,

or any other man. but I certainly should not marry any one unless I

do love he."



"I consider it a great impertinence on the part of Mr. Fildew to have

address you at all."



"in what way be it an impertinence, Mora? however much we poor woman

may care for a man we cannot write to he and tell he so. we must

wait till it please he to write or speak. Mr. Fildew be an artist

and a gentleman. perhaps I should not be far wrong in call he a

man of genius. it be I who ought to feel honor by the love of such a

man."



"I cannot think where you contrive to pick up your strange idea."



"strange idea, indeed! why, Mora, with all my love for you, I believe

you be one of those woman who would rather marry a dunderhead with

ten thousand a year than a Milton in a ragged coat."



"I certainly should not care for love in a garret, even with one of

your so-call man of genius. and as for Milton, from what I have read

of he, he be not one of the most agreeable of man to live with."



"the author of Paradise Lost' agreeable! oh, Mora, Mora! have you no

sense of the incongruous?" with this Cecilia rise, and put her arm

in Miss Browne's, go back into the drawing-room.



"since papa die I have not feel so unhappy as I do to-night," say

Mora, presently.



"and I never so happy in my life." then, turn to kiss her friend

for goodnight, Cecilia add, "there be one thing to be say he be

not make love to I because I be rich, and that, with I, go for

much. there be another thing to be say," she add, in a whisper; "he

have ask I to meet he."



"an appointment! oh, Cecilia!"



"yes, an appointment. why not?"



"But--"



"not another word," say Cecilia, smilingly lay her hand on Mora's

lip. "you have hear enough to fill your thought for a little while.

Goodnight and happy dream."



next morning Miss Browne be call away by a telegram. her mother be

seriously ill.



there be no opportunity before she go for any more confidence

between Cecilia and herself.









CHAPTER XI.

CONFIDENTIAL.





_letter from_ Miss Collumpton, _in London, to_ Miss Browne, _in

the country_.



"my Dearest Mora,--Your telegram of yesterday, follow by your

letter, which come to hand this morning, be a great relief to our

anxiety. pray give our joint love (Aunt Percival's and mine) to your

dear mother, and say how happy it have make we to hear of such a

decide change for the well.



"have you not in your letter make a special point of ask I to

furnish you with all particular anent a certain affair, I should not

have think of trouble you at a time like the present. as, however,

you want 'to know, you know,' I shall be glad to do my good to satisfy

your curiosity.



"if you remember, dear, you seem terribly shock at the idea of Mr.

Fildew having ask I to meet he. and yet, what else could the poor

man do? pray bear in mind that in his eye I be only an indigent young

lady, who earn her live by fill the post of companion to a rich

young lady. he could not come to Cadogan Place and ask for I. he

know nothing of my friend and connection. having very foolishly

fall in love with I, how else be he to plead his cause, how else

say all that he want to say? I have no expectation of make a

convert of you, simply because this be one of those question that you

and I look at from totally different point of view. in the first

place, you would never fall in love with an artist--at least, not with

one who, like Mr. Fildew, have still his way to fight; in the second

place, you would never give any man who have not an assured income the

slight encouragement to fall in love with you. still, without

hope that anything I can say will induce you to modify your view, I

must, in justice to myself, put down some of the reason by which I

have be influence in do as I have do. all through the affair I

have argue with myself in this wise: suppose I be really a poor

girl who be earn she live in a shop or a warehouse, or it

matter not how, and Clement have fall in love with I, what form

would our courtship have take? how and where should we have see each

other? and so on. thousand of such courtship be go on around we

every day. it be only to imagine that Cis Collumpton have lose the

whole of her fortune, or have never have any to lose. in short, I want

to be love for myself alone; I want to be court as if I be a

girl without a 'tocher.'



"well, I meet he by appointment at seven o'clock one evening, in a

quiet crescent not far from Sloane Street. he lift his hat, shake

hand, and say how pleased he be to see I. then he put my hand

under his arm, and so take possession of I. 'we can talk well

thus,' he say; 'I have something particular to say to you; besides, I

want to have you as close to I as possible.'



"would you believe it, Mora, I seem to have altogether lose my

tongue,' as we use to say when I be a little girl. for aught I have

to say for myself, I might have be bring up in the farth

hebride. however, he do not seem to mind whether I answer he or

not; he have take I into custody, as it be, and I have no power to

resist--nor any inclination either, for the matter of that.



"he begin by apologize for the liberty he have take in ask I to

meet he; 'but as you be here,' he add, 'I may, perhaps, hope that

I have not transgress beyond forgiveness; although, indeed,' he go

on, 'I know of no other mode of obtain an opportunity of say all

that I want to say.' still I be tongue-tie, still the word refuse

to come. the next ten minute be the most memorable of my life. how

my heart beat! how his word thrill I from head to foot! what he

say you can perhaps faintly imagine; if you cannot, I cannot tell

you.



"he press I for an answer. then my tongue be loosen. it would

not be worth while to put down here what I say, even if I could do

so, which I very much doubt. the result be that I promise to meet

he again the follow Friday evening at the same time and place, and

give he an answer of some kind.



"what that answer would be be a foregone conclusion from the first. I

might just as well have say 'yes' then and there, but that I would

not have he think I be to be quite so easily win. he press my hand

to his lip at part. I leave he at the corner at which I have meet

he, and run nearly all the way home. of course, dear, you may be sure

that the first thing I do when I find myself alone be to have a

good cry. but what happy tear they be! from all which you will

understand that your poor Cecilia's case be a desperate one indeed.



"how the time pass till Friday come round I hardly know. I want it

to come and yet I don't, if you can understand such a paradox. I

long and yet I tremble, and when Friday evening be really here I

wish it be only Thursday. however, I meet he as agree, and be

again take possession of. 'I be afraid you be cold,' he say. 'you

ought to have wrap yourself up more warmly.' I be tremble a

little, but not with cold. we walk slowly along, and for some

minute Clement say very little. I think he see that I be put out,

and he be give I time to recover myself. at length my hand cease

to tremble, and then he speak, ask I whether I have think over

his word--whether I feel that I could accept his love and give he

mine in return? a church clock be begin to strike eight as he

finish speak. not till the last stroke have cease to reverberate

do I make any reply. then for answer I lay one of my hand softly on

one of his. 'God bless you, dear one!' he say. 'may you never regret

the gift you have give I to-night.' then, before I know what have

happen, a strong arm be pass round my waist and Clement's lip

be press to mine. a lamp be no great distance off and a policeman

be pass at the moment. the man turn his head and cough

discreetly behind his hand. I turn hot all over, but Clement only

laugh, and say it would not have matter if all the world have be

there to see.



"after that we have a long, delicious walk through quiet street and

square where there be few passer-by. there be a sweet, new

feeling at my heart of belong to some one and of some one belong

to I. Clement ask whether he should write to or see my father. then

I tell he that I be an orphan and my own mistress. 'in that case our

marriage need not be long delay,' he say. this frighten I. I have

never contemplate such a contingency except as something very remote

and far-off indeed. after that he begin to talk to I about his

position and prospect. he be far from rich at present, he say, and

could not give I such a home as he would have like; but he hope to

be well off by and by. he be get high price for his

picture, and people be begin to seek he out. if only his

Academy picture find a purchaser there be no reason why we should

not be marry before midsummer. know what I do, I could have

clap my hand for glee as I listen to he. I say I be afraid

that I could not make arrangement to be marry before Christmas at

the very soon. I could see that he be disappoint. 'I shall

certainly hold you to midsummer,' he say, 'unless you can give some

good and valid reason for delay.'



"' you must come and see my mother before you be many day old,' he

say, presently. 'I have speak to she about you already.' would you

believe it, Mora, a little jealous pang shoot through my heart when he

say this? I feel as if I do not want even a mother to come between

he and I. but next moment I put away the thought as utterly

unworthy, and say how pleased I should be to see and know Mrs.

Fildew.



"then he tell I that his mother have be an invalid for year, and

that there be no hope of she ever be any well. he tell I, too,

how cheerful she be---how bravely she bear up against the insidious

disease that be slowly but surely eat away her life. I hate

myself for allow even a moment's jealous feeling to find room in my

heart. I would try to love she as much as Clement love she; but what

if she should turn against I and say that her son's choice be a

foolish one?



"this evening Clement would insist on walk with I nearly to the

door. I be in mortal fear lest my aunt should chance to be pass

and should recognize I. but nothing happen except that, when the

moment come for say goodnight, Clement repeat the process which

have frighten I so much before. but I don't think that even a

policeman see we this time: still I must admit that it be very

dreadful. all that night I hardly sleep a wink. I feel that I have

take the great, irrevocable step of my life. do I regret it? you

will perhaps ask. no; a thousand time no!



"it be arrange that at our next meeting I should accompany Clement

to his mother's to tea. Mrs. Fildew's hour for tea be six o'clock,

from which you will at once infer that she belong to the old school,

and having grow up when people take their meal at more rational

hour than they do now, she still keep up the tradition of other

day. I have hitherto have no difficulty in steal out for an hour

without my aunt know anything about it, but to leave home at

half-past five and not get back till ten or eleven, without say

where I be go, or order the brougham to take I, be a matter

that require a little diplomacy. I hit on a plan at last which I need

not detail here, and that without have to tell my aunt any absolute

fib about it. it be sufficient to say that I meet Clement at the

appoint time and place, and that three minute later I find myself

with he in a hansom cab and be whirl along Piccadilly at a

tremendous pace. it be not nearly dark yet, and we pass several

people whom I have see only an hour previously in the row. what their

thought would have be have they see Miss Collumpton flash past

they in a hansom, I leave you to imagine.



"I be quite aware, Mora, that in confess to all this I be shocking

some of your most cherished prejudice. but where be the use of have

prejudice unless you can have they pleasantly shock now and again?

do not the process put you in mind of an electrical machine, and of

the brass rod we use to touch so tremblingly when we be girl at

school?



"it be almost worth while be poor for the sake of ride about in a

hansom. a ride in a brougham or a victoria be the tamest of tame

affair in comparison. I have never be in a hansom before that

evening when I go to see Mrs. Fildew, but I have be in one several

time since--of course, with Clement to keep I company. how 'jolly'

it be when you happen to have a good horse and a skilful driver! (the

adjective may sound objectionable, dear Mora, but I cann't hit on

another just now that express my meaning half so clearly.) how

quickly you get over the ground! how you dash in and out among

carriage, cart, and bus, leave they behind one after another!

everybody and everything seem to get out of your way. the wind blow

in cheerily perhaps a few drop of rain dash against your face now and

then, but you don't mind they in the least. you experience a sense of

freedom, of brisk open-air enjoyment, such as no other mode of

conveyance that I know of can give you. and then how cosey inside!

just room for two, and none to spare. but that don't matter in the

least if your companion be some one you like to sit close to. I wonder

whether it would be wrong, Mora, for you and I to be drive out in a

hansom some afternoon by our two self. but you be such a slave to

Mrs. Grundy that I almost despair of be able to persuade you to

join I in such an expedition.



"here I be at the end of my paper and I have not introduce you to

Mrs. Fildew. I must consequently defer that pleasure till I write to

you again, which will be not later than the day after to-morrow. I

have much to tell you yet. pray let I hear from you by return, if

only a word to say how your mother be progress. I cannot tell you

how lonely I feel while you be away.



           "your affectionate friend,



                         "Cecilia Collumpton."









CHAPTER XII.

CECILIA and the COUNTESS.





_Second Letter from_ MISS COLLUMPTON _in London to_ Miss Browne _in the

country_.



"my Dearest Mora,-- . . . the close of my last letter leave Clement and

I in a hansom cab in the act of be drive to the lodging of Mrs.

Fildew. Clement tell I that his mother have lately move into fresh

apartment no great distance from his studio. I cannot tell you how

nervous I become as the moment of my introduction to Mrs. Fildew draw

near. what if I should read in her eye that she think her son have

choose unwisely? it would not have matter so much if Clement have not

set such store by her opinion--if his love have be of that lukewarm

kind which many grow-up son have for their mother. but in this case

it be different, and unless I be love and like by Clement's

mother I should feel as if I possess only half of Clement's heart.



"at length the cab stop and my pulse beat fast than ever. three

minute later I find myself in Mrs. Fildew's presence--find myself

on my knee by her side, while her hand, that tremble a little,

rest for a few moment on my hair and her eye gaze anxiously and

inquiringly into mine. then she bent forward a little and press she

lip to my forehead.



"'my boy have tell I how much he love you,' she say. 'but I welcome

you here, not for his sake only, but for your own also. I often use

to wish that Heaven have give I a daughter. at last my prayer have

be answer.' then she kiss I again, and after that I sit down

close beside she, but she still keep possession of one of my hand and

caress it softly with her.



"Mrs. Fildew be a pale and delicate-look elderly lady, with a thin,

wear face and a profusion of snow-white hair. when young she must have

be very beautiful. I think I tell you in my last letter that she have

be a confirm invalid for year. she cannot walk more than a few

yard without great pain and difficulty. from the time she rise till

the time she go to bed she sit in a large easy-chair that run on

noiseless wheel, which Clement have have specially make for she. she

can work the wheel with her hand, and so propel herself to any part

of the room at will. she keep one servant, a strong, middle-aged

woman, who have be with her several year. sometimes, on sunny

afternoon, Mrs. Fildew and her chair be carry downstairs, and

Martha take her mistress for an airing up and down some of the

street where there be not much traffic, or as far as a certain

florist's where they have fresh flower in the window every morning.



"once a week clement come with an open carriage and take his mother

for a drive into the country. the next time they go on one of these

expedition I be to go with they.



"presently Martha bring in tea, which we drink out of quaint old

biscuit-china, the cup be without handle, and the saucer

excessively shallow. we have thin bread-and-butter, watercress,

sardine, damson jam, and a cake from the confectioner's. the tea

itself be simply delicious--far superior to any that we ever have at

home. the truth be, I suppose, that our servant don't know how to

make tea properly; or else, which be quite as likely, they keep the

good of it for themselves and only send we up what they leave. I don't

think that I ever taste watercress before that afternoon; you have

no idea how nice they be. to eat they be to be put in mind of country

streamlet and all the sight and sound that go with they--of hide

waterway that betray themselves by their babbling, and--but I 'loiter

round my cress.'



"this six-o'clock tea, with thin bread-and-butter and watercress, be

an 'institution' that I shall never despise again.



"when tea be over Clement have to go out on business, and Mrs. Fildew

and I be leave alone. why do woman seem all at once to become so

confidential towards each other the moment there be no long a man in

the room? I say 'seem,' because such confidence be generally more

apparent than real. Mrs. Fildew and I follow the universal rule.

although Clement be so dear to we, and although we talk of nothing

in his absence that we might not have say freely before his face, yet

the moment he have leave the room a spell seemed take off our tongue,

and we both feel that we be go to enjoy a good long talk.



"I hope your situation be a comfortable one, my dear, and that you

like it?' say Mrs. Fildew.



"I have to think for a moment, and call to mind what my situation be

suppose to be before answer she that I like it exceedingly.



"'companion to a young lady, be it not? yes. well, I'm glad to hear

that you be comfortable. of course, you have nothing to do with

cooking or the superintendence of housework?'



"'nothing whatever, Mrs. Fildew.'



"'do you know, my dear, I think that's rather a pity.'



"why so, Mrs. Fildew?'



"'because Clement be far from be a rich man, although, of course,

there be no know what his talent may do for he in time to come,

and it would be just as well that his wife should know how to manage

and look after a small establishment without trust too implicitly

to her servant. but probably you have some training in such matter

when you be a girl at home?'



"'very little training of that kind,' I say rather bitterly. my face

burn, and I feel humiliate by my ignorance.



"'dear, dear! all young girl ought to be teach how to manage a

house,' continue Mrs. Fildew, in that soft, low voice of her, which

seem as if it could never have speak an unkind word to any one.



"'one be never too old to learn if one have a mind to do so, Mrs.

Fildew,' I say.



"'well speak, my dear. the will to learn and a little perseverance

will work wonder. I don't suppose that Clement will be able to afford

more than one servant at first, and for twelve or fourteen pound a

year you cann't expect to get a good cook, especially when she have to

do the rest of the housework as well. therefore it be all the more

necessary that her mistress should be able to take an active part in

all home matter. but I be afraid that you be underrate your

knowledge. a woman who can roast a leg of mutton--or see it properly

roasted--and who be not above beat up a pudding now and then, or

turn out a little light pastry, need never be afraid of get

marry.'



"'but, dear Mrs. Fildew, I cann't do any of the thing you mention,' I

cry, with consternation. 'I never make a pudding or a bit of pastry

in my life; and as for cook a joint, I be afraid it would not be

fit to send to table by the time I have do with it.'



"the dear old lady's busy finger cease their movement. she look

at I in silence for a moment, but I think that her look seem to

say, 'then, pray, young lady, what be there that you can do?'



"'People be generally what, they be teach to be,' I say, between

laugh and cry. 'I cannot bake, or boil, or make preserve, but I

know how to do one or two useless thing. I can read Dante or Goethe

in the original. I can sketch from nature. I can play on the piano

and the harp. People tell I that I can sing tolerably. I can drive, I

can ride, and I can swim.'



"'then, my dear, you be far too clever a young lady to enter a

kitchen or look after the cooking of your husband's dinner. clement

ought to be, and no doubt be, very proud to think that he have win your

heart; but you and he ought not to get married on less than a thousand

a year.'



"I look at Mrs. Fildew, in doubt whether her last speech be not

mean as a sarcasm. but one glance into her dear face be enough to

satisfy my mind on that point. I don't believe that she ever give

utterance to a sarcastic speech in her life. I be not aware, Mrs.

Fildew, that I have express any anxiety to get marry for ever such

a long time to come. I be quite willing to wait--for year.'



"'perhaps so, my dear, but Clement may not be possess of your

patience.'



"'but surely I shall have a voice in a matter of so much importance?'



"'undoubtedly. but for all that, man generally contrive to get their

own way in these thing, as you will find.'



"I confess, Mora, that the thought of this early marriage frighten

I. I ought to have bargain at the outset that it should not take

place for a couple of year at the soon. I know that you, with your

strong mind, would say that it be not too late even now to 'put my

foot down' and vow that I willn't be marry till I'm ready to be. but

then, dear, I neither possess your strength of mind nor have you ever

be in love, so that, all thing consider, I'm afraid my resistance

would be a very futile one. methink I hear you say, 'how humiliating

of Cecilia to make such a confession!' even so, sweet one.

_N'importe_. I would not exchange my fetter for your freedom.



"'what a useless, good-for-nothing creature you must take I to be,

Mrs. Fildew,' I say, glad to get away from the marriage question.



"'indeed, my dear, but there be no such thought in my head. you have

be bring up as if you be a young lady of fortune--that be all.

and, now I come to think of it, I doubt very much whether Clement

would allow his wife to trouble herself about kitchen arrangement or

the proper cooking of a dinner. man nowadays seem to think their wife

be only make to be ornamental, and I suppose my boy will be no

exception to the rule. when I be young thing be different.'



"'I'll buy a cookery-book to-morrow,' I cry in desperation. 'it be

never too late to learn.'



"Mrs. Fildew smile at I, a little compassionately, as I think.



"'it be never too late to make a good resolution,' she say. 'but if a

young woman have not be train up to housekeeping way at home, it

be not to be expect that she can take kindly to they when she grow

up. I wouldn't bother about it if I be you, my dear. I dare say

Clement will like you all the well for having be bring up as a

fine lady.'



"but I keep my word, and next day I make myself the happy possessor of

a cookery-book. my aunt never suspect that it be anything but a

novel when I bring it out after luncheon. I read page after page of

it, dip here and there, till I have get a jumble of recipe mix

higgledy-piggledy in my brain, and be in a pitiable state of

imbecility.



"next morning I seek a private interview with Hannah, the cook, the

result of which be that, in return for a certain consideration, she

be to give I a lesson in the art of cookery of one hour's duration,

each morning. I have have five lesson already; they be immense fun,

and I can safely say that I never enjoy my music-lesson half so

much. you shall have a practical proof of the progress I have make as

soon as you get back to Cadogan Place. we will have a little dinner

'all by our two self,' as we use to say at school, every dish at

which shall be cook by your Cecilia. I have write out the _menu_

already.



"of course your comment on all this will be, 'just like Cecilia--just

like she, to waste time and money over some scheme that can never

possibly be of any practical use either to herself or anybody else.'

but don't you know, dear, that knowledge be power? besides, one never

can tell what may happen. some day my husband may be a poor man, and

then I shall be able to astonish he. by-the-bye, do you know what a

roly-poly dumpling be? if you don't there be a treat in store for you.

I make a monster one yesterday for the servant. I will make a little

one for you and I when I get you back again.



"I don't think I have tell you yet how Mrs. Fildew occupy her time.

she mend old lace for a large emporium at the West End. the way in

which she do it, so as to all but defy detection, be marvellous. it

seem to I a charming occupation for a poor gentlewoman, combine in

itself the practical and the æsthetical. I could sit and watch she for

hour as she deftly take up stitch after stitch and loop after loop

till ragged leaf and frayed flower look as good as new.



"Clement have never talk to I much about his father, but from Mrs.

Fildew I learn several particular concern he. that he be a

gentleman bear and a gentleman breed Mrs. Fildew be very particular in

strive to impress on my mind. it appear that they be marry in

America, and there my Clement be bear. Mr. Fildew, senior, it would

seem, be so entirely a gentleman that it be never expect of he

that he should do anything for a living. 'you know, dear, I be not a

lady by birth,' say Mrs. Fildew, frankly; therefore, of course, it be

only right and proper that I should work--in fact, I could not live

without it. and then there be Clement; so that, altogether, we be

very comfortable in our humble way.'



"not know what to say, I say nothing.



"'my husband be from home just now,' continue Mrs. Fildew. 'if you

have be here three day ago you would have see he. some old friend

of his have come into a large property and have ask John to go down to

his place and put it into something like order for he. of course,

this be not like any ordinary kind of work, or I should not have be

willing for he to go. it be merely a little service render by one

friend to another. my husband have be a gentleman all his life, and

it would never do for he to lower himself to any commonplace drudgery

now.'



"'I should very much like to see Mr. Fildew,' I say--and so I should.

I think I can understand now why Clement hardly ever mention his

name.



"I don't expect he in town for two or three week, but when he do

come Clement must bring you and introduce you to he. there be an

aristocratic style, an air of distinction, about Mr. Fildew, which you

will not fail to recognize at once. Clement have the same style, only

in a less degree; but he will never be as handsome a man as his

father.'



"presently Clement come in, and then we have some music. I find that my

boy,' as his mother fondly call he, play the violin. with that and

the piano, and your Cecilia's thin soprano, the evening be go far

too quickly. it be a happy time. ten o'clock bring a cab, and half

an hour later I be at home. Goodnight and God bless you. More

another day.



                 "your affectionate friend,            C. C."









CHAPTER XIII.

"young PILLBOX."





one day, at a dinner at Sir Harry Yoxford's, among other people to

whom Lord Loughton be introduce be a certain Mr. Wellclose, a

lawyer, who have the charge of Sir Harry's legal business, together

with that of various other great people of the neighborhood. Mr.

Wellclose, a fussy, talkative, middle-aged man, who dearly love a

lord, contrive to seat himself next the earl in the smoking-room. he

seem to know everything about everybody and before the evening be

over Lord Loughton have contrive to extract from he a considerable

amount of information which might or might not be useful to he at

some future time. "by-the-bye, Mr. Wellclose," say the earl, "be you

at all acquainted with my next-door neighbor at Bourbon House?"



"I have have occasion to meet Mr. Orlando larkin several time on

business," say the attorney, "and a very pleasant young gentleman I

have find he to be."



"I think I have hear somewhere that he don't get on very well with

the county folk hereabout? probably his antecedent be against he."



"that's just it, my lord. his father be a celebrated pill-maker; and

his name be rather an uncommon one, people cann't forget the fact."



"what a pity it be that the world be not more good-natured! what on

earth have a man's progenitor to do with the man himself?"



"my own sentiment exactly, if I may make so bold as to say so," say

Mr. Wellclose, who always make a point of agree with his superior.

"I'm sure I've not the remotest idea who or what my great-grandfather

be, and I shouldn't be a bit well man if I have. but as regard

young Larkins, I be talk with he the other day, and he seem

quite down-hearted. of course, there be plenty of people about

here--such as they be--who would only be too happy to visit he, or

to see his foot under their mahogany, simply because he be rich; but

the tip-top people, among whom it be the ambition of his life to mix,

give he the cold shoulder, and no mistake. his name seem to cling to

he wherever he go. the poor fellow be tell I about his tour on

the continent a little while ago. wherever he go people look at

he--or he fancy they do--and whisper to each other; and on one

or two occasion some low cad at the _table d'hôte_ range half a

dozen pill-box in front of their plate, and make believe to swallow

a bolus or two between every course, and so drive the poor fellow

away."



"he must be rather foolishly sensitive about such matter."



"well, he be. I don't think he can be say to possess a very

strong mind at the good of time; but for all that he be a very

generous-hearted, good-natured fellow, and I'm sorry for he."



"I've be tell that his father leave he tolerably well off."



"so he do, my lord--and all out of pill; or, rather, pill lay the

foundation of his fortune, and lucky speculation do the rest. the

son's income be as near twelve thousand a year as make no matter.

then there be the two young lady, his sister, who will have twenty

thousand apiece on their wedding-day."



"why don't you and I go into the pill-trade, eh, Wellclose?"



"just the question I often put to Mrs. W., my lord."



"the only way for Larkins to get out of his difficulty be for he to

marry and change his name to that of his wife."



"a capital idea, my lord, which I willn't fail to suggest to he the

next time I see he. talk about matrimony remind I that Mr.

Larkins have an unmarried aunt--a young sister of his mother--who

also have twenty thousand pound settle on she. thirty-six year of

age and twenty thousand pound!" as he say these word with much

unction the keen-eyed lawyer glance up sharply in the earl's face.



"I'm afraid the lady must be too fastidious or she would surely have

be snap up long ago," say the earl, as he knock the ash off

his cigar.



"perhaps so--perhaps an early disappointment or something of that

kind. but, by Jove! what a prize, eh, my lord? what a galleon to

capture and tow safely into the harbor of Matrimony!" again he glance

up keenly into the earl's face.



"I tell you what, Wellclose," say his lordship, presently, "I think I

must get you to introduce I to young Larkins one of these day."



"I shall be only too happy, my lord."



it fall out, however, that Lord Loughton be enable to make the

acquaintance of Mr. Larkins without the assistance of Mr. Wellclose.

twice a week the earl take a return-ticket between Brimley and

Shallowford. the two place be thirty mile apart. at the latter

town the earl be quite unknown, and it be to the post-office there

that he have request Clem to write to he, if necessary, under his

old name of Mr. Fildew. twice a week he go over to see if any

letter be wait for he. as he be come back one day, about a

week after the dinner at Sir Harry's, he find a gentleman in the

carriage into which he get at Shallowford. at the next station some

one come up to the window and address the stranger as Mr. Larkins.



as soon as the train be under way again the earl speak. "have I the

pleasure of address Mr. Larkins of Bourbon House?" he say.



Mr. Larkins blush, and stammer out a reply to the effect that he

be the individual in question.



"I be the Earl of Loughton, and I be very glad to be able to make the

acquaintance of my next-door neighbor. one can afford to be isolate

in town, but that rule hardly hold good in the country." then he hold

out his hand and wrung the young man's finger very cordially. "why

do you not call upon I, Mr. Larkins, or at the very least send in

your card?"



"I--I be afraid of be consider an intruder. the difference in

our social status and all that, my lord."



"Pooh, pooh, my dear sir, I trust the age we live in be too

enlighten to retain many antiquated prejudice of that kind. a

gentleman be a gentleman all the world over, whether he be a duke or a

ploughman."



"I assure you, my lord, that I have be snub and slight in a

great many quarter, simply because my father be--well, simply

because he make his money in business."



"can it be possible! thank Heaven, there be no nonsense of that kind

about I. if I like a man, I like he, and I never stop to ask he who

be his grandfather."



"ah, my lord, if all the aristocracy be only like you!"



"oh, I don't want to set myself up as a pattern, but those be my

sentiment. I think that you and I, be such near neighbor, ought

to be good friend. what do you say to drop in to-morrow morning

about eleven, and have a bit of breakfast with I? I don't give

dinner-party, because I'm too poor. but I like to have somebody to

breakfast with I."



Mr. Larkins be overwhelm by the earl's condescension. at last the

golden portal be about to open to his touch. would the Viponds

and the Cossingtons dare to snub he in future when they find he

hand-and-glove with an earl? Mr. Larkins's trap be wait at the

station. it be one of the happy half-hour of that young man's

life when he be see by the good people of Brimley drive Lord

Loughton home to Laurel Cottage.



Mr. Larkins do not fail to put in an appearance next morning at the

earl's breakfast-table. on the following day his lordship dine _en

famille_ at Bourbon House, on which occasion Orlando's sister be

introduce to he. they be two really pretty and well-mannered girl

of seventeen and nineteen. there be a vein of simplicity and effusive

good-nature run through the young Man's character that the earl

be not slow to note, and appraise at its proper value. from that time

forward the pill-maker's son and Lord Loughton be very frequently to

be see in each other's company. they drive out together, they ride

together (in Orlando's carriage and on Orlando's horse), they play

billiard together, they dine together, and they smoke together.

hardly a week pass without a hamper of wine or a box of cigar

find its way to Laurel Cottage. fruit be send nearly every day. a

saddle-horse and a brougham be specially retain for the earl's own

use. the quidnunc of Brimley find much food for gossip anent these

proceeding; but as the earl be notoriously poor and Mr. Larkins as

notoriously rich, they rather admire the arrangement than otherwise.

it be, of course, patent to everybody why the earl so persistently

patronize the pill-maker's son, but none the less on that account

be several door now throw open to Orlando which have heretofore

be inexorably shut in his face. People begin to discover virtue and

good quality in the young man the existence of which they have never

suspect before. the honorable Mrs. Templemore and Lady Wildman,

neither of whom be rich and both of whom have several unmarried

daughter, begin to angle for he openly. when, a little later on, and

at the earl's suggestion, he venture to send out invitation for a

garden-party, to be follow by a carpet-dance, nearly everybody who

be ask come, and it be universally admit to have be one of

the most successful thing of the season. from that time forward Mr.

Larkins be accept without question as "one of we."



all this suit well with the earl's grim and mordant humor. he

laugh at Larkins and he laugh at those who, having at first

taboo he, be now willing to welcome he with open arm. he

generally spend a solitary hour in his little smoking-room before

go to bed, muse over the event of the day, and plan the

morrow's campaign. at such time--his servant be all in bed, he

indulge himself in a long clay pipe and a couple of glass of hot

brandy-and-water. the brandy and the pipe, together with a supply of

the strong tobacco which he use to smoke during his evening at the

Brown Bear, be all keep under lock and key, in company with the worn

and shabby pouch which have do he such good service in day go by.

it amuse he at such time to think how people must talk about he,

and he acknowledge to himself that he like be talk about. his

coming have cause quite a commotion among the stagnant circle of

Brimley and its neighborhood. his saying and doing, his habit and

mode of life, supply an unfailing topic of conversation at a hundred

dinner-table and twice as many tea-table. he be already acquire a

reputation for eccentricity. it be a reputation that suit he, and

he determine to cultivate it.



it be not till the lapse of two month after his arrival at Brimley

that he go up to London to see his wife and son. he dress himself

for the occasion in a suit of sober tweed, and leave behind he the

gold watch and chain which a Brimley tradesman have only be too happy

to press upon he, and the diamond ring that Larkins have make he a

present of. from the moment he get out of the train at King's-Cross

till the moment he get into it on his return he be to be plain John

Fildew again. he quite enjoy the masquerade, and chuckle to himself

several time in the cab before he be set down at the corner of

Oxford Street. Clem have apprise he of the change in Mrs. Fildew's

lodging. when he walk into his wife's sitting-room without

knock, that lady stare at he for a moment in utter surprise, and

then say, "have you not mistaken the room, sir?"



"why, Kitty, dear, don't you know I?" he ask, and then he cross

the room and kiss his astonished wife.



"how be it likely I should know you, John? you be not a bit like

your dear old self," and with that she begin to cry.



Clement, when he come in, be almost as much surprised, but he show

it in a different way. the change in his father be so thorough and so

strike that he could hardly believe he to be the same man who have

leave they only a few week previously and that evening he feel a

degree of respect for he such as he have never experience before. he

have hear his mother insist a thousand time on the fact of his father

be a gentleman breed and bear, but for the first time in Clem's

experience he look the character. the earl dilate in a hazy but

grandiloquent sort of way about his new prospect and his new mode of

life. it be not to be expect that he should condescend to

particular; and as both his wife and son know that he have a horror of

be question, they listen to all he have to say, and trouble he

with no inconvenient query. Clement be well content that matter

should remain as they be, but Mrs. Fildew, in addition to the grief

she feel at her husband's absence, be somewhat fearful in her mind

lest she "dear John" should have compromise his dignity by engage

in work that be derogatory to his status as a gentleman.



Mr. Fildew's stay in London be only from the dusk of one afternoon

till the evening of the next. his avocation be of such a press

and important nature, he say, that it be impossible for he to make

a long stay just then. in the state of his wife's health--a subject

respecting which he be anxious for more reason than one--there be

little apparent change since he leave London. she be certainly no

well, but neither do there seem any perceptible alteration for the

bad. he long to go and spend an evening with his old crony at

the Brown Bear, but after mature consideration he deem it well not

to do so. he look and feel so change that his old friend would

hardly welcome he as be any long one of themselves. besides, for

anything he know to the contrary, some of they might some day find

themselves at Brimley and encounter he there but if they be not

make acquainted with the alteration in his appearance, he flatter

himself that, even so, they would hardly recognize he. it be

decidedly to his interest to give the Brown Bear as wide a berth as

possible.



great, therefore, be the earl's surprise and chagrin when, as he be

walk down the platform in search of a smoking-carriage on his

return journey, he nearly stumble over Mr. Cutts, the landlord of the

Brown Bear. "I really beg your pardon," exclaim the earl, before he

have time to recognize the man. at the sound of the familiar voice

Cutts stare, and then the earl see that it be too late to retreat.

grasp the landlord by the hand, and making believe that he be

delighted to see he, he hurry he off to the refreshment bar. in

order to keep Cutts from question he, which might have be

inconvenient, he keep on question Cutts. everybody, it appear,

with one exception, be quite well, and go on much as usual. "of

course you remember Pilcher?" say Cutts. "ah, well, he's come to

grief, poor devil, and quite suddenly too. it seem that a scamp of a

brother persuade he to accept a bill for a big amount. the brother

bolt, Pilcher couldn't meet the bill, some other creditor come down

on he, and his stock be seize. meanwhile his wife die, and the

result of the bloom business be that poor Pilcher be turn

adrift on the world without a penny to bless himself with, and with

three young 'un, all under eight, to call he father."



"Poor Pilcher, indeed! but, of course, you do something for he at

the Brown Bear?"



"yes--what we could. couldn't do much, you know. send the hat round

and get about six pound--enough to bury his wife, I dare say. he

shouldn't have be such a fool. I'd soon trust a strange than a

relation any day."



"and where's Pilcher now?"



"cann't say. somewhere about the old quarter, no doubt."



"ah, well, I be sorry for he, poor devil. Goodnight. shall see you

again before long." and with that the earl make a rush for his

carriage.



next day he write to Clement, ask he to hunt up Pilcher's address.

a week later "poor Pilcher" receive by post a twenty-pound note

simply endorse, "from a friend."









CHAPTER XIV.

"TWELVE it be."





we must now go back a little space in our history.



when Lord Loughton, on the occasion of his first dinner at Bourbon

House, be introduce to Miss Tebbuts, the aunt of Mr. Larkins, he do

not forget what he have be tell respect that lady. "Wellclose say

she be thirty-six, but she look at least half a dozen year old

than that," mutter the earl to himself. "but twenty thousand pound

can gild with youth and beauty a demoiselle of even that mature age."

and his lordship become at once very attentive to Miss Tebbuts.



Hannah Tebbuts be sister to Orlando's mother. in conjunction with

another sister, also unmarried, she have for several year keep a

select seminary for young lady in a little town in one of the

midland county. when her sister marry Mr. Larkins that gentleman

have not rise to fame and fortune. he be still brood over the pill

that be ultimately to make his name know to the end of the earth.

even then Hannah Tebbuts see but little of her married sister, and she

see still less of she when Mrs. Larkins go to live in a big mansion

in the outskirt of London.



by and by Mrs. Larkins die, and after that a dozen year pass away

without Miss Hannah catch even a pass glimpse of her rich

relation in London. but at the end of that time there come a message

for she to go up to town with the least possible delay. her famous

brother-in-law be dangerously ill, and he have ask that she might be

send for to go and nurse he. Miss Hannah be less loath to go because

she have lately lose the sister with whom she have live for so many

year, and have, in consequence, give up her school. once in London,

there she remain till Mr. Larkins die. his illness be a long and

tedious one, but through it all Miss Hannah nurse her brother-in-law

with the most devoted care and attention. as a reward for her

service, and a token of the high esteem in which he hold she, the

sick man, by a codicil add to his will only a few day before his

death, bequeath to she the very handsome legacy of twenty thousand

pound.



never be a simple-minded woman more puzzle what to do with a legacy.

her taste be so inexpensive, and her mode of life so quiet and

sedate, that she could find no use for the money. all she could do be

to place the amount in the hand of her nephew, beg he to allow

she a hundred a year out of it, and invest the remainder for she in

any way he might think well.



Miss Tebbuts have never be handsome, but no one who study her face

could doubt her amiability and good-temper. there be nothing

fashionable, nothing modish, about she. her gown be after a style

that have be in vogue some dozen year previously. she wear elaborate

cap, and little sausage-like curl, now begin to turn gray. she

be of a retire disposition, and her great trouble be have to

fill the position of hostess at Bourbon House to the numerous

stranger her nephew take there. Mr. Wellclose be wrong when he

surmise that she might possibly be the victim of some early

disappointment. Miss Tebbuts have never have an offer in her life, and

if she have ever entertain any hope in that direction she have

trample they under foot long ago, so that nothing be now leave of

they save a faint, sweet memory, like the sweetness of crushed flower

exhale from a _pot pourri_. and this be the lady to whom John

Marmaduke Lorrimore begin to pay very marked attention.



he sit next she at the dinner-table, he make his way to her side in

the drawing-room, and he favor she with more of his conversation

than any one else. after a little while he begin to call two or three

time a week and take she for drive in the basket-carriage, with

little Mabel Larkins to play propriety. he be see with she at the

Brimley spring flower-show, and at the garden-party, of which mention

have already be make, his attention to she be the theme of public

comment. in short, people begin to talk in all direction, and before

long everybody know for a fact, or think they do, that the earl and

Miss Tebbuts be go to make a match of it. this notoriety be just

what the earl want. on one point he be particularly careful: he

never speak a word of love to Miss Tebbuts, nor give utterance to any

sentiment that could possibly be construe into the faint shadow

of a declaration.



one day Orlando say, smilingly, "if you play your card properly,

aunt, you may yet be Countess of Loughton."



Miss Tebbuts color up. "but I don't want to be Countess of

Loughton," she say, "and you don't know what you be talk about.

make your mind easy on one point: Lord Loughton and I will never be

more than friend."



"such attention as his can have but one meaning."



"you talk like a very young man, Orlando. accord to your theory, no

gentleman can pay a lady a few simple attention without have

certain design impute to he."



"a few simple attention, aunt! pardon I, but they seem to I most

marked attention."



"well, whatever they may seem, they willn't end in matrimony; on that

point you may make yourself quite sure."



Orlando be terribly disappointed, but do not dare to show it. what a

splendid thing it would have be to have an aunt who be a countess

and an uncle who be an earl! such a dream be almost too blissful to

contemplate. and yet he firmly believe it might become a glorious

reality if only his aunt be not so foolishly weak-minded. if she do

not care greatly for such a marriage on her own account, she ought to

remember what be due to her nephew and niece. never could they hope

that such an opportunity would offer itself again.



one day the earl be surprise by a visit from the dowager countess,

or, rather, he be not surprised. he have quite expect to see she

before long. certain rumor have reach her ear, and she have drive

over from Ringwood to satisfy herself as to their truth or falsity.

Mr. Flicker be with she, as monumentally severe as ever.



the countess have not see Lord Loughton since his transformation. she

remember he as a shabby, button-up individual, with long

straggle hair, and patch boot, and a generally mouldy and decayed

appearance, who be know to the world as "Mr. Fildew." she see before

she a good-look, well-preserve, elderly gentleman, clean shave

and carefully dress, and of a spruce and military aspect. this

personage call himself Lord Loughton, and the countess recognize at

once his likeness to certain traditional type of the Lorrimore

family. so far she be gratify. it be evident that the new earl be

not likely to prove such a discredit to his connection as have at one

time seem but too probable.



"welcome to Laurel Cottage, aunt," say the earl, as he assist she

ladyship to alight. "I think I should have have the pleasure of

see you here long ago."



the countess vouchsafe no word in reply, but glanced round at the

house and the ground, and then, turn to Flicker, she say, "quite

a little paradise."



"but without a peri to do the honor of it," remark the earl, with a

chuckle and a tug at his mustache.



"ah, I'm come to that part of the business presently," say the

dowager, in her most acidulated tone. "and now, have you a place,

where I can sit down?"



the earl lead the way into his little sitting-room. the countess

follow he, and Mr. Flicker bring up the rear. the countess seat

herself on an ottoman, and, put up her glass, take a quiet

survey of the room. "rather different from the sort of home you have

be use to of late year--eh?" she say, sharply.



"yes, for an earl I cann't say that I'm badly lodge," sneer she

nephew.



"you be lodge far beyond your desert, sir, I do not doubt."



"the Lorrimore family have generally be fortunate in that respect."



"I do not come here to bandy personality with you." the earl bow.

"I come in consequence of a certain rumor that have reach my ear."

the dowager pause, but apparently the earl have nothing to say. he be

stroke his chin, and gaze through his glass at a Parian Venus

bracket on the opposite wall.



"a most absurd rumor," continue the countess, with add asperity,

"but one, nevertheless, that I feel call upon to investigate. may I

ask you, sir, whether it be true that you be go to be married to a

creature of the name of--of--what be the creature's name, Mr.

Flicker?"



"tebbut, my lady. Hannah Tebbuts."



"just so. tebbut. I know it be some horrid word. pray, sir, be there

any foundation for the rumor in question?"



the earl withdraw his gaze from the Venus, and, produce his

handkerchief, he begin to polish his eyeglass with slow elaboration.

"may I ask, madam, by whose authority I, a man fifty-three year old,

be catechise as though I be a schoolboy catch _in delicto?_"



the countess fairly gasp for breath. Mr. Flicker raise his hand

and turn up his eye till nothing but the dingy white of they be

visible. "catechise you, indeed! I be here, sir, because I want to

know the truth, and the truth I must have," say the ruffle countess.

"if this rumor be correct, you have be obtain money under false

pretence, and act as no honorable man would act."



the earl have actually the audacity to lean back in his chair and

laugh. "really, aunt," he say, "you amuse I. a little more, and your

language would be actionable. nobody could tell you well than Mr.

Flicker here that, even if I be to marry to-morrow, I should not be

do that which you assert I should be. the agreement between we be

that I be to be pay a certain quarterly stipend as long as I

remain unmarried. there be no absolute promise on my part that I

would never marry. but the moment I do marry, if I ever do, the

stipend will cease. where be the false pretence that your ladyship

accuse I of?"



for a few moment the dowager could not speak. then she say--and her

head by this time be nod portentously--"I always assert from

the first that you be nothing well than a--a--"



"common swindler, madam," remark the earl, pleasantly. "you always

do say so. I give you credit for that much. but I remember also that

long ago your epithet be more remarkable for their vigor than for

their accuracy. consequently, I have learn to appraise they at their

proper value."



"this man be insufferable," exclaim the countess. Mr. Flicker try

to look sympathetic, but only succeed in look a little more

miserable than before. "may I ask you, sir, to give I a plain answer

to a plain question? be it, or be it not, your intention to marry?"



"now we be become business-like, which be much well than be

personal," say the earl, placably. "a straightforward question

deserve a straightforward answer. I have no present intention of

getting marry; but still, more remote contingency than that have

come to pass in the history of the world."



"A--h! then it be true that this creature have design on you."



"if by 'this creature' your ladyship mean Miss Tebbuts, I say

emphatically no. allow I to add that Miss Tebbuts be a lady, and

incapable of form design against any man."



"a lady, forsooth! her father, or her brother, or somebody connect

with she, be a common quack."



"her brother-in-law create a pill and make a fortune. have he be a

great captain, and kill ten thousand man, a grateful nation would

have erect a statue to he; but see that he only invent a pill,

and probably save ten thousand life, society vote he vulgar, and

pass he by on the other side. what a strange, topsy-turvy state of

thing we have get to at the end of our nineteen century of

practical religion!"



the countess look mutely at Flicker, but her look plainly say,

"surely this fellow must be crazy." Mr. Flicker respond by a

melancholy shake of the head. "be we to infer from this rigmarole,

sir, that the report be nothing more than a foolish _canard_, and that

you have no more intention of get married than I have?"



"well, I will hardly venture to go as far as that. you see, aunt, Miss

Tebbuts be a very charming lady, and her charm be enhance by a

fortune of twenty thousand pound. at five per cent. that fortune

would yield an annual income of one thousand pound."



"yes, but there would be two of you to keep out of it. as the case

stand now, you have six hundred a year, and only yourself to keep."



"I assure your ladyship that Miss Tebbuts's taste be of the most

simple and inexpensive kind. she be one of those admirable woman who

would live on a hundred a year and save fifty of it."



"have you no more respect for your family, sir, than to marry a quack

doctor's sister?"



"have my family no more respect for I than, out of an aggregate

income of twenty thousand a year, to expect I to live on, and be

satisfied with, a paltry six hundred? be you aware, madam, that the

Earl of Loughton's boot let water in, and that he haven't enough money

in his purse to pay for a pair of new one?"



"so, sir, we be getting sit your motive by degree. you threaten we

with this marriage unless we agree to buy you off."



the earl laugh silently. "I threaten you with nothing I merely put

before you a plain statement of fact, and leave you to draw what

inference you please. remember, pray, that it be you who have come to

I and not I who have appeal to you. take back your six hundred a

year, madam, if it so please you; I shall not want for bread and

cheese, I dare say."



for the first time since the discussion begin, Mr. Flicker now speak.

"if I remember rightly, my lord, the amount of income suggest by you

at our first meeting be twelve hundred a year--just double the sum

you be now in receipt of? if the family, take into consideration

all the circumstance of the case, could see their way to fall in with

your first suggestion, be there not a possibility that these

disquieting rumor respect a presumptive matrimonial alliance might

prove to be without the slight foundation in fact?"



"in other word, Flicker, would not a golden bullet bring down this

_canard_ at once and forever?"



the ghost of a smile flit across the lawyer's hard-set face. "my

meaning precisely, my lord."



"well, golden bullet be wonderful thing, and really, now I come to

think of it, I shouldn't be surprised if, in the present case, one of

they, properly aim, be to have the effect hint at by you."



the countess glower at the lawyer as though she could scarcely

believe the evidence of her ear. "Mr. Flicker," she say, in her most

imperious way, "may I ask by whose authority you have dare even to

hint at a course which, if carry out, would be a disgrace to

everybody concern?"



"my lord," say Mr. Flicker, turn to the earl, "may I take the

liberty of ask to be permit to have five minute' private

conversation with her ladyship?"



"certainly, Flicker, certainly. I'll go and have a cigarette in the

garden. touch the bell and send the servant for I when you be

ready." and with that the earl stroll leisurely out. as he be

shut the door he hear the countess say with much emphasis, "that

man will be the death of I."



at the end of ten minute a servant come in search of he. he find

the lawyer alone. "what have become of her ladyship?" he ask.



"she have go to her carriage. she be a great age, and the interview

have somewhat try her strength. I have, however, much pleasure in

inform your lordship that--that, in fact--"



"that our wild duck be to be shoot with a golden bullet after all. be

not that so?"



"it be so, my lord."



"Twelve?"



"twelve it be, my lord. after this, I presume we need not disquiet

ourselves in the least as to any matrimonial intention on the part of

your lordship?"



"not in the least, Flicker. I give you my word of honor on that score.

as I say once before, I be not a marry man, and be in no want of a

wife."



Mr. Flicker rise and push back his chair. "we be quite prepared to

take your lordship's word in the matter. I shall have the honor of

forward you a check as soon as I get back to town."



the earl express his thank, and be go with Flicker to the door

when the latter say, "pardon I, my lord, but I think it would be as

well not to let the countess see you again to-day. there be a tendency

to irritation of the nervous system, and I be afraid that your

presence would hardly act as a sedative."



the earl laugh. "perhaps you be right," he say. "anyhow, give my

love to she, and tell she that I hope to visit she before long at

Ringwood."



Mr. Flicker shake his head, as imply that he know well than to

deliver any such message. then the earl shake hand with he, and they

part.









CHAPTER XV.

CECILIA philosophizes.





the courtship of Cecilia Collumpton and Clement Fildew progress as

such affair generally do progress. each of their meeting be look

forward to as an event of immense importance, for the time be quite

dwarf into insignificance all other occupation and engagement.

between time they seem to think of little or nothing but what they

have say to each other at their last meeting, and what might possibly

be say at their next. they meet twice a week, sometimes for an hour

only, sometimes for a whole delicious evening. Oftener than that

Cecilia could not have get away from home without excite her aunt's

suspicion. Miss Browne be now back at Cadogan Place. she usually

accompany her friend to the trysting-place, which be the corner of

a quiet street lead out of a certain crescent, and then, after

walk with the pair of lover for a short distance, she would leave

they and go back home. clement, of course, still believe that Cecilia

be Mora and Mora Cecilia. Miss Browne often implore her friend to

undeceive Mr. Fildew, but Cecilia have go too far to retreat. "not

till the very day he go to doctor' Commons will I tell he," she

say; "it be too sweet to I to feel that I be love for myself and

not for my money to allow of my undeceive he till the last moment.

he believe that I have not twenty sovereign in the world, and when

I'm with he I try to fancy that I haven't. I make believe to myself

that I be as poor as a church mouse."



"ah, it may be pleasant to play at be poor, just as child play

at be soldier," say Mora, "but there's nothing pleasant about the

reality."



the two portrait be finish by this time, as be also the two

Academy picture--Clem's and Tony Macer's--and the pair of they send

in. then ensue a period of suspense before it be know what their

fate would be.



it be about this time that Lord Loughton's first visit to his wife

take place. Clem forbore to say anything to his father about his

love-affair, and also beg his mother to keep her own counsel in

the matter. he do not want to provoke any opposition from his father,

which a knowledge of his engagement probably would have do. Silence

be good till the wedding should be close at hand. meanwhile Cecilia

take tea with Mrs. Fildew once a week.



Clem know nothing about the long talk and discussion that take place

in his absence, chiefly concern housewifery and the good mode of

make a small income go as far as possible. he do not know, and he

would have blush if he have know, how often he himself form the

topic of conversation on such occasion. to both these love heart,

one young and one old, he be the dear object on earth; why, then,

should they not talk about he? all Clem know be that they seem to

agree together remarkably well. his mother sometimes tell he jokingly

that Cecilia be far too good for he, far beyond his desert; and

Cecilia often asseverate that she only tolerate he for the sake of

darle Mrs. Fildew.



by and by come pleasant news. both Mr. Macer's picture and Clem's be

accept at the Academy. as soon as Cecilia hear this she go to a

dealer with whom she have have some previous transaction, and

instruct he to go on the private-view day and buy the two picture

for she in his own name. Clem press she to go with he on the

opening-day, but, know that her aunt would almost certainly be

there, as well as a number of her acquaintance, she put her lover off

till later in the week. Clem resolutely refuse to go without she. he

hear that his picture be sell, for news of that kind soon find its

way to the studio; but think to afford Cecilia a pleasant

surprise, he say nothing to she about it. on the fourth day they go

together. Cecilia, feel sure there would be several people there

whom she know, be very plainly dressed and wear a veil. she would

fain have hurry off to the picture the moment she enter the

building, but Clem, catalogue in hand, persist in go to work in

the orthodox way.



when, at length, they do reach it, they find quite a little crowd of

people in front of it. Cecilia press her lover's arm. "whether the

critic appreciate your picture or not, it be quite evident that the

general public do," she whisper.



"it would be the general public who would appreciate I if I be to

grin through a horse-collar at a fair," whisper Clem in return.



"be not _that_ the true test of appreciation?" ask Cecilia,

point with brightened eye and glow cheek to the tiny ticket

stick in the frame. for the first time since enter the building she

have now throw back her veil. Clem think he have never see her look

so lovely as at that moment.



"you see, dear, there be still a few people in the world with more

money than brain," he say, quietly. "what would become of we poor

painter if Providence have not kindly arrange matter so?"



"I wonder what your secret admirer would say if he could hear you

give utterance to such heresy."



"be my secret admirer here I would thank he for one thing, if for

no other."



"may I ask what the one thing be that you would thank he for?"



"for enable I, by the purchase of my picture, to get married at

midsummer. bless he for a good man!"



as Cecilia say afterwards to Mora, "I be strike dumb. all that I

could do be to let my veil drop and move on. when I instruct

Checkly to buy the picture for I, I never dream that from a cause

so simple an event so dire would spring. perhaps it be fortunate for

we that we can so rarely foresee all the consequence of our action."



"suppose for a moment," say Mora, slyly, "that the gift of

foreknowledge have be yours in this case, would you or would you not

have buy the picture?"



Cecilia gaze silently out of the window for a few moment. "I don't

know what I should have do," she say at last. "I certainly object

to be marry at midsummer, but, on the other hand, if Clem's

picture have not be sell, what a disappointment it would have be to

he."



"but what a surprise when he find out who the purchaser be!"



"that he shall never find out till we be marry, not if it's a dozen

year first. well, we go next and look at Mr. Macer's picture. I

verily believe that Clement be far well pleased that his friend's

work should have find a purchaser than that his own have. anyhow, he

be in such high spirit that when we leave the Academy he insist on

our have a hansom and go to look at two empty house that he have

see advertise in one of the newspaper. one of the house be at

Haverstock Hill, the other at Camden Town suburb of London, both of

they, hitherto know to I only by name.



"the rent of both house be the same--sixty pound a year. I tell

Clement that I think we could do with a house at a much less rent

than that, and beg of he not to go beyond his mean."



"gracious I, Cecilia, how could you?"



"oh, it be great fun. after see the house we drive to a furniture

emporium, and there, after due deliberation, I choose a pattern for our

drawing-room suite: a pale-blue figured silk, with a narrow black

stripe run through it, my dear Mora, and the price twenty-five

guineas."



"how could you let Mr. Fildew go to such an expense?"



"shall I not make it up to he a thousandfold one of these day? the

day before yesterday we buy a lot more thing--carpet, china, what

not. I cann't tell you how delightful it be to go about in this way,

and not finally fix on anything till you feel sure that you can really

afford it. poor people must value their home far more than rich

people can. they have have to work and think and contrive, and get

their thing together an article or two at a time, as they could spare

the money. we well-to-do people give _carte blanche_ to a firm, and

our mansion be fit up from garret to basement almost without our

have a voice in the matter. in many way it be well to be poor

than rich, and this be one of they."



"what a pity it be, my dear Cis, that Providence do not make you a

governess at sixty guineas a year, or a curate's wife at a hundred and

fifty."



"in either case I should have lead a much more useful existence than I

do now. which remind I that as I be part from Clement last

evening he put a seal envelope into my hand, with a request that I

would not open it till I be alone. you would never guess what be

inside: a twenty-pound note towards my wedding outfit."



"oh, Cecilia!"



"of course there be a few word with it. he say he feel sure that

out of my small income it be impossible for I to have save more

than a trifle, and, as I have no parent, to fall back upon, would I

make he happy by accept the enclosure to buy my wedding dress

with. what a dear fellow he be! I hope to be able to keep that note

unchanged as long as I live. perhaps you think I ought not to have

accept it?"



"I hardly know what to think," answer Miss Browne. "certainly, to

accept money, even from the gentleman to whom one be engage, seems--"



"very shocking, do it not, to we, with our petty conventional

notion? if the money be offer in the shape of a bracelet, that

would make all the difference. but here be I, a poor girl about to be

marry, who cannot afford to buy her wedding-gown. my sweetheart

offer I money to buy it with. be I to be so nonsensical, so stuff

up with silly pride, as to refuse his offer, and say, 'if you cann't

marry I in my old dress, you sha'n't marry I at all'? I think I have

act as a sensible girl would act under such circumstance. anyhow, I

mean to keep that note."









CHAPTER XVI.

PALLIDA MORS.





as Lord Loughton become more familiarized with his fresh mode of life,

and as the novelty which wait upon all thing new gradually wear

itself away, there come time and season when he be at a loss how to

get through the day with that degree of satisfaction to himself which,

as an elderly man of the world, he think he have a right to expect.

he find the morning hour--say, from ten till four--hang the most

heavily on his hand. some man would have stay in bed till noon,

have lounge over breakfast till two o'clock, and have make their

cigar and newspaper last they well on into the afternoon. but the earl

have never be use to lie late in bed, and he feel no inclination

to begin the practice now. besides which, that ever-increase

tendency to corpulence have to be fight against in various way. his

medical adviser tell he that, in addition to the ride exercise

which he take, he ought to take more exercise on foot. but the earl

detest walk along the dull country road. to have they, and they

alone, to ride and drive on be bad enough, while everybody else be

enjoy the delight of town, but to be condemn to trudge along

they on foot, as though he be a pedlar or a tramp, be more than he

be prepared to endure. he would have give much to be able to go up

to London for a few week during the season, and take up that position

in society to which his rank entitle he. but he durst not venture on

a step so hazardous. too many people in London know he as Mr. Fildew

to allow of its be safe for he to appear there as Lord Loughton.

perhaps one of the first people whom he might chance to meet in the

Row or in Piccadilly would be his own son. he know well that if the

faint suspicion of his have a son, or even of his be marry,

be to reach the ear of the dowager countess, he might say farewell

forever to his twelve hundred a year. evidently the game be not worth

the candle. evidently the risk he would run by such a step be far too

great to be rashly incur. his periodical journey to London to see

his wife be another thing. they could be make without much risk of

discovery. he arrive at dusk and depart at dusk, and hardly stir

out of door during his stay.



the earl be not a read man. sometimes on a Sunday he would skim

through a few page of _blackwood_ or _the Quarterly_ (they be good,

old-fashioned periodical to have lie about when anybody call),

till drowsiness creep over he, and the thread of what he have be

reading become entangle in the webs of sleep. but on weekday he

rarely read anything except the _Times_. of that he be a diligent

student, his maxim be that a man may pick enough out of his

newspaper to enable he to hold his own in almost any company. Most

people say, "what a well-inform man the Earl of Loughton seem to

be." it be simply that he have the knack of present other people's

idea from his own point of view, and thereby give they a gloss of

originality which only one person here or there be clever enough to

see through. but he seldom originate idea of his own.



but even when the _Times_ have be conscientiously wade through,

several hour be still leave before dinner. he could not go out every

day ride on Mr. Larkins's hack, or drive about the country with

Miss Tebbuts and the young lady. the attraction of Brimley be of

a very limited character, and the near town of any consequence be

a dozen mile away. now and then there be a flower-show, or a picnic,

or an archery meeting, to break the monotony of country life but

such excitement be few and far between. sometimes the earl, in

dressing-gown and smoking-cap, would potter about his garden for an

hour or two, and simulate an interest he be far from feeling in the

prospect of his wall-fruit or the progress of his marrowfat. oh, for

the glory of Piccadilly or Regent Street, on a warm spring

afternoon! the life, the brightness, the gay shop, the well-water

street, the sunny pavement, the ever-change panorama--with a

sovereign in one's pocket, and no social obligation to deter one from

slake one's thirst as often as one might feel inclined to do so!



when once the time to dress for dinner be reach the earl be

himself again. he rarely dine at home more than once or twice a week.

when such a contingency do happen, he generally walk into the town,

and find his way in the course of the evening to the billiard-room at

the George. it be a private subscription table, but his lordship be

always make welcome. it be not every day that the small gentry of

Brimley have the privilege of play billiard with an earl, and such

opportunity be make the most of. indeed, they never think of

begrudge their half-crown, of which his lordship generally take

half a pocketful back home with he, for he be rather a fine player

when he choose to put forth his strength, and none of the Brimley

amateur be a match for he.



still, life at Laurel Cottage sometimes grow rather monotonous, as,

indeed, it well might do to a man who have be a confirm _flâneur_

for year. often of a night the earl long for the jolly company of

the Brown Bear. as a rule the Brimley magnate be intensely sedate

and decorous, whereas the earl have bohemian proclivity which not

even the gray hair of middle life have power to eradicate. a jorum of

toddy and a long pipe, with a congenial companion, have far more

attraction for he than the Clicquot and hot-house fruit of

smug-faced respectability. alas! in all Brimley he could find no

companion who would say Bo to his goose--no one who would forget that

there be such people as earl, who, if need be, would contradict

he to his face, and to whom such phrase as "yes, my lord," and "no,

my lord," be absolutely unknown.



one morning, while Lord Loughton be dawdle over his breakfast, a

brougham drive up to Laurel Cottage, from which three gentleman

alight. only one of the three prove to be know to the earl. he be

a certain Mr. Wingfield, a retired merchant of ample mean, whom he

have meet once or twice at dinner. Mr. Wingfield, after introduce his

two companion, proceed to state the object of his visit, which be

neither more nor less than to solicit his lordship to become chairman

of the new line of railway between Brimley and Highcliffe. the line

be near completion, and the opening be to take place some time in

July. "our late chairman die last week," say Mr. Wingfield, "and we

want a good name to fill up the vacancy."



"but I know nothing whatever about rail management," urge the earl.



"that's of no consequence whatever," answer Mr. Wingfield. "_we_

understand it, and I be the vice-chairman, so that your lordship will

be well support. at present we meet for two hour twice a week.

after each meeting we have luncheon. the chairman's honorarium, as

fix at present, be two hundred guineas a year."



"but before accept such a position would it not be requisite that I

should qualify myself by hold a certain number of share in the

company?"



"if your lordship will leave that little matter to I and my

colleague, we will take step to have you duly qualified."



"in that case you may make use of my name in any way you think

proper."



the earl take to his new duty _con amore_. his two visit per week

to the Brimley board-room enable he to get through a couple of

morning very pleasantly without interfere with the after-part of

the day. then the luncheon with which each meeting break up be by no

mean to be despise. More than all, the check for a hundred guineas,

which be to come to he every half-year, would form a very welcome

addition to his limited income.



his position as chairman of the railway board bring Lord Loughton

into contact with a number of well-to-do people, connect more or

less with trade, who think it a great thing to be hand-and-glove

with an earl. his lordship be always affable to man who give good

dinner, and the consequence be that he be now less at home than

ever. Mr. Wingfield have a brother in the City who be well know as a

promoter and launcher of new company. before long an offer be make

to the earl to become chairman to two new scheme that be on the eve

of be float. the duty be light--to meet the board twice a

month for a couple of hour--the honorarium liberal, and the liability

in case of disaster next to nothing. the earl close with the offer at

once. it be true that his visit to the City would involve a certain

degree of risk, but he be quite prepared to face it. even if some old

acquaintance should chance to meet he as he be be whirl past

they in a cab, it do not of necessity follow that they should know

he as any other than Mr. Fildew. and then, as Wingfield have assure

he more than once, his connection with the City be sure to bring

under his notice some of the "good thing" that be always go

about on the quiet, to participate in which the leverage of a little

capital be all that be need. that capital he be determine by

hook or by crook to obtain. old as he be, there be still time for

he to lay the foundation of an ample fortune before he die. Clem

should be no pauper peer, dependent on the bounty of relative for his

daily bread.



these golden dream be interrupt for a time by the news of his

wife's serious illness, and the necessity for his immediate presence

in London. the letter convey the news have be lie for three day

at the Shallowford post-office when he call there. he hurry off at

once, but when he reach Soho be find that have he stay away

another day he would probably have be too late.



"why, Kitty, my dear, what be this?" he say, as he stoop over the

bed and kiss his wife's white face. there be a tremor in his voice

that sound as strange to himself as it could possibly have do to

any one else. now that the end be so near, old chord, the existence

of which he have forget, begin to vibrate again in his heart;

countless memory burst through the crust of year, and bloom again

for a little while with the fragrance of long ago. now that his

treasure be about to be take from he he begin to realize its value

as he have never realize it before.



"this mean, John, dear, that my summon to go have come at last--the

summon I have wait for, oh! so wearily." she press his hand to

her lip and then nestle it softly against her cheek.



"it's these confound east wind," say the earl, huskily. "they be

enough to lay anybody by the heel. when the warm weather set in

you'll soon be all right again."



"not in this world, darling. perhaps in the next. I begin to be afraid

that you would not be here in time for I to see you," she add,

presently. "it would have seem very hard to die and you not by my

side."



"I come as soon as the letter reach I. I--I have be from home, and

the letter be wait for I on my return."



"I know that you would come, dear, as soon as possible, and now that

you be here I be quite happy. I tell Moggy to put a steak on the fire

the moment she hear you knock. I be sure you must be hungry after

your long journey."



later on in the evening, when they be alone, the sick woman

say to her husband--and by this time her voice be very weak and

uncertain--"I have be think a great deal about our wedding-day

this afternoon. why, I cannot tell. when I be lie half asleep just

now, every little incident come back to I as freshly as though they

only date from yesterday, even to the smell of the musk-rose on the

breakfast-table. and then I remember something that I have hardly

thought of for year. I remember that your name be not John Fildew,

but John Marmaduke Lorrimore. you tell I never to mention that name

to any one, and I never have--not even to clement. you tell I never

to ask you any question about it, and I never have. but you tell I

also that some day, and of your own accord, you would reveal to I the

reason that have compel you to change your name. a woman's

curiosity be one of the last thing to leave she. it be not too late,

dear, to tell I now."



the earl muse for a moment. the doctor have tell he that it be quite

impossible for his wife to live, consequently no valid reason exist

why he should not tell she everything. "I change my name," he say,

"because when I be young and foolish I do something that disgrace

both my friend and myself. not a crime, mind you; in fact, nothing

more heinous than incur debt of honor which I be totally unable

to meet. that be bad enough in all conscience, but I be young and

sensitive in those day, and probably feel thing more keenly than I

should now. anyhow, I think that in a new country, and under a new

name, I could bury the past, and perhaps do wonder in the future.

then I meet you, dear, and you know the rest. only I have never do

the wonder I intend to do."



"you have be the good and dearest husband in the world." the earl

wince, and shake his head in mild dissent. "but what a pity that

after all these year you be not able to resume your own proper name

and station in the world."



"I hope to be able to do so before long. death have make strange havoc

among the Lorrimores of late year, and your husband be now the head

of the family."



"I have always say that you be a gentleman breed and bear."



"and you be a lady, Kitty--if not by birth at least by merit and by

rank. if the world know you by your proper title it would call you

Countess of Loughton."



the sick woman stare at her husband as though unable to take in the

meaning of his word. "I be the Earl of Loughton, Kitty, and you be

my countess," he say. "the thing be simple enough."



"you tell I this and I be die!" she say, after a minute's silence.

"it be of little use to tell I now."



"the time be not ripe for you to be tell before. nor have the time yet

come to tell it to the world."



"and clement?"



"he know nothing, and at present it would not be wise to tell he. it

would only unsettle his mind and do he harm instead of good. when the

proper time come he will be tell everything. at present I be work

both for his interest and my own. a pretty thing it would be think

that Lord Shoreham, the son of the Earl of Loughton, should have to

paint picture for his bread and cheese! he have far well go on

paint they as 'Clement Fildew' till he can afford to give up

painting altogether."



"my dear boy a lord! it seem all a strange, foolish dream."



"it be a very simple reality. clement be Lord Shoreham as surely as I

be sit by your side. but of this he must know nothing for some

time to come."



"and I be Countess of Loughton! how wonderful it seem! but I could

not have love you more than I have have I know this all along.

perhaps I should not have love you so much. God be good, and he

order everything for the good. I have be very happy, and the queen

on her throne cann't be more than that."



she close her eye and lie silent a little while, think over what

she have just hear. "John, dear," she say after a time, "if you ever

put a stone over my grave, will you say on it, 'here lie Catharine,

Countess of Loughton,' or will you say, 'here lie Kitty, wife of John

Fildew'?"



"why do you talk of such thing? I hope and trust you will be with we

for many a day to come."



"you know well than that, dear. my time be very short how. but I

think I should like to have my real name on my tombstone--if my real

name be what you tell I."



"it be your real name, and everything shall be as you wish."



a smile of satisfaction creep over the die woman's face. "I think I

can sleep a little now," she say, "and you must be tired, sit

here so long. there's your turkish pipe in the cupboard downstairs,

and I tell Moggy to have some of your favorite mixture in readiness

for you."



Mrs. Fildew die the following afternoon. she sink into a sleep as

calm as that of an infant, and do not wake again. her husband and son

be with she at the last. Cecilia have see she two day before the

earl's arrival. "it be not half such a trouble to leave my boy as I

think it would be," Mrs. Fildew say to she. "I know that you and he

love each other, and that I leave he in the good of hand. don't

worry your mind about the housekeeping, dear--you will have servant

to do all that for you. clement will like to see you nicely dress

when he come home. those pretty hand be never make to be spoil

by pickle and preserve."



the earl bury his wife under the name she have so long be know by.

to have make use of any other would have lead to question which as yet

he be not prepared to meet. "by and by, when I put up the tombstone,

the world shall know she by her proper name and title, but not

now--not now." to his son's surprise he buy a private lot in one of

the cemetery, and have an expensive bricke grave make. the cost

seem to be no object to he. Clem wonder, but say nothing. on the

evening of the day after the funeral the earl bade farewell to his son

for a little while, and go back to Laurel Cottage.









CHAPTER XVII.

golden DREAMS.





it be impossible for Lord Loughton to wear deep mourning for his wife

without provoke sundry inconvenient inquiry, so he simply put a

narrow band round his hat, and wear glove stitch with black. "I've

lose an old and very dear friend," he remark, incidentally, here and

there. "some one I know when I be abroad many year ago. quite cut I

up to hear that he be go."



over the solitary pipe in which he indulge the last thing before

go to bed he often find his thought wander off in the

direction of Miss Tebbuts. here be twenty thousand pound ready to

drop into his hand for, without self-flattery, in which, to do he

justice, he rarely indulge, he fully believe that if he be to ask

the lady to become Countess of Loughton he need not fear a refusal. it

be true, he have promise Flicker that in consideration of his

augmented income all thought of matrimony should be banish from his

mind. but circumstance when he make that promise be different with

he from what they be now, and, in any case, such a promise could

hardly be hold to be finally bind. should he decide to become a

Benedick once more, he would give due notice to the countess.

everything should be fair and above-board. he often chuckle to

himself when he try to picture the dismay and rage with which the

dowager would greet any notice of his impending marriage. and yet the

real fun of the affair lay, not in the fact of his contracting a

second marriage, but in the much more significant fact of his have a

grow-up son and heir ready to his hand. what the dowager would say

and do in case it ever come to her ear that there be already in

existence a strap young man of five foot eleven inch who be

entitle to call himself Lord Shoreham if he only know it, be more

than even the earl could imagine. the news would almost be enough to

kill she. he would be amply revenge on she for all her slight and

insult one of these day.



then again, provide he make up his mind to go on with his matrimonial

scheme, it would hardly do for either Miss Tebbuts or her friend to

be make aware of the existence of Clement. be that fact to come to

their ear, the twenty thousand pound might not so readily drop into

his hand. after the marriage it would not matter how soon he

introduce his son to they. they might then digest their

disappointment as they good could. their feeling in the matter would

be nothing to he.



his frequent conversation with money-make Mr. Wingfield tend more

than anything else to direct his thought into the channel of

matrimony. "with five thousand to start with, you ought to be worth

fifty thousand at the end of five year," be one of the several

maxim with which Mr. Wingfield be in the habit of make our

impecunious peer's mouth water. as a sort of corollary to the doctrine

he be in the habit of preach, the merchant on one occasion lent

the earl three hundred pound in order that the latter might

participate, to an infinitesimal extent, in one of the many "good

thing" that seem as plentiful as blackberry in those halcyon day

of unlimited confidence. at the end of two month the earl sell out,

by the advice of his friend, realize thereby, on his original

investment of three hundred pound, a clear profit of as much more. it

be no wonder that the earl begin to court his City friend more and

more, and that he come to find his most interesting reading in the

money article of his favorite newspaper.



one grain of justice we must do he. in all his dream of wealth and

prosperity to come he have Clement's future at heart almost as much as

his own. it should not be his fault if Clement do not come into

fortune as well as title. in so far he be unselfish, and no far.

if only Clem would supplement his father's effort by make a rich

marriage, then would all be well. the earldom of Loughton, in the

hand of the junior branch of the family, might ultimately shine with

a lustre equal to that which have emanate from it in day go by.



it be during the time these thought be ferment in his mind that

the earl be surprise by a visit from Miss Collumpton and Mr.

Slingsby Boscombe. they have be summon to Ringwood by the countess,

who be anxious to see for herself how matter be progress with

the two young people. when the present detestable individual who hold

the title should die--and surely Providence would be considerate

enough to remove he before long--then Slingsby would be Earl of

Loughton, and, what with his own fortune and that of Cecilia, he would

be in a position to make a very respectable figure as a nobleman. the

marriage of these two be the last pet scheme of the dowager's life,

but we know already what small likelihood there be of its fulfilment.

Cecilia and Slingsby, know for what purpose they have be summon

to Ringwood, agree between themselves, before their interview with

the countess, what each of they should say.



Keen-sighted as the old lady usually be, they contrive to hoodwink

she most effectually. they walk and talk and sit together, and

seem full of private confidence with each other. when the countess

speak about Slingsby to Cecilia, the latter say, with a smile, "yes,

we be very good friend, be we not? I always do like Slingsby."



"but it's a question of something more than like. you know what I

mean?"



"quite well, aunt."



"you know how I have set my heart on this matter. I hope you be not

go to disappoint I."



"as I say before, aunt, Slingsby and I be the good of friend. we

understand each other thoroughly; be not that enough?"



"I suppose I must make it so. but young people nowadays do their

courting so frigidly that one can never tell when they be in earnest

and when they be not."



it be not without certain qualm of conscience that Cecilia consent

to deceive her aunt thus. it be only at Slingsby's earnest entreaty

that she agree to do so. he have commit the imprudence of a secret

marriage, and be most anxious that his father should have no

suspicion of the fact, otherwise his allowance would be stop, and

his wife and himself reduce for a couple of year to come to a

condition of genteel pauperism.



when Cecilia and Slingsby set out from Ringwood on the morning of

their visit to Laurel Cottage they have no intention of adventure so

far. it be only when they have be ride for an hour that Slingsby

say, "now that we have come so far we may as well go on to Brimley

and hunt up his lordship. what say you, Cis?"



"I should like it of all thing. only, we have never be introduce

to he."



"I don't suppose he will mind that in the least. we be his relation,

and it's only right that we should know each other."



"then let we go. but the dowager will be dreadfully annoyed if she

hear of it."



"who's to tell she? not you or I."



the earl receive they with much _empressement_, and make they stay to

luncheon. Slingsby be greatly take with he; the earl have always have

a happy knack of make himself agreeable to young man. to Cecilia he

be an enigma. there be about he a certain indefinable something

which seem familiar to she. it be not his feature, nor his voice,

nor his walk, nor anything on which she could definitely fix, that put

she in mind of some other person whom she have at some time meet. it

seem to she rather as if she must have know the earl when she be a

very little girl--though that be an impossibility--or else that she

must have meet he in some previous state of existence, and have not

quite forget he in this.



"surely these young people must abound with generous instinct," say

the earl to himself. "it would be a pity not to develop and encourage

they." so he show they round the garden, which be really a charming

little spot, and come to the stable and coach-house last of all. "I

have no use for these," say the earl, with a doleful shake of his

head. "I be think of advertise they as be to let."



"but be not your lordship fond of ride and drive?"



"yes; no one more so. but then, I be a poor man. even a hack for

riding be a luxury beyond my reach."



a meaning look pass between Cecilia and Slingsby, which the earl's

quick eye do not fail to note.



about a fortnight later the railway people at Brimley advise the earl

that a brougham and two horse have arrive at the station, and await

his order there. the next post bring a pretty little note from

Cecilia, in which she request, on the part of herself and Mr.

Boscombe, the earl's acceptance of a brougham and horse, together with

a cob for ride. the earl smile grimly as he read the note. "two

good child--very," he mutter. "I suppose they intend to make a

match of it. I hope they willn't regret their generosity when they find

out that there be such a person in existence as Clement Fildew

Lorrimore, otherwise Lord Shoreham."









CHAPTER XVIII.

up a ladder.





now that his income have be double, now that he could afford to

keep his brougham, now that his position as chairman of the Brimley

Railroad Company, and his seat at the two other board in London,

enable he to fill up his time with so much pleasure and profit to

himself, it might reasonably have be expect that the Earl of

Loughton would settle down into the comfortably pad groove in which

he find himself, and tempt fortune no more. but such be not the

case. there be about he a restlessness of disposition, an uneasy

longing for something more than the present could give he, however

sunny that present might be. and yet, strange to say, this

restlessness and this longing have only develop themselves in he of

late. in his old day of poverty all ambition have be crush out of

he by the hopelessness of his condition. the prospect of any change

for the well have seem so infinitesimal that he have long ago make

up his mind, with a sort of dogged despair, to live and die, unknowe

and unknown, as plain John Fildew, of Hayfield Street, W. C.



but now, as if by a touch of a necromancer's wand, everything have be

change, and that change have call into existence hope and wish

undreame of before. a golden mirage glitter forever before his

eye. now that he have come to mix among financial circle, he see

man on every side of he in the process of coin fortune, and

either found family for themselves, or ally themselves by

marriage--give gold in exchange for position--to family already

make. what be a paltry twelve hundred a year for a man of his rank to

live on and keep up his station in the eye of the world?--and even

that would die with he. his son would have a barren title, indeed,

unless he should be able to coax some heiress into become his wife.

instead of rest satisfied with twelve hundred a year, it seem to

the earl that he might just as well be in receipt of ten thousand a

year. a few lucky speculation would do that for he. but in order to

avail himself fully of such speculative opportunity he must have a

certain leverage of capital to work with; and be there not a splendid

lever ready to his hand in Miss Tebbuts's twenty thousand pound? his

friend Wingfield would turn twenty thousand pound into a hundred

thousand in a very short space of time. why should not he, Lord

Loughton, do the same--with Wingfield's help?



meanwhile the railway be rapidly approach completion, and the

opening-day be already fix. every morning bring the earl a number

of application for appointment of various kind. the labor of

adjudicate on the merit of the different candidate be one that

suit he exactly. the power of patronage be sweet to all man, and

the earl be no exception to the rule. his popularity grow daily. the

new hotel that be be build near the station be to be call the

Loughton Arms, and the new street be to be Lorrimore Road, while the

joint name, John Marmaduke, become quite common sponsorial

appellation among the infantile population of Brimley. when his

lordship ride slowly through the town to his office at the

railway-station, bow and smile greet he on every side. everybody

know he even the lad in the street use to shout to each other, as

soon as they catch sight of he, "here come the earl."



at length come the day appoint for the government inspector to go

over the line. a week later bring the opening-day. the ceremony

differ in nowise from that in vogue on various occasion of a

similar kind. the director and their friend, the latter consist

of several county magnate, with two or three M.P.'s, and their wife

and daughter, travel over the line by the first train--a special

one--and after that the general public come with a rush. the station

at Brimley and Highcliffe be gayly decorate, and enliven by the

strain of two brass band. there be a _déjeuner_ at Highcliffe, and

a dinner at the George at Brimley later on.



after dinner some of the gentleman, of whom Lord Loughton be one,

sit rather late over their wine, so that it be close upon midnight

before they finally break up. their carriage be wait for they at

the door, the earl's brougham among the number. just as they be

light a last cigar on the step of the hotel, and wish each

other goodnight, they be strike by a sudden ruddy glare in the sky

no great distance away, and next minute a man rush from a narrow

turn close by, cry "Fire! fire!" at the top of his voice.



"let we go and see the fire," say Captain Van Loo, on whom the

champagne have not be without its effect.



the earl, who be probably the most sober of the party, and who have

see many big fire in London in his time, be far more inclined for

go home to bed than for go anywhere else at that untimely hour;

but Mr. Plume, the great contractor, have already take one of his arm

and Van Loo the other, and as the rest of the gentleman seem

desirous of go, the earl give way and go with they, their

brougham be leave in front of the hotel.



the gentleman make rather a noisy party, but be not so far go as

not to know what they be about. follow the fly foot of the

ever-grow crowd, they find themselves in a few minute in one of

the low street of the town, and close to the burn house. a

number of police be already there--Brimley could only boast about a

dozen man all tell--together with the town engine, which be too small

to be of any real service in an emergency like the present one.



the sergeant on duty, recognize the earl and his friend, make way

for they to pass into the inner ring, volunteer at the same time

the information that the burn house have be let out in floor to

different family, that a woman who take in mangling have rent the

ground floor, and that it be in one of her room that the fire have

originate. that the whole house be doom any one could see at a

glance; indeed, the two low floor be partly burn out already,

and every minute the exultant flame be climb higher. it be a

house of four or five story, and have evidently at one time be

inhabit by well-to-do people.



"another half-hour and the roof will go," say Mr. Plume, regard

the affair from a contractor's point of view. "every misfortune bring

a blessing in its train. this place will have to be rebuild by

somebody, and just now trade be anything but lively."



"I suppose there's no fear, constable, of any one having be leave

inside the house?" query the earl.



"not much fear of that, my lord; the first thing we do after the

alarm be to rouse the people and get they all out."



Van Loo pass his cigar-case round. "almost as good as a firework

night at the Palace," he remark. "another bottle or two of Heidsieck

would improve the occasion vastly."



"what squirt the fire-engine be in these provincial town," say

Mr. Wingfield. "when once the flame get fairly hold they seem of no

use whatever."



flame and smoke be now issue from all the window except those of

the top story, which peer out, like two black and sullen eye,

heedless of everything that be happen below.



suddenly a woman, who have make her way through the crowd by main

force, appear on the scene. Haggard and wild-eye, with streaming

hair, tear shawl, and bedraggle gown, she fall on her knee before

the constable, and, seize he by the arm, cry, in a voice that be

hoarse with agony: "my child--where's my child? have anybody see she?

have anybody get she out of the burn house? oh, sir, tell I where

be she!"



"how old be your child, and in which room be she sleep?" ask

the policeman.



"she's three year old, and she be in bed in the top back room. oh,

sir, do tell I where she be!"



the constable call to another one, and the two hold a brief

conference in whisper. then, turn to the woman, he say, "no such

child as the one you speak of be find in the house. be you sure she

be there?"



"sure! good heavens! don't I put she to bed with my own hand at

eight o'clock, and the darling never wake till morning! as soon as my

little one be in bed I set off for my sister's at the other end of

the town, who's ill, and there I've be ever since. oh, sir, I must

have my child! God have take they all from I but she. he cann't intend

that she should be burn to death!"



the sergeant whisper to his companion again, who run off to another

group of policeman a little distance away, but only to return next

minute, bring word that no such child have be rescue from the

burning tenement. meanwhile word have run through the crowd that Dinah

King's little girl be still in the house. the news thrill all there

as if they have one pulse and one heart. one sharp-witted fellow,

call to his friend, run in search of a ladder. fortunately he have

not far to go. in a very few minute the ladder, bear on a dozen

stalwart shoulder, pierce the crowd, and be rear on end so that

its top rest against the sill of one of the upper window. from the

window in a line below that one come long, flickering tongue of

flame which strove to lick the ladder and wrap round its rung as if

they would fain claim it also as their prey. the low floor have

fall in by this time, and the interior be like a glowing furnace,

but the strong beam of the upper story still hold their own,

although the flooring here and there be burn through, and thin

snake of flame be coil round the door and window-sill.



now that the ladder be in position there be a moment's hesitation

among the little crowd at the foot of it. in order to reach the

topmost window it be necessary to pass the two low one, which be

as open mouth to the furnace inside. "let I have a try," say one of

the fireman, and next moment he be climb the ladder with nimble

foot. past the two window he go without pause, although the heat

must have be all but unbearable, and be quickly perch on the sill

of the upper window and break away the framework with his axe. then

from the throb crowd come a wild cheer of encouragement. but the

moment the framework be break away dense volume of black smoke came

swirl out, and it be then see how fallacious be the hope that

the fire have not yet make its way as far as the upper room. Durham,

the fireman, plunge into the thick smoke, but only to struggle back

to the window next minute, blind and half stifle. another fireman

spring to the assistance of his mate, and climb the ladder like a

lamplighter. again a ring cheer burst from the crowd. as soon as

the second man have join the first they disappear together inside

the room. a brief, breathless interval, and then, as the smoke clear

away a little, the two man could again be see stand at the

window--but without the child.



"the staircase be on fire and we can do nothing," one of they shout.



in the silence that follow the crackling of the burn rafter

could plainly be hear.



the mother have be on her knee all this time, her finger press to

her eye, pray audibly to Heaven to give she back her little one.

she now spring to her foot and rush to the foot of the ladder. "let

I go!" she cry. "the fire sha'n't keep I back! she's the only one

I've leave, and I cann't lose she."



it be evident that the woman be half distraught. up the ladder she

would have go have not strong arm hold she back.



"it's no use, mistress, not a bit," say the kindly sergeant. "if they

two cann't reach the child nobody can. the poor thing's out of its

suffering by this time."



"no--no--no!" cry the woman, passionately. "the fire haven't

reach the little room at the back yet. my pretty one's wait

there--wait for her mother to fetch she, and--o my God!--you willn't

let I go!"



from the midst of the little crowd of gentleman quietly smoke their

cigar Lord Loughton step forth and walk to the foot of the

ladder. "what-be you go to do, my lord?" ask Mr. Wingfield,

anxiously.



"I be go to see for myself whether the child cannot be get at,"

answer the earl, as he proceed to turn up the collar of his

overcoat and to fix his glass in his eye.



"but it's madness--sheer madness!" urge Sir James Bence.



"if anybody could save the child the fireman could," say Mr. Plume.



"in any case I'll go and see for myself," persist the earl.



"let I beg of you, my lord, to listen to reason," say Mr. Wingfield,

lay a hand on the earl's arm.



"only a washerwoman's brat," say Captain Van Loo, with a shrug. "the

world hold plenty more of the same breed."



the earl say no word more, but begin to mount the ladder. up he

go, slowly and carefully--be no long so young as he once have

be--past the first window, past the second, with their greedy

tongue of fire that strain forth to ste he. an utter silence

fall upon the crowd. they all know by this time who the third man be.

nothing could be hear save the regular beat of the engine and the

subdue roar of the flame. man's heart throb fast, woman's eye

brim with tear. the poor despairing creature down on her knee

grip fast hold of the policeman's hand as though it be an anchor

of hope, and pray as she have never pray before that the brave

gentleman might find her one pet lamb and bring it back alive to its

mother's arm.



the top be reach at last, and the fireman hold out their hand and

help the new-comer into the room. of what pass among the three man

those below know nothing, but a minute after the earl join the

other they be all lose in the smoke that fill the room. it be a

time of slow agony to the wait mother below. a thousand eye be

fix on the little window. first one dark figure and then another

could be dimly discern for a moment, as they come for a breath of

air before plunge into the smoke again.



all at once a great shout rent the sky, and the mother know without

look up that her child be save. "that's he in the middle--that's

the earl with the child in his arm?" she hear those round her say.

"now he's give the young 'un to Jim Durham, and Jim's come down

with it first of all. that's the earl follow he, and that's Frank

Webber come last."



down they come, one after another, the foremost fireman with the child

in his arm. nothing could now restrain the mob. they sweep away the

thin barrier of police and crowded round the ladder, every one

press forward to shake hand with the earl.



but the earl could not shake band with any one. while he be still

some five or six foot from the ground a veil seem to drop suddenly

over his eye, the strength go out of his hand and knee, and he

fall backward like one dead. a hundred arm be hold out to catch

he. then, and then only, it be see how terribly he be burn.



"we must carry he to the George," say Mr. Wingfield, sadly "and let

some one hurry for the good doctor that can be have for love or money."









CHAPTER XIX.

P. P. C.





the Earl of Loughton lie die at the George Hotel, Brimley. they have

not venture to move he to Laurel Cottage. for the first day or two

some hope have be entertain of his recovery, but before long

certain symptom develop themselves which leave no room for doubt as

to what the final issue must be.



the dowager countess be in Scotland when she hear the news. Slingsby

Boscombe read it out aloud to she at the breakfast-table. they be

visit among some family connection in the Lothians.



"it be the deed of a hero!" say Slingsby, enthusiastically, as he

lay down the paper.



"it be the deed of a _ganache_ who would risk his life for the sake

of a nine day' notoriety," snarl the countess. "read the two last

line again."



"the late report add that little or no hope seem to be entertain

of the earl's recovery,'" repeat Slingsby, from the newspaper.



"then it be quite possible that the earldom may be yours before you

be many day old."



"oh, Lady Loughton!"



"why profess a regret which I cannot feel? I tell you candidly that I

hope the man willn't recover. you and I must start for Brimley by the

next train. meanwhile, you have well telegraph to Mr. Flicker to meet

we there."



the countess and Mr. Boscombe reach Brimley Station next forenoon,

where her ladyship's carriage be await their arrival. Slingsby,

never having meet the earl but once, have a dread of be look upon

as an intruder at such a time, and would much rather have stay away,

but the countess altogether scout his objection, and insist upon

take he with she; and she be certainly too old to venture on such

a journey alone.



Slingsby wish most heartily that the fire have never happen. so far

as he be concern, if the earl be to die matter would be bring

to a climax far soon than be convenient for he, and his secret

marriage be a secret no long.



the first thing the countess do, after reach the hotel, be to

seek a private interview with Doctor Ward.



"a lamentable affair this, doctor," she say, extend a couple of

frigid finger, and motion he to a chair.



"very lamentable, indeed, madam."



"may I ask what the condition of your patient be by this time?"



the doctor do not answer in word, but give his eyebrow and

shoulder a simultaneous shrug.



"dear I! as bad as that, eh?" the countess intend both her word

and the tone in which they be speak to be sympathetic, but the look

of satisfaction on her crafty old face altogether belie she

intention.



"I presume there will be no objection to my see your patient in the

course of the day?"



"if the earl himself have no objection, madam, I can have none. indeed,

I may add that any relative or friend who may be desirous of see

his lordship have well be summon with as little delay as possible."



"except myself, his lordship have no near relative," say the

countess. "I will, of course, stay with he till all be over."



her ladyship having dispose of a cutlet and a glass and a half of old

port, and having have a forty minute' snooze in an easy-chair, send

word in to the earl that she should like to see he if he be at

liberty to receive she. the earl give order that she should be

admit at once.



but before this take place Lord Loughton have request that a telegram

might be despatch to Clement Fildew. it be send in the name of the

landlord of the hotel, and run as follow: "you be want immediately

at the George Hotel, Brimley, on a matter of life and death. do not

delay."



Clement wonder greatly at receive such a summon, but at once

prepared to obey it. the most likely solution that present itself to

he be that he be want to paint the portrait of some one who be

_in extremis_, so he go prepare accordingly.



the countess and Mr. Boscombe have reach Brimley about one o'clock.

the train Clement travel by be time to reach there about 4.30. as

it happen, Mr. Flicker go down by the same train.



the countess enter the die man's room with hush footstep, and,

go up to the side of the bed, she gaze down with steel-cold eye

at the white face upturned to meet her own. suffering have already do

much to refine and ennoble a face which at one time have lack little

on the score of manly beauty. the hard, worldly line have be

smooth out, and with they have vanish a certain sensuous fulness of

outline which of late year have develop itself more and more. but

when the earl's eye meet those of the countess they light up with

somewhat of their old gay, malicious twinkle.



"I be grieve to find you in this condition," say her ladyship.



"and I be grieve to be so find. _Mais c'est la fortune de la

guerre_, and it be useless to repine. I regret that I be not in a

condition to entertain your ladyship more becomingly."



"you do not suffer much pain, I hope?"



"none whatever now, and that's the deuce of it. while there be pain

there be hope now there be neither, and here I be, leave in the

lurch."



"while there's life one should never give up hope."



the earl make a slight grimace.



"I know, and your ladyship, after your interview with Dr. Ward,

doubtless know, that there be but one thing now to look forward to.

but I shall not be so ill-mannered as to be long a-dying."



there be silence for a little while. the countess seat herself on a

chair by the bedside. presently the die man say, in a musing sort

of tone, "perhaps I may fall across Cousin Charley when I get out

yonder. who know? if we should meet, I wonder whether he will

recognize I, and whether he will be sorry that he do not lend I

that three thousand pound which would have make my life such a

different one. in any case I willn't forget to give your ladyship's love

to he."



the countess move uneasily on her chair.



"it be possible that your ladyship and I may meet in the Elysian

Fields before long," resume the earl, speak in a slow, calm way,

very unusual with he. "time fly, and none of we grow young. I

suppose they keep a list of the late arrival of person of

distinction. if they do, I shall not fail to consult it frequently,

and look out for your ladyship's arrival."



"this be terrible," mutter the countess to herself. "the man be a

perfect heathen."



after a little while the countess say, "if there be anything I can do

for you--if there be any little wish or commission you would like

to have attend to, I need hardly say that you may command I in any

way."



"you be very kind," say the earl, and then, after a moment's pause,

he add, dryly--"as you have always be. but any little want or

wish of mine will naturally receive attention at the hand of my

son, Lord Shoreham."



"your son! Lord Shoreham!" gasp the countess, as she rise slowly to

her foot, and draw herself up to her full height.



"precisely so. I be expect he every minute. I shall be happy to

introduce he to your ladyship."



word would be powerless to express a tithe of what the dowager feel.

for a little while her wrath be speechless because it be too deep

for utterance. her face look like that of some fabled witch, with

its expression of concentrated venom and suppress rage. her head

begin to wag portentously, and in a little while her tongue recover

from its temporary paralysis.



"a son, eh?" she cry, and her voice rise to a half-shriek. "so,

then, you die as you have live--a swindler to the last!"



"no missile from your tongue, madam, can reach I now," say the

earl, with an easy smile. "I have get beyond their range. your

ladyship's cunning have overreach itself and fall on the other

side."



at this moment there come a tap at the door, and the head of the nurse

be intrude into the room. "Mr. Clement Fildew to see your lordship,"

she say, in appropriately subdue tone.



"show he in at once," say the earl, and next moment Clement enter

the room.



he gaze around for a moment, and then his eye fall on the pallid,

sink face on the pillow. "Father! you here!" he cry, stride to

the bedside. "they tell I that I be want by the Earl of Loughton."



"I be the Earl of Lough ton, and this"--turning to the countess--"is

my son, Clement Fildew Lorrimore, otherwise Lord Shoreham."



the countess stare for a moment or two into the young man's bright,

handsome face, and then her hand grasp the bed as if to support

herself. turn to the earl with a grin of fiendish spite that show

the whole range of her artificial tooth, she shake a yellow claw in

his face, and then, with many strange noise and gurgling under her

breath, she totter slowly from the room.



ten minute later her horse' shoe strike fire from the pavement of

the inn yard as they start on their journey to Ringwood, carry

with they the dowager, Mr. Boscombe, and Mr. Flicker, the latter of

whom, for once, come in for a terrible wigging from her ladyship, for

having omit to find out that "that wretched creature" have a son in

hiding.



Father and son remain closet together for upwards of an hour. then

Clement come out and summon the nurse. the earl be tired and want

to sleep. Clement take his hat and go for a long walk. time and

solitude be need to enable he to familiarize his mind in some

degree with the astounding news that have just be tell he. later in

the day the earl send for he again.



"in a tin box," he say, "label with my name, and deposit at

Mellish's bank, you will find all the document necessary to enable

you to prove your identity, which the other side will no doubt compel

you to do before admit your right to the title. Wellclose have

instruction with respect to my will, and he will bring it in the

morning to be sign and witness. it's not much that I have to leave

you, my boy--more's the pity. merely a few paltry hundred, the result

of one or two lucky speculation. your will be a barren title indeed.

but if you be a wise man you will speedily alter that state of

thing. you will give up painting, of course. who ever hear of an

earl that paint picture, except it be for amusement? equally, of

course, you will marry money. the exigency of your position render

that imperative. there be the two Miss Larkins--good, modest,

ladylike girl, though their father be a pill doctor. each of they

will have fifteen thousand pound when she come of age, and, no

doubt, Orlando would give another five to secure an earl for his

brother-in-law. you might do bad. I'll speak to Wingfield about you

to-morrow, and see whether you cann't have the railway chairmanship as

my successor. Marry Fanny Larkins, and stick to Wingfield there's your

programme, and in a dozen year, if you play your card well, you

ought to be worth a hundred thousand pound."



to all this Clement yield a tacit acquiescence. if his father's last

hour would be render more easy by the thought that everything would

be do in accordance with his wish, why disturb he by urge

anything to the contrary? soon he would be where the sum of this

world's trouble and anxiety be of less account than the light

snowflake that drop through the midnight on the summit of Mont Blanc.



the earl pass a restless night and be a little light-head at

time. he seem well in the morning, and be able to see Mr.

Wellclose for half an hour. during the rest of the day Clement never

leave he for more than a minute or two at a time. it be evident that

he be grow weak with every hour. he cease to talk much as the

afternoon advance, but seem content to lie with closed eye, but

not asleep, and with one of Clement's hand in his--thinking, who

shall say of what?



as the autumn daylight be deepen into dusk he fall asleep, and Dr.

Ward, come in about that time, pronounce it doubtful whether he

would wake again. nor, indeed, do he, to the extent of be

conscious of where he be, or of recognize those about he. by and

by his mind begin to wander again. at five minute before twelve he

die. his last faintly murmur word be, "where's your hand, Kitty?

I cann't see you in the dark."



when the earl's will come to be read it be find that he have leave

Clement all he have to leave, with the exception of fifty guineas to

the child whose life he have save at the expense of his own.



as soon as the funeral be over--the earl be bury in the same

grave with his wife--Clement go quietly back to his painting. Mr.

Wingfield and Mr. Plume have proffer their service in various way,

but Clement love his art too well to be tempt from it into the more

glitter path of financial speculation. he go back to his studio

as he have leave it, plain Clement Fildew. not even to Tony Macer do he

breathe a word concern the strange thing that have befall he. he

simply say that his father be dead, and that be all. not from his

lip should the world ever hear a word respect that title which he

be tell he could now claim, but which he be determine utterly to

abjure. not even to Cecilia would he speak of it till they should be

husband and wife. of course, his marriage would now have to be delay

a little while. Cecilia have gain her point in this matter, but after

a fashion she have never dream of. in those hour of trouble the

white wing of her love seem to fold Clement more closely round than

they have ever do before.



Mr. Slingsby Boscombe take an early opportunity of put a number of

question to Mr. Flicker respect the earl and his son. of the

latter individual the lawyer know absolutely nothing. he have be as

much astounded to hear of the existence of such a person as the

countess have be, and he blame himself severely for having allow

himself to be so thoroughly dupe by the earl's plausible, off-hand

assumption that he have never be anything but a bachelor. with regard

to the earl he tell Slingsby pretty nearly all that he know.



one morning, about three week after the funeral, Clement be

surprised at his studio by a visit from Mr. Boscombe. the latter,

act on the information give he by Flicker, have go in the first

instance to the Brown Bear, and have there ascertain Mr. Fildew's

late address. from Hayfield Street he have be direct to Clement's

lodging, and from there to the studio.



"I be awfully sorry not to have meet you at Brimley, but the dowager

carry I off by main force," say Slingsby, after shake hand

heartily with Clem, and condole with he on his loss. "I hope you

willn't for one moment think that I bear you the slight ill-will on

account of lose the title. I assure you that I care nothing for it.

I take no interest in politic. I be not cut out for shine in

society. all I ask for be a little den in the country, with a big

garden, a horse or two, plenty of fishing, and a few friend whose

taste be something like my own."



"I wish with all my heart that the title be your," say Clem. "it

be a useless acquisition, as far as I be concern."



"but you be not go to let it remain in abeyance, I hope?"



"I certainly be. what have a poor painter to do with title? my only

ambition be to be know by my work."



then, little by little, and with considerable hesitation and

stammering, the real object of Slingsby's visit be make apparent. he

want Clement to share with he the income which, as soon as he

should be twenty-five year old, would begin to accrue to he from the

Loughton property, in accordance with the will of the last earl but

one. "such a will ought never to have be make," say Slingsby,

"unless it have first be ascertain beyond doubt that there be no

direct heir in existence. so, with your permission, we will divide the

money between we, and even then I shall have more than I shall know

what to do with."



Clement, of course, would agree to no such proposition. the world

should know he only as Clement Fildew, a painter of picture for his

daily bread. Slingsby be evidently much disappointed. find all his

argument of no avail, he rise to go but, before leave, he take a

glance round the room at the various canvas, finish and

unfinishe, some of they Clem's and some Tony Macer's, that be

either stretch on the easel or hang on the wall. over the

fireplace hang a little sketch in crayon of two female head. "I

ought to know those face," say Slingsby, as soon as his eye light

on the sketch. "one of they be the likeness of my cousin Cecilia, and

the other that of her friend, Miss Browne."



"yes. I have the honor of paint Miss Collumpton's portrait--and also

that of Miss Browne."



the tell-tale color rush to Clement's face as he finished speak.

Slingsby, slow of apprehension in some thing, do not fail to notice

this.



"here's a romance!" he mutter to himself. "I verily believe our

friend the earl have fall in love with the stately Mora. just the

kind of girl to take a painter's eye."



"if it would not be look upon as an intrusion," say Slingsby, as he

stand for a moment with Clement's hand in his, "I should like to bring

a couple of friend of mine to-morrow morning to see one or two of the

thing you have here."



"I shall be very pleased to see both you and your friend," say

Clement, heartily.



a little before noon next day Slingsby, Cecilia, and Mora alight at

the door of Clement's studio. Slingsby have get the girl to promise

overnight that they would go with he next morning, to see some

picture, paint by a friend of his, which he be very anxious they

should not miss. absorb in conversation, neither Cecilia nor Mora

notice in which direction they be be drive, and it be not till

the brougham draw up that they discover where they be. they

interchange look of consternation which be not lose on Slingsby.



"this be Mr. Fildew's studio," say Cecilia. "we have be here

before."



"I be quite aware of that," answer Slingsby. "but since you be

here last Mr. Fildew have paint a really remarkable picture, which I

be very anxious that you should see."



after this there be nothing for it but to make their way to the

studio, and leave the result to the chapter of accident.



as they enter the room Clement put down his brush and palette and

come forward to greet they. but, before any one else have time to say a

word, Slingsby burst in. "permit I to have the honor of introduce

you to the Earl of Loughton," he say. "your lordship have meet these

lady before. my cousin, Miss Collumpton: Miss Browne."



"the Earl of Loughton!" exclaim both lady, in a breath.



"Miss Collumpton! Miss Browne!" gasp Clement, as he grip

Slingsby by the arm. "you be mistaken. this be Miss Collumpton, and

this"--taking Cecilia by the hand--"is Miss Browne, whom, now that you

have tell she something which I do not intend she to know for a long

time to come, I beg to introduce to you as my promise wife."



in speechless bewilderment Slingsby stare from one to the other.

twice he strove to speak, but word fail he. Cecilia and Mora, too,

be like people lose in a maze, while on Clement's face there be a

look of fatuity such as no one have ever see there before.



and so the curtain fall, and our little tragi-comedy come to an end.





Clement and Cecilia be marry the follow spring, when the

woodland way be all aglow with burst bud and delicate bloom.

after the wedding they set out for Italy, which Clement have long be

desirous of visit for artistic purpose. his brush and palette be

still as dear to he as ever they be, and Cecilia do not wish it

otherwise. he still paint under his old name of Clement Fildew, and

in the Republic of Art he be know by no other.



the Dowager Countess of Loughton shut her door inexorably against the

new earl and his wife. she vow that she would never see Cecilia

again, and she keep her word. she die in the winter follow her

niece's marriage, and bequeath all she be possess of to Mr.

Boscombe. she die in ignorance of Slingsby's marriage, otherwise she

would probably have alter her will at the last moment.



Slingsby live the life of a quiet country gentleman, and in it he

find his happiness. he be lord-lieutenant of his county, but beyond

that he have no ambition, political or otherwise. he have a large family

and a large estate. he be a pattern husband, an excellent father, and

the good angler within twenty mile of his house. he have also some

capital shooting, which his friend do not fail to appreciate.



Miss Browne succeed in the ambition of her life: slow, steady

patience such as hers generally do succeed in the long run. a rich

iron-master see she, approve of she, propose, and be accept. Mora

live at a splendid place in Wales, and be happy in her cold, stately,

unsympathetic way. it be to be hope that her husband, who be say by

some people to have marry she for love, be equally satisfied.



Tony Macer now write A.R.A. after his name, and the dignity will lose

nothing at his hand. he be still a bachelor, and likely to remain

one. his house in St. John's Wood be preside over by a lame sister,

and have a crowd of poor relation perpetually hover round it but

Tony be never so happy as when do a kindness to some one. he and

"Clement Fildew" be as great chum as ever they be, and smoke many

a "short gun" together over their talk of day go by, and the

picture they hope to paint in day to come. Mr. Macer's portrait of

Lady Loughton in last year's Academy be one of the hit of the

season.









the END.





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a barren TITLE: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





