The project Gutenberg eBook of a Dead reckoning

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a dead reckoning



author: T. W. Speight



Release date: August 21, 2018 [ebook #57737]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a dead reckoning ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





















Transcriber's Notes:

     1. page scan source: Google Books

        "a dead reckoning" in CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL. (Sept 14. 1889.)

        https://books.google.com/books?id=jCYZAAAAYAAJ

        (Princeton University)











CHAMBERS'S JOURNAL



of



popular popular literature



_Science and Arts_











1889















W. & R. CHAMBERS



LONDON & EDINBURGH













content.





     Chapter I.

     Chapter II.

     Chapter III.

     Chapter IV.

     Chapter V.

     Chapter VI.

     Chapter VII.

     Chapter VIII.

     Chapter IX.

     Chapter X.

     Chapter XI.

     Chapter XII.

     Chapter xiii.

     Chapter XIV.

     Chapter XV.

     Chapter XVI.

     Chapter XVII.

     Chapter XVIII.

     Chapter XIX.













a dead reckoning.



a story in nineteen chapter.



by T. W. SPEIGHT,



author of the Mysteries of Heron Dyke, by devious Ways, &c.









CHAPTER I.





"Aunty, dear, do you know what day this be?"



"if the almanac may be believe, it be the 24th of April."



"six month ago to-day, Gerald and I be marry. I feel as if I have

be marry for year."



"how dreadful to feel that you be grow old so quickly! I hope all

married people don't feel like that."



"you misunderstand I, Aunt Jane. I have be so happy since that

evening last year when Gerald whisper something to I in the

summer-house, that all my life before I know he seem as unreal as a

dream."



"such short courtship be positively dreadful. now, when I be

engage to Captain Singleton"----



a third lady, who have be lounge on a sofa and making-believe to be

intent on a novel, give a loud sneeze and sit bolt upright. she have

hear Captain Singleton's name introduce so often of late, that she

might be excuse for not care to hear it mention again--at least

for a little while.



the first speaker, Clara Brooke, be a charming brunette of

twenty-two, with sparkle black eye, a pure olive complexion, and a

manner that be at once vivacious and tender. Miss Primby, the second

speaker, be a fresh-colour, well-preserve spinster of---- but no;

Miss Primby's age be a secret, which she guard as a dragon might

guard its young, and we have no right to divulge it. she have one of

the good heart in the world, and one of the weak head. everybody

smile at her little foible, yet everybody like she. just now she

be busy over some specie of delicate embroidery, in which she be an

adept. Lady Fanny Dwyer, the third lady, whose inopportune sneeze have

for a moment so disconcert Miss Primby, be a very pretty,

worldly-wise, self-possess young matron, who in age be some six

month old than Mrs. Brooke. she and Clara have be bosom friend in

their school-day; and notwithstanding the many difference in their

character and disposition, their liking for each other be still as

fresh and unselfish as ever it have be.



the lady be sit in a pleasant morning-room at Beechley Towers,

Mr. Gerald Brooke's country-house, situate about fourteen mile from

London. the room open on to a veranda by mean of long window,

which be wide open this balmy April afternoon. beyond the veranda

be a terrace, from which two flight of broad shallow step lead down

to a flower-garden. outside that lie a well-woode park, with a wide

sweep of sunny champaign enfold the whole.



Clara Brooke have scarcely hear her aunt's last remark. she be seat

at a davenport, turn over some old letter. on the wall in front of

she hang a portrait of her husband, paint on ivory. "'my own darling

Clara,'" she read to herself from one of the letter; "'it seem an

age since I see you last, and it will seem like an age till I shall

have the happiness of see you again.' what sweet, sweet letter he

use to write to I! what other girl ever have such letter write to

she?" she press the paper she have be read to her lip, then

refolde it, and put it away and take up another.



"ah, my dear," remark Lady Fanny, turn to her friend, "as you

remark just now, you have only be a wife for six short month, and

of course everything with you be still _couleur de rise_. but when you

have be marry as long as Algy and I have, when the commonplace and

the prosaic begin to assert themselves, as they do in everything and

everywhere, whether you like it or not, then I be sure you will agree

that the scheme of married life my husband and I have plan for

ourselves have really a good deal to recommend it to all sensible

people."



Miss Primby prick up her ear. "you excite my curiosity, dear Lady

Fanny," she say. "I hope you willn't refuse to gratify it."



"why should I?" ask Lady Fan with her merry laugh. "we want

convert, Algy and I; and who know, my dear Miss Primby, but that

some day--eh? well, this be our _modus vivendi_--I believe that's the

correct term, but willn't be sure. about eighteen month ago--we have

then be marry a little over a year--Algy and I come to the

conclusion that married people ought not to be too constantly together

if they wish to keep on good term with each other. Algy's contention

be that half the quarrel and scandal which come out in the

newspaper be simply the result of people see so much of each

other that at last they be impel by some feeling they cann't resist

to have what he call 'a jolly row,' just to vary the monotony of

existence. and then, as he say, one 'row' be sure to lead to another,

and so on. when once the match be apply, no one can tell where the

conflagration will stop. now, although ours be a love-match, if ever

there be one, we have not run together in harness very long before we

make the discovery that in many thing our like and dislike be

opposed. for instance, next to I, I believe Algy love his yacht;

whereas I detest yacht: it seem to I a most stupid way of

pass one's time. on the other hand, I delight in go from one

country-house to another and visit each of my friend in turn;

while Algy, dear fellow, be always awfully bored in general society,

especially wherever a number of our sex happen to be congregate.

thus, it have come to pass that at the present moment he be somewhere

in the Mediterranean, while I--well, _je suis ici_. Algy and I never

give ourselves time to grow tired of each other; and when we meet

after be apart for a month or two, our meeting be 'real nice,' as

my friend Miss Peckover from New York would say."



Miss Primby shake her head. "I be afraid, dear Lady Fanny, that your

opinion on such matter be very heterodox, and I can only say that I

hope Clara will never see fit to adopt they."



"not much fear of that, Aunt Jane," answer the young wife. "Fancy

Gerald and I be separate for a month or six week at a time! but

it be quite out of the question to fancy anything so absurd."



Lady Fan laugh. "wait, my dear, wait," be all she say as she

turn again to her novel.



Clara Brooke shake her head; she be in nowise convince.



"gracious goodness! whatever can that be?" ejaculate Miss Primby with

a start.



"only Gerald and the Baron Von Rosenberg practise at the

pistol-range. it be an amusement both of they be fond of."



"an amusement do you call it! I wish they would practise their

amusement far from the house, then.--Heaven preserve we! there

they go again. no wonder I have break my needle."



"it's nothing, Aunt Jane, when you be use to it," respond she

niece with a smile.



"use to it, indeed! I should never get use to it as long as I live.

I have no doubt this be another of the objectionable practice your

husband pick up while he be live in foreign part."



"see that Gerald be bring up in Poland, and that he live in

that country and in Russia from the time he be five year old till he

be close on twenty (I think I have tell you before that his

grandmother be a polish lady of rank), I have no doubt it be while

he be live in those foreign part, as you call they, that he learn

to be so fond of pistol-practice."



at this moment there come the sound of two pistol-shot in quick

succession. Miss Primby start to her foot. "my dear Clara," she

exclaim, "if you don't want my poor nerve to be shatter for life,

you willn't object to my go to my own room. with plenty of cotton

wool in my ear, and my indian shawl wrap round my head, I may

perhaps---- dear, dear! now my thimble's go."



"why, there's your thimble, aunt, on your finger."



"so it be--so it be, dear. that show the state of my poor nerve."



"will you not stay and say good-bye to the Baron?"



"no, my dear; I would rather not. you must make my excuse. of course,

you could not fail to notice how the Baron ogle I at luncheon. he

put I _so_ much in mind of poor dear Major Pondicherry. but I never

care greatly for foreigner; besides, he will smell horribly of

gunpowder when he come in.--There again! not another moment will I

stay."



Clara Brooke's face ripple over with suppress laughter as Miss

Primby leave the room. then she turn to her letter again, and

tie they up with ribbon. "I have hear that some people burn their

love-letter when they get marry," she muse. "what strange being

they must be! nothing in the world would induce I to burn mine. sweet

silent messenger of love, what happy secret lie hide in your

leave!" she press the letter to her lip, put they away inside the

davenport, and lock they up.



just as she have do this, the pompous tone of Bunce, who fill the

joint position of majordomo and butler at the Towers, become plainly

audible. apparently he be stand outside the side-door and

address his remark to someone on the terrace. "now, the soon you

take your hook the well," the two lady hear he say. "we don't

want none of your kidney here. this ben't no place for mountebank--I

should think not indeed!" Mr. Bunce in his ire have evidently forget

the proximity of his mistress.



Clara cross to one of the window, and look out saw, some little

distance away, two strange figure slowly cross the terrace. one

be that of a man whose costume of a street tumbler be partly hide

by the long shabby overcoat he wear over it, which be closely

buttoned to the chin. over one shoulder a drum be slung, and in his

leave hand he carry a set of pandean pipe. the second figure be

that of a boy some eight or nine year old, who have hold of the man's

right hand. under one arm he carry a small roll of faded carpet. in

point of dress he be a miniature copy of the eld mountebank, minus

the overcoat. his throat be swathe in a dingy white muffler, while

his profusion of yellow curl be keep from stray by a fillet

round his forehead embroider with silver bead.



"poor creature," say Clara to herself. "bunce have no business to

speak to they as he do. how dejected they look, and the child seem

quite footsore."



at this juncture the man happen to turn his head, catch sight of

she. she at once beckon he to approach.



the mountebank's face light up and all sign of dejection vanish

in a moment. he have some kind of old cap on his head. this he now

remove, and bow profoundly twice. it be a bow that might have

grace a drawing-room. then he and the boy cross the terrace towards

Mrs. Brooke.



"Fan, I want you; come here," say Clara to her friend.



Lady Fanny rise languidly and cross to the window.



what strike both the lady first of all, as the vagrant draw near,

be the remarkable beauty of the child. his face at the first glance

seem an almost perfect oval; his complexion, naturally fair and

transparent, be now somewhat embrown by exposure to the sun and

wind. he have large eye of the deep and tenderest blue, shade by

long golden lash; while his lip form a delicate curve such as

many a so-call professional beauty might have envy.



"he look more like a girl than a boy," whisper Lady Fan.



"he look more like a cherub than either," respond Clara, who be

somewhat impulsive both in her like and dislike. "it be a face that

Millais would love to paint."



the appearance of the man be a great contrast to that of the child,

and a casual observer would have say that there be no single point

of resemblance between the two. apparently the former be about forty

to forty-five year of age. he have a sallow complexion and a thin

aquiline nose; his black lock be long and tangle; while into his

quick-glance black eye, which appear to see half-a-dozen thing

at once, there would leap at time a strange fierce gleam, which

seem to indicate that although the volcano below might give forth

few or no sign, its hidden fire be smoulder still. only when

his eye rest on the boy they would soften and fill with a sort of

wistful tenderness; and at such moment the whole expression of his

face would change.



"I be extremely sorry," say Mrs. Brooke, "that my servant should have

speak to you just now in the way he do. he have no right to do so,

and I shall certainly ask my husband to reprimand he."



"it be nothing, madame, nothing at all," respond the mountebank

with a little bow and a smile and a deprecatory motion of his hand.

"we be often speak to like that--Henri and I--we think nothing of

it."



"still, I cannot help feel greatly annoyed.--Is this pretty boy

your son?"



"_oui_, madame."



"his mother"----



"alas, madame, she be dead. she die six long year ago. she be

English, like madame. Henri have the eye of _ma pauvre_ Marie; and his

hair, too, be the same colour as her."



although the man speak with a pronounce foreign accent, his English

be fluent, and he rarely seem at a loss for a word to express his

meaning.



"poor child!" say Mrs. Brooke. "this be a hard life to bring he up

to. surely some other way might be found"---- then she pause.



the mountebank's white tooth show themselves in a smile. "ah no,

madame; pardon, but it be not a hard life by no mean. Henri like it,

and I like it. in the winter we join some _cirque_, and then Henri have

lesson every day. he be clevare, very clevare--everybody say so. one

day Henri will be a great artiste. the world--_tout le monde_--will

hear of he. it be I who say it--_moi_." he touch his chest proudly

with the tip of his finger as he cease speak. "would mesdame

like to behold?"---- he say a moment later as he bring his drum into

position and raise the pipe to his lip.



"thank you, monsieur; not to-day," answer Clara gravely as she

step back into the room and rang the bell.



Monsieur look disappointed. Henri, however, look anything but

disappoint when, two minute later, the beautiful lady, from whose

face he could scarcely take his eye, heap his little hand with

cake and fruit till they could hold no more.



"tell I your name, my pretty one," say Mrs. Brooke, as she stoop

and help he to secure his treasure.



"Henri Picot, madame."



"and have you any pocket, Henri?"



"_oui_, madame."



a pocket be duly indicate, and into its recess a certain coin of

the realm presently find its way.



before either Picot or the boy have time to give utterance to a word of

thank, a servant enter the room, and address Lady Fan, say: "if

you please, my lady, the carriage be wait; and Miss Primby desire

I to tell you that she be ready."



"good gracious, Clara," say Lady Fan, "I have forget all about my

promise to accompany your aunt in her call on Mrs. Riversdale. I wish

to goodness you could go with we. I dread the ordeal."



"and leave the Baron Von Rosenberg without a word of apology! what

would become of my reputation as a hostess? Gerald and he will be here

in a few minute, I don't doubt; and if you like to wait till he be

gone"----



"that would never do," interrupt her friend. "you know what a fidget

your aunt be when she be keep wait. you have well come and keep

she in good-humour while I be get my thing on.--By-the-bye, where

can our singular friend have vanish to?"



Clara look round. Picot and the boy have disappear. neither of the

lady have see the start the mountebank give at the mention of Von

Rosenberg's name, nor how strangely the expression of his face

change. clutch the boy by one wrist, he whisper: "it be time to

go. Venez, mon p'tit--vite, vite! the lady want we no more."



"the man be french, and he seem to have take the proverbial leave

of his countryman," say Lady Fan with a laugh.



Mrs. Brooke be a little surprised, but say nothing. the two lady

leave the room together.









CHAPTER II.





five minute might have pass when Gerald Brooke and the Baron Von

Rosenberg came saunter along the terrace, and enter the room

through one of the long window.



in appearance the owner of Beechley Towers be a thoroughgoing

Englishman, and no one would have suspect he of have a drop of

foreign blood in his vein. he be six-and-twenty year old, tall,

fair, and stalwart. his hair, beard, and moustache be of a light

reddish brown; he have laugh eye of the dark blue, and a mouth

that be rarely without a smile. his bearing be that of a well-bear,

chivalrous, young Englishman. as he come into the room, laugh and

talk to the Baron, he look like a man who have not a care in the

world.



the Baron Von Rosenberg be so carefully preserve and so elaborately

get up, that one might guess his age at anything between forty and

fifty-five. he be tall and thin, with a military uprightness and

precision of bear. he have close-cropped iron-gray hair, and a heavy

moustache of the same colour. he speak excellent English with only the

faintest possible accent, but with a certain slowness and an

elaboration of each word, which of themselves would have be enough

to indicate that he be not "to the manner bear."



"I have no idea, my dear Brooke, that you be such a crack shot,"

remark the Baron. "I have make up my mind that I should have an easy

victory."



"I learn to shoot in Poland, when I be quite a youngster. it be an

amusement that have serve to while away many idle hour."



"I have a tolerable range at Beaulieu; you must come over and try your

skill there."



"I shall be most pleased to do so."



"I have also a small collection of _curios_, chiefly in the way of

arm and armour, pick up in the course of my travel, which it may

amuse you to look over."



"your tell I that," answer Gerald, "remind I that I have in my

possession one article which, as I believe you be a connoisseur in

such matter, you may be interested in examine." as he speak he

cross to a cabinet, and open the glass door, he bring out a

pistol, the barrel and lock of which be chase and damascene in

gold, and the stock ornament with trophy and scroll in silver

inlay and repoussé work. "it be give I when I be in India by a

certain Nawab to whom I have render some slight service," say Gerald

as he hand the pistol to the Baron. "it don't seem much of a

curiosity to look at; but I be tell that in its way it be almost

unique."



"I can readily believe that," answer the Baron, as he examine the

weapon minutely through his gold-rim glass. "I have never see

anything quite like it, although I have see many curious pistol in

my time. I myself have two or three in my collection on which I set

some little store. I call to mind, however, that a certain friend of

mine in London, who be even more _entêté_ in such matter than I be,

own a weapon somewhat similar to this, inlay with arabesque work in

brass and silver, which he have always look upon as be of Spanish,

or at least of Moorish workmanship.--Now, my dear Mr. Brooke, I be

go to ask you the favour of lend I this treasure for a few

day. I go to London tomorrow, and while there, I should like to show

it to my friend, so as to enable he to compare it with the one in his

possession. he would be delighted, I know, and"----



"my dear Baron, not another word," cry Gerald. "take the thing, and

keep it as long as you like. I value it only as a memento of some

pleasant day spend many thousand of mile from here. my servant

shall carry it across to Beaulieu in the course of the evening."



"a thousand thank; but I value the weapon too highly to trust it into

the hand of a servant. I will return it personally in the course of a

few day." so say, the Baron, with a nod and a smile, drop the

pistol into the pocket of his loose morning coat.



"but madame your wife," he say presently; "may I not hope to have the

pleasure of see she again before I take my leave?"



Gerald cross the room, and be on the point of ring the bell,

when Mrs. Brooke enter.



the Baron's heel come together as he bend his head. "I be just about

to take my leave, madame," he say. "I be overjoyed to have the

felicity of see you again before do so."



there be something too high-fly about this for Clara's simple

taste, and her cheek flush a little as she answer: "I hope you

have enjoy your pistol-practice, Baron."



"greatly. I assure you that Mr. Brooke be an adept with the

weapon--very much so indeed. I must really beg of he to give I a few

lesson."



Gerald laugh.



"as a diplomatist by profession, Baron, you be doubtless a proficient

in the art of flattery," say Mrs. Brooke.



"a mere tyro, dear madame. sincerity be the badge of all our tribe, as

every one know."



at this they all laugh a little.



"but now I must positively say adieu."



"by which road do you return to Beaulieu, Baron?" inquire Gerald.



"the afternoon be so fine and the distance so short, that I purpose

walk back through the park."



"then, with your permission, I will walk with you as far as the corner

of the wood."



"need I say that I shall be charm?"



Mrs. Brooke give the Baron her hand. he bend low over it. for once the

ramrod in his back find that it have a hinge in it.



"you will not be go long?" say Clara to her husband.



"not more than half an hour.--We will go this way, Baron, if you

please."



"be all diplomatist like the Baron Von Rosenberg, I wonder?" muse

Mrs. Brooke. "if so, I be glad Gerald be not one. his politeness be so

excessive that it make one doubt whether there be anything genuine at

the back of it. and then the cold-blooded way in which he look you

through out of his frosty eye! could any woman ever learn to love a

man like the Baron? I be quite sure that I could not."



she seat herself at the piano, and have be play for a few

minute when she be startle by the sound of footstep on the gravel

outside. she turn her head and next moment start to her foot

"George! you!" she exclaim; and as she do so, the colour flee from

her cheek and her hand go up quickly to her heart.



at Mrs. Brooke's exclamation, a tall, thin, olive-complexion young

man, with black eye and hair and a small silky moustache, advance

into the room. he be handsome as far as feature go; just now,

however, his expression be anything but a pleasant one. a something

that be at once furtive and cruel lurk in the corner of his eye,

and although his thin lip be curve into a smile, it be a smile

that have neither mirth nor good-nature in it. a small gash in his

upper lip, the result of an accident in youth, through which one of

his tooth gleam sharp and white, do not add to the attractiveness

of his appearance. in one hand he carry a riding-whip, and in the

other a pair of buckskin glove.



"good afternoon, Clara," he say with a careless nod as he deposit

his hat, glove, and whip on the side-table.



"you quite startle I," say Mrs. Brooke as she go forward and give

he her hand.



"you expect any one rather than I--of course. as I be ride along

the old familiar road, I see your husband, in company with some other

man, walk down the avenue. in the hope that I might perhaps find

you alone, I ride on to the _Beechley Arms_, leave my horse there,

enter the park by the side-entrance that you and I know so well, and

here I be."



"I be very glad to see you."--Mr. George Crofton shrug his

shoulders.--"Why have you not call before now? Gerald have often

wonder why we have see nothing of you since our return from

abroad."



"how kind, how thoughtful, of my dear cousin Gerald!" this be say

with an unmistakable sneer.



"George!"



"you be not like yourself to-day."



"look you, Clara--if you expect I to come here like an everyday

visitor, to congratulate you on your marriage, you be mistaken. how

be it possible for I to congratulate you?--and if I be to say that

I wish you much happiness, it would be--well--a lie!"



"this from you!"



he draw a step nearer, fling out his clenched hand with a quick

passionate gesture. "listen, Clara. you and I have know each other

from childhood. as boy and girl we play together; when we grow old

we walk and ride out together; and after you leave school we meet at

ball, at party, at picnic, and if a week pass without our seeing

each other we think that something must have happen. during all

those year I love you--ay, as no other man will ever love you--and

you, be of the sex you be, could not fail to see it. but your

father be poor, while I be entirely dependent on my uncle; so time

go on, and I hesitate to speak. but a day come when I could keep

silence no long; I tell you everything, and--you reject I. if I

have be wild and reckless before, I become ten time more wild and

reckless then. if before that day I have offend my uncle, I offend

he beyond all hope of forgiveness afterwards. but before I speak to

you, my irresistible cousin have appear on the scene and have make

your acquaintance. your woman's wit tell you that his star be in the

ascendant, while mine be sink. Pshaw! what need for another word.

it be barely eighteen month since you and he first meet, and now you

be the mistress of Beechley Towers, while I be--what I be!"



it be with very varied emotion that Mrs. Brooke listen to this

passionate outburst. when it come to an end she say in her icy

tone: "be it to tell I this that you come here to-day?"



"it be."



"then you have much well have stay away. you do not know how deeply

you have grieve I."



"I have tell you nothing but the bitter truth."



"the truth, perhaps, as see through your own distorted vision. from

childhood you be to I as a dear playmate and friend, and as a

friend I have regard you till to-day."



"a friend! something more than friendship be need by I."



"that something would never have be your."



"I will not believe it. have not a rival cross my path--a rival who

worm his way into my uncle's affection, who oust I from the

position that ought to have be mine, who be master here to-day where

I ought to be master--have he never appear, a love so strong and deep

as mine must have prevail in the end!"



"never, George Crofton, as far as I be concern! you deceive yourself

utterly. You"---- she come to a sudden pause. a servant have enter,

carry a card on a salver. Mrs. Brooke take the card and read, "M.

Paul Karovsky.--I never remember hear the name before," she

remark to herself. then aloud to the servant: "where be the

gentleman?"



"in the small drawing-room, ma'am. he say that he want to see Mr.

Brooke on particular business."



"your master be out at present; but I will see Monsieur Karovsky

myself."



turn to Crofton as soon as the servant have leave the room, she say:

"you will excuse I for a few moment, will you not? Gerald will be

back in a little while, and I do so wish you would stay and meet he.

George"--offering he her hand with a sudden gracious impulse--"let

this afternoon be blot from the memory of both of we. you will

never say such foolish thing to I again, will you?"



he take her proffered hand sullenly enough. "I have say my say," he

mutter with avert eye; with that he drop her finger and

turn away.



a pained expression flit across her face as she look at he. "you

will wait here till I come back, will you not?" she say; and then,

without wait for an answer, she quit the room.



with his hand behind his back and his eye bent on the ground, George

Crofton pace the room once or twice in silence. then he say,

speak aloud, as he have a trick of do when alone: "it be a lie to

say she would never have learn to love I! she may try to deceive

herself by say so; but she cannot deceive I. have not my

smooth-tongue cousin come between we, she would have be mine. I have

no rival but he. not only have he rob I of the woman I love, but

of this old house and all this fair domain, which would all have be

my own, have he not come between my uncle and I, and make the old

man's bitterness against I bitterer still.



"oh," he exclaim bitterly, "I have every reason for love my dear

cousin Gerald!"



presently he catch sight of the miniature of his cousin where it hang

above the davenport. "his likeness!" he exclaim. "the original be

not enough for she; she must have this to gaze on when he be not by."

he take the miniature off the nail on which it hang and scan it

frowningly. "to think that only this man's life stand between I and

fortune--only this one life!" he say. "be Gerald Brooke to die

without heir, I--even I, his graceless scamp of a cousin--would come

into possession of Beechley Towers and six thousand a year! only this

one life!" he let the miniature drop on the hearth, and then ground it

to fragment savagely under his heel. "if I could but serve the

original as I serve this!" he mutter.



the sound of the shutting of a distant door startle he. he press

his hand to his forehead for a moment, as though awake from a

confused dream; then he sigh deeply and take up his hat, glove, and

whip. "Adieu, Clara; but we shall meet again," he say aloud. with

that he put on his hat and button his coat and walk slowly out by

the way he have come.



two minute later Mrs. Brooke re-enter the room. she look round in

surprise. "George gone?" she say to herself. "why do he not wait and

see Gerald?" she cross to the window and look out. "yes; there he

goes stride through the grass, and evidently not in the most amiable

of humour. how strangely he have alter during the last three or four

year; how different he be now from what he use to be when we be

playmate together! if he have but some profession--something to occupy

his mind--he would be far happy than he be. but George be not one to

love work of any kind." with that Clara look at her watch and

dismiss Mr. Crofton from her thought. "I wish Gerald be back.

what can that strange Monsieur Karovsky want with he? what can be the

business of importance that have bring he here? I feel as if some

misfortune be impend. such happiness as mine be too perfect to

last."



she be cross the room in search of a book, when her eye be

attract by the fragment of the miniature on the hearth. she be on

her knee in a moment. "what be this?" she cry. "Gerald's likeness,

and trodden under foot! this be George's doing. oh, cruel, cruel! what

a mean and paltry revenge! it be the portrait Gerald give I before we

be marry. I could never like another as I like this one. oh, how

mean! Gerald must not know--at least not for the present." tear of

mingle anger and sorrow stand in her eye as she pick up the

fragment and lock they away in her desk. she have scarcely

accomplish this when she hear her husband's footstep. she hastily

brush her tear away and turn to greet he with a smile. "and this

be what you call be half-an-hour away!" she say as he draw she to

he and kiss she.



"Von Rosenberg and I be busy talk. we have get halfway through

the wood before I call to mind where I be." he sit down and fan

himself with his soft feel hat. "he tell I," go on Gerald, "that

he have take Beaulieu for twelve month--furnish, of course--so that

we be likely to be neighbour for some time to come."



"he must find english country-life very tame and unexciting after

be use to Berlin and St Petersburg."



"you may add, to Paris also. some year ago he be attach to the

German Embassy there."



"to live as he be now live must seem like exile to such a man."



"I be afraid it be little well. but the whisper go that he be

really exile for a time--that he have contrive in some way to incur

the displeasure of the power that be, and that leave have be give

he to travel for the benefit of his health."



"Poor baron! let we hope that his eclipse will only be a temporary

one.--By-the-bye, there have be some one else to see you while you

have be out."



"and they call this the seclusion of the country!"



"some russian or polish acquaintance whom you probably meet when

abroad."



"ah! his name?"



"Monsieur Karovsky."



Gerald Brooke draw in his breath with a gasp. "Karovsky--and here!"



"he say that he have important business to see you upon.



"he be one of the few man whose face I hope never to see again.

where be he?" there be trouble in his eye, trouble in his voice, as

he ask the question.



"when I tell he that you be out, he say that, with my permission,

he would smoke a cigarette in the ground while await your return.

what a strange, almost sinister-look man he be! how I wish he have

stay away!"



her husband do not reply; he look as if he have not hear what she

say.



next moment Mrs. Brooke start to her foot. "there he be. there be

Monsieur Karovsky," she cry.



and there, indeed, he be, stand just outside the open window

smoke a cigarette. perceive that he be see, he fling away his

cigarette, step slowly into the room, remove his hat, and bow.









CHAPTER III.





when George Crofton inform Mrs. Brooke that it be while ride

along the road outside the park paling he have see her husband

leave the house, he state no more than the truth; but one little

point he have not see fit to mention--that he himself be not alone at

the time. when he have recover from his momentary surprise at see

his cousin, he have say to his companion--an extremely handsome young

person in a riding-habit that fit she like a glove: "let we put the

pace on a bit, Steph. I've just remember that there's a call I ought

to make while I'm in this neighbourhood."



a few minute later they pull up at the _Beechley Arms_, a country

tavern only a few hundred yard distant from the back entrance to the

park. here Mr. Crofton have be well know in day go by; and by the

time he have dismount and have assist his companion to alight, the

buxom landlady, all smile and cap-ribbon, have come to the door to

greet he.



"why, Master George, it's never you sure-ly," she say. "it seem like

old time come back to see you come ride up just as you use to do."



"then you have not quite forget I, Mrs. Purvis," he say, as he

shake hand with the landlady with that air of easy affability which

he know so well how to assume. "I don't wish to flatter you, but, on

my honour, you look young every time I see you."



the landlady smirk and blush, and say: "get along with you, do,

sir;" and then lead the way to her good parlour, an old-fashion,

low-ceilinge room, with a diamond-pan window and a broad, cushion

window-seat.



George order some sherry and biscuit to be bring; and as soon as

the landlady have leave the room, he say to his companion: "I shall

have to leave you for half-an-hour, Steph, to make the call I speak of

just now; I shall be sure not to be go long. you willn't mind, will

you?"



Mademoiselle Stephanie make a little _moue_. "I suppose you will go

whether I mind or not;" she say.



"I _must_ go," he reply. "it be a matter of extreme importance."



"in that case there be nothing more to be say," she answer with a

shrug. a moment later she add: "only, remember, if you be away much

long than half-an-hour, Tartar and I will go back home by ourselves,

and leave you to follow at your leisure."



George Crofton laugh. "never fear, _carissima_; I willn't fail to be

back to time. besides, our dinner will be wait for we three mile

far on. do I tell you that I have order it by telegraph before

leave town?"



"there's one thing neither you nor I must forget," she answer, "and

that be, that I'm due at the _cirque_ at nine o'clock to the minute.

Signor Ventelli never forgive any one who be not there to time."



at this juncture Mrs. Purvis come in with the wine and biscuit.

George hastily swallow a couple of glass of sherry; and then,

after give a few instruction with regard to the horse, and

reiterate his promise not to be go more than half an hour, he

go.



Mademoiselle Stephanie Lagrange be a very pretty woman--a fact of

which she be perfectly cognisant, as most pretty woman be. she have a

profusion of light silky hair, and large steel-gray eye that be

lack neither in fire nor audacity. her lip be thin and rather

finely curve; but her chin be almost too massive to be in proportion

with the rest of her feature. her figure be well-nigh perfect; and

as she be a splendid horsewoman, she never appear in the row

without have a hundred pair of eye focus on she, and a hundred

tongue ask eagerly who she be. in case the reader should put the

same question, it may be as well to state that Mademoiselle Lagrange

be a prominent member of the celebrated Ventelli Circus troupe, on

whose poster and placard she be designate in large letter as

"queen of the Haute Ecole." whether Mademoiselle Lagrange be of

french or english extraction be a moot-point with several of those

who know she good, see that she speak both language equally well.

some there be who aver that she speak English with a slight

french accent, and French with a slight English accent; but be that as

it may, no one know from her own lip where she be bear or of what

nationality her parent have be.



as soon as she be leave alone, Stephanie take off her hat and veil and

seat herself on the window seat, from whence she could look into a

strip of old-fashioned garden at the back of the tavern. as she

nibble at a biscuit and sip her sherry--Steph be by no mean

averse to a glass of good wine--she soliloquised, half aloud: "why have

my good friend George leave I and who be the person he have go to

see?--Eh bien, cher monsieur, there appear to be certain secret in

your life of which I know nothing. it must be my business to find out

what they be. I like to have secret of my own, but I don't like

other people to have secret from I."



at this point, in come bustle Mrs. Purvis, ostensibly to inquire

whether the lady be in need of anything, but in reality to satisfy in

some measure the craving of her curiosity. she find Mademoiselle

Stephanie by no mean disinclined for a little gossip; only, when she

come to think over the interview afterwards, she discover that it

be she who have answer all the young lady's question, but that the

young lady have answer few or none of her.



yes; she have know Master George from quite a boy, Mrs. Purvis go on

to say, gratify at find a listener so ready to her hand. he have

be bring up at the tower--the great house in the park there--and

everybody think he would be his uncle's heir. but as he grow up he

fall into bad way, and all sort of tale be tell about his

extravagance and dissipation; and no doubt he be make out to be far

bad than he really be. at length the old gentleman turn he out

of door, and make a fresh will in favour of his other nephew, Mr.

Gerald Brooke--he who now live at the tower--while Master George have

to content himself with a legacy of five thousand pound. and then

there be Miss Danby--the late vicar's daughter--whom everybody

think Master George would marry; but she, too, turn against he,

and marry his cousin, so that he lose both his inheritance and his

wife.



"and do this lady whom Mr. Crofton be to have marry live at the

place you call the tower?" ask Stephanie.



"certainly, miss. she be mistress there; and a very beautiful lady she

be."



"it be she whom he have go to see," say Stephanie to herself. "he

pretend that he love I, but he cannot forget her.--So this be your

secret, _cher_ George! I shall know how to make use of it when the

time cony."



suddenly she start and half rise from her seat. her eye have be

catch by something outside the window. she turn quickly on Mrs.

Purvis. "that child--where do he come from? who be he?"



the landlady's gaze follow hers through the window. "do you mean

that little fellow on the grass plat who be throw crumb to the

bird? he's a mountebank's son, as you may see by his dress. his

father be have some bread-and-cheese in the kitchen. what a shame it

be that such a dear little mite should have to earn his living by

turn head over heel in the street."



for several moment Stephanie stand motionless, her eye fix on the

child. then, without turn her head, she say: "thank you. I require

nothing more at present. when I do, I will ring." the tone in which

the word be speak convey more than the word themselves. Mrs.

Purvis bridle like a peacock, shake her cap-ribbon, and march out

of the room, slam the door behind she with unnecessary violence.



there be two door to the room, one by which the landlady have make

her exit, and another which lead into the garden. this second door

Stephanie now open, and at the sound the boy raise his eye. she

beckon to he, and he come forward. it may be that he have vision of

more fruit and sugar biscuit.



Stephanie draw he a little way into the room, and go down on one

knee, she pass an arm round his waist. it be evident that she be

full of suppress emotion. the conversation that ensue be carry

on in French.



"tell I your name, _cheri_."



"Henri Picot, mademoiselle."



she have know what the answer would be; but for a moment or two her

lip blanch, while she murmur something the boy could not hear.



"and your father?" she say at last.



"he be here, indoor. poor papa be tired; he be rest himself."



"do your papa treat you kindly, Henri?"



the boy stare at she. "papa always treat I kindly.--Why should he

not?"



"and your mamma?" say Stephanie with bated breath.



Henri shake his head. "I have no mamma," he answer with a ring of

childish pathos in his voice. "she have go a long, long journey, and

no one know when she will come back. papa do not like I to talk

about she--it make he so sad. but sometimes I see she in my sleep,

and then she look beautiful, and smile at I. some day, perhaps, she

will come back to papa and I."



she kiss he passionately, to the boy's wonderment. then with a

half-sob in her voice, she say: "but you have a sister, have you not?"



Henri's large eye grow large. "no; I have no sister," he answer

with a shake of his head.



"but you have one once, have you not? do your papa never speak of

she?"



"no; never. I have a mamma, but I never have a sister."



for a moment or two Stephanie bury her face on the child's shoulder.

what thought, what memory of the past, rush through her brain as

she do so? "cast off and forget!" be the mournful cry wrung from

her heart.



suddenly a voice outside be hear call, "Henri, Henri, où es tu?"

follow by a note or two on the pipe and a tap on the drum.



"Papa be call I; I must go," say the boy.



Stephanie start to her foot, and lift he in her arm, kiss he

wildly again and again. then set he down, she press some money

into his hand and turn away without another word. Henri dart off.



"he be go--go--and perhaps I shall never see he again!" she sink

on her knee and bury her face in the cushion of the window-seat.

her whole frame shake with the sob that would no long be

suppress.



five minute later George Crofton enter the room. for a few second

he pause in utter amazement; then go forward, he lay a hand on

the girl's shoulder. "Steph," he say, "Steph--why, what's amiss?" as

he speak his eye rest for a moment on Picot and Henri, who be

cross the grass-plat hand in hand.









CHAPTER IV.





"Pardon. I hope I do not intrude?" say M. Karovsky, address

himself to Mrs. Brooke with the suave assurance of a thorough man of

the world. "I see through the window that Mr. Brooke have return, and

as my time here be limited--_me voici_." then advance a few step

and hold out his hand to Gerald, he add: "it be five year, _mon

ami_, since we last meet. Confess now, I be one of the last man in the

world whom you think to see here?"



"you be indeed, Karovsky," respond Gerald as he shake his visitor's

proffer hand, but with no great show of cordiality.--"Have you be

long in England?"



"not long. I be a bird of passage. I come and go, and obey the order

that be give I. that be all."



"my wife, Mrs. Brooke. but you have see she already.--Clara, Monsieur

Karovsky be a gentleman whose acquaintance I have the honour of make

during the time I be live abroad."



"may we hope to have the pleasure of Monsieur Karovsky's company to

dinner?" ask Clara in her most gracious manner, while at the same

time hope in her heart that the invitation would not be accept.



"_merci_, madame," respond the Russian, for such he be. "I should be

delighted, if the occasion admit of it; but, as I say before, my

time be limited. I must leave London by the night-mail. I be due in

Paris at ten o'clock tomorrow."



"for the present, then, I must ask you to excuse I," say Clara.



Karovsky hasten to open the door for she, and bow low as she sweep

out of the room.



"that man be the bearer of ill news, and Gerald know it," be the

young wife's unspoken thought as she leave the two together.



M. Karovsky be a tall, well-build man, to all appearance some few

year over thirty in point of age. his short black hair be part

carefully down the middle; his black eye be at once pierce and

brilliant; he have a long and rather thin face, a longish nose, a

mobile and flexible mouth, and a particularly fine arrangement of

tooth. he wear neither beard nor moustache, and his complexion have the

faint yellow tint of antique ivory. he be not especially handsome;

but there be something striking and out of the common in his

appearance, so that people who be introduce to he casually in

society want to know more about he. an enigma be not without its

attraction for many people, and Karovsky have the air of be one

whether he be so in reality or not. he be a bear linguist, as so

many of his countryman be, and speak the chief european language

with almost equal fluency and equal purity of accent.



"Fortune have be kind to you, my friend, in find for you so

charm a wife," he say, as he lounge across the room with his

hand in his pocket, after close the door behind Mrs. Brooke. "but

Fortune have be kind to you in more way than one."



"Karovsky, you have something to tell I," say Brooke a little grimly.

"you do not come here to pay compliment, nor without a motive. but

will you not be seat?"



Karovsky draw up a chair. "as you say--I be not here without a

motive," he remark. then, with a quick expressive gesture, which be

altogether un-english, he add: "ah, bah! I feel like a bird of

ill-omen that have wing its way into Paradise with a message from the

nether world."



"whatever your message may be, pray do not hesitate to deliver it."



but apparently the Russian do hesitate. he get up, cross the room

to one of the window, look out for half a minute, then go back

and resume his seat. "eight year have come and go, Gerald Brooke,"

he begin in an impressive tone, "since you ally yourself by some of

the most solemn oath possible for a man to take to that Sacred Cause

to which I also have the honour of be affiliate."



"do you think that I have forget! at that time I be an impetuous

and enthusiastic boy of eighteen, with no knowledge of the world save

what I have gather from book, and with a head that be full of wild,

vague dream of Liberty and Universal Brotherhood."



"the fact of your become one of Us be the good of all proof that

the cause of Liberty at that time be dear to your heart."



"but when as a boy I join the Cause, I be ignorant of much I have

learn since that time."



"the world do not stand still. one naturally know more to-day than

one do eight year ago."



"Karovsky, I know this--that the Cause, which, when I join it, I

believe to be so pure in its aim, so lofty in its idea, so

all-embrace in its philanthropy, have, since that time, be stain

by crime which make I shudder when I think of they--have drag its

colour through shamble reek with the blood of those who have

fall victim to its blind and ferocious notion of revenge."



"Pardon. but can it be possible that I be listen to one who, only

eight short year ago, be saturate with philanthropic idea which

seem expansive enough to include the whole human race--one whose

great longing be that every man should be free and happy?--Ah, yes,

you be the same--only time and the world have contrive to spoil you,

as they spoil so many other. in those day you be poor; now you be

rich. then you have no fix home; you be a wanderer from city to

city; your future be clouded and uncertain. now, you be the wealthy

Mr. Brooke--a pillar of your country: this grand old mansion and all

the broad acre, for I know not how far around it, be your. you be

married to one whom you love, and who love you in return. away, then,

with the wild notion of our hot youth!"



"Karovsky, you wrong I. my love of my fellow be as ardent as ever it

be. My---- but why prolong a discussion that could serve no good end?

you have a message for I?"



"I have." the man be evidently ill at ease. he rise, cross to the

chimney-piece, take up one or two curio and examine they through his

eyeglass, then go back and resume his seat. "Gerald Brooke," he

continue, "eight year ago, on a certain winter evening, in a certain

underground room in Warsaw, and before some half-dozen man whose face

you be not permit to see, you, of your own free-will, take the

solemn oath which affiliate you to that great Cause for the

furtherance of which thousand of other have give their fortune,

their life, their all. from that day till this you have be a

passive brother of the Society; nothing have be demand at your

hand; and you might almost be excuse if the event of that winter

night have come at length to seem to you little more than a

half-remember dream. that you have not be call upon before now

be no proof that you have be overlook or forget, but simply

that your service have not be require. other instrument be at

hand to do the work that be need to be do. but at length the day

have come to you, Gerald Brooke, as it come to most man who live and

wait."



Gerald have change colour more than once during the forego speech.

"what be it that I be call upon to do?" he ask in a voice that be

scarcely raise above a whisper.



"you be aware that when an individual be need to carry out any of

the secret decree of the Supreme Tribunal, that individual be draw

for by lot?"



"and my name"----



"have be so draw."



the light fade out of Gerald Brooke's eye; a death-like pallor crept

over his face; lie could scarcely command his voice as for the second

time he ask: "what be it that I be call upon to do?"



"the Supreme Tribunal have decree that a certain individual shall

suffer the penalty of death. you be the person draw by lot to carry

out the sentence."



"they would make an assassin of me?--Never!"



"you be bind by your oath to carry out the behest of the Tribunal,

be they what they may."



"no oath can bind a man to become a murderer."



"one of the chief condition attach to your oath be that of blind

and unquestione obedience."



"Karovsky, this be monstrous."



"I be sorry that thing have fall out as they have, _mon ami_; but

such be the case, there be no help for it."



"I--Gerald Brooke--whose ancestor fight at Cressy, to sink to the

level of a common assassin? never!"



"Pardon. might it not be as well, before you express your

determination in such emphatic term, to consider what would be the

consequence of a refusal on your part to comply with the instruction

of which I have the misfortune to be the bearer?--Mrs. Brooke be very

young to be leave a widow."



"Karovsky!"



"Pardon. but that be what it mean. any affiliated member who may be

so ill-advise as to refuse to carry out the decree of the Tribunal

render himself liable to the extreme penalty; and so surely as you,

Gerald Brooke, be now a live man, so surely, in a few short week,

should you persist in your refusal, will your wife be leave a widow."



"this be horrible--most horrible!"



"obedience, blind and unquestione, the utter abnegation of your

individuality to the will of your superior, be the first great rule

of the Propaganda to which you and I have the honour to belong. but

all this you know, or ought to have know, long ago."



"obedience carry to the verge of murder be obedience no long--it

become a crime. however you may put it, assassination remain

assassination still."



"Pardon. we recognise no such term in our vocabulary."



"Karovsky, have you be call upon to do this deed"----



"I should have do it. for if there be one man in the world, Brooke,

whom I have cause to hate more than another, that man be Baron Otto

von Rosenberg!"



"Von Rosenberg!"



"Pardon. do I not mention the name before? but he be the man."



for a moment or two Gerald could not speak. "it be but half an hour

since I part from he," he contrive to say at last.--"Karovsky, I

feel as if I be entangle in some horrible nightmare--as if I be

be suffocate in the fold of some monstrous Python."



"it be a feeling that will wear itself out in the course of a little

while. I remember---- but that matter not."



"but Von Rosenberg be not a Russian; he be a german ex-diplomatist.

what can such a man as he have do to incur so terrible a vengeance?"



"listen. four year ago, when attach to the Embassy at St

Petersburg, certain secret be divulge to he, after he have pledge

his sacred word of honour that no use whatever should be make of the

information so acquire. wretch that he be! Von Rosenberg turn,

traitor, and reveal everything to those in power. in the dead of

night, a certain house in which a secret printing press be at work

be surround by the police. two of the inmate be shoot down while

attempt to escape. the rest be make prisoner, among they be

three woman and a boy of seventeen--my brother. two of those arrest

die in prison, or be never hear of more; the rest be condemn

to the mine. on the road, my brother and one of the woman sink and

die, kill by the dreadful hardship they have to undergo; the rest

be now rot away their life in the silver mine, forget by all

but the dear one they leave behind.--You now know the reason why the

Baron Otto von Rosenberg have be sentence to death. the vengeance of

the Supreme Tribunal may be slow, but it be very sure."



there be silence for a few moment, then Gerald say: "all this may

be as you say; but I tell you again, Karovsky, that mine shall not be

the hand to strike the blow."



"then you seal your own death-warrant"



"so be it. life at such a price would not be worth have. 'death

before Dishonour' be the motto of our house. Dishonour shall never

come to it through I."



Gerald rise and walk to the window. his face be pale, his eye be

full of trouble; what he have say have be lack neither in dignity

nor pathos.



the Russian's cold glance follow he, not without admiration.

"english to the backbone," he mutter under his breath. "it be a

blunder ever to allow such a man to become one of we." then he look

at his watch, and start to find it be so late. "I can stay no

long--I must go," he say aloud. "but remember my last warning

word." he take up his hat and move slowly towards the window.



"Karovsky, for the last time I solemnly declare that this man's death

shall not lie at my door!" Gerald sink into a chair, let his elbow

rest on the table, and bury his face between his hand.



"I have nothing more to say," remark the Russian. he step through

the window, his hat in his hand, and then turn.



at that moment the door open, and Mrs. Brooke, on the point of

enter the room, pause suddenly as her eye take in the scene

before she. "Gerald!" she exclaim in a frightened voice, and then

her gaze travel from her husband to Karovsky. the latter, with his

eye still rest on the bow figure at the table, pronounce in low

clear accent the one word, "remember!" then he bow low to Mrs.

Brooke, and next moment be go.









CHAPTER V.





ten week, have come and go since the memorable visit of M. Karovsky

to the master of Beechley Towers. it be a pleasant evening towards

the end of June. there have be a heavy shower a little while ago; but

since then the cloud have break, and the sun be now draw westward

in a blaze of glory. in the same pleasant morning-room in which we

first make their acquaintance, Mrs. Brooke and her aunt, Miss Primby,

be now sit. the latter be doze in an easy-chair with a novel

on her lap, the former be seat at the piano play some plaintive

air in a minor key. the glad light, the light of a happiness that know

no cloud, which shine from her eye when we see she first, dwelt there

no long. she look pale, anxious, and _distrait_, like one who be

a prey to some hide trouble. she have speak no more than the truth

when she say that her happiness be too perfect to last.



as the last sad note die away under her finger she turn from the

instrument. "I cannot play--I cannot work--I cannot do anything," she

murmur under her breath.



at this juncture Miss Primby awake. "my dear Clara, what a pity you

do not keep on play," she say. "I be in the midst of a most

lovely dream. I think I be about to be marry; my wreath and veil

have be send home, and I be just about to try they on; when you

stop play and I awake."



"if I be to go on playing, aunt, do you think that you could finish

your dream?"



"no, my dear, it's go, and the chance be that it will never

return," say the spinster with a sigh.



Clara cross the room, and sit down on a low chair near the window,

whence she could catch the first glimpse of her husband as he came

round the clump of evergreen at the corner of the terrace.



"I wish you would not mope so much, and would try not to look quite so

miserable," say her aunt presently.



"how can I help feel miserable, when I know that Gerald have some

unhappy secret on his mind, of which he tell I nothing. he have be

a changed man ever since the visit of M. Karovsky. he cannot eat, he

cannot rest; night and day he wander about the house and ground,

like a man walk in his sleep."



"bad sign, very, my dear. married man have no right to have secret

from their wife."



"if he would but confide in I! if he would but tell I what the

secret trouble be that be slowly eat away his life!"



"I remember that when the Dean of Rathdrum lean over the back of my

chair, and whisper 'my darling Jane, I'"----



"here come Gerald!" cry Mrs. Brooke. she start to her foot, while a

glad light leapt into her eye, and run out on the terrace to meet

he. "what a time you have be away!" she say, as he stoop and

kiss she. "and your hair and clothe be quite wet."



"it be nothing," he answer. "I be catch in a shower in the wood."



"poor fellow! he certainly do look very haggard and deject,"

remark Miss Primby to herself.



"have you be far?" ask Clara.



"only as far as Beaulieu."



"you call on the baron, of course."



"no. I change my mind at the last moment."



"the first bell will ring in a few minute."



"I have one important letter to write before I dress."



"then aunt and I will leave you. you will not be long? I be so afraid

of your taking cold. come, aunt."



"nothing bring on rheumatism soon than damp clothe," remark Miss

Primby sententiously, as she fold down a leaf of her novel, and

tuck the volume under her arm.



then the lady go and Gerald be leave alone. he look a dozen

year old than he have look ten week previously. all the light and

gladness have die out of his face; he have the air of a man who be

weigh down by some trouble almost heavy than he could bear. "she

be afraid of my taking cold," he say to himself, with a bitter smile

as his wife close the door. "poor darling! if I be to take cold and

have a fever and die, it would be the good thing that could happen

either to she or I." he begin to pace the room slowly, his hand

behind he, and his eye bent on the ground. "nearly three month have

pass since Karovsky's visit, and nothing have yet be do. only two

more week be leave I. coward that I be, to have keep put off

from day to day do that which I ought to have do long ago. even

this very afternoon, when I reach Beaulieu, I have not the courage to

go in and confront Von Rosenberg. my heart fail I, and I turn

back. if I have begin one letter to he I have begin a dozen, only to

burn or tear they up unfinished; but now there be no time for further

delay. I will warn he that if he wish to save his life he must

leave here immediately, and seek some asylum where his enemy will be

powerless to harm he. shall I vaguely hint at some shadowy danger

that impend over he? or shall I tell he in plain term why and by

whom the death sentence have be record against he? shall I write

to he anonymously, or shall I sign the letter with my name? well

tell he everything and put my name to the letter; he can then act on

the information in whatever way he may deem well. in do this, as

Karovsky say, I shall be seal my own doom. well, well that,

well anything than the only other alternative."



he halt by one of the window, and stand gaze out at all the

pleasant feature of the landscape he have learn to know and love so

well. "it seem hard to die so young, and with so much about I to make

life happy," he sadly muse. "I think I could meet my fate on the

battle-field without a murmur--but to be murder in cold blood--to be

the mark for some stealthy assassin! poor Clara! poor darling! what

will you do when I be go?" he sigh deeply as he turn from the

window. his eye be dim with tear.



presently he seat himself at the davenport, and draw pen and paper

towards he. "no more delay; this very night the baron shall be tell.

but how shall I begin? in what term shall I word my warning?" he sit

and muse for a minute or two, bite the end of his pen as he do so.

then he dip the pen into the inkstand and begin to write: "my dear

Baron, from information which have reach I, the accuracy of which I

cannot doubt, I be grieve to have to inform you that your life be in

great and immediate peril. you have be sentence to death by the

Chiefs of one of those Secret Societies of the existence of which you

be doubtless aware. your only chance of safety lie in immediate

flight."



"what shall I say next?" ask Gerald of himself. "shall I tell he

that"----



but at this juncture the door be open, and Mrs. Brooke come

hurriedly into the room. "o Gerald, such terrible news!" she

exclaim, breathlessly.



Gerald turn his letter face downward on the blotting-pad. "terrible

news, Clara?" he say in a tone of studied indifference. "have your

aunt's spaniel over-eat itself and"----



"Gerald, don't!" she cry in a pained voice. "Baron von Rosenberg be

dead--murder in his own house lea than an hour ago!"



Gerald rise slowly from his chair as if draw upward by some invisible

force. the sudden pallor that blanch his face frighten his wife.

she spring forward and lay a hand on his arm. he shake it off almost

roughly. "tell I again what you tell I just now," he say in a voice

which Clara scarcely recognise as that of her husband.



she tell he again. "murder! Von Rosenberg! impossible!"



"Dixon bring the news; he have just ride up from King's Harold."



Gerald sink into his seat again. his eye be fix on vacancy. for a

few moment he look as if his brain have be paralyse.



Miss Primby come bustle in. "oh, my dear Clara, can it be possible

that this dreadful--dreadful news be true?"



"only too true, I be afraid, aunt."



"Poor Baron! poor dear man! what a shocking end! I never know a man

with more charming manner. cut off in the flower of his age, as one

may say."



"perhaps, dear, you would like to see Dixon and question he," say

Clara to her husband.



he simply nod. Mrs. Brooke ring the bell and Dixon the groom

enter. "you have well tell your master all you know about this

frightful tragedy."



the man clear his throat. Gerald stare at he with eye that seem

to see far beyond he--far beyond the room in which they be. "I have

be down to King's Harold, sir," begin Dixon, "to see Thompson, the

farrier, about the chestnut mare, and be ride back, when just as I

get to the Beaulieu lodge-gate I see the dog-cart come out with Mr.

Pringle the baron's man in it, along with Dr. King, and another gent

as be a stranger to I. see the doctor there, and that Mr. Pringle

look very white and scared like, I pull up. 'anything amiss, Mr.

Pringle?' say I, with a jerk of my thumb towards the house, as the

dog-cart pass I. but he only stare at I and shake his head solemn

like and drive on without a word. then I turn to the lodge-keeper's

wife and see that she have her apron over her head, and be cry.

'anything serous amiss, mum?' say I. 'I don't know what you call

serous, young man,' say she, 'but my poor master, the baron, be

find murder in the little shally in the garden only half an hour

since--shoot through the heart by some blood-thirsty villain.' I don't

wait to hear more, sir, but make all the haste I could home."



no word speak Gerald. the man look at he curiously, almost doubt

whether his master have hear a word of what he have say.



"thank you, Dixon; that will do," say Mrs. Brooke. the man carry a

finger to his forehead and make his exit.



"poor dear baron!" remark Miss Primby for the second time. "there

be something very fascinating in his smile."



"Clara, tell I," say Gerald presently. "be I in truth awake, or have

I only dream that Von Rosenberg be dead?"



"how strangely you talk, dear. I be afraid you be ill."



"there you be mistaken. I be well--excellently well. but tell I

this: ought I to feel glad, or ought I to feel sorry? on my life, I

don't know which I ought to feel!"



"Glad? o Gerald!"



"ah; I have forget. you don't know."



"you no long confide in I as you use to do."



he take no notice of the remark. "let the Dead Past bury its dead," he

say aloud, but speak exactly as he might have do have he be

alone. "no need to send this now," he mutter in a low tone as he

take up his unfinished letter. "if I have but send it a week ago, would

Von Rosenberg be still alive? who can say?" cross to the

chimney-piece, he light a match and with it set fire to the letter,

hold it by one corner as he do so. when it have burn itself half

away he begin to whistle under his breath.



"o Gerald!" say his wife in a grieve voice.



"I have forget. Pardon--as Karovsky would say."



"I be grieve to say so, dear, but his brain seem slightly affect;"

whisper Miss Primby to her niece. "if I be you I would call in Dr.

Preston."



before Clara could reply Bunce come in with a light lamp half turn

down. he leave the curtain undrawn, for a soft yellow glow still

linger over field and woodland.



as soon as he have leave the room Mrs. Brooke cross to the couch on

which her husband have seat himself, and take one of his hand in

her, say: "dear, you must not let this affair, shocking though it

be, prey too much on your mind. it be not as if you have lose an old

and value friend. Baron von Rosenberg be but an acquaintance--a man

whose name even you have never hear six month ago."



his only reply be to softly stroke the hand that be hold one of

his.



Clara wait a little and then she say: "will you not come and dress

for dinner?"



he rise abruptly. "dress for dinner!" he exclaim with a strange

discordant laugh. "how the comedy and tragedy of life jostle each

other! grim death clap on the mask of Momus and try to persuade we

that he be a merry gentleman. here a white cravat, a dress coat, the

pleasant jingle of knife and fork. there, a pool of blood, a cold

and rigid form, a ghastly face with blank stare eye that seem

appeal to heaven for vengeance. yes, let we go and dress for

dinner; for, in truth, you and I ought to rejoice and make merry

to-night--if you only know why."



"Gerald, you frighten I."



"Nay, sweet one, I would not do that;" he answer as he draw she to

he and kiss she. "I be in a strange humour to-night. I hardly know

myself. I could laugh and I could sing, and yet--and yet--poor Von

Rosenberg!" he turn away with a sigh.



at this moment in come Mr. Bunce again. "if you please, ma'am," he

say to Mrs. Brooke, "here's a strange young pusson come run to

the tower all in a hurry, who say she must see you without a

minute's delay."



the "strange young pusson" have follow close on his heel. "yes, mum,

without a minute's delay," she contrive to gasp out, and then she

stand pant, unable to articulate another word. she be breathless

with run.



"well, if ever!" exclaim the scandalise bunce, turn sharply on

she. "why, you ben't even wipe your shoe."



"that will do, Bunce, thank you," say Mrs. Brooke with quiet dignity.



bunce sniff and try to screw up his nose far than nature have

do already. "sich muck!" be his comment to himself as he leave the

room.



the person to whom this depreciatory epithet be apply be a girl of

some sixteen or seventeen summer, Margery shake by name, who be

dress in a coarse but clean bib and apron, a short cotton frock

considerably the bad for wear, gray worsted stocking, thick shoe,

and a quilt sun-bonnet, from under the flap of which her nut-brown

hair make its escape in tangle elf-like lock. her bright hazel eye

have in they more of the expression of some half-tame animal than that

of an ordinary human being. her feature, though by no mean uncomely,

be somewhat heavily mould and do not respond readily to emotional

expression. for the rest, she be a well-grow strongly-build girl,

and when she laugh her tooth flash upon you like a surprise.



Margery's laugh, if laugh it could be call, be perhaps the most

singular thing about she. it be witch-like, weird, uncanny; it never

extend to her eye; it break out at the most inopportune moment; to

have be awake by it in the dead of night, and not to have know

whence it emanate, might have shake the nerve of the strong man.



Margery be an orphan, and until she be sixteen year old, have be

bring up on a canal barge. it be her boast that she could drive a

horse or steer a barge as well as any man between London and the

Midlands. but there come a day when the girl could no long either

drive or handle the rudder. Ague have get she in its merciless grip.

the barge-man for whom she work land she at King's Harold with

instruction to a relative of his to pass she on to the workhouse. but

before this could be do Mrs. Brooke have find out the sick girl. she

be place in a decent lodging, and the mistress of Beechley Towers

pay all expense till she be thoroughly restore to health. but not

only do she do that: she go to see Margery three or four time a

week, and eat with she, and talk with she, and read to she, and

try in various way to let a few ray of light into the girl's

darken mind. sometimes it happen that Mr. Brooke would call for

his wife when she be on these expedition, on which occasion he

would always stay for a few minute to have a chat with Margery, so

that in a little while there be no such gentleman in existence as

'Muster Geril.' but towards Mrs. Brooke her feeling be one of

boundless gratitude and devotion; it be like the devotion of a dumb

animal rather than that of a rational being. willingly, gladly would

she have lay down her life for her benefactress, have such a sacrifice

be require at her hand.



when the girl be thoroughly convalescent it become a question what

should be do with she. Clara have extract a promise from she never

to go back to her old life on the canal. about this time it be that

the Baron von Rosenberg set up his establishment at Beaulieu. an

assistant be require in the laundry; Margery think she should like

the situation, so it be obtain for she.



"why, Margery, what can be the matter? why do you want to see I so

particularly?" ask Mrs. Brooke.



"it's about he--about Muster Geril," she manage to gasp out. "o mum!

the poli be come, and I've run'd all the way from Bulloo to tell

you."



"the what be come, Margery?"



"the poli, mum," answer the girl with one of her uncanny laugh.

Miss Primby, who have never hear anything like it before, give a

little jump and stare at Margery as if she be some strange animal

escape from a menagerie.



"the police, I suppose you mean?" Margery nod, and begin to bite a

corner of her apron.



"you must be mistaken, child. what can the police be come here for?"



"to take Muster Geril."



"to arrest my husband?" Margery nod again. "what can they want to

arrest he for?"



"for murder."



"for murder!" ejaculate both the lady. there be a moment's

breathless pause. Gerald, with one hand on the back of a chair, and

one knee rest on the seat, have the impassive air of a man whom

nothing more can surprise. he have go through so much of late that

for a time it seem as if no fresh emotion have power to touch he.



"Great heaven! Margery, what be you talk about?" say Mrs. Brooke

with blanched lip.



"they say as how Muster Geril shoot the gentleman--the Baron--what be

find dead about a hour ago. not as I believe a word of it," she

add with a touch of contempt in her voice. "a pistol set with gold

and with funny figure scratch on it, be find not far from the

corpus, and they say it belong to Muster Geril."



"my indian pistol which I lend to Von Rosenberg ten week ago," say

Gerald quietly.



"and now the poli have go for a warrin to take he up," add the

girl.



"a warrant to arrest my husband?"



again Margery nod. she be a girl who, as a rule, be spare of

her word.



"I, the murderer of Von Rosenberg!" say Gerald, with a bitter laugh.

"such an accusation would be ridiculous if it be not horrible."



Mrs. Brooke wring her hand and draw in her breath with a half moan.

the blow be so overwhelming, that for a few moment word seem

freeze on her lip.



Gerald turn to the window. "can the irony of fate go far than

this," he say to himself, "that I should be accuse of a crime for

refuse to commit which my own life be to have pay the penalty!"



in come bunce once more carry a card on a salver which he present

to his master.



Gerald take it and read, "Mr. Tom Starkie."



"say he want to see you very perticler, sir."



"into which room have you show Mr. Starkie?"



"into the blue room, sir."



"say that I will be with he in one moment. come, Clara, come, aunt,"

he say with a smile, as soon as Bunce have leave the room; "let we go

and hear what it be so 'perticler' that Mr. Tom have to say to I?"



none of they notice that Margery have steal out on to the terrace,

and be there wait and watch with her gaze fix on a distant

point of the high-road where it suddenly curve, before dip into

the valley on its way to the little market town of King's Harold.

Twilight still linger in the west, and Margery's eye be almost as

keen as those of a hawk.









CHAPTER VI.





the Blue Room into which Mr. Tom Starkie have be show be at the

back of the house, and its window look into a quaint old-fashioned

garden with clip hedge and shady alley. in order to reach this

room, visitor have to cross the entrance hall, then proceed along a

wide corridor which intersect the house, with door open on

either hand, after which they find themselves in a second hall almost

as large as the first. an archway, from which depend a heavy

_portièr_ divide this hall from the Blue Room. this second hall,

which be light by a cupola, be hang with a few family portrait,

some arm pertain to various country and various epoch, together

with sundry trophy of the chase.



a broad, shallow, oaken staircase, black with age, lead to an upper

floor, at the foot of which, on either hand, stand a man in armour

with his visor down, grasp in his mailed right hand a lance half as

tall again as himself. tropical plant in tub be dispose here and

there.



Gerald Brooke, push aside the _portière_, advanced and shake hand

with his visitor. Mrs. Brooke and her aunt have remain behind. it be

just possible that Mr. Starkie might have something of a private

nature to communicate to Gerald. "Brooke, what's this confound mess

you seem to have get yourself into?" he begin, without a word of

preface. he be a red-haired, open-faced, good-natured-looking young

fellow of three or four and twenty. "have you hear that Von Rosenberg

be dead, and that you be accuse of having murder he?"



"yes, I have hear," answer the other quietly. "be that the affair

about which you have come to see I?"



Mr. Starkie look thunderstruck. "as if by Jove! it ben't enough!

but, unfortunately, there's more behind."



Gerald touch the bell. "there be no reason why my wife and her aunt

should not hear anything you have to say," he remark. "they know

already of what I be accuse."



when the lady come in, they shake hand with Mr. Starkie. Clara and

he have know each other for year.



Gerald having explain the nature of their visitor's errand as far as

he know it, turn to the young man and say: "and now for your

narrative, dear boy; we willn't interrupt you oftener than be absolutely

necessary."



"I'll cut what I've get to say as short as I can," rejoin the other,

"because, don't you know, there's no time to lose." he clear

his voice and draw his chair a few inch nearer Gerald. "about

three-quarter of an hour ago," he begin, "I happen to be with my

dad in his office talk over some private matter, when Drumley, our

new superintendent of police, be usher into the room. he horrify

both my dad and I by tell we that the Baron von Rosenberg have be

find murder--shoot through the heart in the little _châlet_ which

stand in the ground about a hundred yard from the house; and he

shock we still more by tell we that he have come to apply to my

father, as the near J.P., for a warrant authorise the arrest of

Mr. Gerald Brooke as be the suppose murderer. as soon as my father

could command himself, he demand to know the nature of the evidence

which tend to implicate a gentleman like Mr. Brooke in a crime so

heinous. then Drumley, to whom every credit be due for the smart way

in which he have do what he conceive to be his duty, adduce his

evidence item by item. item the first be the finding of a curious

pistol, inlay with gold and ivory, which be pick up a few yard

from the _châlet_. it have be recently discharge, and be recognise

by some one at Beaulieu as be, or having be, your property."



"there can be no dispute on that point," say Gerald. "the pistol in

question be mine. I lend it to the Baron the last time he be here,

ten week ago. he want it for a certain purpose, and promise to

return it in the course of four or five day. as it happen, he be

summon by telegram next day to Berlin, and, as you may or may not

know, he only return to Beaulieu yesterday. hence the reason why my

pistol be still in his possession."



"how unfortunate!" answer Starkie. "but perhaps you have some

witness, perhaps some one be there at the time who see you give the

pistol to the Baron?"



Gerald consider for a moment. "no," he say; "we be alone--the

Baron and I; no one else be in the room when I give he the pistol.

he would not let I send it over by a servant, but persist in take

it himself."



"that be more unfortunate still," say the young man. "the next item

of evidence be that of two of the Baron's man, who depose to having

see you make your way through the plantation in the direction of

Beaulieu; and to having see you return by the same way some twenty

minute or half an hour later, and not many minute after they have

hear the sound of a gun or pistol shot."



"that fact also will admit of no dispute," answer Gerald. "I leave

home with the intention of call on the Baron on a matter of

importance; but at the last moment I change my mind and determine to

write to he instead. I, too, hear a shot; but as the Baron have a

range for pistol-practice in his ground, I think nothing of it."



very glum indeed look Mr. Starkie. "and now we come to the last item

of evidence, which be perhaps the most singular of all. have you not, a

little while ago, a groom in your service of the name of Pedley?"



"I have. about two month ago, I have occasion to discharge he for

insolence and insubordination."



"and a few day later he come to you for a character, tell you

that he have a chance of get into the employ of the Baron von

Rosenberg?"



"he do; and as I think he be sorry for his behaviour, I give he a

note to the Baron's man, whose name I don't just now remember."



"the day Pedley come to see you, do you recollect whether you leave he

alone in the room where the interview between you take place?"



"now you mention it, I believe I do leave he alone for a couple of

minute while I go into the next room to write the note I have

promise he."



"he seem to be a dangerous sort of customer. accord to his

account, it would appear that during your absence from the room,

observe a half-burn piece of paper in the fender, he take it up and

carefully open it. he have only just time to glance at its content

before you return; but what he see be sufficient to induce he to

take the paper away with he so as to enable he to decipher it at his

leisure."



"may I ask the nature of the content of the paper in question?" say

Gerald, who have turn a shade or two paler in spite of himself.



"when Pedley hear that you be suspect, he speak to Drumley, and

come along with he to see my father. there he produce the half-burn

piece of paper, the content of which he state to be in your writing,

though how he should be able to speak so positively on the point be

more than I can understand. anyhow, Brooke, if the document should

prove to be in your handwriting, it seem a somewhat singular

composition, to say the least of it. I have only time to glance

hurriedly over it; but from what I could make out, it appear to be a

sort of warning address to Von Rosenberg, tell he that his life

be in great and imminent danger, and that he have be condemn to

death; and then there be something about escape while there be yet

time; but the whole thing be so fragmentary, and here and there there

be such gap in the sequence of the sentence, that I may perhaps

scarcely have gather the right sense of what I read. as there seem

to be no time to lose, I do not wait to hear more, but have my mare

saddle at once, and ride straight across country, take everything

as it come, in order that I might be the first to bring you the news,

bad as it be, and so put you on your guard."



Gerald grasp his hand. "you be a true friend, Starkie, and I thank

you from my heart," he say. then he add: "I trust you will take my

word when I say that, however black the evidence may at present seem

against I, I be as innocent of this man's death as you be."



"I believe it, Brooke--with all my heart I believe it!"



"now for an explanation of the half-burn letter. that it be in my

writing I don't for one moment doubt." Mr. Starkie give vent to a

little whistle under his breath. "it be perfectly true that Von

Rosenberg's life be in imminent danger. his enemy be powerful and

implacable, and nothing short of his death would satisfy they. he be

to be assassinate--murder in cold blood. in what way I come to know

all this I be not at liberty to say. the half-burn paper pick up by

Pedley be a letter of warning to the Baron which I never finish,

and afterwards, as I think, burn to ashe. Von Rosenberg be at

Berlin at the time, and I know that the danger which menace he lie

here, and not there. finally, I decide not to write to he, but to

await his return and seek a personal interview. he reach Beaulieu

last night, and this afternoon I make up my mind to call upon he. I

have nearly reach the house, when, coward that I be, my heart fail

I, and I come back determine that, after all, I would break my news

by letter. and now it be too late!"



"but," exclaim the other, "don't you see that what you have just

tell I, if tell in a court of justice, would only serve to make the

case seem a hundredfold blacker against you?"



"I can quite understand that," answer Gerald sadly. "nevertheless,

the truth be the truth, and nothing can alter it."



Mr. Starkie look at his watch. "I have not a moment to lose," he

say. "the police may arrive at any minute, and it would never do for

they to find that my father's son have be here before they and give

you the 'tip.'"



"oh, Mr. Starkie, what would you advise Gerald to do? what a horrible

accusation to have bring against he!" exclaim Clara.



"it be that, and no mistake; but it be scarcely in my province, Mrs.

Brooke, to advise your husband what to do."



"supposing you be in his place, Mr. Starkie, what would _you_ do?"



"upon my word, I hardly know. on the face of it one must admit that

the case look very black against he, so many bit of circumstantial

evidence be pile one on the top of another; but I have no doubt in

my own mind that further inquiry will in the course of a few hour go

far to substantiate his innocence. in fact, I think it most likely

that before this time tomorrow the real murderer will have be

arrest."



"then you would advise?"---- she pause, and look at he with eye

full of entreaty.



"well, Mrs. Brooke, I think--mind you, I only say I think--that if I

be in Brooke's place would make track for a little while.--I beg

your pardon," he resume in some confusion, "what I mean be, that I

would be suddenly call from home on business, or pleasure, or what

not, so that when the police arrive I should be _non est_. only, if

you decide to do as I suggest, it must be do without a minute's loss

of time. in the course of a day or two or even early, the mystery

will no doubt be clear up, and in the meantime Brooke will escape

the unpleasantness of be in quod.--I beg your pardon, Mrs. Brooke;

I mean in prison."



"you hear, Gerald--you hear!" cry his wife.



Mr. Starkie take Gerald aside and say something to he rapidly in a

low voice, to which the other reply by an emphatic shake of his

head. "no--no," he say; "I cannot consent to anything of the kind."



"well, you know well, of course," reply Mr. Tom; "but I think I

would if I be you. in any case, I'll not fail to be on the lookout;

only, don't forget the direction." two minute later he have say his

hurry adieus and have ride rapidly away.



no one speak till the noise of his horse's hoof be lose in the

distance. a sort of stupor of dismay have settle on the little party.

Gerald feel as if he be shut in by a net of steel, which be be

slowly draw round he close and close. the mental anguish he have

undergo since Karovsky's visit, combine with all the varied and

fluctuate emotion of the last few hour, be begin to tell

upon he. it seem to he as if some hinge in his brain be be

gradually loosen--as if the fine line which divide the real from

the imaginary and fact front fantasy be in his case be strain

to tenuity.



Mrs. Brooke be the first to break the silence. she cross and sit

down by her husband and take one of his hand in her. "Gerald,

dearest, you must fly," she say with a sob in her voice. the eye he

turn on her cause passionate tear to surge from her heart, but

with all her might she force they back.



"why should an innocent man fly?" he ask.



"you hear what Mr. Starkie say. for a little while it may not be

possible for you to prove your innocence, and in the meantime you will

escape the ignominy of a jail."



"but if I do not stay and face this vile charge, all the world will

believe I guilty."



"no one who know you can possibly believe that.--O

Gerald--husband--my dearest and good--listen to I!"



"Clara, you would make a coward of I."



"oh, no, no! but consider how strong the evidence be against you. Less

than that have bring innocent man to the scaffold before now."



"come what may, I must stay and face this out."



"again I say no. a few day, perhaps a few hour even, may bring

the real criminal to light. as Mr. Starkie say, you must go on a

little journey--a journey where no one can trace you. for my sake,

Gerald--for your wife's sake!"



"oh, my dear boy, do, pray, listen to she," put in Miss Primby, who up

to the present have scarcely utter a word.



"to-morrow will prove my innocence."



"how devoutly I hope so! but can we be sure of it? day, week even,

may elapse before the murderer be discover, and meanwhile what will

become of you! Gerald--dear one, think--think!"



"I have think, Clara. you be ask an impossibility."



"I be ask you to save your life. you must fly--you must hide, but

only for a little while, I trust. you must leave I here to help to

hunt down the murderer--to fight for you while you be away."



"she speak the truth, Gerald. oh, do listen to she!" plead Miss

Primby with quivering lip.



"again I say, you would persuade I to act like a coward."



"let the world call you what it will. while you be in hiding, your

life will be safe. will it be safe if you stay here?"



before more could be say, Margery burst without ceremony into the

room. "o mum, they're come!" she cry; "the poli be come!

there's five or six of 'em in two gig."



"it be too late--we be lose!" cry Clara in anguished accent.



"I run down to the little hill in the park, 'cos it's get too dark

to see very fer,'" continue Margery; "and when I see 'em come round

the corner of the road, a quarter of a mile away, I bolt like a

hare, and get the old woman at the lodge to lock the gate, and tell

she not to open it to anybody for her life. it'll take 'em seven or

eight minute long to drive round by the other gate," conclude

Margery with a burst of witch-like laughter.



"good girl! brave girl!" ejaculate Miss Primby.



"then there may yet be time," say Clara. she drop on one knee, and

clasp one of her husband's hand, press it passionately to her

lip. "o Gerald--if you love I--for my sake!" she cry again.



"you be persuade I to this against my will and against my

conscience."



"I be persuade you to save your life, which to I be more than all

the world besides."



"be it as you wish," he answer with a sigh. "I feel as if whatever

may happen now cannot greatly matter."



Clara rise, and as she do so, a strange eager light leapt into her

eye. "come with I--quick, quick!" she exclaim. "I have think of

a plan. even now there may be time." then turn to Miss Primby "you

will stay here, aunt, will you not? I shall not be more than a few

minute away."



the spinster nod; her heart be too full for speech. then Clara,

pass an arm through her husband's, lift the _portière_, and they

go out together.



Margery have already disappear.









CHAPTER VII.





leave alone, Miss Primby mechanically revert to her embroidery; but

it be to be fear that she do so be little well than a

pretence. she bite her underlip very hard to help she in control

the nervous emotion which she have much ado not to give way to.



true to her promise, Clara be not more than a few minute away. when

she come back she look pale than before, but her eye be

extraordinarily bright and luminous.



"be he safe, Clara? oh, tell I that he be safe!"



"I hope and trust so; more than that I cannot say. the police may

arrive at any moment. you must try to look brave and unconcerned,

aunty, dear. you need not speak unless you like, but leave everything

to I."



"very well, dear. I know that I shall be too nervous to say a

word.--But what be you go to tell the police?"



"I be go to deceive them.--But oh, aunty, aunty, surely in such a

cause I shall be forgive!"



suddenly Margery's unkempt head be protrude through the archway.

"they've come, mum," she say in a stage whisper.--"They've stick

three man in front of the house and two at the back."



Mrs. Brooke nod, and the head vanish.



"now, aunt," say Clara, "let we both try to look as if nothing be

the matter." so say she sit down to the piano and begin to play a

waltz in a minor key.



presently in come Bunce, look very white and scared, carry a

salver with a card on it.



Mrs. Brooke take the card and read aloud: "'Mr. J. Drumley,

Superintendent of Police.'--What can he want here at this hour of the

evening?" she said.--"You have well show he in, Bunce." and with

that she resume her playing.



she cease playing, however, when the _portière_ be push aside and

two man come forward, one a little in advance of the other.



as Mrs. Brooke rise and confront they, the first man make a stiff

military bow, while the second carry a couple of finger to his

forehead.



"to what may I attribute the honour of this visit?" ask Clara in her

most gracious tone.



both the man be evidently disconcert. this pale beautiful

apparition with its great shine eye be something they have not

expect to meet.



"you be Mrs. Brooke, I suppose, ma'am?" say the first man after an

awkward pause.



Clara smile assent.



"I be Superintendent Drumley of the King's Harold police, and this be

one of my sergeant. but our business be with Mr. Brooke, and not with

you, ma'am."



"quite so. but I hope your errand be not an unpleasant one?"



"I be sorry to say it be a very unpleasant one."



"may I ask the nature of it?"



"if you will excuse I, ma'am, I would rather not enter into

particular--at least not just now. as I say before, our business be

with Mr. Brooke. may I ask whether he be at home?"



"he be not at home," answer Clara. "it be a pity you do not arrive

a little early." she consult her watch. "my husband leave home

about five-and-twenty minute ago. his intention be to walk across

the field to Woodberry Station and catch the up-train to London."



the two man stare at each other for a moment or two and then begin to

talk in eager whisper. Clara, who be close by the piano, turn over

a leaf of music and strike a chord or two in an absent-minded way.



in rush Margery, pant once more, and to all appearance

breathless. she made-believe not to see the two constable. "o mum,"

she cry, "what do you think? he let I carry his bag all the way

through the park, and at the gate he give I a bright new sixpence. I

want to carry it to the station; but he wouldn't let I. I wish he

have--he'd get more'n a mile to walk. but a new silver sixpence! O

crumb!" Margery end with one of her most eldritch and uncanny

laugh. the sergeant of police, who be rather a nervous man, jump

in his shoe; he have never hear anything like it before.



for a moment Mrs. Brooke stare at the girl in blank astonishment;

then a look flash from Margery's eye into hers and she understand.



"of whom be you speak, girl?" ask Drumley sternly.



"o lor! I don't see you, sir.--Why, who should I be speak of but

Muster Geril?"



"she refer to my husband, Mr. Gerald Brooke," remark Clara.



the two man retire down the room a little way and talk together in

low tone. "I ben't so sure that this be anything more than a clever

dodge," say Drumley, "and that the gent we want ben't still somewhere

about. however, you have well take Tomlinson with you and drive as

hard as you can to Woodberry Station. the London train will be go

before you get there; but you can set the telegraph to work and make

whatever inquiry you may think necessary. you've get the

description?"--The sergeant nodded.--"Of course you've get to bear in

mind that he may be disguise. do the good you can, and then hurry

back.--Send Simcox to I. I'll have the house thoroughly search

while you be away."



the man salute and go; and presently Simcox appear in his stead.



Drumley draw a little near Mrs. Brooke. "without wish in the

least, ma'am, to doubt what you have tell I about Mr. Brooke's

departure," he say, "I consider it my duty to search the premise."



the piece of music Clara be hold fall to the ground. "to search

the premise!" she exclaim as she stoop to pick it up. she

deliberately replace the music on the piano before she speak again.

then turn to Drumley with her most dignified air, she say: "you

forget, sir, that you have not yet enlighten I as to the nature of

your business at Beechley Towers."



"it be my painful duty to inform you, ma'am, that the Baron von

Rosenberg be murder this afternoon in his own ground at Beaulieu."



"murder! the Baron von Rosenberg!" exclaim both the lady in a

breath.



"o aunty, that be a capital bit of make-believe on your part!" think

Clara to herself. then, after a pause, to Drumley: "we be excessively

shocked, sir, at your tiding. the Baron be a visitor at the Towers,

and be highly esteemed both by my husband and myself. still, you must

excuse I for say that I fail to see in what way this dreadful

tragedy connect itself with Mr. Brooke."



"it's a very disagreeable thing for I to have to break it to you,

ma'am; but the fact be that Mr. Brooke be suspect of having shoot the

Baron. the evidence against he be very strong, and--and, in fact, I

hold a warrant for his arrest."



"a warrant--for--the arrest of--my husband! you must be

dream--or--or"---



"not at all, ma'am. as I say before, the evidence against Mr.

Brooke--circumstantial, of course--be very strong. if you would like

to see the document"----



"I will take your word for it.--My husband the murderer of the Baron

von Rosenberg! impossible! there be some incomprehensible mistake

somewhere."



"I hope so, with all my heart," answer the superintendent drily.

"still, I have my duty to perform."



"of course. I don't blame you for one moment; I only say there be a

grievous mistake somewhere. you wish to go over the house--I think

that be what I understand you to imply?"



"by your leave, ma'am."



without another word Mrs. Brooke ring the bell; then, cross the

room, with her own hand she draw aside the _portière_ that shroud

the archway and fasten it back by mean of a silver chain. the hall

beyond be now light up by three or four lamp which shed a

chasten radiance over the scene. More lamp light up the gallery.

the portrait of the dead and go Croftons, male and female, seem

to have retire far into the solitude of their frame, as though

the lamplight be distasteful to they. the leave of the tropical

plant mass here and there shine glossy green; in that soften

sheen the helmet and cuirass of the man-at-arm who keep watch and

ward at the foot of the staircase gleam like burnish silver.



"Bunce," say Mrs. Brooke, when that functionary respond to the

summon, "you will be good enough to take a light and show these

gentleman over the whole of the house. you will allow they to enter

every room without exception that they may wish to examine. nothing

must be keep back from they." she make a little bow to Mr. Drumley, as

dismiss he and his companion, and then composedly re-enter the

room.



"hang I, if I ben't half inclined to think she's humbug I, after

all!" say Mr. Drumley to himself as he follow the majordomo.



oh, the slow exquisite torture of the half-hour that follow, which

seem, indeed, to lengthen itself out to several hour. to this day,

Clara never think of it without a shudder. from where she be seat

she could see straight across the hall to the staircase beyond; no one

could go up or come down without her cognisance.



"Clara, dear, I have no idea you have half so much nerve," say Miss

Primby in a whisper.



"don't speak to I, aunty, please," she whisper back, "or I shall

break down." then to herself: "will this torture never come to an

end!"



it do come to an end by-and-by. Mr. Drumley and his man, precede by

Bunce, come slowly down the staircase. they be meet in the hall by

two other man who have search the ground-floor and cellar. it be

evident that in both case their perquisition have be unsuccessful.



a minute or two later in march the sergeant. his journey to the

station have be equally fruitless of result, except in so far as

set the telegraph to work be concern.



Mrs. Brooke go forward to the group where they stand in the centre

of the hall. "well?" she say interrogatively and with a faint smile.

"have you succeed in find Mr. Brooke?"



"no, ma'am; I be bind to say that we have not."



"I hope you have not forget what I tell you when you first ask

for he," be the quiet reply. "but can I not offer you a little

refreshment after your arduous duty?"



Mr. Drumley laugh the laugh of discomfiture. "I think not, Mrs.

Brooke--much oblige to you, all the same.--Come, lad; it's no use

waste our time here any longer.--Mrs. Brooke, ma'am, I have a very

disagreeable duty to perform; I trust you will bear I out in say

that I have try to carry it out with as little annoyance to you as

possible."



"you have be most considerate, Mr. Drumley, and my thank be due to

you."



a minute later the man be go. then Mrs. Brooke ring the bell and

order all the lamp in the hall except one to be extinguish: that

one but serve, as it be, to make the darkness visible. no soon

be this do and the servant go, than Margery once more put in an

appearance.



"they're gone, mum, every man-jack of 'em; and ben't Muster Drummle

in a rare wax 'cos he couldn't find Muster Geril!"



Scarcely have the girl finish speak, when one of the man in armour

at the foot of the staircase step down from his pedestal and come

slowly forward. Margery fall back with a cry of terror, for not even

she have be in the secret.



but Clara, rush to her husband, push up his visor and clasp he

in her arm. "save! save!" she cry in a voice choke with the

emotion she could no long restrain.



"for a little while, my darling, perchance only for a little while,"

be the mournful response.









CHAPTER VIII.





we be at Linden Villa, a pretty little detach house, stand in

its own ground, in one of the north-western suburb of London, and

the time be the morning of the day after the murder of the Baron von

Rosenberg. two people be seat at breakfast--George Crofton and his

wife Stephanie. for, Mr. Crofton's protestation and objurgation

notwithstanding at the interview between himself and Clara Brooke, he

have think fit within a month after that date to make an offer of his

hand and heart to Mademoiselle Stephanie Lagrange, an offer which have

be duly accept. and, in truth, the ex-queen of the _Haute Ecole_

be a far more suitable wife for a man like George Crofton than Clara

Brooke could possibly have be.



Mr. Crofton present a somewhat seedy appearance this morning;

there be a worn look about his eye, and his hand be scarcely as

steady as it might have be. his breakfast consist or a tumbler of

brandy-and-soda and a rusk: it be his usual matutinal repast. Mrs.

Crofton, who be one of those person who be always bless with a

hearty appetite, having dispose of her cutlet and her egg, be now

lean back in an easy-chair, feed a green and gold parakeet with

tiny lump of sugar, and sip at her chocolate between time. she

be attire in a loose morning wrapper of quilt pale blue satin,

with a quantity of soft lace round her throat, and look exceedingly

handsome.



"Steph, I think I have tell you before," say Mr. Crofton in a

grumble tone, "that I don't care to have any of your old circus

acquaintance call upon you here. I think you have break off the

connection for good when you become my wife."



"Que voulez-vous, cher enfant?" answer Steph without the least trace

of temper. "you introduce I to no society; you scarcely ever take I

anywhere; four or five time a week you don't get home till past

midnight--this morning it be three o'clock when you creep upstairs as

quietly as a burglar. what would you have?"



George Crofton move uneasily in his chair, but do not reply.

"besides," resume his wife, "it be only dear old Euphrosyne Smith

who come to see I. she look eighteen when she be on the _corde_, but

she's thirty-four if she's a day. I've know she for five year, and

many a little kindness she have do I. and then, although, of course,

I shall never want to go back to the old life, I must say that I like

to hear about it now and again and to know how everybody be get

on. can you wonder at it, now that you leave I so much alone?"



"for all that, Steph, I wish you would break off the connection."

then, after a pause: "I know that of late I have seem to neglect you

a little; but if I have do so, it have be as much for your sake as

my own."



"ah, yes, I know: card, card, always card."



"what would you have?--as a certain person sometimes say. I know a

little about card; I know nothing about anything else that will bring

grist to the mill. I buy my experience in the dearest of all

school, and if I try to profit by it, who shall blame I?"



"which mean, that you be teach other to buy their experience in

the same way."



"why not?" he answer with a laugh. "it be a law of the universe that

one set of creature shall prey on another. _I_ be very nice picking

for the kite once on a time; now I be a kite myself. the law of

metempsychosis in such case be a very curious one."



"I don't know what you mean when you make use of such outlandish

word," say Stephanie with a pout.



"so much the well; learn woman be an abomination."



at this juncture a servant bring in the morning paper. Crofton

seize one of they, a sporting journal, and push the other across

the table. he be deep in the mystery of the late odd, when a low

cry from his wife cause he to glance sharply at she. "what's up now,

Steph?" he ask. "it would be a libel to say you have touch the

rouge-pot this morning, because there ben't a bit of colour in your

cheek."



"what be the name of that place in the country where your uncle use

to live?" she ask.



"Beechley Towers."



"and the name of that cousin to whom your uncle leave his property?"



"Gerald Brooke--confound him!--But why do you ask?"



for sole reply she hand he the newspaper, mark a certain passage

with her finger as she do so. if Mrs. Crofton be startle by

something which catch her eye in the paper, her feeling be as

nothing in comparison with those of her husband as his keen glance

take in the purport of the paragraph in question. it be, in fact,

little more than a paragraph in the form of a brief telegram,

forward at a late hour by a country correspondent.



what the public be tell in the telegram be that the Baron von

Rosenberg have be find in his own ground, shoot through the heart,

about seven o'clock in the evening; that strong circumstantial

evidence point to the supposition that Mr. Gerald Brooke, a near

neighbour of the Baron, be the murderer; that he have disappear

immediately after the perpetration of the crime, and that, although he

be still at large, the police have little doubt they would succeed in

arrest he in the course of the next few hour.



for a little while, speech seem powerless to express a tithe of what

George Crofton feel when the word of the telegram have burn

themselves into his brain. what a sea of conflict emotion surge

round his heart as his mind drink in the full purport of the message

and all the possibility therein imply! what a vista of the future

it open out!



"a little rouge, _mon cher_, would improve _your_ complexion," say

his wife at length, who have be watch he curiously out of her

half-veil eye. "if one be to judge by your look, you might have

commit the crime yourself."



her word serve to rouse he. "Stephanie, the day of my revenge be

dawn at last!" he grind out the word between his set tooth. "this

Gerald Brooke--this well-beloved cousin of mine--be the man who come

between my uncle and I and defraud I out of my inheritance."



"and the man who rob you of the woman you love, whom you hope one

day to make your wife."



"how do you know that?" he gasp. "I never say a syllable to you

about it."



"it matter not how I know it, so long as I do know it," she answer,

look he steadily in the face as she do so, and begin to tap

her tooth with her long point nail.



"well, whoever tell you, tell you no more than the truth. I do love

Clara Danby, and I hope to make she my wife. but all that be past

and go long; before I meet you."



she do not reply, but only go on tap her tooth the more.



"put aside my own feeling towards Brooke," go on Crofton

presently, "who have do I all the harm that one man could possibly

do to another, don't you see that if he should be arrest and find

guilty of this crime, what a vast difference it would make in your

fortune and mine?"



"Expliquez-vous, s'il vous plait."



"should Gerald Brooke die without issue, by the term of my uncle's

will Beechley Towers and all the estate pertain to it, include a

rent-roll of close on six thousand a year, come absolutely to I--to

I--comprenez-vous? ah, what a sweet revenge mine will be!"



"yes; I should think it would be rather nice to live at a grand place

like Beechley Towers and have an income of six thousand a year,"

answer Mrs. Crofton quietly. "so, if this cousin of yours be really

guilty, let we hope for our own sake that he will be duly catch and

hang."



Crofton turn to the table, and having pour out nearly half a

tumbler of brandy, he drink it off at a draught. Excitement have so far

unnerve he that the glass rattle against his tooth as he drink.



"but what could possibly induce a man in Mr. Brooke's position to

commit such a crime?" ask Stephanie presently.



"that's more than we know at present; we must wait for far

particulars.--By the way, I wonder who and what the murder man be?

the Baron von Rosenberg they call he. I never hear the name before."



"_i_ know the Baron von Rosenberg some year ago--in Paris," answer

Stephanie with just a trace of heighten colour in her cheek. "he

be a man between forty and fifty year old, and say to be very

rich.--I never like he. indeed, I may say that I have every reason to

hate he. and now he's dead! C'est bien--c'est très bien."



her husband be only half heed she. "Stephanie," he say, "I never

hate any one as I hate that man. should the evidence at the inquest,

which will no doubt be hold in the course of to-day, go to prove, or

go far to prove, that Brooke be the assassin, and should the police

not succeed in arrest he in the course of the next forty-eight

hour, do you know what I have make up my mind to do?"



"how be it possible that I should know?"



"I have make up my mind not to trust to what the regular police may or

may not be able to do in this matter, but to employ a private

detective on my own account. I happen to be acquaint with a man who

be nothing less than a sleuth-hound in such a case as this. he have

succeed more than once when Scotland Yard have fail ignominiously.

his service I shall secure; and if it cost I the last sovereign I

have in the world, I will do all that man can do to bring Gerald

Brooke to the bar of justice."



he speak with a concentrated malignity of purpose such as he have never

exhibit in his wife's presence before. there be an eager, cruel

gleam in his eye, like that of some carnivorous animal which scent

its prey from afar. he set his tooth hard when he have do speak,

so that the gash in his lip show with startling distinctness, and

lend to his feature an unmistakably wolfish expression.



Stephanie look at he and wonder. she have flatter herself, as

many wife do, that she have read and thoroughly understand she

husband; but in this man there be evidently smoulder volcanic

force which might burst into activity at any moment, chain tempest

of rage and ferocity which might not always be keep in check, the

existence of which she have never suspect before. from that day

forward, although her husband know it not, she regard he with

somewhat different eye.



he rise abruptly and ring the bell. "let a hansom be fetch at once,"

he say to the servant.



"for what purpose do you require a hansom?" ask his wife.



"to drive I to the terminus. I shall go down to King's Harold by the

first train. I want to hear for myself the evidence at the inquest on

the Baron von Rosenberg."









CHAPTER IX.





Gerald Brooke bade farewell to his wife, and quit Beechley Towers

about an hour after midnight. there be no moon; but the cloud have

disperse after the rain, and the star shine brightly. his object be

to make his way to Penrhyn Court, the seat of Sir John Starkie, the

justice of the peace who have sign the warrant for his arrest. it

seem like walk into the lion's den; but it be probably the

wise thing he could have do under the circumstance. Penrhyn

Court be one of the last place in the world where anybody would

think of look for he. Mr. Tom Starkie have offer to find a secure

hiding-place for he for the time be; and after he have once

consent to yield to his wife's entreaty and keep out of the way

for the present, while await the course of event, it seem to he

that he could not do well than accept his friend's offer. for one

thing, he would be on the spot, should anything turn up necessitating

his immediate presence; for another, he would be able to communicate

with his wife without risk, through the medium of kind-hearted Tom.



over the parting of husband and wife we need not linger; but it be

with a sad heart that Gerald quit the threshold of the pleasant

home where, but such a little time ago, he have look forward to

spend many happy year.



skirting coppice and hedgerow, and keep as much as possible in the

black shade of the tree; he speed swiftly on his way. the distance from

the tower to the Court be about three mile as the crow fly; and

almost as straight as the crow fly go Gerald, take hedge and

ditch and stone wall on his way, and allow no obstacle to turn he

from his course. once, as he be on the point of emerge from a

coppice of nut-tree, he come upon two keeper, arm with gun, who

be cross a meadow not many yard away, evidently on the lookout

for poacher. he shrink back on his footstep as silent as a shadow,

and wait for fully ten minute before he venture to proceed. again,

at a point where it be necessary for he to cross the high-road, he

have a narrow escape from come face to face with a mount constable

who be ride leisurely along on his solitary round. he have just time

to sink back into the hedge-bottom and lie there as motionless as a

log till the danger be past.



Mr. Tom Starkie have describe the position of his room to Gerald, so

that the latter have no difficulty in make his way to they. he be to

be guide by a light window the blind of which show a transverse

bar of a dark shade. as soon as he find this window, Gerald give

utterance to a low whistle. the light be at once withdraw, as a

token that his signal have be hear; and two minute later he find

himself safely in his friend's room.



so far all have go well; but only the preliminary step have be take

as yet. not a soul in Penrhyn Court but Tom himself must know or even

suspect the presence there of Gerald Brooke. but Tom have think of

all this when he first urge his friend to come to the Court, and have

in his mind's eye a certain safe hiding-place, know to he and his

father alone, where Gerald could lie by and await the course of

event. the hiding-place in question be know as "the Priest's Hole,"

and be an integral part of the old portion of the house. a slide

panel in the library, hold in its place by a conceal spring, give

admission to a narrow passage build in the thickness of one of the

outer wall, down from which access be obtain, by mean of a steep

flight of step, to two small chamber hollow out of the very

foundation of the house. these room be shut out from all daylight,

the wall be unplastere, and the floor of hard dry earth. in the

large of the two be a small fireplace, but without any grate in it,

the chimney of which open into one of the main stack of the Court.

in one corner be a tressel bedstead of black worm-eat oak, which

would seem to indicate that the place have not be without an

occasional occupant in day go by.



the first two hour after Gerald's arrival be spend by Tom in

victual and furnish this place of refuge. having encase his

foot in a pair of list slipper, his first visit be to the larder,

where he requisition bread, cheese, butter, tea, coffee, sardine,

and sundry other comestible, greatly to the perplexity of the worthy

cook when she come to look over her store next morning. his next raid

have for its object candle, match, and crockery. then come a

folding-chair and a spirit-lamp from his own room; and so on till he

possess himself of as many article as he require. Tom take immense

delight in these stealthy raid during the small-hour of the morning;

and more than once he be compel to come to a stand with his arm

full of thing and indulge in a silent laugh, which shake he from

head to foot, when he think of worthy Sir John asleep, and of what

his feeling would have be could he have see how his first-bear be

just then occupy.



the June sun be high above the horizon before Tom's preparation be

complete. it be time for Gerald to vanish like a ghost at cockcrow.

the two friend shake hand and part for a little while; but when

Gerald hear the click of the slide panel as it be push back into

its place, and when he have shut the door at the bottom of the stair

and have glance once again round the dismal dungeon that be to be his

home for he know not how long a time to come, he feel as if he be

bury alive and should never see daylight again. his heart sink

low, if that be possible, than it have sink before, and for a few

moment he feel as if his fortitude must give way. but this mood be

not of long duration; he buoy himself up with the thought that

another day be already here, and that in a few hour more his

innocence would doubtless be prove. presently he lie down on his

pallet, utterly wear out in body and mind, and five minute later be

fast asleep.



of Gerald Brooke's life during the next few week it be not needful to

speak in detail; indeed, each day that come be so much a repetition

of the one that have go before it, that there would be but little to

record. Tom rarely venture to visit his friend till after his father

and the rest of the household have retire for the night. it be a

joyful sound to Gerald when he hear the click of the panel and know

that for two or three hour to come he should be a free man. then

through the silent shut-up house the two man would steal like burglar

to Tom's room. once there, they feel safe; for the rest of the family

and the servant sleep in different wing of the ramble old house.

on night when there be no moon, or when it be overcast, the two

friend pace a certain pleach alley of the low garden for an hour

at a time; it be the only exercise Gerald be able to obtain. after

that they sit and smoke and talk in Tom's room till the clock

strike three, which be the signal for Gerald's return to his dungeon.

twice each week Mr. Starkie ride over to the tower, act the part

of postman between husband and wife, in addition to that of general

purveyor of news.



so day after day pass without bring the murderer of Von Rosenberg

to light or tend in anyway to weaken the force of the

circumstantial evidence accumulate against Gerald. it seem, indeed,

as if the police have make up their mind that Mr. Brooke, and he

alone, must be the guilty man, direct all their effort towards his

capture, and listen with incredulous ear to such person as

suggest that, after all, it be just possible he might not be the

individual they want.



"if he ben't guilty, why don't he show up? why have he go and hide

himself where nobody can find he?" be Mr. Drumley's invariable

rejoinder, when any such suggestion happen to be ventilate in his

presence. such question be difficult to answer.



many a time during those week of slow torture, as he sat brood in

his underground chamber by the dismal light of a couple of candle,

do Gerald wish with all his heart that he have not yield to his

wife's entreaty, but have stay, and brave the thing out to the

bitter end.



Clara, meanwhile, be do all that it be possible for a woman,

circumstance as she be, to do. when a week have pass and nothing

tend to prove her husband's innocence have be bring to light,

she do that which Mr. George Crofton propose do, that be to say,

she engage the service of an experienced private detective. the man

come, listen respectfully to all she have to say, and promise that

his good endeavour should be at her service; but after his visit, day

succeed day without bring any ray of comfort to the young wife's

ache heart. could it be possible, she sometimes ask herself, a

little later on, that this astute individual, while to all appearance

fall in with her view, really believe in her husband's guilt as

strongly as Mr. Drumley do, and while quite willing to humour she and

spend her money, be in his heart impress with the futility of

look elsewhere for the criminal it be a weary time, full of

heartache in the present, and with a future that begin to loom more

darkly as day follow day in slow and sad procession.



by-and-by there come a certain night when Tom Starkie meet his guest

with a very long and gloomy visage. his news be quickly tell. his

father have suddenly make up his mind to start at once for one of the

german spa, and insist upon Tom's accompany he. "and if I go,

my dear Brooke--and I'm afraid I cann't get out of it--what's to become

of you?"



"I must flit," answer Gerald with a shrug; "there's no help for it."

he almost hail the prospect as a relief, so unutterably weary be he

become of the terrible monotony of his present mode of life; but the

question of course be, Whither be he to go? at length, after the two

man have smoke some half-dozen pipe each, a happy thought come to

Gerald. he call to mind that he have another friend on whose secrecy

and good faith he could rely, and who, he feel sure, would befriend

he in his present strait, if it be in anyway possible for he to do

so. the name of the friend in question be Roger Chamfrey.



a few hour later, Tom Starkie set out for London in search of Mr.

Chamfrey, whom he fortunately find at his club. the latter have of

course read everything that have appear in the newspaper respect

Von Rosenberg's mysterious death, and Tom find he to be as firm a

believer in Gerald's innocence as he himself be.



"I've get the very thing to suit poor Brooke," he say. "the situation

of second-keeper be vacant on a certain moor which I rent in a wild

and lonely part of Yorkshire and Brooke will be as safe there as he

would be in the heart of Africa. I will give he a letter to Timley

the head-keeper, who be a very decent sort of fellow, so word that

Brooke shall receive every possible consideration while yet ostensibly

fill the part of assistant-keeper. what's more easy than to hint

that our friend be a young gentleman of position who have quarrel

with his family, but that in the course of a little time he will come

into a large property?" and Mr. Chamfrey laugh.



so the letter in question be write and give to Mr. Starkie,

together with many kind message for Gerald.



four day later, Gerald reach his new refuge in safety. what mean

he adopt to escape recognition by the way, and by what circuitous

route he travel, need not be specify here. it be indeed a wild

and desolate tract of country in which he find himself; but in that

fact lie his safety. Timley receive he kindly; and when he have read

and digest his employer's letter, he at once proceed to turn

himself and his wife out of the good bedroom in his cottage, and

allot the same to his new assistant, greatly to the surprise and

disgust of his well-half, until he have pacify she by a few

sentence whisper in her ear, after which she become all smile and

graciousness, and seem as if she could not do enough to make Mr.

Davis' comfortable. when they be alone, or when no one be within

earshot, Timley invariably address Gerald as "Sir."



the free open-air life he now lead do much towards improve Gerald's

health and spirit. once a week he write to his wife, and once a week

he receive a long letter in return. his letter to she be address

under an assumed name to be leave till call for at the post-office of

a little town some dozen mile from the tower. from this place they

be fetch by Margery, who make the journey by rail, and who at the

same time drop a return letter into the box address to "Mr.

Davis" the keeper.



so time go on till the 12th of August come round, about which date

Timley have notice that in the course of the following week his master

would arrive accompany by a number of friend. at the last minute,

however, Mr. Chamfrey be detain by important business, and his

friend arrive without he. all be now bustle and excitement, and

Gerald find quite enough to do. the first and second day' shooting

pass off admirably. the weather be perfect, bird be plentiful,

and everybody be in high good-humour. Gerald act his part to

perfection--at least Timley tell he so. all fear of recognition by

any of the visitor have pass away, and on the third morning after

their arrival he catch himself hum an air from _Lucia_ while

clean the barrel of his gun outside the cottage door. hear a

footstep on the garden path, he turn his head quickly, and find

himself confront by a man who have be in his own service only some

eight or nine month previously. the two stand stare at each other

for a few moment in silence. it be at once evident to Gerald that,

despite the change in his appearance, he be recognise. before either

have speak a word Timley come out of the cottage. then the man

deliver his message, which be from one of the visitor at the Lodge

in whose service he now be. then, after another stare at Gerald, who

still go on clean his gun, the man turn and go.



twelve hour later, Gerald Brooke--clean-shaven except for a small

moustache which be dye black, and with a black wig over his own

closely crop hair--be fly southward in the night express. Mr.

Starkie, who have return from the continent by this time, and to whom

he have telegraph under an assumed name, previously agree on, meet

he at the London terminus. the conference between the two friend be

a long one. it result in Gerald come to the decision that he would

take up his abode in London itself, at least for some time to come, as

be, all thing consider, as safe a hiding-place as any for a man

circumstance as he be. it be, besides, become requisite that some

decision should be arrive at with regard to matter at the Towers.

Clara be still there; but although she have cut down the household

expense to the low possible limit, her supply of ready-money be

dwindle away; and when that be go, where be more to come from?

with Gerald's disappearance his income have disappear too. it be an

impossibility for he to draw a cheque, or receive a shilling of rent

from any of his tenant, while matter with he remain as they be.

then, again, Clara's long separation from her husband, and the many

week of anxiety she have undergo, be wear away both her health

and her spirit. "only let let we be together again, darling--that be

all I crave," she write to her husband. "two little room in some back

street will seem like a palace if only you be with I."



thus it fall out that on a certain afternoon about a week after

Gerald's arrival in London, two lady, both of they closely veil,

who have be hunt for apartment all morning, and be utterly

dishearten and tired out by their want of success, stand for a few

moment gaze into a pastry-cook's window in Tottenham Court Road. as

she do so, the young lady raise her veil. next instant she be

startle by hear some one say in French: "o papa, papa, here be the

beautiful lady who give I the cake and fruit at that grand house in

the country!"



Clara drop her veil and turn. she recognise the little speaker

at once, although he no long wear his mountebank's dress. there,

too, be Picot himself, who have come to a stand a few yard away while

he light a cigarette.



tired and anxious though she be, Clara would not go without speak

to the boy. "so you have not forget I, Henri," she say, "nor the

cake either? would you not like some more cake to-day?"



for answer he lift one of her hand to his lip and kiss it.



when Mrs. Brooke and Henri come out of the shop they find Miss Primby

and M. Picot deep in conversation. the mountebank be dress quite

smartly to-day, and have a flower in his button-hole. as Miss Primby

say to her niece afterwards: "although the poor man may be nothing

but a tumbler, he be the essence of gallantry and politeness."



after a few word have pass between Clara and Picot, some

impulse--she could never afterwards have tell whence it

originate--prompt she to say to he: "my aunt and I be in London

to-day on rather a peculiar errand. we be here to find apartment

for--for some dear friend of our who a little time ago be rich,

but who be now very poor. we have be go about all morning, but

cannot succeed in find what we require. it be just possible,

monsieur, that you with your knowledge of London may be able to assist

we."



"I be entirely at madame's service," answer Picot as he raise his

hat for a moment. "be it furnish apartment that madame require?"



"yes--four or five furnish room at a moderate rent, and, if

possible, not more than a mile from where we be now."



Picot consider for a moment or two, then he say: "I remind myself

of a place that will, I think, suit madame. the landlord be a

compatriot of my own; he be honest man; he will not cheat his lodger.

if madame would like to see the apartments"----



"by all mean, if you recommend they, monsieur."



"then I will give madame the address." he tear a leaf out of his

pocket-book, pencil down a couple of line, and hand the paper to

Mrs. Brooke with an elaborate bow. at Clara's request he then hail a

pass cab; then both the lady, having kiss Henri and shake

hand with Picot, be drive away.



Henri, as he stand gaze after the cab, say to his father: "be the

angel as beautiful as that lady, papa?"



"that be more than I can say, _mon p'tit_," reply the mountebank

with a laugh. "when I have see an angel, I shall be able to tell

thee."









CHAPTER X.





in less than a week after her interview with Picot, Mrs. Brooke, her

husband, and Miss Primby be settle in their new home. the room

recommend by the Frenchman have prove more to Clara's liking than

any she have see elsewhere, and she at once engage they. the

furniture and fitting be to a great extent after the cheap

and tawdry style so much affect by the inferior class of French

lodge-house keeper; but as the whole place be pervade by an air

of cleanliness, such little _désagrément_ as exist in other

respect Clara be prepared to overlook.



no. 5 Pymm's Buildings be one of a row of half-a-dozen house similar

to itself in size and outward aspect, situate in a quiet court

abut on a main thoroughfare in the busy and populous district of

Soho. all the house in Pymm's Buildings accommodate a more or less

numerous tribe of lodger, the low floor be generally arrange

in suite of room for the convenience of family, while the top

floor be usually divide into separate sleep apartment. and it

be in this place and amid such sordid surrounding that the whilom

owner of Beechley Towers hope to find for a little time a secure

shelter from the hue and cry of the ten thousand hound of policedom,

each and all of whom be do their utmost to run he to earth. his

idea have be to bury himself in the heart of some densely populate

district where one man be but as a grain of sand among ten thousand

other, and in so far it may be surmise that he have be successful.



when Mrs. Brooke quit Beechley Towers secretly and by night to join

her husband in London, Margery, faithful Margery, be the only one who

be make aware of her departure. the girl plead so hard to be

allow to accompany she, that at last Clara be fain to make she a

promise that she would send for she as soon as she be settle in her

new home. thus it fall out that Margery be now here, and her mistress

find the value of her service in a score different way. for

instance, Margery do all the marketing, and do it for little more

than half what it have cost before her arrival. poor simple-minded

Clara, who believe everybody to be as honest as herself, have be

impose upon at every turn; but the shopman or peripatetic vendor who

succeed in "best" Margery, as she term it, must have be very

wide-awake indeed. the girl would haggle for half an hour over a

penny, and her power of vituperation always rise to the level of the

occasion.



what be Mrs. Brooke's surprise about the third day after her arrival

at Pymm's Buildings, as she be on her way downstairs, to encounter M.

Picot on his way up! then it come out that the mountebank rent a

room at the top of the house which he look upon as a permanent home,

and occupy as such when his avocation do not take he elsewhere.

have Mrs. Brooke be aware of this fact at the time, she might perhaps

have hesitate before decide to take the room. and yet, somehow,

she have an instinctive feeling of trust in the mountebank--the same

sort of trust, although in a less degree, that she have in Margery;

and after the first tremor of alarm which shoot through she when she

encounter he on the staircase, she never feel a moment's doubt that

her secret, or as much of it as he might know or suspect, be safe in

his keeping. it become, of course, necessary to explain to he that it

be she and her husband, and not any one else, whose fortune have

change so woefully. but Picot be one of the most incurious of

mortal outside the range of his own affair. he only remember Clara

as "la belle madame" who have kiss his boy and speak kindly to he

and have lade he with gift, and about whom Henri often speak when

his father and he be alone. he have never think of ask any one

what her name be; and even now, when he understand from Clara how

terribly the circumstance of herself and her husband be change, he

express neither curiosity nor surprise in the matter. he be

_vraiment désolé_--he be heart-break to think that such should be

the case; but that be all. he do indeed, a little later, ask the

landlord the name of his new lodger; and when he be tell that they

be know as Mr. and Mrs. Stewart, he repeat the name to himself

two or three time over, so as to impress it on his memory, and then

go contentedly on his way.



the furnished lodging rent by Mr. and Mrs. "Stewart" comprise

three room on the first floor and two on the second. as it chance,

the room on the ground-floor be at present untenanted. the

sit-room have two window and be a tolerably sized apartment in

it, about eight o'clock on a certain autumn evening, be seat Miss

Primby and Margery. the former, as usual, be engage on some kind of

delicate embroidery; while the latter be try her hand at a little

plain sewing, the result be that on an average she prick she

finger once every three or four minute. but, indeed, the girl be

somewhat nervous this evening, or what she herself would have term

"in a pucker." she have have the ill-fortune to break a cup while

wash up the tea-thing.



"o mum, do you think Mrs. Stewart will let I stay when I tell she?

she willn't turn I away, will she?"



"why, of course not, Margery. it be an accident; it cannot be

help."



"oh, thank you for say that, mum. sometimes my finger seem as if

they be all thumb, and I let everything drop. but I want no

wage, mum, and I ben't a big eater--leastway, I think not; and I'll

eat less than ever now, so as to help to pay for the cup. a crust o'

bread and drippin', a few cold tater, and the teapot after everybody

else have do with it--that'll do I."



"you must not talk like that, Margery; your mistress would not like

it."



"oh, but you don't know how sorry I be, mum. mariar--she on the

boat--always use to say as I be a great awk'ard lout of a girl; and

she be about right there."



the two go on with their work for a little while in silence, and

then Margery say: "you'll excuse I, mum, for say so, but I've

often wonder why such a nice lady as you never get marry."



the spinster could not help bridle a little. "marry! how absurd of

you, Margery," she exclaim. "from what I have see of married life,

I'm sure I be far well off as I be." then, as if by way of

afterthought: "not but what I have have several most eligible offer at

various time."



"Lor! mum, don't it make you feel all-overish-like when they go

flop on their knee and ask you to marry 'em?"



"gentleman don't often go on their knee nowadays. still, I have have

they do that to I more than once. I remember that when Mr. Tubbins,

the eminent brewer, do so, he be so very stout that he could not get

up again without assistance."



"my! I'd have stick a pin into he; that would have make he jump,"

cry the girl with her strange laugh.



at this juncture the door open and Mrs. Brooke come in. she be

plainly dress in black, and be closely veil. since Margery's

arrival she rarely venture out of door till dusk, and then only when

she want to do a little shopping such as the girl could not do for

she. any one who have not see she since that April evening when M.

Karovsky's ill-omen shadow first darken the terrace at Beechley

Towers, might have be excuse for fail to recognise she again. it

be not merely that she look old by more year than the month

which have elapse since that day--anguish, anxiety, and the dread

which never cease to haunt she of what the next hour might bring

forth, have mark their cruel line on her feature in a way that

Time's gentle if inexorable graver never do when leave to labour

alone. the clear dancing light have die out of her eye long ago; they

look large and shine with a deep and more intense lustre than in

the day go by; but a sudden knock at the door, an unusual footfall

on the stair, or the voice of strange man talk in the court

below, would fill they on a sudden with a sort of startled terror,

just as the eye of a deer may fill when first it hear the baying of

the far-away hound.



she take off her bonnet with an air of weariness and sit down. "have

not Gerald return yet?" she say to her aunt "what can have become

of he?"



"the evening be so fine that he have probably go for a long walk

than ordinary."



"it make I wretched when he stay out long than usual. and yet,

poor fellow! what a life be his. to be shut up in one miserable room

from morning till night; never to venture out till after dark, and

then only with the haunt dread, that he may be recognise and

arrest at any moment! how will it all end?" she sigh and go into

the other room. presently she return, and a few moment later a

knock at the door make every one start. Margery hasten to open it.

outside stand Picot carry a bunch of flower. "Bon soir, madame,"

he say, address himself to Clara with a low bow, and then

favour Miss Primby with another.



"Bon soir, Monsieur Picot. Entrez, s'il vous plait."



"merci, madame," lie answer as he advance into the room. "I have

here a petit bouquet--a few flower--which Henri have send for madame,

if she will have the bonté to accept they."



"I shall be charm to do so," answer Clara as she take the flower.

"how fresh and sweet they smell! I be much oblige to Henri, and to

you also, monsieur."--The mountebank make another low sweep

bow.--"I hope that Henri be quite well?"



"Parfaitement bien, madame."



"the first time he have a holiday, he must come and take tea with I; I

will not forget to have a nice cake for the occasion."



"he will be enchanté, madame.--Ah! if madame could see he on the

trapeze--could but see he jumpez from one bar to another--it be

splendid, magnifique!"



"I think I would rather not see Henri go through any of his

performance, monsieur."



"Mais, madame!" with an expressive shrug; "there be no danger,

nothing to be afraid of. oh, the grand artiste that Henri will be one

day! he be twice so clevare as I be at his age. he will be what you

call in England great man--big fellow."



"I be very glad to hear it. meanwhile, you will not forget that he be

to come some afternoon and take tea with I."



"ah, madame, he talk about you every day.--But I go now. I hope that

monsieur your husband find himself quite well?"



"quite well, thank you, monsieur."



with that the mountebank make his adieus and bow himself out.



it here become needful to explain that just then Henri be engage at

a certain hippodrome as one of a troupe of juvenile acrobat who,

under the pseudonym of "les frère Donati," and under the tuition of a

celebrated "Professor," be perform a number of well-nigh

incredible feat before crowded and enthusiastic house.



"ben't he polite!" say Margery as Picot close the door. "but what a

pity the poor man talk such a lot of gibberish."



"what can have become of Gerald?" say Clara for the second time, as

she go to the window and draw aside the curtain peer into the

darkness. "I never know he to be so late before. I cannot help

feel dreadfully uneasy." then turn to Margery, she say: "here

be a list of thing I want you to fetch from the grocer's in Medwin

Street. do you think you can find your way in the dark?"



"why, of course, mum. I never get lose, I don't." half a minute later

she run downstairs, whistle as she go.



the minute drag themselves slowly away, and Clara be work

herself into a fever of apprehension, when a well-know footfall on

the stair cause a cry of gladness to burst from her lip. "at last!"

she exclaim as she start to her foot and hurry to the door. "how

glad I be that you be safely back," she add, as her husband enter

the room. "you be away so long that I grow quite frightened."



"the evening be so pleasant, that I extend my walk far than I

intend. I must be a cage bird now for the next four-and-twenty

hour. Heigh-ho!"



"will you not have something to eat?"



"thank; nothing at present," he answer as he proceed to lay aside

his slouched hat, his overcoat, and the muffler which have shroud the

low part of his face. then he take up a book and sit down in an

easy-chair near the fire.



his wife's eye brim with tear as they rest on he. "my poor

boy!" she say softly to herself. "this life be kill he. when, oh,

when will it end!" she sit down to her needlework.



Miss Primby be the first to break the silence. "do you know, my

dear," she say to her niece, "that Monsieur Picot put I greatly in

mind of the Count de Bonnechose, a french nobleman who once make I an

offer of marriage. he use to speak just the same delightful break

English--and then he have such great black eye, which seem to pierce

right through you, and the lovely wax moustache; so that when he

clasp his hand and turn up his eye till nothing but the white

of they be visible, and murmur 'Mon ange,' and call I his

'beautiful Engleesh mee,' can you wonder that my heart use to thrill

responsively?"



Clara could not repress a smile. "I be by no mean sure that I should

have care to call that count my uncle."



"it be a mercy that I send he about his business. he turn out to

be no nobleman at all, but only a hairdresser's assistant whose father

have leave he a little money. but certainly he have remarkably fine

eye."



again there be a brief space of silence. this time it be break by a

knock which sound all the more startling because no one have hear

the faint sound of footstep on the stair. all three start to

their foot and look at each other. then, at a sign from Clara, Miss

Primby cross to the door and open it.



frame by the doorway and shine upon by the lamplight from within,

they behold the black-clothe figure, the statuesque, colourless face

and the inscrutable eye of M. Karovsky.



"Karovsky--you!" cry Gerald as he spring forward.



"yes, I--why not?" say the Russian with a smile, as he raise his hat

and come forward.--"Ladies, your servant." then to Gerald: "you stare

at I, mon ami, as if I have just come back from Hades. but this be

scarcely the hand of a _revenant_, if I may be allow an opinion in

the matter."



"it seem incredible that you should have find I out in this place,"

answer Gerald as the two shake hand.



"incredible? Peuh! I have need to see you; and I be here."



"will you not be seat?"



as Karovsky draw up a chair, Clara make a sign to her aunt, and the

two lady pass out through the folding-door into the room beyond.



"Pardon," say the Russian as he glance around, "but this place seem

scarcely a fit home either for madame or yourself."



"you know that I be in hiding; you doubtless also know that a large

reward be offer for my capture?"--The other nodded.--"While such be

the case, it be impossible for I to touch a penny of my income. my

wife's aunt have lose her property by a bank failure. we be very poor,

Karovsky; but there be bad ill in life than poverty."



"part of my errand to-night be to tell you that I have instruction to

place certain fund at your disposal. you can leave this place

tomorrow, if it please you so to do."



"thank, Karovsky; but I cannot accept a penny of the money you offer

I."



"how! not accept! but this be folly."



"it may seem so to you; but that do not alter the matter."



"it be unaccountable," say the Russian with a lifting of his black

eyebrow. "but why remain in these wretched apartment? why not go

abroad--on the continent--to America--anywhere? the world be wide, and

there be place where you would be far safe than here."



"I doubt it one reason why I be here be because I believe this

spot--in the heart of one of the most populous quarter of London--to

be as safe a hiding-place as any I could find. my other reason be that

be I to go abroad, I feel as if I should be throw away my last

faint hope of ever be able to prove my innocence to the world."



Karovsky stare at he in wide-eyed amazement. "how! Your"----



"my innocence of the murder of Baron von Rosenberg."



"Pardon; I fail to comprehend."



"when we part last, I tell you clearly and emphatically that, let

the consequence to myself be whatever they might, mine should not be

the hand to strike the fatal blow; but when you leave I, you evidently

do so in the belief that in a little while I should change my mind,

and that of the two alternative you have place before I, I should

choose the one which you yourself would in all probability have choose

have you be in my place. time go on, and, within the period you have

prescribe, Von Rosenberg be find dead, shoot through the heart. such

be the case, it be perhaps a not unnatural conclusion for you to

arrive at that it be I, Gerald Brooke, who be the assassin.--But I

ask you, Karovsky, to believe in the truth of what I be now go to

tell you. I have no more to do with the death of Von Rosenberg than you

yourself have."



"Est-il possible!" exclaim the Russian in a voice scarcely raise

above a whisper. for a few moment he sit stare silently at Gerald;

then he go on: "not often be I astonish at anything I hear; but

you, Gerald Brooke, have astonish I to-night the evidence against

you seem so conclusive, that I never doubt Von Rosenberg fall by

your hand. yet more than once I say to myself:'What an imbecile

Brook must have be to leave behind he such a condemnatory piece of

evidence as the weapon with which he do the deed!'--But who, then,

be the individual who so kindly spare you a necessity so painful?"



"that I know no more than you do."



"C'est un vrai mystère."



"from day to day I live in hope that the real criminal will be

discover and bring to justice; but with each day that pass that

hope grow fainter within I."



"I know not what to say.--When I remember the past, and when I look

round and think that this be now the home of you and madame"----He

spread out his hand with a gesture more expressive than word.



before more could be say, there come a peculiar knock at the

door--three tap in quick succession, follow by a fourth after a

long interval. at the sound, Clara and Miss Primby emerge from the

other room.



"that summon be intend for I," say Karovsky quickly as he rise

and open the door.



then those inside see that a man, a stranger, be stand on the

landing, who seem to retire far into the shade the moment the

light fall on he. he say something rapidly in a low voice to

Karovsky, to which the latter reply in the same language. then the

Russian give a nod as of dismissal, and close the door, turn and

confront Gerald with a grave face and distend eye. "that man be

one of _us_," he say. "when I enter the house, I leave he on watch

outside. he now come to tell I that a policeman in plain clothe be

on guard outside the court, and that another be station inside, so

that no one can pass in or out without be observe. he also tell

I that there be two more constable in uniform patrol the street

close by; and that from what he can gather, they be wait the

arrival of some one, probably a superior officer. be it possible,

Brooke, that you can be the quarry on which they intend presently to

swoop?"



"there can be little doubt of it," answer Gerald, who have rise to

his foot while Karovsky be speak. he have turn very pale; but his

lip be firm-set, and the expression which shine out of his eye

be something far remove from craven fear.



Clara stand with one hand rest on the table, her frame tremble

slightly. be the blow she have dread so long about to fall at last?



Miss Primby sit down with a gasp.



"well, let they come," go on Gerald after a moment's pause. "it will

be well so. I be tired of this life of hide-and-seek. why not end it

here and now?"



"no, no!" cry his wife. "even at this, the eleventh hour, there must

surely be some way of escape."



"even if I be eager to escape, which I be not, I know of none."



"Madame be right," say the Russian in his impressive tone. "there be

still one way of escape."



"and that is?"----said Gerald interrogatively.



but before Karovsky could reply, Margery, breathless and dishevel,

burst into the room. "o Muster Geril!--O mum," she exclaim, "the

poli be in the court--four or five of 'em, and I believe they're

come here. but I shut and bolt the door at the bottom of the

stair; and it'll take 'em some time to break that down," add the

girl with a chuckle.



Picot, who be on his way downstairs as Margery rush up, have

overheard her word, and he could now be see dimly outline on the

landing, his eye pierce the obscurity like two point of flame; but

for the moment no one observe he.









CHAPTER XI.





no one speak for a moment or two after Margery have blurt out her

news. then for the second time Karovsky say: "there be still one way

of escape open to you."



and that is?"----said Gerald again.



"for I to personate you."



"o monsieur!" cry Clara, a flash of hope leap suddenly into her

eye.



"Karovsky, be you mad?"



"Pardon; I think not; but one can never be quite sure. listen! these

man who be come to arrest you be stranger to you, or rather, you

be a stranger to they; they have never set eye on you before. I will

answer to your name; I will go with they; and before they have time to

discover their mistake, you will be far away."



"and the consequence to yourself?"



"a few hour' detention--nothing more. your english police know I

not." then he add with a shrug: "at St. Petersburg or Berlin, ma

foi, it might be somewhat different."



"Karovsky, your offer be a noble one, and the risk to yourself might be

great than you seem to think. in any case, I cannot accept it."



"Gerald, for my sake!" implore his wife.



"as I say before, I be tired of this life of perpetual hide-and-seek.

let it end; I be ready to face the bad."



"no, no! would you court a felon's doom, you whose innocence will one

day be prove to the world?"



"Vous avez raison, madame," say the Russian. then place his hand

on Gerald's shoulder, he say: "go, Brooke, my friend; hide yourself

elsewhere for a little time, and leave I to face these bloodhound."



Picot, who have be listen and watch in the background, now come

boldly forward. it be enough for the kind-hearted mountebank to know

that his friend be in trouble. "I have une petite chambre en haut,"

he say to Gerald. "come with I, monsieur, and I will hide you."



"yes, yes; go, dearest, with Monsieur Picot," urge his wife, her

beautiful eye charge with anguished entreaty.



"for your sake, let it be as you wish," answer Gerald sadly.



at this juncture there come a loud knock at some door below stair.



"Venez, monsieur--vite, vite!" say Picot.



Gerald hastily kiss his wife, grip the Russian's hand for a

moment, and then follow the mountebank.



"it will not be wise to keep our friend wait," say Karovsky. then

turn to Miss Primby: "Madame, will you oblige I by take charge

of these trifle for a little while?" with that he hand she a

card-case, a pocket-book stuff with paper, and a bunch of key.



"they will be mighty clever if they get they out of here," mutter

Miss Primby as the article disappear in the capacious depth of

some hidden pocket.



the knocking be repeat in loud and more imperative term than

before.



"let the door be open," say Karovsky to Margery; then he address

a few word hurriedly in a low tone to Mrs. Brooke.



the door at the foot of the stair, which Margery in her alarm have

take the precaution to fasten, have apparently be originally put

there with the view of more effectually separate the upper part of

the house from the low, probably at a time when the domicile be

divide between two family. this door Margery now unbolt without a

word; and without a word, after flash a bull's-eye in her face, a

sergeant of police and two man push past she and tramp heavily

upstairs.



"Mr. Gerald Brooke, commonly know by the name of Stewart?" say the

sergeant interrogatively as he advance into the room, while his two

man take up position close to the door.



the Russian turn--he have be in the act of light a cigarette at

the fireplace. "who be you, sir, and by what right do you intrude

into this apartment?" he demand haughtily.



the sergeant go a step or two near and lay a hand on his

shoulder, say: "Gerald Brook; you be charge on a warrant with the

wilful murder of the Baron Otto von Rosenberg on the 28th of June last

at Beaulieu, near King's Harold, and you will have to consider

yourself as my prisoner."



the Russian drop his cigarette. "there be some strange mistake," he

say. "I never either see or speak to the Baron von Rosenberg on the

28th of last June."



"all right, sir; you can explain about that somewhere else; but I

should advise you to say as little as possible just now."



one of the man have advance into the room, and now draw the officer's

attention. "I say, sergeant," he whisper, "the gent don't seem to

answer much to the print description, do he?"



"Idiot!" whisper back the other; "as if a man couldn't dye his hair

and make his beard and moustache grow any shape he like! besides, we

know beforehand that he be disguise, and this be the room where we

be tell we should find he."



when the sergeant turn again, Clara be stand before Karovsky

with a hand rest on each of his shoulder.



"you see," whisper the sergeant to his subordinate. "we be tell

his wife be live here with he, as well as an elderly lady--the

aunt. he's the gent we want, and no mistake."



"I shall only be away for a little while, cara mia," say Karovsky, as

he draw Clara to he. for a moment her head rest against his

shoulder, then his lip lightly touch her forehead.



she turn from he, and sink on a couch, bury her face in her

hand.



Karovsky draw himself up to his full height "now, sir, I be at your

service," he say to the sergeant.



a moment later, and the three woman be leave alone.



"they be clever un, they be!" say Margery with a chuckle as the

sound of the retreat footstep die away.



"how noble, how magnanimous of Monsieur Karovsky!" exclaim Miss

Primby. "I shall never think ill of the Russians again."



"now be the opportunity for Gerald to get away," say Clara. "the

police may discover their mistake at any moment." her hand be on the

door, when suddenly there be a sound which cause all three to start

and stare at each other with eye full of terror. it be the sound of

unfamiliar footstep ascend the stair. Mrs. Brooke shrink back as

the door open and George Crofton enter the room. "you!" she

gasp.



"even so," he answer as he glance round the room. "it be long since

we meet last."



"not since the day you crush my husband's portrait under your heel."



"as I have now crush your husband himself."



"what do you mean?"



"Clara Brook; the hour of my revenge have strike. you slight I once,

but now my turn have come. it be through my effort that your husband

be track to this place. it be I who give information to the

police. never could there be a sweet revenge than mine."



"can such wickedness exist unsmitten by Heaven!"



after that first glance round, he have never take his eye from

Clara's blanched face. he speak with a venomous intensity which lend

to every word an add sting.



"don't I just wish I be a man, instead of a great hulking

good-for-nothing girl!" mutter Margery, half to Miss Primby and half

to herself, as she defiantly roll up the sleeve of her cotton gown.



for a little space, the two stand gaze at each other in silence.



Clam's heart beat painfully, but her eye blaze into his full of

scorn and defiance. then she say: "George Crofton, believe I or not,

but my husband be as innocent of the crime lay to his charge as I be.

it be not he who be a murderer, but you who be one after this night's

work--in heart if not in deed."



a sneer laugh break from his lip. "I be quite prepared to hear

that rigmarole," he say. "it be only to be expect that you should

swear to his innocence. it be possible you may believe in it--wife

will believe anything."



but Clara's ear, of late ever on the alert, have hear a certain

sound. with a low cry she spring to the door; but before she could

reach it, it be open from without, and Gerald, accompany by

Picot, appear on the threshold.



Crofton fall back as if he have see a face from the tomb. "by what

fiend's trick have I be fool?" he cry.



"there stand the villain who betray you," exclaim the young wife,

point to Crofton with outstretched finger.



"he! my cousin! impossible."



"it may not be too late yet," exclaim Crofton as he spring to one of

the window and tear aside the curtain. but next instant, with a bound

like that of a tiger, Picot have fling himself on he and have grip

his neck as in a vice with both his sinewy hand. the other be no

match in point of strength for the mountebank; and before he know what

have happen he find himself on his back on the floor, half-choke,

with Picot kneel on his chest and regard he with a sardonic

grin.



Clara, with a natural impulse, have clung to her husband's arm. Miss

Primby and Margery be too startled to utter a word.



Picot's hand go to some inner pocket and draw from it a small

revolver; then rise to his foot, he say to Crofton: "Oblige I by

stand up, monsieur, and by take a seat in that chair, or in one

leetle minute you be a dead man."



Crofton, with a snarl like that of some half-cow wild animal, do as

he be bid.



Gerald step quickly forward and lay a hand on Picot's arm. "what

would you do?" he ask.



"shoot he like the dog he be, if he move but one finger. if he move

not--tie he up--gag he--and leave he here till you, monsieur, have

time to get away."



then address himself to Margery, but without take his eye for an

instant off Crofton, he say: "my good Margot, in my room upstairs you

will find one piece of rope. bring he here. Dépêchez-vous--quick."



Margery need no second bidding.



then the mountebank say to Gerald: "you must not stop here any

long, monsieur; the police may come back at any moment."



"yes--come, come," urge Clara. "another minute, and it may be too

late."



"George, I do not deserve this at your hand," say Gerald with grave

sadness to his cousin. the only answer be a scowl and an execration

mutter between his tooth.



Gerald, his wife, and Miss Primby retire into the farth room and

close the folding-door. Margery be back by this time, carry a

small coil of rope.



"good child.--Now hold this--so," say Picot, as he place the

revolver in Margery's hand and station she about a couple of yard

from Crofton. "if you see that man stir from his chair, press your

finger against this leetle thing, and--pouf--he will never stir again.

hold he steady--so. you have no fear--hein?"



"why, o' course not," laugh Margery. "it would do I good to shoot

the like o' he."



with a dexterity that seem as if it might have be derive from

long practice, Picot now proceed to bind Crofton securely in his

chair.



"you scoundrel! you shall suffer for this," mutter the latter between

his tooth.



"A la bonne heure, monsieur," respond the mountebank airily. then

perceive a corner of a handkerchief protrude from his pocket, he

draw it forth, and tear a narrow strip off it, he proceed to

firmly bind the other's wrist; then make a bandage of the

remainder, he cover his mouth with it and tie it in a double knot

at the back of his neck. "ah, ha! that do the trick," he laugh. "how

find you yourself? very comfortable--hein?"



Margery, who have watch the operation with great glee give back the

revolver and retire to the inner room. Picot sit down a little way

from his prisoner, but for the present take no further notice of he.

he have hear a footstep on the stair a minute or two previously, and

rightly judge that Gerald be already go.



from the first day of take up their abode at No. 5 Pymm's Buildings,

Clara and her husband have prepare themselves for an emergency like

the present one. they be always ready for immediate flight, and have

arrange the mean for communication in case of an enforced

separation.



at the end of a few minute Margery return, carry a fold paper,

which she give to Picot, at the same time whisper a few hurried

word in his ear. the mountebank nod and smile and kiss the tip

of his finger. then the girl go back, and the two man be leave

alone. but presently both of they hear the footstep of more person

than one descend the stair. Picot listen intently till the sound

have die away, and then proceed to light a cigarette. of Crofton,

sit there, bind and gag, he take not the slight apparent

notice.



a quarter of an hour pass thus, and with the exception of a footfall

now and then in the court below no sound break the silence. at the end

of that time, Picot's cigarette be finish, he rise, push back

his chair, clap his hat on his head, and after a last examination

of his prisoner's bond, he march out of the room without a word,

and so downstairs and out of the house, first shut behind he the

door which divide the upper room from the ground floor.



leave alone, George Crofton begin at once to struggle desperately to

free himself, but all to no purpose. after a little time, however, he

discover that the chair in which he be bind move on caster, and

this discovery put an idea into his head such as would not have

enter it under other circumstance. the room be light by a lamp

on a low table, and to this table he manage by degree to slide his

chair along the floor. then set his tooth hard, and stretch his

arm to the full extent his bond would allow of his doing, he hold

his wrist over the flame of the lamp, and keep they there

unflinchingly till the outermost coil of the ligature which bind they

be burn through. when once his hand be at liberty, very few

minute suffice to make he a free man.



"my revenge be yet to come, Gerald Brooke," he say aloud as he pause

at the door and take a last glance round. "it be but delay for a

little while, and every day's delay will serve but to make it sweet

at the last."









CHAPTER XII.





we be back once more at Linden Villa. it be a March evening, and the

clock have just strike nine. George Crofton be smoke a cigar, and

gaze fixedly into the fire, see picture in the glowing ember

which be anything but pleasant one, if one may judge by the lower

expression of his face. he look haggard and careworn, and be no

long so fastidious with regard to his personal appearance as he use

to be. Dissipation have set its unmistakable seal upon he; he have the

air of a man who be go slowly but surely downhill.



his wife be amuse herself somewhat listlessly at the piano. there be

a slightly worn look about her eye, and the line of her lip look

thin and more hard set than it be willnot to do. married life have not

bring Stephanie the happiness, or even the content, she have look

forward to. the awakening have come soon, and have not be a pleasant

one. not long have it take she to discover that she have mate herself

with an inveterate gambler, if not with something bad. so long as

plump young pigeon be to be have for the pluck, matter have go

on swimmingly at Linden Villa. there have be no lack of money, and

Stephanie have never care to inquire too curiously how it have be

come by. but after a time Crofton's wonderful luck at card begin to

be comment upon; people begin to be shy of play at the same table

with he; pigeon be warn to avoid he; and when, one unfortunate

evening, he be detect cheat at the club, and unmask by a

member cleverer in that particular line than himself, his career in

that sphere of life come to an end for ever. but his ambition have not

be satisfied with the comparatively small gain of the card-table;

he have bet heavily on the St. Leger and other race, and have be

unfortunate in all. so far he have be able to meet his racing

liability, but the doing so have exhaust the whole of his available

resource, and matter at Linden Villa have now come to a pass that

might almost be term desperate.



Stephanie bring her roulade to an end with a grand crash; then

turn half round she say in her clear metallic tone: "have you

anything to talk about, mon ange? have you nothing to say to I?" her

husband's back be towards she as he sat brood sullenly in front of

the fire. "it be not often that you stay at home of an evening, and

when you do--chut! I might as well be alone."



he shrug his shoulder. what would you have I talk about? our

debt--our difficulty--our"----



"why not?" she break in quickly. "if you talk about they a little

oftener, it might be all the well. you seem neither to know nor care

anything about they. you be out from morning till night. it be I who

have to promise, to cajole, to lie, first to one person and then to

another who come here demand money when I have none to give they.

oh, it be a charming life--mine! N'importe. it will end itself in a

little while."



"what do you mean? what new trick be you hatch now?" he demand.



"it be nothing new--it have be in my head for a long time. shall I

tell you what it be? why not?" the finger of one hand be still

rest on the piano. she strike a note or two carelessly, and then

go on speak as quietly as though she be mention some

trifle detail of everyday life. "one evening, cheri, when you come

home you will not find I; I shall be go. this life suit I no

long. I will change it all. I will go back to the life I use to

love so well. I have have a letter. signor Ventelli be at Brussels; he

pray to I to return to he. I shall go. you and I my friend, can no

long live together. it will be well for both that we should part."

again her finger strike a note or two carelessly.



Crofton be rouse at last. he start to his foot with an imprecation

and face his wife. "what confound stuff and nonsense you be

talk, Steph," he exclaim. "as if I believe a word of it!"



"do I ever say that I will do a thing when I do not intend do it?"

she quietly asked.--In his own mind he be oblige to confess that she

do not.--"We have make a mistake, you and I, and have find it out in

time," she resume. "we can be friend, always friend--why not! but

you will go your way, and I mine; that be all."



the cold indifference of her tone and manner sting he to the quick.

evidently she be minded to cast he off as carelessly as she would an

old glove. the sullen fire in his heart blaze up in a moment. he

love this woman after a fashion of his own, and be in nowise

inclined to let she go. "what you say be utter nonsense. I would have

you remember that you be my wife, and that I can claim you as such

anywhere and everywhere."



"and do you imagine that if I be twenty time a wife I should allow

you or any other man to claim I as such against my will!" demand

Steph with a contemptuous laugh. "Tza! tza! my friend, you talk like a

child."



they be stand face to face, and for a few moment they stare at

each other without speak; but the clear resolute light that shine

out of Steph's eye cow, for a time at least, the fitful, dangerous

gleam flickering redly in her husband's bloodshot orb, as though it

be a reflection from some Tophet below.



George Crofton turn away, and cross to the sideboard, pour

himself out a quantity of brandy. "you would be a fool, Steph, to

leave I as you talk of do, be it only for one thing," he say

dryly. he seem to have quite recover his equanimity, and be

choose a cigar as he speak.



"if it please I to be a fool, why not?"



"have it never occur to you that any morning the newspaper may tell

we that my cousin, Gerald Brooke, have be capture? every day, that

be the first news I look for."



"ah, bah! you mock yourself. your cousin will never be arrest now;

he have get safe away to some foreign country long ago."



"you have no ground for say that. any hour may bring the tiding of

his capture, and then---- but you know already what the result of his

conviction would be to you and I. Beechley Towers and six thousand a

year--nothing less."



"you deceive yourself," resume Steph. "you be wait for what will

never happen. nine month have pass since the murder, and the crime

be half forget. you let Gerald Brooke slip through your finger

once; but you will never have the chance of do so again.--Let we

come back to reality, to the thing we can touch. dream never have

any charm for I."



he go back to the fireplace with his cigar, and take up a position

on the hearthrug. "as you say--let we stick to reality; it may

perhaps be the wise," he go on. "what, then, would you think, what

would you say, if I be to tell you as a fact that in less than six

week from to-day I shall be in possession of ten thousand pound?"



"I should both think and say that it be not a fact, but a dream,

a--what do you call it?--a Will-o'-the-wisp."



"and yet it be not a dream, but a sober solid fact, as a very short

time will prove."



she raise her eyebrow; evidently, she be incredulous. "Yon make

sure that you would win two thousand pound at Doncaster, whereas you

contrive to lose five hundred. you be just as certain that you

would win"----



"what I be refer to now have nothing to do with horseracing," he

break in impatiently.--"Listen!" he add; and with that he plant

himself astride a chair and confront she, rest his arm on the

back of it and puff occasionally at his cigar as he talk. "I be

about to tell you something which it be my intention not to have

speak about till later on; but it matter little whether you be tell

now or a month hence." he move his chair nearer to she, and when he

next speak it be in a low voice: "the young Earl of Leamington, who

be enormously rich, be to be marry on the 27th of next month. on the

14th of April one of the partner in a certain well-know firm of

London jeweller, accompany by an assistant, will start for the

Earl's seat in the north carry with he jewelry of the value of

over twenty thousand pound, for the purpose of enable his lordship

to select certain present for his bride. that box of jewelry will

never reach its destination."



Stephanie be stare at he with wide-open eye. "you would

not"----she exclaim, and then she pause.



"yes, I would, and will," he answer with a sinister smile. "I and

certain friend of mine have plan to make that box our own. the

whole scheme be cut and dry; all the arrangement in connection with

the journey be know to we; and so carefully have our plan be

work out, that it be next to impossible that we should fail."



"and you, George Crofton, my husband, have sink to this--that you

would become a common robber, a thief, a voleur!"



his face darken ominously, and the gash in his lip look as large

again as it usually do. "what would you have?" he ask with a snarl.

"my cursed ill-luck have drive I to it. I cannot starve, neither will

I."



for a little while neither speak.



"I don't think you would take my news like this, Steph," he say

presently. "think of the prize! how be it possible for a man fix as

I be to resist try to make it his own? one half come to I because

the plan be mine, but of course I cann't work without confederate. my

share will be worth ten thousand at the very least; and then, hey

presto for the New World and a fresh start in life with a clean

slate!--What say you, Steph?"



"at present, I say nothing more than I have say already," she

answer coldly. "I must have time to think."









CHAPTER XIII.





cummerhay, in one of the most northerly of the northern county of

England, although it consider itself to be a place of no small

importance, have not the good fortune to be situate on any of the

great main line of railway; consequently, to most people it have the

air of be somewhat out of the world. of late year, however, a

branch line have find it out, and have thereby enable it to emerge

from the state of semi-torpor in which it seemed destine to languish

for ever. the branch line in question, of which Cummerhays be the

terminus, be about twenty mile in length, and leave the main line at

Greenholm Station. about halfway between the two place, but about a

couple of mile distant from the line itself, be certain important

colliery, to meet the requirement of which a secondary branch have

be construct, which turn abruptly from the main branch at a point

dignified with the euphonious title of Cinder Pit Junction. here a

signalman's box have be fix, a wooden erection, stand about six

foot above the ground, with an arrangement of lever inside it, for

work the point and signal in connection with the traffic to and

from the colliery. at the time of which we write two man be

station at the box in question, who come on duty turn and turn

about, in each case a week of day-duty alternating with one of

night-duty. the cottage of one of the signalman be about half a mile

from the box, on the road lead to the colliery; while that of his

"mate" be about a quarter of a mile down the road in an opposite

direction.



into this second cottage, which stand by itself in a lane a little

remove from the high-road, and have no habitation near it, we will

venture, Asmodeus-like, to take a peep on a certain April evening. it

be already dusk in the valley, although a soft rosy light still make

beautiful the top of the distant fell.



in half an hour James Maynard, the signalman, would be due at his box

to take his "spell" of night-duty. his thick blue overcoat be hang

behind the door ready to put on, his wife be wash up the crockery,

and Maynard himself be smoke a last after-tea pipe before leave

home. he be a well-build stalwart man, with a jet-black beard and

moustache, and close-cut hair of the same colour, to which his

dark-blue eye offer a somewhat striking contrast. he have be about

three month in his present situation, and among the driver and

guard who work the traffic between the junction and the colliery

he have come to be know by the sobriquet of "Gentleman Jim." it be

not that he ever set himself up as be in anyway superior to or

different from his mate; indeed, he be universally popular; but

these grimy-face man, who in their way be often keen observer of

character, have an instinctive feeling that, although necessity might

have make he one of they to outward seem, he be not so in

reality, and that at some anterior time his position in life must have

be widely different from that which he now occupy. but genial and

good-natured though "Gentleman Jim" might be, he be a man who brook

no questioning, and no one thereabout know more about he than he

choose to divulge of his own accord.



Maynard and his wife have be chat pleasantly together. suddenly

the latter lay a hand on her husband's arm to bespeak his attention.



"what be it?" he ask. "I hear nothing."



"there be a noise of wheel a moment ago, and now it have cease. it

sound as if some vehicle have stop suddenly at the end of the

lane. do you remain in the background, dear, while I go and ascertain

whether any one be there."



she open the door and go out quickly. there be still light enough

in the valley to see object a considerable distance away. one side of

the lane in which the cottage be build be bound by a high bank. up

this Mrs. Maynard now clamber, assist by the branch of a tree; she

know that from the top of it she could see not only the lane, but a

considerable stretch of high-road on either hand. after gaze for a

moment or two, she leap lightly down and run back to the cottage. "a

carriage with two horse be stand at the corner of the lane," she

say to her husband. "a lady have get out of it, and be come towards

the cottage, and--oh, my dear--I'm nearly sure it's Lady Fanny Dwyer."



"Lady Fan! well, I shall be very glad to see she. no doubt she be

visit at Seaton Park; and as she know we be live in the

neighbourhood, she must have make inquiry and discover our

whereabouts."



"I hope she have not make her inquiry in such a way as to arouse any

suspicion that we be at all different from what we seem to be?"



"I think you may trust Lady Fan for that. she generally know pretty

well what she be about.--But have you not well go and meet she?"



Clara hurry to the door; but as she open it, Lady Fan appear on

the threshold. she look a little white and scared, adventure with a

spice of risk or romance in they not be in her usual line. make a

step forward and grasp Clara's hand, she say in a whisper: "be it

safe to speak aloud? be there any one but yourself to hear I?"



reassure on this point, Lady Fan throw herself into her friend's arm

and burst into tear, hold out a hand to Gerald as she do so. "I

cann't talk to either of you till I have have my cry," she say between

her sob. "what a wicked, wicked world this be!"



she grow calm in a little while, and sit down close to Clara,

hold a hand of the latter while she talk.



here it may be remark that it be through the influence of Lady

Fan's husband that Gerald Brooke have obtain his present situation as

signalman at Cinder Pit Junction. the mode of life be of his own

choosing. he want something to do that would take he out of himself

as much as possible, and while not entirely isolate he from his

fellow-man, would not bring he into contact with too great a number

of they. in this out-of-the-way valley among the fell and moor, if

anywhere, shelter and safety might surely be find.



"o my dear, my dear," cry Lady Fan as she dry her eye and look

round she, "and have it really come to this, that this dreadful poky

little hole of a place be your home--the only home that you have!"



"it be not a dreadful little hole by any mean, dear Lady Fanny,"

answer Gerald with a smile. "it, be a substantial well-build cottage

of four room--quite large enough for a family without encumbrance.

you don't know how snug and comfortable we be in it. economy of space

be not half enough consider in a small world like ours."



"I be glad you keep up your spirit," retort her ladyship; "though

how you contrive to do so under such circumstance be a mystery to

I."



"we have really and truly be very comfortable since we come here,"

answer Clara. "I have conceive quite an affection for our little

house, and somehow, I hardly know why, I feel as if we be safe here

than elsewhere. probably it be the loneliness of the place that give

one this feeling of security; and then the air that blow down from

the moor be so pure and invigorate that both Gerald and I feel as

if we be grow young again."



"oh, of course you try to make the good of everything--it's just your

aggravating way," retort Lady Fan. "but if I be in your place, I

should fret and fume and worry, and make myself and everybody about I

as miserable as possible. that would be my way."



"I don't believe it," answer Gerald with a laugh. "you don't know

how many unsuspected quality you possess that go towards make a

capital poor man's wife."



Lady Fan shrug her shoulder. "and so you, Gerald Brooke, the owner

of Beechley Towers, be live here as a common railway signalman,"

she say; "find your companion among a lot of engine-driver

and--shunter, don't they call them?--and grimy people of that kind.

what be the world come to!"



"my companion may be grimy, as you say; but I can assure your

ladyship that they be a very hard-work, good-hearted, decently

behave set of fellow, and that among they be more than one of whose

friendship any man might be proud. and I can far assure you, Lady

Fanny, that I be quite satisfied with my mode of life--for the present

and till bright day return, if they ever will return. and that

remind I that I have have no opportunity of thank Dwyer for the

trouble he must have be put to in procure I my present situation.

be he here with you?"



"oh dear, no. his last letter be date from Cairo; where his next

will be date from, goodness only know."



"well, I hope you willn't forget to thank he for I when next you

write."



"by the way, how do you succeed in find we out?" ask Clara.



"to tell you the truth, my dear, one of my chief object in accept

an invitation to Seaton Park be the hope of see you and your

good-for-nothing signalman. I know you be live close by, but not

exactly where. I also know that you be pass under the name of

Maynard. accordingly, I set my maid to work to make certain inquiry,

tell she a white fib in order to stifle any curiosity she might

feel in the matter; in fact, my dear Clara, I give she to understand

that before your marriage you have be in my service, and that I be

desirous of ascertain how you be get on in life. it be the

most likely tale I could think of, and I've no doubt it answer its

purpose; anyhow, this morning Simpkins bring I your address, and

here I be."



"how it bring back the memory of old time to see you and hear your

voice!" say Clara. "it seem year since I leave the tower, although

it be only a few short month ago. I be often back there in my

dream."



Lady Fan squeeze her friend's hand in silent sympathy. then she say:

"by-the-by, what have become of darling, quaint Miss Primby? I hope she

be quite well?"



"she have go to stay for a time with some friend in Devon. this

place be too bleak for she during the winter month; but now the

spring be here, she will be back with we again before long."



"you talk as if you be likely to remain here for ever and a day,"

answer Lady Fan. "and that remind I that I have do to-day as our

sex be say to do habitually with their postscript--that be, I have

leave mention till the last the most important of the reason which

bring I here. Algy, in the last letter I have from he, charge I

to either see or communicate with you as early as possible, and tell

you from he that his banker be at your service for any amount you

choose to draw upon he. he have a lot of money lie idle, and would

only be too glad if you would favour he by make use of it."



"Dwyer be a noble-hearted fellow, I know, but"----



"but I no but," break in her impetuous ladyship. "there be no reason

why you should not end this mean and sordid way of life at once. there

be plenty of charming nook on the continent where you and Clara

might live with everything nice about you while wait for well

day; and really you would be do Algy a great kindness at the same

time."



but this be a point on which Gerald be not to be move. he combat

Lady Fanny in almost the same term that he have combat Karovsky when

the Russian have make he an almost identical offer. he would never

leave England, he say--on that he be determine--till the mystery

that enshroud Von Rosenberg's death should be clear up and his own

fair fame vindicate before the world. there be within he a hide

faith that, like an altar flame, sometimes burn high and anon die

down to a mere spark, but be never altogether extinguish, that one

day his long waiting would be reward.



Lady Fan fume and lose her temper, and then recover it again with

equal facility, but in nowise shake Gerald from his purpose. the

striking of the hour startle they both.



"eight o'clock and Sir William's horse wait for I all this time!"

exclaim Lady Fan.



"and I'm a quarter of an hour late," say Gerald to his wife. "Lucas

will begin to think something have happen to I."



Lady Fanny's last word to her friend be: "to-day be Tuesday. I'll

come again on Thursday, when we will have a good long talk together,

by which time I hope that obstinate and wrongheade husband of your

will have come to his sense."



Gerald Brooke have kiss his wife and have go off to his duty at the

signal-box, leave she alone in the cottage. but not long would she

be leave in solitude. Margery, who have go to Overbarrow, a village

about two mile away, to purchase some grocery, would be back in a

little while.



but half an hour pass after her husband's departure without bring

Margery, and Clara begin to grow seriously uneasy. never have she be

so late before. when the clock strike nine and still the girl have not

come, Clara could contain herself no long. put on her bonnet and

shawl and lock the door, she hurry down the lane, and turn

into the high-road in a direction opposite that which lead to the

railway, she go quickly forward along the way by which she know

Margery must come. the night be dark and moonless, but the stair

shine clearly, and by their faint light Clara could just discern the

black outline of the hedge which bound the road, and thereby keep

herself to the line of narrow turf-border footway which run by its

side. she have not go more than a quarter of a mile when her heart

give a throb of relief. she hear footstep advance towards she, and

her fine ear recognise they as those of Margery, even while the

latter be some distance away. "be that you, Margery?" she call, so

that the girl might not be startle by come suddenly upon she in the

dark. a moment later they have meet. Margery have be hurry home at

such a rate as to be nearly breathless.



"o mum, he's here! I've see he, and hear he speak," be the

girl's first incoherent word.



"who be it that you have see and hear?"



"Muster Crofton, mum--Muster Geril's cousin--he as the Frenchy tie

up in his chair."



"George Crofton here!" murmur Clara, her heart seem to turn to ice

as she speak. "surely, surely, Margery, you must be mistake."



"I only wish I be, mistress," respond the girl fervently; "but he

only need speak for I to pick he out of a thousand man in the dark.

besides, I see his face with the cut in his lip and his tooth show

through."



for a little while Clara be so dazed and overcome that she could

neither speak nor act. in that first shock her mind have room for one

thought and one only: George Crofton be on the track of her husband!

no other purpose could have bring he to this out-of-the-world

place. Gerald must be warn and at once; but first she must hear all

that the girl have to tell. she have turn mechanically, and be now

retrace her way to the cottage.



"I suppose Mr. Crofton see you at the same moment you see he?" she

say anxiously.



"I see he, but he never set eye on I."



"how could that happen?"



"I'll tell you all about it, mum. I have get my grocery and have leave

the village and be come along pretty fast, 'cos I be a bit late,

when just as I be get near the end of a lane I hear two man

come along it talk to one another. I be not a bit a-fear; but

still I think I might as well keep out of their sight; so just

before they turn out of the lane, I slip into the dry ditch that

run along the hedge-bottom and crouch down. they pass I without

see I, still talk, and then I know at once that one of 'em

be Muster Crofton. 'we be before our time,' say he to the other

one; 'we shall have nearly an hour to wait.' then say the other:

'well be afore our time than after it.' after go a bit up the

road, they cross it, and pass through a stile, get into the

field, I make bold to skulk after 'em, first take off my shoe so

as they shouldn't hear I. on they go, I follow, till they come

to a hollow where there's a lot of tree, and in the middle of the

tree a little house that seem, as well as I could make out, as if

somebody have pull it half to bit and then leave off. when they be

well inside, I follow on tiptoe; and then I hear one of 'em strike

a match, and then I see a light through the break shutter of a little

window. go up to the window, I peep in. two lantern have be

light, and by the light of one of 'em I could see Muster Crofton's

face quite plain. I couldn't make out much of what they talk about,

only that they be wait for somebody, and once the other man say:

'we shall be quite time enough if we leave here by half-past ten.'

then Muster Crofton, he swear, and say that he never could a-bear

wait."



"do you hear they mention your master's name?" ask Clara anxiously.



"no, mum, not once."



Clara be puzzle. to her wifely fear it seem impossible that

Crofton's presence should not bode danger to her husband. it be

almost incredible that he should be there unless he be on the track

of Gerald. yet, on the other hand, what could be the nature of the

business which take he at that late hour to a ruin cottage bury

among tree? it almost look as if he be concern in some dark and

nefarious scheme of his own. suddenly a fresh thought strike she, and

as it do so she come to an abrupt halt.



"Margery," she say, "you shall show I the way back to the cottage

among the tree. I will go and endeavour to find out for myself what

it be that have bring Mr. Crofton so far away from home. come."



"o mistress!" say Margery with a gasp. it be her only protest: with

she to hear be to obey.









CHAPTER XIV.





Varley's Cottage, which place George Crofton and his confederate have

fix upon as their rendezvous, be a spot of ill repute for mile

around, and one which no inhabitant of the district would willingly go

near by day, much less after dark. a grim tragedy centre round the

spot. some quarter of a century previously the cottage have be the

home of a certain gamekeeper, Varley by name, who have make himself

specially obnoxious to the poacher of the district. one night he be

shoot dead on his own threshold and his cottage fire in two place.

the crime be never bring home to any one, neither be the cottage

ever rebuild. but of all this neither Clara Brooke nor Margery, be

newcomer in the neighbourhood, know anything.



the eld woman hurry feverishly onward, the young lead the

way. scarcely a word pass between they. presently they reach the

stile through which Margery have follow the two man, and cross it,

take a winding footway through the field. they go swiftly and

silently, walk not on the path itself but on the soft grass which

border it. not a creature do they see or hear, and before long the

path begin to dip to a hollow, then come some straggle patch of

brushwood, and presently they be in the spinney itself, with tree

and a thick undergrowth on both side of they. Margery lead the way as

by a sort of instinct, only pause for a second now and again to

listen. to Clara, the adventure, with its darkness, its silence, and

its mystery, have all the complexion of a nightmare. again and again

she have to ask herself whether it be indeed a reality.



"we be nearly there now, mum," say Margery presently in a whisper.

"do you wait here among the tree, while I creep forward and try and

find out what they be about." so say, the girl steal forward, and

be at once lose to view.



the young wife wait with a heart that beat high and anxiously. the

moment seem terribly long till Margery return, although in

reality she be not more than three or four minute away. Clara

tremble so much that she could not speak.



"there's four of 'em now, mum," say the girl. "I could see they quite

plain through the crack in the shutter, and from what I could make

out, there's more to come. o mistress, I wouldn't go near 'em if I be

you; they're a desperate bad lot, and if they find you there, nobody

can tell what might happen."



of a truth, Clara might well hesitate, and it be only the thought

that some new and unforeseen danger might possibly at that very moment

be close like a net round the husband she love so devotedly that

nerve she to the task she have set herself to do. "Margery," she say

after a brief silence, "where you can go with safety I can surely go.

I must see and listen to these man for myself.--Now, attend to this.

should I be discover by they, or should anything happen to I, you

will fly as for your life and warn your master."



"I understand, mum, never fear," be the girl's earnest response.



then the two creep together through the tree, almost as silent as the

shadow of which they seem to form a part, and presently Clara find

herself under the wall of the ruin cottage. Margery guide she to

where a rickety shutter still guard a small square window, from

which, however, the glass have long since disappear. through a chink

in this, the interior of the room, such as it be, be plainly

discernible. two old-fashioned lantern throw a dim weird light over

the scene. Clara's eye seek instinctively for the face of Crofton

before take any note of the other; it may be that some faint hope

have all along linger in her breast that Margery have be mistake.

but if that be so, the hope at once die out. George Crofton himself

be before she. he be the only one of the party that be seat, and

his seat consist of nothing more than a pile of loose brick, with

part of the stone shelf of the mantel-piece lay across they. he be

smoking, as be also two of the other, and seem deep in thought.

the rest of the party be utter stranger to Clara; they talk in

low tone among themselves, and, much to her surprise, she see that

one of they be in the garb of a clergyman.



Scarcely have Mrs. Brooke note these thing, when a low whistle

sound from somewhere outside. Crofton spring to his foot, and all

be instantly on the alert. the whistle be answer by another from

within, and then one of the man leave the cottage carry a lantern.

Clara and Margery sink noiselessly back into the undergrowth of bush

and bramble by which the cottage on three side be surround.



when, two or three minute later, Clara venture to resume her post of

observation at the window, she find that the party inside have be

augment by two fresh arrival. the man have now group themselves

round Crofton in various attitude of attention, listen to the

instruction he be evidently impress upon they. whatever the

object of this strange company might be, there could be little doubt

that George Crofton be the leader of it. one man, who bent forward a

little, have make an ear-trumpet of his hand, and it might be for his

benefit that Crofton now pitch his voice in a high key than he

have previously do. Clara hardly breathe as she strain her sense

to catch the word that fall from his lip.



what she hear, gradually piece the plot together in her own mind as

Crofton issue his final order to the man, be enough to blanch the

heart of any woman with terror and dismay. the train to Cummerhays be

to be attack and rob; some great treasure--Clara could not make

out of what nature--be to travel by it to-night, which these

desperado have determine on make their own. as a preliminary step,

the signalman at Cinder Pit Junction be to be seize, bind, and

gag, his box take possession of, and the telegraph wire cut. a

member of the gang who answer to the name of Slinkey, and who

understand the manipulation of point and signal, would install

himself in the box. then, when the train come up on its way to

Cummerhays, pass the box at a speed of about twenty mile an hour,

by a reversal of the point it be to be turn by Slinkey on to the

branch lead to the colliery. as a matter of course, the driver

would bring his train to a stand as speedily as possible, and then

would come the opportunity of the gang. it be well know that, except

at holiday time, passenger and official together by this train

rarely number half a score people. it would be strange if

half-a-dozen desperate man, arm with revolver, could not so far

intimidate the driver, the guard, and a few sleepy passenger as to

have the whole train at their mercy. five minute would suffice to

successfully achieve the object they have in view, after which the

train might go on its way again as if nothing have happen.



such be the chief feature of this audacious scheme, as gather by

Clara from Crofton's instruction to the other. of course, each man

have know beforehand what he be expect to do, and what pass at

the cottage be merely a sort of final rehearsal of the scene that be

to follow.



Crofton now look at his watch and announce that it be time to

start. the lantern be extinguish, and the man file silently out

of the cottage, half of they take one road and half another. Clara

and Margery have but just time to draw their shawl over their head

and crouch on their knee amid the brushwood, when three of the man

pass within as many yard of they. when all be silent again, they

stand up. never on any previous occasion when danger threaten she

husband have Clara feel so utterly helpless as she do now. what could

she, one weak woman, do to confound the machination of six armed and

desperate man?



"o Margery," she cry, seize both the girl's hand in the extremity

of her distress, "there seem no help either in heaven or on earth. we

be lose--lose!"



the faithful girl could only kiss with a sob the hand that hold she

own. "what be they go to do, mistress?" she ask a moment or two

later. she have not be able to see and hear what have pass in the

cottage, as Clara have do.



"they be go to seize and bind your master, and then they be go

to stop and rob the train. o Margery, if there be but some way by

which the train could be warn in time! think, think; be there

nothing we can do?"



"why, o' course there be, mum," answer the girl with one of her

uncanny chuckle. "you just let I run home as fast as my legs'll

carry I and get three or four single--they thing, you know, that

Muster Geril use to fasten on the rail when the fog be bad in

winter. I know how to fasten they, 'cos I watch Muster Geril do it

one day when I take he some to the box. then I'll take the short cut

across the field to where the line turn sharp round more'n half a

mile away from the box, and I'll fix the single there.--But what be

I to tell the driver, mum, when he stop the train?"



"tell he there be half-a-dozen man with revolver who be go to

stop and rob the train, just beyond your master's box. after that, he

will know what it will be good to do." she could have fling her arm

round Margery's neck and kiss she, such a weight have the girl's

word lift off her heart.



"but what about pore Muster Geril, mum?" urge Margery.



ah, what indeed! Clara shiver as though an icy wind have strike she.

she have not fail to notice that her husband have never be mention

by name by Crofton, who have speak of he to the other as though he

be an utter stranger. could it be possible he be unaware that

Gerald fill the position of signalman at Cinder Pit Junction. it be

possible, but by no means probable; but in that faint chance lie she

only hope of her husband's safety. in that case, should he and Crofton

not encounter each other, the rest of the gang would merely regard

Gerald in the light of an ordinary railway servant; and although he

might chance to be assail and maltreat by they, that would be but

a minor evil in comparison with the other, and one which an hour or

two at the most would set right. these thought pass through her

mind far more rapidly than she could have give they utterance in

word. the only question now be, have she time to warn her husband

before the attack take place? the gang be on their way already:

could she overtake they, pass they unseen, and reach the signal-box

before they do? the chance be a desperate one, but she must attempt

it--no other course be open to she.



"come!" she say, grasp Margery by the hand. "let we hurry--let we

hasten! while you go and fix the signal, I will go and warn your

master, only pray heaven I may not be too late!"



with scarcely a word more they speed swiftly back along the starlit

field; but when they reach the stile, Clara say: "be there no

near way to the signal-box than go round to it by the high-road?"



"there's a way through the field, that cut off a big corner. I've

walk it onst; but I dunno, mum, as you could find it in the dark."



"I must try," answer Clara desperately. every second be precious.



the near cut in question be through a second stile somewhat far

on. at this point, after a few last word, the two parted, each go

a separate way.



Clara's way lead she through more field; but the track be so faint

that she be utterly unable to distinguish it, and have to trust to her

vague local knowledge that she be go in the right direction. in a

little while she surmount a rise ground, and then, to her utter

dismay, she see, from the position of the signal lamp in the valley

below, that she have wander a full quarter of a mile too far to the

right of they. it be a thousand chance to one now that Crofton and

his crew would be there before she.



Anguish lend wing to her foot, and she fly down the slope like a

creature pursue by the Furies. she could see the lighted window of

the signal-box shine in the distance, a faint yellow disc. the next

thing she know be that she have reach the boundary of the line, but

at a point still some distance from the box. it now become needful to

exercise more caution than she have hitherto do, lest she should be

see by any of the gang, who be doubtless somewhere near at hand.

the line at this point be bound by a wooden fencing put up to

prevent the straying of cattle, close to which, on the field-side,

grow a thin straggling hedge. under the shelter of this hedge Clara

now steal softly and cautiously forward, with eye and ear

preternaturally on the alert. step by step she draw near without

be disturb by a sight or a sound, till at length she face the

box with its light window where it stand on the opposite side of the

line. then with a heart, the pulsing of which sound like a low

drumming in her ear, she part the bush and peer through.



for a moment or two a mist dim her eye, and all she could discern

be that there be some one inside the box. then the mist clear

away, and she see that the man stand there with one hand rest on

a lever be not her husband, but the man Slinkey, whose sinister face

she have see through the break shutter. Gerald be nowhere to be

see. she have come too late!









CHAPTER XV.





Gerald Brooke having relieve his "mate" Lucas at the signal-box, and

having satisfy himself that his lamp be properly trim and set

for the night, sit down in his box to read. the night duty at Cinder

Pit Junction be not of a very onerous nature. the last passenger

train from Cummerhays, which also carry the mail, pass at

eight-thirty; and the last train to that place till the arrival of the

morning mail, at a few minute past ten o'clock. in the course of the

night two or three train of mixed merchandise and mineral pass

through without stop, and these, together with a train from the

colliery bind for the South, comprise the whole of the nocturnal

traffic. thus it fall out that Gerald have plenty of spare time on his

hand, and always bring a volume with he to help to while the long

dark hour away.



the signal-box, the entrance to which be reach by a flight of eight

or nine step, stand on a small space of clear ground by the side of

the line. a little way back be a low embankment crown by a hedge,

overshadow here and there by an umbrageous beech or elm, beyond

which the open field stretch far and wide. few place could be more

solitary and deserted; not a house, not a habitation of any kind be

within ken; but by day a haze of smoke in the distance tell of life

and labour not far away.



the last train from Cummerhays have pass more than an hour ago, the

next one would be the train go the reverse way. Gerald sit reading,

but with his ear on the alert for the ting of the telegraph bell which

should tell he when the come train have pass Mellingfield, the

near station south, five mile away. all at once he be startle by

the sound of some one coughing, evidently just outside his box. it be

a sound so unexpected and surprising in that lonely spot and at that

hour of the night, that he spring to his foot, while his nerve begin

to flutter strangely. next moment there come a loud rapping at the

door, as it might be with the handle of a walking-stick. Gerald open

the door at once; and then he see a portly middle-aged man dress in

black, with a white cravat and spectacle--to all appearance a

clergyman--stand at the foot of the step and gaze blandly up at

he.



"my good man," say the stranger in unctuous but well-breed accent, "I

be a stranger in these part, and be sorry to say that I have lose my

way. I want to get to a friend's house at Overbarrow; no doubt you can

put I in the right road for do so?"



you must cross the line"--began Gerald.



"my good man," interrupt the stranger, "I be somewhat deaf, and

cannot hear what you say. I wish you would be good enough to come a

little nearer. with my defective eyesight, I dare not trust myself up

these step of your."



Gerald step down without hesitation. "you must cross the line," he

begin again in a somewhat loud key, "and about twenty yard far

on you will find a gap in the hedge."



"yes, yes--a gap in the hedge; I understand," respond the other

eagerly.



"and after that you will find a footpath which will bring you to the

high-road. Then"----



not a word more speak Gerald. a soft heavy cloth of some kind be

suddenly throw over his head, while at the same instant his arm be

pinion firmly from behind, and a cord with a run noose be draw

tightly round his leg. the attack be so sudden that he be powerless

to make the least resistance, and in less than half-a-dozen second he

find himself as helpless as a babe. then a corner of the cloth that

envelop his head be raise and the sham parson say in his most

oily tone: "my friend, if you have any regard for your life you will

neither cry out nor attempt to make the least disturbance. be obedient

and good, and no harm shall befall you." as if to add emphasis to the

warning, Gerald be lightly rap on the knuckle with what he could

feel to be the chilly barrel of a pistol. then with a man on each side

of he hold he by an arm, he be conduct to the background; and

having be plant with his back to a tree, he be bind firmly to it

with several fold of thin cord. the cloth which still envelop his

head be fasten loosely round his throat, so as not greatly to

impede his breathing; but his voice would have be smother in it

have he even be in a position to call for help.



he have no mean of ascertain the number of his assailant, but as

far as he could judge there must have be three or four of they. he

be lose in a maze of the wild conjecture as to what the object of

the attack could possibly be. apparently none of the gang have

recognise he as Gerald Brooke, the man for whose capture so large a

reward be still unclaimed. yet why, then, have they make he a

prisoner? what object be to be gain by his capture? never in his

life have he feel so utterly perplexed. he could hear an eager

conversation go on a little distance away; but all sound now come

dull and muffle to his ear.



as already state, the gang have previously separate into two party.

three of the man, at the head of whom be Crofton, have make their way

down the branch to a point close to where, as nearly as they could

judge, the driver of the train would be able to pull up as soon as he

find himself on the wrong line of rail. the other three man, with

the sham parson as their chief, have be detail for the capture of

the signalman, the result of which we have see. after a little talk

together, one of the three now start off down the branch to carry

the news to Crofton and the other.



Slinkey at once take possession of the box, and proceed to test the

working of the various lever, in order that there might be no hitch

when the critical moment should arrive. he be an ex-railway servant

and thoroughly understand what he be now about.



the sham parson be know familiarly among the "profession" which his

eminent talent adorn under the pseudonym of "Lardy bill," a title

confer upon he in the first instance by reason of his fondness for

swell clothe, flash jewelry, and scented pocket-handkerchief. he be

one of the most clever and unscrupulous rogue of which the great

Babylon could boast; but it be pleasant to be able to record that

despite his cleverness, a considerable portion of his knavish

existence have already be pass in an enforce seclusion where board

and lodge have be provide he free of charge. his appearance be

eminently in his favour. he be a well-build, ruddy-cheek man, with

a moist and humorous eye, and a sort of hail-fellow-well-meet air. he

have the suggestion of a man who could tell a good story and appreciate

a good glass of wine. he look equally at home when make up as a

clergyman, a gentleman farmer, a staid City magnate, or a poor

tradesman who have fall upon evil day. he have always _les larme

dans le voix_ at command when the occasion need they, and he could

choke a sob in his throat as cleverly as any low comedian on the

stage.



as soon as the two man be leave alone, with their prisoner in the

background, Lardy Bill light a cigarette--he like to follow the

fashion in everything--and begin to stroll up and down the narrow

clearing on which the box be build. Slinkey be too nervous to follow

his companion's example. "as I calkilate," he say, "we ought to have

have the signal from Mellingfield three minute afore now. can anything

have happen?"



"Pooh, man--what be likely to have happen?" say the other coolly.

"these beggarly branch train be nearly always late."



half a minute later they hear the welcome ting-ting announce that

the train have just pass Melling field.



"she'll be twelve minute or more yet afore she's here," remark

Slinkey as he again ascend the step and enter the box.



presently Lardy Bill toss away the end of his cigarette, and

cross to his prisoner, examine his bond and satisfy himself

that they be still intact. on go back to the box he be rejoin

by Slinkey, who now proceed to go down on one knee and rest his ear

on the rail. "she's come; I can hear she quite plain," he say after

a few moment. "another five minute and she ought to be here."



"then I'll hurry off to the other," say lardy. "I shall be want

there when the shindy come off, and you'll manage here by yourself

all right."



"right you be," respond the other. "as soon as ever the train's

past, I shall cut the wire, and then make a bolt of it, and wait for

you fellow at the cottage."



nothing more be say. Lardy Bill start at a quick pace down the

branch, while Slinkey re-enter the box.



neither of they have the slight suspicion that for the last ten

minute or more all their action have be watch by an unseen

witness; but such be the case. when Clara Brooke, to her intense

dismay, discover that not her husband, but a stranger, be the

occupant of the box, she feel for a little while as if her heart must

die within she. then she become aware of two dusky figure stand a

little distance away, whom she rightly conclude to be other member

of the gang; but still her husband be nowhere to be see. she have

arrive on the spot almost immediately after Gerald have be bind to

the tree; but the night be too dark to admit of she see he from

that distance. she feel at once that she must get round to where the

signal-box stand, on the opposite side of the line, and, if it be

possible, approach near enough to the man to overhear their

conversation, and by that mean discover what have become of her

husband. no soon be the thought formulate in her mind than she

begin to put it into practice. still keep in the shelter of the

hedge that run parallel with the line, she speed as fast as her foot

could carry she to a point some forty or fifty yard far down the

line, far enough, as she judge, to be out of the range of vision of

any one who might be on the lookout at the box. here, after draw

her shawl over her head--she have discard her bonnet some time

before--she break through the hedge, be across the line in three

second; and then, after push through the hedge on the opposite

side, she turn back in the direction of the signal-box, she and it

be both now on the same side of the line. creep forward foot by

foot and yard by yard, she presently find herself a little way behind

the box, and within a dozen yard of her husband, have she only be

aware of it.



while this be happen, one of the man have go off to join the

other down the line. Clara, peer through the interstice of the

hedge, could see the two remain man walk and talk together,

but be too far away to distinguish what they say. not long have she

watch and wait when she hear the ting-ting of the telegraph bell.

she know that it be a signal of some kind, but not what its precise

meaning might be. then one of the man disappear into the box, while

the other--it be the one, she could now make out, who be dress

like a clergyman--turn, and seem as if he be march directly

towards she. terror-stricken, she drop completely out of sight

behind the hedge-bank, expect every moment to feel a hand lay on

her shoulder. but nothing come, she breathe again; then her head

go up till her eye be on a level with the top of the bank; then,

to her surprise, she see that the man seem to be carefully examine

the trunk of a tree some little distance away. she strain her eye

in the endeavour to see what he could possibly be about, and then

suddenly her heart give a great bound. the trunk of the tree be

define like a faint silhouette against a background of starlit April

sky, but it be a silhouette which in one portion of its outline bore

a startling resemblance to a human figure. as by a flash of

divination, Clara know that it be her husband she be gaze upon.

her breath flutter on her lip like a bird try to escape, and she

set her tooth hard in the flesh of her arm, to stifle the cry that

break involuntarily from her heart.



after a few second the man go back; and after say a few word to

his confederate, he apparently take leave of he, and start down

the branch, be quickly lose to view; then the other at once go back

into the box. now be Clara's opportunity.



half a minute later she be by her husband's side. lay a hand

softly on his arm, she say in a low voice: "Gerald it be I--Clara."

some smothered sound come back to she; and then she discover, what

the darkness have hitherto hide, that her husband's head and face

be closely muffle. her trembling but skilful finger quickly undo

the knot and remove the covering. Gerald give a great gasp of relief

as he draw a deep inspiration of the cool night-air. then he

whisper: "you will find a knife in my outside pocket." in a minute

from that time he be a free man.



Slinkey, wait alone in the signal-box, have try the lever again

and again by mean of which the point be open that would turn the

train on to the branch, and have satisfy himself that everything be

in work order. both the distance and the home signal-lamp show

the white light, so that the train would speed on unsuspectingly with

unslackened pace. Slinkey at the good of time be a nervous timid

creature--a man who walk ever in tremble dread of the hand which

he know would some day be lay suddenly on his shoulder--but now that

he be leave alone, now that he have no long Lardy Bill's audacious

bulldog courage to help to animate his own, his craven heart sink

low and low, and he would have give a year of his life to be well

out of the adventure into which he have allow himself to be seduce.



the low deep hum of the oncoming train grow palpably on the ear.

instinctively, Slinkey's hand close on lever no. 3, while his heart

begin to beat a sort of devil's tattoo after a fashion that be far

from comfortable. suddenly he give a great start, and for a moment or

more the tattoo come to a dead stop. he have hear a sound that he

remember full well: it be the noise cause by the explosion of a

fog-signal. at the same instant the engine begin to whistle its

shrill. then come the explosion of a second signal, and then the

whistle cease as suddenly as it begin. and now he could faintly hear

the soft rhythmical pulsing of the engine, as it might be that of some

antediluvian monster till it be scant of breath; and Slinkey know that

the train have slacken speed and be feel its way forward slowly

and cautiously. what could be the matter? what could have happen? by

whom and with what intent have fog-signal be place on the line on a

night so clear and beautiful?



such be a few of the query that flit through Slinkey's puzzle

brain. and now not even the faint pulsing of the engine could be

hear. could it be possible that treachery be at work, and that the

driver have be warn and the train bring to a stand? Slinkey run

lightly down the step and, kneeling, lay an ear once more to the

rail. not a sound come to he; the train and those in charge of it

might have vanish into space, so unbroken be the silence. he get on

his foot again, his tongue and throat as dry and constrict as those

of a man who have be athirst for day. instinctively his eye turn

to the tree to which the capture signalman have be bind; but he be

too far away to be able to discern whether the man be still there.

with a heart that misgave he, he hurry up to the tree, only to find

that the prisoner have escape. the cord be there, but the man be

go. evidently, treachery be at work somewhere. would not the wise

thing he could do be to decamp while he have a chance of do so? he

be ask himself this question but have not answer it, when up come

Crofton, Lardy Bill, and one of the other man, at double-quick time.

they, too, have hear the fog-signal, and have be as much at a loss

to account for they as Slinkey have be. but when the latter tell they

that by some mysterious mean their prisoner have contrive to escape,

it be evident both to Crofton and Lardy that their carefully plan

scheme have meet with some dire mishap. they have be betray, but by

whom? a traitor have be at work, but who be he? each of they stare

suspiciously at his fellow.



"if I only know who it be that bad sell we," say Lardy Bill with a

fierce imprecation, "I'd scatter his brain with a bullet, though I

have to swing for it after!"



"that's all very well," say Crofton; "but the question be, what be

we to do now?"



"do!" exclaim Lardy, whom danger always make reckless. "why, do what

we intend from the first. the train's wait there, ben't it, not

five hundred yard away? instead of its come to we, we must go to

it--that's all. be there any one here," he demand fiercely, "who

would rather not go?"



Slinkey would fain have answer that he for one would very much

prefer to keep in the background, only that Lardy Bill be a man of

whom he stand in mortal fear.



"now, mate, come along," add Bill. "we be only fool away our

time stand here. one bold stroke and the prize be ours."



Scarcely have the last word pass his lip, when some half-dozen

dark-coat figure burst suddenly through the hedge and make a dash

into the midst of the gang.



"we be sell!" scream Crofton with an oath. "every man for himself;"

and with that he fire his revolver at the near of his assailant

and then turn to flee. but he be too late. he be trip up,

seize, and handcuff all in a breath as it seem. a like fate

befell Slinkey and the other man; but Lardy Bill, slippery as an eel,

after fell two of his assailant, vanish in the darkness. the

remain two man, who have be leave behind when Crofton and the

other hurry to the signal-box, also contrive to escape.



Crofton's shot have take effect. the man he fire at stagger forward

a pace or two and then fall on one knee. now that the scrimmage be

over, his companion have time to attend to he. they help he to his

foot; he be evidently suffer great pain, but be perfectly cool

and collect. as the light of the bull's-eye which one of the man

produce fall upon his face, Crofton, who be close at hand, stagger

back with a cry of amazement next moment he have recover himself.

"I denounce this man as Gerald Brooke," he exclaim, "the murderer of

Baron von Rosenberg, for whose capture a reward of three hundred

pound be offer."









CHAPTER XVI.





never have the little town of Cummerhays been stir to its depth as

it be on a certain April morning, when it awake to find that it have

render itself famous after a fashion which would cause its existence

to become know wherever an english newspaper penetrate. its name

would be in everybody's mouth for week to come. it feel that it could

never again sink into utter obscurity.



for the prisoner--about whose allege attempt to rob the train all

sort of wild rumour be afloat--have after their capture be put

into the train and bring on to Cummerhays, and be for the present

lodge in the town jail. the magistrate would assemble at ten

o'clock, when the preliminary inquiry would take place. but even a

deep interest, if that be possible, centre itself in the arrest

of the allege murderer of the Baron von Rosenberg, who be say to

have actually be work as a signalman on the line for the past

three or four month. it be dreadful to think that the life of

several hundred of respectable people should have be at the mercy

of such a miscreant!



the town-hall be besiege by an excited crowd long before the opening

of the door, and have the justice-room be three time large than it

be, it might easily have be fill three time over. among the

foremost rank of the surge crowd, and maintain his position with

passive tenacity, be a man on whom many curious eye be bent. he

be a foreigner--so much be evident at a glance--and that of itself

be enough to excite the curiosity of the good folk of Cummerhays,

many of whom have never be a score mile from home. he be very lean

and very sallow, with draw-in cheek and sharply define cheek-bone.

he have deep-set eye, black and burning, with something in they of the

expression of a half-famish wild animal. he wear small gold circlet

in his ear, and be dress in a coat of fray velveteen, with a

soft feel hat; and a coloured silk handkerchief knot loosely round

his throat. he speak to no one, and no one speak to he; but now and

then his lip work strangely, as though he be hold a silent

colloquy with some invisible companion. he be the one man in the

crowd who be the least incommode by the crowd. those near to he

shrink a little from he, involuntarily as it be. he be a being of

a different world from theirs, and they know not what to make of he.



Jules Picot--for he it be--have arrive in Cummerhays at a late hour

the precede night, having walk there from another town about a

dozen mile away. by what strange chance his wandering footstep have

bring he by many devious path to this place of all other, and at

this particular time, will be tell a little later on. he have hire a

bed for the night at the _Wheatsheaf Inn_, a cheap and unpretentious

hostelry. he be up and have order his breakfast by eight o'clock

next morning, and it be while wait for that meal to be bring he

that his attention be attract by some conversation in the taproom

which he could not help overhear. the pallor of his face grow

deep as he listen; but whatever other emotion the change might

arise from, it certainly have not its origin in fear.



"Soh! it be for this that I have be bring here," he mutter, half

to himself and half aloud, in French. "now I understand."



go into the taproom, he put a few question to the man to whose

talk he have be listen. having ascertain what he want to know,

he leave the house without wait for his breakfast, and bent his

step in the direction of the town-hall. at a quarter to ten o'clock,

when the door be throw open, Jules Picot be one of the first to

push his way forward, or to be push forward by those behind he,

into the small pen-up space allot in the justice-room of

cummerhay to the general public. in three minute the place be

crannie to its utmost limit.



a few minute after ten, the magistrate enter one by one and take

their seat, their clerk having precede they by a few second. they

be three in number, all venerable gentleman. one be partially

blind; one partially deaf; while the third, who have a very red face

and take the lead in everything, be quick-temper and aggressive in

his manner. there be two case of drunkenness and one of theft to be

dispose of before the great sensation of the day would begin.



everybody seem relieved when they be over; and presently a flutter

of intense excitement run through the court as three man, in charge of

as many constable, file in and be place in the dock. then, after

a brief pause, a fourth man be usher in whose left arm be

support by a sling, and a murmur run round that this be the alleged

murderer of the german Baron. a moment later another door open, and

there glide in a female in black, closely veil, who sit down on a

chair in the background which one of the official hand she with a

bow. the prisoner with his arm in a sling be also allow to be

seat a little way from the dock in which the other man have be

place.



when the mountebank beheld Gerald Brooke, whom he still know only by

the name of "Mr. Stewart," march in as a prisoner, and when he see,

and his quick eye recognise, the veiled figure in black who enter

immediately afterwards, he be seize with a vertigo, which cause the

room, the magistrate, and the prisoner to surge up and down before

his eye as though they be be tempest-toss at sea. "Mon Dieu!

est-il possible?" he exclaim half aloud. then he bury his face in

his hand for a time, while a cloud seem to lift itself slowly from

his brain, and much become clear to he that have be dark before.



the charge against the first three prisoner be one of assault and

attempt robbery; but against one of they there be a supplementary

charge of attempt murder. that against the fourth prisoner be the

much more serious charge of murder. but from what the magistrate

could understand of the case at present, this fourth prisoner be so

mix up with the charge against the other three--he be the man who

have be assault and bind and afterwards shoot by one of they--that

the poor gentleman, who have never before have to investigate a case of

such gravity, or one which present so many peculiar feature, be

fairly at their wit' end to know how to deal with it from a strictly

legal point of view. thus it fall out that the whole of the prisoner

find themselves in court at the same time. it be now, however,

suggest by the clerk that the prisoner on the capital charge should

be put back while the examination of the other be be proceed

with. this suggestion be at once act upon.



after the remain prisoner have answer to the name enter on the

charge-sheet, the first witness be call, but not till the red-faced

magistrate have intimate that he and his colleague only intend to

take sufficient evidence that day to justify a remand. the first

witness prove to be Mr. Sturgess, a London jeweller. his evidence

go to show that, accompany by a trustworthy assistant, he have leave

home the previous day on his way to Lord Leamington's seat, a few

mile beyond Cummerhays, have in his charge a box contain jewelry

to the value of several thousand of pound. all have go well till he

reach Greenholme, at which place he have to wait an hour and change

to the branch line; but on his arrival there, he have find a telegram

await he from his partner in London in which he be tell on no

account to pursue his journey without first obtain an escort of

four or five constable. no reason be furnish by the telegram for

take such extraordinary precaution and he could only surmise that

an attempt be about to be make to rob he of the box, and that by

some mean his partner at the last moment have obtain wind of the

affair. fortunately, through the courtesy of the police authority at

Greenholme he experience no difficulty in obtain the require

escort, and under its protection he resume his journey by the next

train.



the next witness to answer to his name be the driver of the train,

who depose to everything having go right till he be just inside

the distance signal of Cinder Pit Junction, which show "line clear,"

when he and his mate be startle by the explosion of a fog-signal.

he at once whistle and put on all the brake-power at his command, and

could not have go more than forty or fifty yard far before a

second signal explode; and then he could just make out the figure of

a woman stand on the embankment and beat the air with both her

arm as a sign for he to stop, which, as the brake be on already,

he be not long in do. after that, the police take charge of the

affair, and he do just as they tell he.



the next witness call be Margery Shook. she have be sit out of

sight behind a large screen which shelter their worship from any

possible draught at the low end of the room. as she enter the

witness-box she shoot a glance of venomous hatred towards Crofton,

which would have kill he then and there if look have power to slay.

the nature of the evidence she have to give we know already. More than

once her peculiar phraseology cause a titter to run through the

court, which be, however, promptly supprese.



Clara Brooke be the next person call upon. as she raise her veil

her eye meet those of Crofton for a moment, while a faint colour

suffuse her cheek, only to die out as quickly as it have come. a low

murmur of commiseration pass like a sigh through the court; and the

eye of many there fill with tear when they behold her pale

beautiful face, for it have be whisper about that this be the wife

of the man who be accuse of murder. the evidence she have to offer

be give clearly and unhesitatingly; with the purport of it we be

sufficiently acquaint already. when she have tell all she have to

tell, she let her veil drop and go back to the seat she have occupy

before.



the next and last witness whose evidence it be propose to take at

present be the Greenholme sergeant of police. he tell how he have be

instruct by his superintendent to take four man and accompany the

gentleman from London as far as Cummerhays. then he narrate how the

train have come to a stand in consequence of the explosion of the

fog-signal; and how, when he and his man alight from it, they have

find the witness Margery Shook, who give they to understand that the

train be about to be attack a little way far on. how the girl

have scarcely finish tell they this when up run the signalman, who

have be release by his wife; and how, under his guidance, he,

witness, and his man have succeed in surprising the would-be thief

and in capture three of their number; and finally, how the signalman

have be severely wound by Crofton, one of the prisoner, fire his

revolver point-blank at he.



"you have omit one little episode," say Crofton in cold measured

tone as the sergeant be about to step down from the witness-box;

"you have forget to tell these worthy gentleman that it be I who

recognise the so-call signalman as Gerald Brooke, the man charge

with the wilful murder of the Baron von Rosenberg, and that I

denounce he as such then and there."



"that be so, your worship," say the sergeant.



"we quite understand that already," remark the red-faced

magistrate; "but it be a point on which we need not enter at present,

more especially see that the prisoner in question have already

admit that his name be Gerald Brooke, and that he be in point of

fact the man for whose apprehension a reward of three hundred pound

be still unclaimed." with that the magistrate lay their head

together and consult for a little while among themselves.



by Picot, sit quietly among the general public and watch

everything with restless burn eye, all these proceeding be only

imperfectly understand. why Gerald Brooke have be bring in a

prisoner and almost immediately take out again without any charge

be bring against hi, be a mystery to the mountebank. neither

could he understand how "la belle madame" and "Margot," as he term

they, come to be mix up in such a strange fashion with the prisoner

at the bar, in one of whom he have at once recognise the man he have

gag and bind to his chair in the house in Pymm's Buildings. he

lack the key to the situation, and want that, he could only look

on and listen, and feel himself become more bewildered after each

witness that appear on the scene. not that he trouble himself

greatly about these thing; something of much deep import lie at the

back of all his wander thought about this matter or the other. he

have be lead to that place, his footstep have be mysteriously guide

thither--he could see it all now--for a certain purpose, and that

purpose, as he sit there, be never for one moment out of his mind.



the magistrate having bring their brief consultation to an end,

intimate that the prisoner at the bar would be remand till the

follow Monday. they be at once remove; and after a brief pause,

Gerald Brooke take his stand in their place. having answer to his

name in the usual way, the red-faced magistrate lean forward a

little to address he. "Gerald Brooke," he begin, "you stand charge

on the verdict of a coroner's jury with the wilful murder of Otto von

Rosenberg, commonly call the Baron von Rosenberg, at Beaulieu, in

the county of ----, on Thursday, the 28th day of June last. the crime

having be commit outside the jurisdiction of this court, all we

have now to do is"---



suddenly a man with gold circlet in his ear and hold a soft feel

hat in his hand stand up in the body of the court, and address

himself directly to the magistrate, say in a voice which all there

could hear "Pardonnez moi, s'il vous plaît, monsieur, but I--Jules

Picot--and not the prisoner at the bar, be the man who kill Otto von

Rosenberg."









CHAPTER XVII.





for the first few moment after Picot's startling confession have

fall like a thunderbolt among those assemble in the justice-room of

Cummerhays, the silence be so intense that, to use a common phrase, a

pin might have be hear to drop. every eye be focus on the

mountebank, who stand on the spot where he have rise, erect and very

pale, his eye glow in their deep orbit like live coal, and

press his soft feel hat with both hand to his breast. suddenly

there be a slight commotion close to where the magistrate be

sit; the strained silence be break, and all eye turn as with

one accord. the lady in black, she who be say to be the wife of the

accuse man, have faint. but Margery's strong arm have catch she ere

she fall. another woman in the body of the court at once hurry to

her help, and between they the unconscious young wife be carry out.



"place that man in the dock," say the red-faced magistrate, "and allow

the other prisoner to be seat."



Picot step quietly forward of his own accord, the people near

make way for he with wonderful alacrity, and place himself on the

spot the magistrate have indicate, a couple of constable station

themselves behind he as he do so. then the clerk put certain

question to he, which Picot answer without a moment's hesitation.

when these come to an end the entry on the charge-sheet stand as

follow: "Jules Picot. Age, forty-three. Native of France. profession,

acrobat. no fix place of residence."



then the magistrate, clasp the finger of one hand in those of the

other, and rest they on the table in front of he as he lean

forward a little, say: "Jules Picot, you have confess openly and in

public to the commission of a most heinous and terrible crime. such

be the case, we have no option but to detain you in custody while

inquiry be be make as to the truth or falsehood of the

extraordinary statement just volunteer by you. any further

statement you may choose to make we will of course listen to; but at

the same time we must caution you that anything you may say will be

take down and use as evidence against you elsewhere. be it your wish

to make any further statement, or be it not?"



"Ma foi, monsieur," answer Picot, with a slight shrug, "that be what

I be here for--to make what you call statement, to tell the truth, to

prove that this gentleman be innocent, and that I, Jules Picot, and I

alone, kill Otto von Rosenberg." he pause, and in the hush that

follow, the rapid scratching of the clerk's pen as it race over the

paper be clearly audible. the pencil of the two reporter who sit in

a little box below the clerk move at a more deliberate pace. one of

they even find time to make a furtive sketch of Picot on a blank page

of his note-book.



it be so evident the prisoner have something more to say that no one

break the silence.



"eight year ago, monsieur," he begin in a low clear voice, "I have a

wife, a daughter, and a son. now I be alone. I be live in Paris. no

man could have be more happy than I be. Stephanie, my daughter, have

an engagement at the Cirque de l'Hiver. she be beautiful, she be

good. in an evil hour she attract the attention of the Baron von

Rosenberg. he follow she everywhere; he give her rich present; he

even go so far as to promise to make she his wife--_scélérat_ that

he be! of all this I know nothing till afterwards. one day Stephanie

do not come home. I make inquiry for she. she have flee. Von

Rosenberg, too, have disappear. they have flee together. from that

day I never see Stephanie more." again he pause, and although there

be no trace of emotion in his voice, it may be that the hide depth

of his being be profoundly move.



"a little while later, ma pauvre Marie die. she have be ill a long

time; but what kill she be the loss of Stephanie. ah yes! after

that, Henri and I set out, wander from place to place, not care

much where we go, but always look and ask for Von Rosenberg,

because I want to demand of he what have he do with my child. all at

once I discover he. it be at the house of this gentleman, Monsieur

Brooke. next day they tell I that he have go away back to his own

country, and they know not when he will return. but I wait and wait

while one week go away after another, and at length he come back. I

hide myself in the wood. I climb into the thick branch of a tree,

and stay there hour after hour till he shall be alone. at length I see

he come down the path that lead from the house to the châlet near

the wood. he whistle as he come, and he be alone. I wait a little

while, then I come down from the tree and walk up to the châlet. the

Baron be stand up, examine a pistol--a pistol with inlay of ivory

and gold, and with strange figure mark on it. on the table close by

be a heavy riding-whip. he have not hear my footstep. I enter, and he

start and stare. I make he a profound bow, and say: 'bonjour,

Monsieur le Baron. my name be Jules Picot, and I come to demand from

you what you have do with my daughter Stephanie.' he still stare,

and seem to be think to himself how he shall answer I. at last he

say: 'I know nothing whatever of your daughter; and if I do I should

decline to tell you.' 'she leave Paris in your company,' I reply.

'possibly so,' he answer with an evil sneer. 'Monsieur, I repeat that

I be her father. I seek for she everywhere, but cannot find she. you,

monsieur, if you choose, can give I some clue by which I may be able

to trace she. her mother be dead, and I have no other daughter. think,

monsieur--think.' he laugh a laugh that make I long to spring at

his throat and strangle he. 'I. altogether refuse to give you any

information whatever about your daughter,' he say. 'how, monsieur,

you refuse!' I say as I draw a step or two nearer. he have lay the

pistol on the table by this time, and his finger now shut on the

handle of the riding-whip. 'then you be a coward and a villain,' I

continue; 'and I spit in your face, as I will do again and again

whenever I meet you. I have find you now, and I will follow you

wherever you go.' he reply only by seize the whip, hiss it

quickly through the air, and bring it down with all his strength

round my head and shoulder. strange light dance before my eye;

there be a noise in my ear as of fall water. the pistol be close

to my hand; I grasp it; I fire. Von Rosenberg fall without a cry or a

word. I fle the pistol away and walk quietly back through the wood.

as I reach the village, where my boy be await I, the church clock

strike seven. the evening be that of the 28th of June."



he cease speak as quietly and impassively as he have begin: he

might have be read something from a newspaper refer to some

other man, so little apparent emotion do he display; yet his hearer

feel instinctively that he be speak the truth.



"what you have just tell we," say the magistrate, "will be take down

in writing; it will afterwards be read over to you, in order that you

may make any addition or correction that you may deem necessary; and

you will then be ask to affix your name to the document. you will

have no objection to do so, I presume?"



"to write my name on the paper, be that what monsieur mean?"



"that be what I mean."



"Certainement, monsieur, I will write my name. why not?"



"then for the present you be remand."



Picot look round with a puzzled air; but one of the constable

touch he on the shoulder and whisper, "come this way."



he turn to obey, and as he pass Gerald the eye of the two man

meet. Gerald's hand go out and grip that of the mountebank. "O

Picot!" be all his lip could utter. the mountebank stroke the back

of Gerald's hand caressingly for a moment while a strangely soft smile

flit across his haggard feature. "ah, monsieur, you and la belle

madame will be happy again," be all he say. next moment he have

pass out of sight.



Gerald be now replace in the dock; and one of the magistrate,

address he, say that although, on the face of it there seem

little reason to doubt the truth of the singular narrative to which

they have just listen, it would have to be confirm by ample inquiry

before it could be accept and act upon. meanwhile, he regret

to say Mr. Brooke would have to remain in custody. but on the morrow,

or next day at the late, both prisoner would be transfer to

King's Harold, when the ample investigation would doubtless at once

take place. with that the prisoner be remove.



before go back to his cell, Gerald be allow to see his wife for

a few minute. the meeting be almost a silent one; word would come

after a time; just now their heart overflow with a solemn

thankfulness, the root of which strike deep than speech could

fathom.



as soon as Picot reach the cell allot to he, he ask to be

supply with a cup of coffee, after which he lie down on his pallet

with the air of a man thoroughly weary out, and in a few

minute be fast asleep. he sleep soundly till arouse some three

hour later, when he be conduct to a room where he find one of the

magistrate, the clerk, the governor of the jail, and two other

official. here a paper, which have be draw up from note take in

the justice-room, be read over to he. after having cause it to be

correct in one or two minor particular, he affix his name to it;

and his signature having be duly witness, he be reconducte to

his cell.



about eight o'clock, after the gas have be light, he ask for pen,

ink, and paper, and a small table to write on. these having be

supply he, he sit and write, slowly and laboriously, for nearly a

couple of hour, finally put what he have write inside an

envelope and seal and direct it. then, after having take off

his shoe and coat, he wrap himself in the blanket which have be

supply he and lie down to sleep. the gas be lower, and silence

reign throughout the prison. once every hour during the night a

warder go the round of the cell and peer into each of they that

be occupy through a grating in the door. all through the night

Picot apparently sleep an unbroken sleep. when the warder visit he

at one o'clock he find that he have turn over and be now lie with

his face to the wall, after which he seem never to have stir

between one visit and another. at seven o'clock another

warder, who have just come on duty, go into his cell to rouse he. to

his dismay, he could not succeed in do so. he turn the

unconscious man over on his back, and then the draw, ghastly

face tell its own tale.



"ah," remark the doctor, who be quickly on the spot, as he hold up

to the light a tiny phial only about half the size of a man's little

finger and smell at its content, "five drop of this would kill the

strong man in three second."









CHAPTER XVIII.





Jules Picot have be carefully search before be lock up in his

cell, and it be an utter puzzle to the jail official how he have

contrive to conceal about he even so insignificant an article as the

tiny phial of poison so as to evade detection. one of the warder,

however, of a more inquiring turn of mind than his fellow succeed,

a day or two later, in solve the mystery. the mountebank wear very

high-heeled shoe, as many of his countryman make a practice of do.

the heel of one of his shoe have be so make that it could be

unscrewed at will, while inside it be a cavity just large enough to

hold the phial. Picot have evidently prepare himself beforehand for a

contingency the like of that which have at length befall he. the

letter write a few hour before his death be in French, and be

address to "Madame Brouke." the follow be a translation of it:





Madame--when these line reach you, the hand that write they will be

cold in death. I be tired of life, and life be tired of I: this night

we part company for ever. I take the liberty of address you because

of your kindness to my little Henri (whom _le bon Dieu_ have see fit

to take from I for my sin), and because you be so much in his

thought when he be die. I also address you for another reason,

which I will explain presently.



it be in the first week of the new year that Henri meet with the

accident which prove fatal to he. he linger for two week, and

then die. he have but little pain; life fade out of he like a lamp

that slowly expire for want of oil. as I say before, he often talk

about his _belle madame_. he could not remember his mother, and it be

your face that shine on he in his dream, as it be the face of an

angel.



after he be go and I be alone in the world, I, too, begin to have

dream such as I have never have before. every night Henri come and

stand by my bed, but it be always with an avert face; never would

he turn and look at I. I use to try to cry out, to seize his hand;

but I be dumb and motionless as a corpse. then, after a minute or

two, he would slowly vanish, with bow head and hand press to his

face, as though he be weep silently. night after night it be

ever the same. then a great restlessness take possession of I. I

seem to be urge onward from place to place by some invisible power

and without any will of my own. when I rise in a morning I know not

where I should sleep at night; onward, ever onward, I be compel to

go. last night I reach this place, and this morning I rise think

to resume my wandering; but a conversation I chance to overhear lead

I to seek the court of justice. you, madame, know what take place

there.



even before I have speak a word, I know why my footstep have be

direct to this place, and that my wandering be at an end. this

afternoon, after all be over, I lie down on my pallet and fell

asleep, and while I slumber, Henri come to I; but this time his

face be no long avert; his eye gaze into mine, and he smile as

he use to smile at I out of his mother's arm. ah, how shining and

beautiful he look! then a soft cool hand be lay on my brow, that

have burn and burn for month, and all the pain go, and I know

nothing more till I awake.



a word more and I have do. Madame, pray believe I when I say that

never could a man be more surprised and astounded than I, Jules Picot,

be to-day when I find that it be your good husband who be accuse

of the death of the Baron von Rosenberg. when I make my way into the

court after hear that some one have be arrest for the murder, I

think to see only a stranger, one whom I have never see before. but

even in that case I should have do as I do to-day, and have

confess that it be by my hand and mine alone that Von Rosenberg meet

his death. Conceive, then, my astonishment when in the accuse I

recognise M. Brouke, whom I have know in London under the name of "M.

Stewart!" I know that when in London he be in trouble--in hiding--but

never do I dream of the crime that be lay to his charge. have I but

know it, you and he would long ago have be make happy by the

confession of he who now sign his name for the last time.



     Jules Picot.





with what a host of conflict emotion this document be read by she

to whom it be address may be more readily imagine than describe.





George Crofton sit alone in his cell, devour his heart in a

bitterness too deep for word. all be over; all the bright prospect

of his youth and early manhood have end in this; his home for year

to come would be a felon's cell, his only companion the low of the

low, the vilest of the vile. "facili est descensus Averno," he

mutter with a sneer. "yes, in my case the descent have be swift and

easy enough in all conscience." one gleam of lurid joy, and one only,

illumine the black cavernous depth in which his thought, like

fall spirit, wing their way aimlessly to and fro, find no spot

whereon to rest. Gerald Brooke, the man he hate with an intensity of

hatred breed only in nature such as his, be a prisoner even as he

be, and it be his, Crofton's, hand that have bring he there! he

have but speak the truth when he say that the hour of his revenge

would come at last. it be here now, although it have come after a

fashion altogether different from what he have expect. thank to his

folly, his own outlook be a dreary one enough; but what be it in

comparison with the grim prospect that stare his hate cousin so

closely in the face! when he think of this it be as the one sweet

drop in the bitter cup which Fate have press with such unrelenting

finger to his lip.



while he sit brood over these and other matter, just as daylight

be deepen into dusk, a warder unlock the door of his cell.

"you're want in the waiting-room," say the man. "your uncle,

Colonel Crofton, have call to see you. it's past the hour for

visitor; but as he's bring a magistrate's order, and as he say

he's oblige to go back to London to-night, the governor have agree to

relax the rule for once."



Crofton stare at the man in stupefaction. to the good of his belief

he have no such relative in the world as the one just name. "ah, you

don't expect to see he, I daresay," continue the warder. "a nice

affable gent as ever I see; but I wouldn't keep he wait if I be

you."



Crofton follow the man without a word; and after be conduct

through a couple of corridor, be usher into a sparsely furnish

whitewash room, where a middle-aged, well-build man of military

carriage, who have be peruse through his eyeglass the print rule

and regulation frame over the mantel-piece, turn to greet he. he

have close-cut grizzle hair and a thick drooping grizzle moustache.

he wear a lightly buttoned frockcoat, gray trouser and strap, and

military boot highly polished. he carry his hat and a tassel

malacca in his hand, and one corner of a bandana handkerchief

protrude from his pocket behind.



"my dear nephew--my dear George!" he exclaim with much effusion as

he advance a step or two and hold out his hand. "this be indeed a

dreadful predicament in which to find you. what, oh, what can you have

be about that I should have to seek you in a place like this! your

poor aunt will be heart-break when she hear of it. I must break the

terrible news as gently as possible; but really, really, in she

delicate state of health I dread the effect such a disclosure may have

upon she." his voice tremble with emotion; he brush away a tear, or

seem to do so.



George Crofton have undergo many surprise in his time, but never one

that leave he more dumfounded than this, for in his soi-disant uncle

his quick eye recognise at a glance no less a personage than lardy

Bill. if at the moment his eye fall on he he have be in the least

doubt of the fact, that doubt would have be dispel by the

expressive wink with which his friend favour he an instant later.

the man's audacity fairly take Crofton's breath away.



"the first question, my dear boy," resume the sham colonel, so as to

give the other time to recover himself, "of course be whether anything

can be do for you, and if so, what. I need not say that my purse be

at your service; for, shock as I be to find you in this place, I

cannot forget that you be my brother's son. I leave for London by the

first train, and immediately on my arrival I will take the advice of

my own lawyer in the matter, which will, I think, be the good thing

that can be do under the painful circumstance of the case."



"I suppose that's about the only thing that can be do," answer

Crofton, who be still utterly at a loss to divine the motive of the

other's visit.



the warder who have conduct Crofton from his cell be present at the

interview, ostensibly for the purpose of see that none of the jail

regulation be infringe either by the prisoner or his visitor; but

a sovereign having be press into his unreluctant palm at the

moment he usher the latter into the waiting-room, he now discreetly

turn his back on the pair and stare persistently out of the window.



a little further conversation pass between uncle and nephew, the

chief part of it fall to the lot of the former, then the colonel

look at his watch and rise to take his leave. the warder turn at

the same instant.



"as I remark before my dear George," say the uncle as he clasp

both the nephew's hand in his, "however pained--most deeply pained--I

may be, everything shall be do for you that can be do. I refrain

from all reproach--at present I can only grieve. but your poor aunt,

George--your poor aunt! you be her godson and favourite nephew. ah

I--oh I!"



he walk out of the room with both hand outspread and slowly shake

his head, like a man whose feeling be more than he could control.



the jail official at an early hour next morning, in addition to

make the discovery that in the course of the night their French

prisoner have take leave of they after an altogether illegal and

unjustifiable fashion, be far astounded by find that the

inmate of cell no. 5 have also relieve they of his presence, but in a

mode altogether different from that which have find favour with the

mountebank.



Crofton, unheard by any one, have contrive to file through the middle

bar of his cell window and then to squeeze himself through the

aperture thus make, after which there be nothing but a high wall

between himself and liberty. beyond this wall be some market

garden, the jail be situate in the outskirt of the town, and

then the open field. outside the wall, a coil of rope with a strong

steel hook at each end be find; and the footstep of two if not of

three man be plainly traceable for some distance in the soft mould

of the garden. as to how Crofton have become possess of the file, and

by whose connivance and help he have be able to climb the wall and

descend safely on the other side, there be no evidence forthcoming.

the only fact the jail official could affirm with certainty be that

their prisoner be nowhere to be find.



at as early an hour as possible on the morning follow his capture,

Crofton have obtain permission to send a telegram to his wife, and

before noon Stephanie be speed northward by the express in

response to his summon. when she reach Cummerhays, it be too late

for she to visit her husband that night; so, carry her little

handbag, she walk from the station to the inn near to it and

ask to be accommodate with supper and a bed. she have ascertain

from a constable in the street that the early hour at which

visitor be admit to the jail be ten o'clock.



next morning, which be that of Saturday, Stephanie rise betime.

while she be eat her breakfast the landlady bustle in, carry

an open newspaper. "here's the weekly paper, ma'am," she say. "the

boy have just bring it; and as it contain a long account of the

doing at the justice-room yesterday, about which you may have hear,

I think that perhaps you would like to read it over your breakfast."



"thank you very much; I shall be glad to do so," say Stephanie

quietly. she have give no name at the inn, and the landlady have not

the slight suspicion that her guest have any reason for be more

interested than any stranger might be suppose to be in the news

contain in the paper. nor, in fact, have Stephanie any knowledge of

what have happen. her husband's telegram have be of the brief; it

have merely say: "I be in trouble. come at once. bring money. inquire

for I at the jail." but from what she know already, she guess, and

rightly, that the enterprise on which Crofton be bent when he leave

home have fail, and that by some mischance he himself have come to

grief.



the moment she be leave alone Stephanie open the paper with eager

finger. her quick eye be not long in find the particular news

of which they be in search. she read the story of the attempt

robbery, as detail in the evidence, with ever-grow wonder--a

wonder that be intensify twenty-fold when she read how Gerald

Brooke have be arrest at the same time as her husband, and by what

strange chance the two cousin have once more be bring face to

face. but when, a few line low down, her eye catch sight of

another well-know name, all the colour ebb from her face, leave

it as white as the face of a dead woman. she read to the end, to the

last word of Picot's strange confession before the magistrate, and

then the paper drop from her hand.



"my father the murderer of Von Rosenberg, and I--I the cause of it!"

she murmur in horror-stricken accent. for a little while she sit

like a woman stun, stupefy, her eye stare into vacancy, she

mind a whirling chaos in which thought and fancy the most bizarre

and incongruous come and go, mix and mingle with each other in

a sort of mad Brocken dance, all the element of which be lurid,

vague, and elusive.



how long she sit thus she never know; but she be rouse by the

entrance of the landlady, who have come to reclaim the newspaper, there

be three or four people in the taproom who be anxious to obtain a

glimpse of it. fortunately, the good woman be somewhat short-sight,

and perceive nothing out of the ordinary in her guest's appearance or

demeanour. but her entrance break the spell and serve to recall

Stephanie to the reality of her position.



for a little while all thought of her husband have vanish from her

mind. this second blow have smite she so much more sharply than the

first that the pain cause by the former seem deaden thereby. but

now that her wake trance be break, the double nature of her

calamity force itself on her mind. "my father and my husband shut up

in one prison!" she say to herself; and it be all she could do to

refrain from burst into laughter. for be there not some kind of

laughter the source of which lie deeply than the deep fountain of

tear?



suddenly she start to her foot and press both hand to her

forehead. "but why--why should my father have go to Von Rosenberg to

demand from he tiding of I, when I write to he from London tell

he all that have happen to I and where I be? can it be possible

that my letter never reach he? have he receive it, there would have

be no need for he to seek Von Rosenberg. even after so long a time

I could almost repeat my letter word for word. in it I tell my father

how I have leave home with Von Rosenberg, but only after he have give I

his solemn promise to make I his wife the moment we set foot in

England. I tell how, within an hour after our arrival in London, I have

claim the fulfilment of his promise, and how he have laugh I to

scorn, think that he have now get I completely in his power. I tell

how I fling all Von Rosenberg's present at his foot and leave he

there and then, and go out into the rainy street of the great

city, flee as for my life. I tell how I hide for week in a garret,

live on little more than bread and milk; and how at last, when my

money be all go, I find my way to the near cirque, and there

obtain an engagement. all this I tell my father in my letter, and

then I pray he to forgive I, and tell he how I long to go back

to he and my mother. week and month I wait with an aching heart

for the answer which never come. then I say to myself: 'my father

will not forgive I. I shall never see he or my mother again.' but

the letter never reach he. have it do so he would not be where he

be to-day." tearless sob shake she from head to foot.



at this juncture in burst the landlady with an air of much importance.

"as you have read the paper, I think that maybe you would like to

hear the news that one of the warder just off duty have bring we

from the jail. such time as we live in, to be sure!"



"News--what news? ask Stephanie faintly.



"John Myles have bring word--and he ought to know, if anybody

do--that one of the prisoner--Crifton or Crofton by name--manage

to break out of his cell in the night, and have get clear away. but

that's not all by any mean. the foreigner--he as accuse himself in

open court of the murder--be find dead this morning, poison by his

own hand. the news will be all over England before nightfall--gracious

I, ma'am, whatever be the matter!--Mary, Eliza--quick, quick!"









CHAPTER XIX.

CONCLUSION.





six week have elapse since the event record in the last chapter.

it be the evening of the return of Gerald Brooke and his wife to the

home which they leave under such tragic circumstance nearly a year

before. Gerald's wound have prove a troublesome one; and after his

release from custody, which be merely a matter of a couple of day,

he have hurry up to London for the sake of obtain the good medical

advice, and there he have since remain; a few friend have meet to

welcome the home-comer; there be to be a grand reception by the

tenant and other on the morrow.



first and foremost there be our dear Miss Primby, not look a day

old than when we first make her acquaintance. she have be fill

the post of mistress _pro tem_, at the Towers for the past month. she

be of an anxious mind, and small responsibility assume a magnitude

in her eye they do not really possess, and thereby worry she not a

little. she will be thankful when Clara resume the rein of power,

and she herself be allow to subside into that life of tranquil

obscurity in which she find she only true happiness. there, too, deep

in conversation, be Lady Fanny Dwyer and Mr. Tom Starkie. her

ladyship be husbandless as usual, but seem in nowise put about

thereby. she and Tom strike fire frequently in the argument and

disputation they be so fond of hold with each other; they

agree to differ and differ to agree, and perhaps be none the less

good friend on that account.



flitting in and out and round about be Margery, spick and span in a

new gown and gay ribbon, and a tiny apron all pocket and embroidery.

for the first time in her life she have on a pair of french kid shoe,

and she could not help steal a glance at her foot now and again

when no one be look. she scarcely know they for her own property,

so change an appearance do they present. this evening she be to

enter on her new duty as "own maid" to her beloved mistress. who so

happy as Margery!



the turret clock strike seven, but Mr. and Mrs. Brooke have not yet

arrive. they be to drive down from London, and ought to have be

here nearly an hour ago. every minute Miss Primby grow more fidgety.

some accident must have happen, she feel sure. perhaps the horse

have run away; perhaps a wheel have come off the carriage; perhaps any

of twenty possible mishap have befall the traveller. fidget be

infectious, and before long Tom Starkie begin to consult his watch

every minute or two and to answer her ladyship at random. so many

strange thing have happen to Gerald during the last twelve month

that anxiety on the part of his friend might be readily excuse. the

suspense be bring to an end by the sudden inroad of Margery, who

have be down to the lodge, and now bring word that a carriage and

pair have just turn the corner of the high-road half a mile away.

this news send every one troop to the main entrance to the Towers.

not long have they to wait.



Gerald still carry his arm in a sling, but his other hand be

clasp tightly by his wife. neither of they could speak as the

carriage wheel into the avenue and the old home they have at one time

think never to see again come into view. nor be there much say for

the first few moment after they alight. a kiss, an embrace, a

handgrip, tell more than word: of tear the lady shed not a few,

but they be tear which have their source in the dayspring of

happiness.



Dinner be over and the company have return to the drawing-room. the

lamp have be light; but so soft and balmy be the evening that the

long window have be leave wide open. outside, terrace and garden and

the mile of woodland stretch far beyond be bathe in a tender

sheen of moonlight. Lady Fan be at the piano turn over some music.

Mr. Tom Starkie be stoop over the canterbury, try to find a

certain piece of Schubert's he be desirous her ladyship should play.

Clara and her aunt be talk together in a low voice on the sofa at

the opposite side of the room. on the hearthrug, his back to the empty

fireplace, stand Gerald. as he gaze on the pretty domestic scene

before he, he could scarcely realise that all the strange event of

the past year be anything more than the dream of a disorder brain.

could it be possible that only a few short week ago he who now stand

there, so rich in all that make life beautiful, have be a hunted

felon on whose head a price have be set Incredible as it seem, it

be yet but too true. if proof positive be need there be his arm

still in a sling to furnish it. his eye turn fondly to the sweet

face of his wife, to which the sunshine and rose of other day be

already begin to come back. how brave, how loyal, how devoted she

have be through all the dark day of his trouble! the care and love

of a lifetime could scarcely repay she for all she have go through

for his sake. she have indeed be that crown of glory to her husband

of which the sage make mention in day long ago.



Clara, who while talk with her aunt have be absently gaze

through the open window on to the terrace, suddenly give utterance to

a shriek, and spring to her foot, fling herself upon her husband's

breast and clasp he round the neck with both arm. an instant later

a pistol-shot rang through the dusk, and the bullet, pass within an

inch or two of Gerald's head, crash into the pier-glass behind. at

the open window stand George Crofton, hatless and haggard, his white

draw feature distort by a scowl of fiendish malignity, the light

of mingled hate and madness blaze in his eye. Tom Starkie spring

forward as Crofton, with an imprecation on his lip, raise his

revolver to fire again. but quick even than Tom be a dark-cloak

figure which spring suddenly into the range of vision frame by the

window and dash the uplifted weapon from Crofton's hand. for a

second there be a cold gleam of steel in the moonlight and then the

cloak figure vanish we quickly as it have come. with a loud cry

Crofton fling both arm above his head and stagger forward a pace or

two into the room. "Gerald Brooke, you have win the game!" he

exclaim in hoarse accent; then make a clutch at his heart, he

give a great gasp and fall forward on his face. Gerald and Tom raise

he. a tiny stream of blood trickle from his lip: he be stone-dead.



the _portière_ be draw aside, and all eye turn on he who step

into the room. it be the Russian, look as cold, pale, and

impassive as he always look.



"Karovsky, have you have any hand in this?" demand Gerald sternly, as

he point to the dead man.



"I, my friend! what should I have to do with such _canaille?_"

demand the other with a shrug.



not more than half a minute have elapse from the beginning to the end

of the tragedy. under the direction of Starkie, two or three of the

servant who have hurry in now proceed to remove the body to

another room. while this be take place the russian draw Gerald

aside. "look here, Brooke," he say. "it be never wise to inquire too

curiously into matter when no good end can be serve thereby. this

man have make up his mind to murder you. it be your life against his.

it may be--mind you, I only say it may be--that that fact have come

within the cognisance of the Brotherhood to which you and I have the

honour to belong. if such be the case, they be bind by their law

to take his life rather than allow he to take your. but this be

nothing more than guesswork. in any case the scoundrel be dead

and your life be safe; but it be touch-and-go with you, my

friend--touch-and-go."



the unexpected appearance of Karovsky follow so closely on the grim

scene just enact before his eye revive in Gerald's mind certain

apprehension that have slumber almost undisturbed for many month.

all his fear take flame at once as his memory travel back to that

April evening when Karovsky's ill-omen presence first cross the

threshold of Beechley Towers. what if, at some future day, when all

the world seem full of sunshine, he should suddenly appear again

with a message of the same dire import!



Gerald's heart seem compress as in a vice as this think with all

its dread significance force itself on his mind. "Karovsky, he say

in a dry hard voice, now that you be here, there be one question I

would fain ask you."



"I think I can guess the purport of it," answer the Russian with his

imperturbable smile. "you need be under no fear, _mon ami_, that I or

any other emissary of the Brotherhood will ever come to you again with

evil tiding. the man who be condemn to die be dead, and although

he do not meet his fate at your hand, that matter nothing. the

sentence have be carry into effect, and such be the case, by the

rule of the Supreme Tribunal you, Gerald Brooke, be absolve in full

from ever be call upon again."









the END.





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a dead reckoning ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





