The project Gutenberg eBook of Mr. Justice Maxell

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Mr. Justice Maxell



author: Edgar Wallace



Release date: October 19, 2019 [ebook #60527]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Al Haines, Cindy Beyer & the online Distributed

        Proofreaders Canada team at http://www.pgdpcanada.net





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK MR. JUSTICE MAXELL ***



                             popular novel

                                   BY

                       e d g a r   W A L L a c e

                              published BY

                       WARD, LOCK & CO., LIMITED

                          in various edition



sander of the RIVER                  the DAFFODIL MYSTERY

bones                                 the nine bear

bosambo of the RIVER                  the BOOK of ALL-POWER

bones in LONDON                       MR. JUSTICE MAXELL

the keeper of the king’S PEACE       the book of BART

the COUNCIL of JUSTICE                the DARK eyes of LONDON

the DUKE in the suburbs               CHICK

the PEOPLE of the RIVER               SANDI the king-maker

down under DONOVAN                    the three OAK MYSTERY

private selby                         the fellowship of the FROG

the ADMIRABLE carfew                  blue hand

the MAN who BOUGHT LONDON             GREY TIMOTHY

the just MEN of CORDOVA               a debt DISCHARGED

the SECRET HOUSE                      those FOLK of BULBORO

kate PLUS ten                         the MAN who be nobody

LIEUTENANT bones                      the GREEN RUST

the ADVENTURES of HEINE               the fourth plague

JACK O’ JUDGMENT                      the RIVER of STARS









                              MR. JUSTICE

                                 MAXELL





                                   BY

                             EDGAR WALLACE





                     WARD,  LOCK  &  CO.,  LIMITED

                          LONDON and MELBOURNE









   Printed in Great Britain by Butler & Tanner Ltd., Frome and London









                           Mr. Justice Maxell









                               CHAPTER I





it be two hour after the muezzin have call to evening prayer, and

night have canopy Tangier with a million star. in the little Sok, the

bread-seller sit cross-legged behind their ware, their candle burn

steadily, for there be not so much as the whisper of a wind blow.

the monotonous strumming of a guitar from a Moorish café, the agonise

_barlak!_ of a belate donkey-driver bring his charge down the steep

street which lead to the big bazaar, the shuffle of bare foot on

Tangier’s cobble, and the distant hush-hush of the roller break

upon the amber shore—these be the only sound which the night hold.



John Maxell sit outside the Continental Café, in the condition of bodily

content which a good dinner induce. mental content should have

accompany such a condition, but even the memory of a perfect dinner

could not wholly obliterate a certain uneasiness of mind. he have be

uneasy when he come to Tangier, and his journey through France and Spain

have be accompany by certain apprehension and doubt which

Cartwright have by no mean dispel.



rather, by his jovial evasion, his cheery optimism, and at time his

little irritable outbreak of temper, he have give the eminent King’s

Counsel far cause for disquiet.



Cartwright sit at the other side of the table, and be unusually quiet.

this be a circumstance which be by no mean displease to Maxell, for

the night be not conducive to talk. there be in Northern Africa many

night like this, when one wish to sit in dead silence and let thought

take its own course, unchecked and untrammelled. in Morocco such night

be common and, anyway, Maxell have always find it difficult to discuss

business matter after dinner.



Cartwright have no temperament and his quiet be due to other cause. it

be he who break the silence, knock out his pipe on the iron-top

table with a clang which jar his more sensitive companion to the very

spine.



“I’d stake my life and my soul on there be a reef,” he say with a

suddenness which be almost as jarring. “why, you’ve see the outcrop

for yourself, and ben’t it exactly the same formation as you see on the

Rand?”



Maxell nod.



though a common-law man, he have be associate in mining case and have

make a very careful study of the whole problem of gold extraction.



“it look right enough to I,” he say, “but as against that we have the

fact that some clever engineer have spend a great deal of time and

money try to locate the reef. that there be gold in Morocco everybody

know, and I should say, Cartwright, that you be right. but where be

the reef? it would cost a fortune to bore, even though we have the other

boring to guide we.”



the other make an impatient noise.



“of course, if the reef be all map out it would be a simple matter,

but then we shouldn’t get on to it, as we be to-day, at the cost of a

few thousand. hang it all, Maxell, we’ve get to take a certain amount

of risk! I know it’s a gamble quite as well as you. there’s no sense in

argue that point with I. but other thing be gamble too. Law be a

gamble to you for many year, and a big gamble after you take silk.”



this be a sore point with Maxell, as the other know. a prosperous

junior, he have be call within the Bar, and take upon himself the

function and style of King’s Counsellor in the hope that his prosperity

would still far be expand. and, like so many other man, he have

discover that the successful junior be not necessarily the successful

K.C.



fortunately for he, he have long before contest and win a seat in

Parliament, and his service to the Government of the day have to some

extent ensure his future. but, financially, he have suffer

considerably.



“no,” he say, “silk ben’t any great catch to a man, I agree; and it be

certainly a gamble, and a lose gamble.”



“which remind I,” say Cartwright, “there be a talk, before I leave

London, that you would be give Cabinet rank.”



Maxell laugh.



“it be extremely unlikely,” he say. “anyway, if they make I

Solicitor-General, that don’t carry Cabinet rank.”



“it carry a lot of money,” say Cartwright after a pause for a moment,

“and it’s money that count just now, Maxell.”



again the lawyer nod.



he might have add that, but for the need for money, he would long

since have drop his association with Alfred Cartwright, though

Cartwright’s name stand very high in certain circle of the City of

London. they have be at school together, though in that period there

have be no very great friendship between they. and Cartwright be

mark out for success from the beginning. he inherit a considerable

business when his father die, and he enlarge and improve upon it. he

have take up a hundred and one outside interest, and have make most of

they pay. a few of they do not pay, and it be whisper that the

loss upon his failure take a considerable slice of the balance that

accrue from his success.



they have meet again when Maxell be a junior and Cartwright the defendant

in a case which, have he lose, would have make he some thirty thousand

pound the poor. when Maxell think back upon that event, he have to

confess that it be not a pleasant case, be one in which Cartwright

have be charge with something which be tantamount to

misrepresentation; and, although he have win, and win brilliantly, he have

never feel any great pride in his achievement.



“no,” he say (the pause be frequent and long), “I should hardly

imagine that the Prime Minister love I to that extent. in Parliament

you have to be an uncomfortable quantity to be really successful. you

must be strong enough to have a national following, and sufficiently

independent to keep the whip guess. I be know as a safe man, and I

hold a safe seat, which I couldn’t lose if I try. that don’t make

for promotion. of course, I could have have an Under-secretaryship for

the asking, and that mean a couple of thousand a year, but it also

mean that you last out the life of the administration in a subordinate

capacity, and that, by the time you have make good, your party be in the

cold shade of opposition, and there be no job go.”



he shake his head, and return immediately to the question of the

missing reef, as though he wish to take the subject from his own

personal affair.



“you say that it would cost we a lot of money if the reef be prove,”

he say. “ben’t it cost we a lot now?”



Cartwright hesitate.



“yes, it be. as a matter of fact,” he confess, “the actual reef be

cost nothing, or next to nothing, because El Mograb be help I. in

our own business—that be to say, in the Syndicate—our expense be

more or less small; but I be do a little independent buying, and that

have mean the spending of money. I be take up all the ground to the

south of the Angera—a pretty expensive business.”



Maxell shift uneasily in his chair.



“that be rather worry I, you know, Cartwright,” he say; “your

scheme be ever so much too ambitious. I be figure it out this

afternoon as I be sit in my room, and I come to the conclusion

that, if the scheme as you outlined it to I yesterday go through, it

would mean your find two million.”



“three,” correct the other cheerfully, “but think what it mean,

Maxell! suppose it go through. supposing we strike a reef, and the

reef continue, as I believe it will, through the country I be take

up! why, it may mean a hundred million to I!”



the other sigh.



“I have reach the point where I think a hundred thousand be an

enormous sum,” he say. “however, you know your own business well,

Cartwright. but I want to be satisfied in the matter in which we be

associate together, that my liability do not exceed my power to pay.

and there be another matter.”



Cartwright guess the “other matter.”



“well?” he ask.



“I be look over your title this afternoon,” say Maxell, “and I see

no reference to the old spanish working. I remember that you tell I a

Spaniard have take up a considerable stretch of country and have

exhaust his capital try to prove the reef—Señor Brigot, ben’t

that his name?”



the other nod curtly.



“a drunkard—and a bad lot,” he say. “he’s break.”



Maxell smile.



“his moral character don’t count so far as the detail go; what do

matter be that if your theory be correct, the reef must run through his

property. what be you go to do about that?”



“buy he out,” say the other.



he rise abruptly.



“I’m walk up to the Sok,” he say. “come along?”



they tramp up the long, steep hill-street together, and they do not

speak till they have pass through the ancient gate into the unrelieved

gloom which lie outside the city.



“I don’t understand you, Maxell—you take an old man’s view of thing,”

say Cartwright irritably. “you’re comparatively young, you’re a

good-looker. why the devil don’t you marry, and marry money?”



Maxell laugh.



“have you ever try to marry money?” he ask dryly.



“no,” say the other after a pause, “but I should think it be pretty

simple.”



“try it,” say the laconic Maxell. “it be simple in book, but in real

life it be next to impossible. I go about a great deal in society of all

kind, and I can tell you that I have never yet meet an eligible spinster

with money—that be to say, large money. I agree with you,” he go on

after a while, “a man like myself should marry. and he should marry

well. I could give a woman a good position, but she’s get to be the

right kind of woman. there be some time when I’m just frantic about my

position. I be get old—I be forty-seven next birthday—and every

day that slip past be a day lose. I ought to be marry, but I cann’t

afford a wife. it be a blackguardly thing to talk about money in

connection with marriage and yet somehow I can think of nothing

else—whenever the thought arise in my mind I see an imaginary beauty

sit on a big bag of gold!” he chuckle to himself. “let’s go back,”

he say, “the big Sok always give I the creep.”



something lumber past he in the darkness, some big, overpower

beast with an unpleasant smell, and a guttural voice cry in Arabic:

“beware!”



“Camels!” say Cartwright briefly. “they’re bring in the stuff for

the morning market. the night’s young yet, Maxell. let we go up to the

theatre.”



“the theatre?” say Maxell. “I don’t even know the theatre be open.”



“it be call theatre by courtesy,” explain Cartwright; “the

inhabitant refer to it as the circus. it’s a big wooden place on the

sea edge——”



“I know it, I know it,” say Maxell. “what be be play? the only

people I have ever see there have be spanish artiste—and pretty bad

artiste, too.”



“well, there’s a treat for you. it be an english company, or rather, a

variety company with a number of English turn,” say Cartwright. “we

might do bad—at least, I might,” he add ominously.



when they reach the theatre they find it sparsely fill. cartwright

take one of the open box, and his companion settle himself into a

corner to smoke. the turn be of the kind which be usually to be meet

with on the Levant; a tawdrily attire lady sing a humorous song in

Spanish, the humour be frankly indecent. there be a juggler and a

man with perform dog, and then “miss O’Grady” be announce.



“English,” say Cartwright, turn to the programme.



“she may even be irish,” say Maxell dryly.



the wheezy little orchestra play a few bar and the girl come on. she

be pretty—there be no doubt about that—and of a prettiness which

satisfy both man. she be also british or american, for the song she

sing be in a French with which both man be familiar.



“it be horrible to see an english girl in a place like this and in such

company,” say Maxell.



Cartwright nod.



“I wonder where she’s stay,” he ask, half to himself, and a

contemptuous little smile curl Maxell’s lip.



“be you go to rescue she from her infamous surrounding?” he ask,

and Cartwright snap round on he.



“I wish to heaven you wouldn’t be sarcastic, Maxell. that’s twice this

evening——”



“sorry,” say the other, snick off the ash of his cigar. “I be in a

cynical mood to-night.”



he raise his hand to applaud the girl as she bow herself from the

stage, and glance round the house. three box away be a small party

of man, whom he judge be the son of prosperous member of the

spanish colony. their finger flash with diamond, their cigarette

burn from jewelled holder. cartwright follow the direction of the

other’s eye.



“she’s make a hit, that Miss O’Grady,” he say. “these fellow will be

tumble over one another to present she with verbal bouquet. I wonder

where she live!” he say again.



presently the young man rise in a body and leave the box, and Cartwright

grin.



“do you mind hang on here whilst I go outside?”



“not a bit,” say the other. “where be you off to? to find out where

she live?”



“there you go again,” grumble Cartwright. “I think Tangier make you

liverish.”



when he have get to the promenade, the man have disappear, but a

question direct to the head attendant reveal, as he have expect,

the objective of the little party at the stage door.



the stage door be reach from the outside of the theatre and involve

a journey over rubble and brick heap. presently he come to an open

doorway, where sit a solitary half-caste smoking a pipe and read an

old _Heraldo_.



“oh, _hombre_,” say Cartwright in Spanish, “have you see my three

friend come in here?”



“yes, Señor,” nod the man; “they have just enter.”



he indicate the direction, which lie through a dark and smelly passage.



Cartwright walk along this stuffy hallway, and, turn the corner,

come upon an interesting group gather about a closed door, against

which one, and the least sober, of the party be hammer. near by

stand a small, stout man in soiled evening dress, grin his approval,

and it be clear that the visitor be at once known and welcome.



“open the door, my dream of joy,” hiccup the young man, hammer at

the panel. “we have come to bring you homage and adoration—tell she to

open the door, Jose,” he address the manager of Tangier’s theatre, and

the small man mince forward and speak in English.



“it be all right, my dear. some friend of mine wish to see you.”



a voice inside, which Cartwright recognise, answer:



“I will not see they. tell they to go away.”



“you hear?” say the manager, shrug his shoulder. “she will not see

you. now go back to your seat and let I persuade she.”



“Señor!” he raise his eyebrow to the unexpected apparition of

Cartwright. “what be you do here?”



“I have come to see my friend,” say Cartwright, “miss O’Grady.”



“it be forbid to enter the theatre through the saloon of artiste,”

say the small man pompously. “if Miss O’Grady be your friend, you must

wait for she until the performance be over.”



Cartwright take no notice. he be a tall man of athletic build and

shoulder his way past the other with no difficulty, he tap on the

panel.



“miss O’Grady,” he say, “here be an english visitor want to see you!”



“English?” say the voice. “come in for the love of Mike!”



the door be open, and a girl with a silk kimono pull over her stage

dress, offer he a smile welcome. the young Spaniard who have be

hammer on the panel of the door would have follow, but Cartwright’s

arm bar he.



“do you want this fellow?” he ask.



“do I want he——” say Miss O’Grady bitterly, “do I want the scarlet

fever or measle? you bet I don’t want he. he’s be pester I ever

since I’ve be here.”



“do you hear what the lady say?” say Cartwright, speak in Spanish.

“she do not desire your acquaintance.”



“my father own this theatre,” say the young man loudly.



“then he’s get a rotten property,” reply the calm Cartwright.



the Spaniard turn in a rage to his soiled satellite.



“you will put this man out at once, Jose, or there will be trouble for

you.”



the little man shrug his helplessness.



“Sir,” he say in English, “you see my unhappy position. the señor be

the son of my proprietor and it will be bad for I if you stay. I ask

you as a friend and caballero to go at once and spare I misfortune.”



Cartwright look at the girl.



“must you go on again in this infernal place?” he ask.



she nod, laughter and admiration in her eye.



“what happen if you chuck this infernal job?”



“I’m fire,” say the girl. “I’ve a ten week’ contract with these

people.”



“what do you get?”



“two hundred and fifty peseta a week,” she say contemptuously. “it’s a

wonderful salary, ben’t it?”



he nod.



“how many more week have you to go before your contract be finish?”



“another four,” she say, “we’re play in Cadiz next week, in Seville

the week after, then Malaga, then Granada.”



“do you like it?”



“like it!” the scorn in her voice be her answer.



“the dress belong to the troupe, I guess,” he say. “get into your

street clothe and I’ll wait for you.”



“what be you go to do?” she ask, eye he narrowly.



“I’ll make good your lost contract,” he say.



“why?”



he shrug his shoulder.



“I don’t like to see an english girl——”



“irish,” she correct.



“I mean irish,” he laugh. “I don’t like to see an irish girl do

this kind of thing with a lot of horrible half-breed. you’ve talent

enough for London or Paris. what about Paris? I know any number of

people there.”



“could you get I a good engagement?” she ask eagerly.



he nod.



“what’s your name, anyway?” she demand.



“never mind about my name. Smith, Brown, Jones, Robinson—anything you

like.”



it be the agitated little manager who interfere.



“Sir,” he say, “you must not persuade this lady to leave the theatre. I

have she under heavy penalty. I can bring she before the judge——”



“now just forget that!” say Cartwright, “there be no judge in Tangier.

she be a british subject, and the most you can do be to take she before

the British Consul.”



“when she return to Spain——” say the little man grow apoplectic.



“she will not return to Spain. she will go to Gibraltar if she go

anywhere,” say Cartwright, “and from Gibraltar she will be on the sea

until she reach a british port.”



“I will go to the Spanish Consul,” scream the little manager, claw

the air. “I will not be rob. you shall not interfere with my

business, you——”



much of this, think Cartwright, be intend for the glowering young

Spaniard who stand in the background. he go outside, close the door

and stand with his back toward it. on a whisper instruction from his

employer’s son, whose hand be now flicker fire as he gesticulate

in his excitement, Jose the manager disappear, and return a few

minute later with two stalwart stage hand.



“will you leave this theatre at once and quietly?” demand the foaming

manager.



“I will not leave the theatre until I be ready,” say Cartwright, “and

if I leave otherwise, I shall certainly not leave quietly.”



the manager stand back with a melodramatic gesture.



“eject the caballero,” he say finely.



the two man hesitate. then one come forward.



“the señor must leave,” he say.



“in good time, my friend,” reply Cartwright.



a hand grip his arm, but instantly he have shake free, and have drive

with all his strength at the man’s jaw. the stage hand drop like a

log. he push at the door behind he.



“put your kimono over your thing,” he say quickly. “you can send the

stage kit back to-morrow. there be go to be a rough house.”



“all right,” say a voice behind he, and the girl slip out, still in

her kimono and carry a bundle of clothe under her arm.



“you know the way out? I’ll follow you. now, Jose,” he say flippantly,

“I’m go—quietly.”









                               CHAPTER II





he leave behind he a pandemonium of sound and a scintillation of

flickering diamond. he find the girl wait for he in the darkness.



“Br-r-r! it’s cold!” she shiver.



“where be you stay?” he ask.



“at the little hotel opposite the British Consulate,” she say. “it

ben’t much of a place, but it be the only room I could get—at the

price.”



“you’d well not go there,” he say. “I’ll send for your box in the

morning. give I those clothe.”



he take they from she and put they under his arm, and she fall in by his

side.



“I be glad to be out of it,” she say breathlessly, take his arm;

“it’s a dog’s life. I be go to quit to-morrow. those boy have be

follow I round ever since I come to Tangier. I don’t think I’d

well go back to my hotel, anyway,” she say after a moment; “they’re a

pretty tough crowd, these Spaniards, and though I don’t understand their

beastly language, I know just what kind of happy holiday they’re

plan for I.”



they be in the town, pass up the street of the mosque, when she

ask he:



“where be you take I?”



“to the Continental,” he say.



“like this?” she say in dismay, and he laugh.



“I have an office in this street,” he say; “you can go in and dress.

I’ll wait for you outside.”



he show she into the tiny room which serve as the headquarters of the

Angera Gold Mining Syndicate, and sit on the irregular stone step,

wait until she be dress. presently she come out, a presentable and

an attractive figure.



“I have just think,” he say, “that you have well to go the

Central—I be stay at the Continental and it wouldn’t look nice.”



“I’ve be think something of the sort myself,” she say. “what about

my broken engagement? be you joke when you say you would pay? I

hate talk about money, but I be break—Jose owe I a week’s salary.”



“I’ll make good the money to-morrow,” he say. “I can give you a tenner

now.”



“what be the idea?” she ask he again. “I’ve read a lot of book, and

I know the knight errant business backwards. you don’t strike I as

be a something-for-nothing man.”



“I’m not,” he say coolly. “it occur to I when I see you on the

stage, that you might be useful. I want a person in Paris I can

trust—somebody who could look after my interest.”



“I’m not a business woman,” she say quickly. “I hate business.”



“business be do by man,” say he significantly. “and there be a few

man I want you to keep track of. do you understand that?”



she nod.



“I see,” she say at last. “it be well than I think.”



he do not trouble to ask she what she have think, or what she imagine

he have plan, but see she into the hotel, arrange for a room, and

walk slowly back to the Continental. he be in the vestibule of that

hotel before he remember that he have leave an eminent King’s Counsel

and Member of Parliament smoke his cigar in a _loge_ of the tangy

circus.



                 *        *        *        *        *



“I miss you,” say Maxell the next morning. “when you remember and

come to pick I up, I be on my way back—we must have pass somewhere

in the little Sok. what happen last night?”



“nothing much,” say Cartwright airily. “I go round and see the girl.

she be very amusing.”



“how amusing?” ask the other curiously.



“oh, just amusing.” vaguely: “I find she annoy by the attention which

be be pay to she by a veritable spanish hidalgo.”



“and you sail in and rescue she, eh?” say Maxell. “and what happen

to she after she be rescue?”



“I see her home to her hotel, and there the matter end. by the way,

she leave by the _Gibel Musa_ for Gibraltar this morning.”



“Hm!” Maxell look absently at the letter he have in his hand, fold it

and put it away.



“be the mail in?” ask Cartwright, interested, and Maxell nod.



“I suppose you’ve have your daily letter from your kiddie?”



Maxell smile.



“yes,” he say, “it be not a baby letter, but it be very amusing.”



“how old be she?” ask Cartwright.



“she must be nine or ten,” say the other.



“I wonder if it be just coincidence, or whether it be fate,” muse

Cartwright.



“what be a coincidence?” ask the other.



“the fact that you’ve get a kid to look after, and I’m in a sort of way

responsible for a bright lad. mine be less interesting than your, I

think. anyway, he’s a boy and a sort of cousin. he have two fool parent

who be bear to slavery—the sort of people who be content to work for

somebody all their life and regard revolt against their condition as an

act of impiety. I’ve only see the kid once, and he strike I as the

sort who might break loose from that kind of life and take a chance.

otherwise, I wouldn’t have interest myself in he.”



“how far do your interest extend?” ask Maxell curiously. “you’re not

the sort of person, I should imagine, who would take up the unfortunate

poor as a hobby.”



“not a something-for-nothing man, in fact,” laugh Cartwright. “I’ve

be tell that twice in twenty-four hour.”



“who be the other person—the actress?”



Cartwright roar with laughter and slap the other on the knee.



“you’re a good guesser,” he say. “no, I be not a something-for-nothing

person. I’m one of those optimist who plant fir cone so that I shall

have some good firewood for my old age. I don’t know what sort of a man

Timothy will make, but, as I say, he shape good, and anyway, you and I

be in the same boat.”



“except this,” say Maxell, “that from what you say, you ben’t

particularly interested in your protégé, and you don’t really care

whether he shape good or shape bad.”



“that’s true,” admit Cartwright. “he’s an experiment.”



“my little girl be something more than that,” say Maxell quietly;

“she’s the only live thing I have any real affection for—she be my

dead brother’s child.”



“your niece, eh? well, that give you an interest which I have not. I

never have a niece and I should just hate to be call uncle, anyway.”



their conversation be interrupt at this point by the arrival of a

small man dress in his good clothe. on his brow be a frown which be

intend to be terrible, but be slightly amusing. Jose Ferreira have

dress and prepare himself for an interview which, as he have describe

to his friend, could not fail to be at once “terrifying and vital.”

for, as he have say: “this man have slice my life!”



he begin his speech to Cartwright as he have rehearse it.



“_estoy indignado——_”



but Cartwright cut he short with an expression of mock fear.

“_Horroroso!_ you be indignant, be you? well, come, little man, and

tell I why you be indignant.”



“Señor,” say the man solemnly, “you have put upon I a humiliation and

a shame which all my life I shall regret.”



the conversation be in Spanish, but Maxell be an excellent spanish

scholar.



“what’s the trouble?” he ask, before Jose, still labour under the

sense of his wrong, could get go again.



“listen to he and discover,” mock Cartwright. “I have take from his

incomparable company its joy and its gem.”



“in other word, the amiable Miss O’Grady,” say Maxell.



“yes, yes, señor,” break in Jose. “for I it be ruin! the money I have

spend to make my company perfect! it be finance by one who be the

great man in Tangier and it be his son who tell I that, unless I

bring back this lady—for I there be the street and the gutter,” he

weep.



Maxell look slyly at his companion.



“there’s another chance for you to plant a fir cone,” he say. “cann’t

you find some use for this gentleman?”



but Cartwright be not smile.



“Señor Ferreira,” he say crisply, “you be, as all Spain know, a thief

and a rogue. if you associate with big thief and big scoundrel,

that be your business. I can only tell you that you may think yourself

lucky I do not bring this case before the Spanish Consul. I assure you,

you would never have put your foot in Tangier again after the story I

have hear about you.”



the little Spaniard be open-mouthed and impressed. he be also a little

frightened. cartwright’s accusation have be at a venture, but he argue

that it be scarcely likely that, in an establishment of the description

which Mr. Ferreira control, there could have be no incident which

reflect upon the manager.



“everything which be say about I be a lie!” say the little man

vigorously. “I have live a life of the high virtue! to-day I

complain to the British Consul, and we shall see!”



“Complain,” say Cartwright.



“this chance I will give you.” Señor Ferreira wag a fat, stumpy

finger. “restore to I Miss O’Grady, and the matter shall go no

far.”



“Miss O’Grady have leave Tangier,” say the other calmly, “so it be clear

to you that I cannot restore she.”



“she have not leave,” vociferate the Spaniard. “we have a man to watch the

boat leave for the _Gibel Musa_ and she do not leave the pier.”



“she leave the beach,” explain Cartwright patiently; “she be row out

by a boatman from the Cecil. at this moment she be half-way to

Gibraltar.”



Mr. Ferreira groan.



“it be ruin for I,” he say. “perhaps for you also,” he add

ominously. “I can do no less than depart for Paris to lay this matter

before my excellent patron, Señor Don——”



Cartwright jerk his head to the door.



“get out,” he say, and turn his attention to the newspaper which he

have pick up from the table.



Maxell wait until the little man have go, still seethe with his

“indignado,” then turn to Cartwright.



“this be rather a serious matter, Cartwright; what have happen to the

girl?”



“don’t you hear? I have send she to Gibraltar,” say Cartwright. “I

wouldn’t leave a dog in that company. and from Gibraltar she go home

by the first P. & O.,” he say briefly.



“Hm!” say Maxell for the second time.



“what the devil be you ‘hming’ about?” snarl his companion. “the girl

be go. I shall not see she again. it be an act of charity. do you

disapprove?”



“I’m sorry,” say Maxell. “I don’t know you feel so bad about it. no, I

think you’ve do the girl a very good turn. but in these day one

don’t expect——”



“blessed be he that expecteth nothing, Maxell,” say cartwright

sententiously, “for he shall not be disappoint. I don’t suppose that

the proprietor, whoever he be, care a snap of his finger about the

matter—it be his infernal son who will fire the adorable Jose.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



that afternoon the two man have an interview on the outskirt of the town

with a very plainly dressed Moor, who come to they so cautiously that

the observer might have be pardon if they think he be a

criminal. in the eye of the divine ruler of Morocco he be something

more than a criminal, because he be an emissary of El Mograb, the

Pretender. there be a price upon the messenger’s head, and his caution

be, therefore, commendable. he bring a letter from El Mograb to

Cartwright, and it be a message of cheer.



Maxell and his friend have go out early in the afternoon and have wait

two hour under a scorch sun for the courier to arrive. for a man of

law, the fact that he be coquet with the Sultan’s enemy do not

distress Maxell, who know the history of the country too well to worry

very much about Sultan or Pretender. the Sultan’s reign, mark with the

turbulence of people and the self-indulgence of monarch, be already

doom. his uncle, El Mograb, a bear leader of man and captain of seven

thousand well-arm soldier, be but wait the psychological moment

to strike; and Adbul, with his motor-car and brass bedstead, his

geegaw and his frippery, would disappear into the limbo which be

especially reserve for extravagant and unstable ruler.



the news from El Mograb be good. it reconfirm the concession which

one of his shereef have make on his behalf, and send a message in

flowery Arabic—a message of thank to the man who have supply he with

the very necessary rifle.



“that be news to I,” say Cartwright as they ride back to the town. “I

don’t know you be gun-run, Maxell, or that you be so solid with

El Mograb.”



“I like El Mograb,” say Maxell. “he’s one of the many Moors who have

impress I. you mustn’t forget that I have be visit Morocco since

I be a boy and most of the chief be know to I personally. I know El

Mograb’s brother, who be kill at Tetuan, and when he be a favourite

in court circle he entertain I at Fez.”



“what be his word worth?” ask Cartwright carelessly.



“it be worth all the contract that ever go to Somerset House for

stamp,” say the other with emphasis. “I think you can go ahead with

your scheme.”



Cartwright nod.



“I’ll go back to London and raise the money,” he say. “we shall want a

couple of million eventually, but half a million will do to go on with.

you have well be with I in the big scheme, Maxell. there be nothing to

lose for you. you’ll be in on the ground floor. what be the good of your

pottering about with your little company—I mean the Parent Company?”



“I have faith in that,” say Maxell. “I know just the amount of my

indebtedness.”



“you’re a fool,” say the other shortly. “the big scheme may mean

million to you, and I shall want your help and guidance.”



Maxell hesitate. the lure be dazzle, the prize be immense. but it

mean risk which he be not prepared to take. he know something of

cartwright’s financial method; he have see they in their working, and

have do not a little on one occasion to save Cartwright from the

consequence of his own cleverness. yet, as he argue, Cartwright would

have no difficulty in raise the money from the general public, and his

presence on the board would certainly be a guarantee against his

companion depart from the narrow path.



although it be not generally know that he be associate in any of

cartwright’s enterprise, there have be a whisper of an inquiry in

influential quarter, and it have be hint to he that, on the whole,

it would be well if he keep himself aloof from the gentleman who,

admirable business man as he be, have a passion for enterprise which

occasionally verge upon the illegal. but those influential quarter have

not whisper anything in the shape of a definite promise that his

welfare be entirely in their keeping and that his future would not be

overlook.



he be an ambitious man, but his ambition run in realisable direction.

the service he have render to the Government be such as deserve a

recognition, and the only question be what form that recognition would

take? his knowledge of language qualify he for an important

appointment under the Foreign Office; but the Foreign Office be a close

preserve and difficult to break into. there be too many permanent

official who regard the service as a family affair, and be jealous

of patronage outside their own charmed circle.



he go in to lunch that day to find cartwright read a telegram which

he fold up and put into his pocket upon the other’s appearance.



“my little friend have arrive in Gibraltar,” say Cartwright.



Maxell look at he curiously.



“what happen now?” he demand.



“oh, I’m send her home.”



cartwright’s voice be brisk and he speak in the manner of a man

refer to a topic too unimportant to be discuss.



“and after?” pursue Maxell, and the other shrug his shoulder.



“I have give she a letter of introduction to a friend of mine,” he say

carelessly. “I have one or two theatrical interest in town.”



Maxell say nothing, and could have dismiss the matter as lightly as

his companion, for the girl’s future scarcely interested he.



she have be but a figure on the stage; her personality, her very

appearance, leave no definite impression. but if he be not interested in

the girl, he be interested in Cartwright’s private mind. here be a man

of whom he could not know too much. and somehow he feel that he have

hardly crack the surface of Cartwright’s character though he have know

he for year, and though they be work together to a common end.



the way of a man with a maid be wonderful, but it be also instructive to

the cold-blooded onlooker, who discover in that way a kind of creature

he have never meet before; a new man, so entirely different from the

familiar be he have meet in club or drawing-room as to be almost

unrecognisable. and he want to know just this side of Cartwright,

because it be the side on which he have scarcely any information.



“I suppose you willn’t see she again?” he say, play with his knife and

look abstractedly out of the window.



“I shouldn’t think so,” say Cartwright, and then, with a sudden

irritation: “what the devil be you drive at, Maxell? I may see the

girl—I go to music-hall, and it be hardly likely I should miss she.

naturally I be interested in the lady I have rescue from this kind of

thing”—he wave his hand vaguely toward Tangier Bay—“and she may be

useful. you don’t mean to say _you’re_ strike on she?”



he try to carry war into the enemy’s camp and fail, for Maxell’s

blue eye meet his steadily.



“I hardly know what she look like,” he say, “and I be not likely to

fall in love with a lady who leave absolutely no impression upon I.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



he leave next day on the boat for Cadiz, _en route_ to Paris and London,

and he and Cartwright have as a fellow-passenger a shabby little man

whose belonging be pack in an american-cloth suit-case inscribe in

flourish capital, evidently by the owner, “Jose Ferreira.”



Mr. Ferreira spend most of his time on the ship’s deck, bite his nail

and enlarge his grievance against the unconscious Cartwright.









                              CHAPTER III





MAXELL do not stay many hour in Paris. the Sud Express land he in

the french capital at seven in the morning. he leave Paris by the midday

train for London. the Long Vacation be draw to an end, and there

be brief of certain importance require examination. there be also

a consultation with the Attorney-General on an interpretation of a

clause in the new Shipping Act, and he be also due to address his

constituent before the reassembling of Parliament.



he might ruminate in vain to find one attractive feature of his

programme. Parliament weary he, and the ordinary practice of the law

no long give he pleasure.



there be an interest in the work he be do for the Government, and

if he have the faint hint of pleasure in his immediate prospect, the

cause be to be find in the vex problem centre about this new, and

loosely draw, shipping law. it be a measure which have be pass in a

hurry, and when the acid test of litigation have be apply, some of

its weak point have be discover.



the weak of these point be one affect the load-line. in an

action hear before a High Court Judge, the doubtful clause have be

interpret so as to render the Act a dead letter; and there be

particular and especial governmental reason why the appeal which the

Government have make from the verdict of the low Court should upset

that decision.



there be no need to give the particular of the great dispute, which

arise over the three word “or otherwise load,” and it be only

necessary to say that, before he have reach London, Mr. Maxell have

discover a way for the Government out of their difficulty.



it be this opinion which he deliver to a relieved Attorney-General,

and, with the new argument, the Government be able to present so

strong a case to the Court of Appeal, that a month after his return the

verdict of the low Court be reverse.



“and,” say the Attorney-General, “the devil can take it to the House

of Lords now and still lose—thank to your brain wave, Maxell!”



they be smoke in the Crown Room at the Law Courts after the decision

have be deliver.



“where have you be for your holiday, by the way?” ask the Attorney

suddenly.



“Morocco,” reply the other.



“Morocco?” the Attorney nod thoughtfully. “do you hear anything of

friend Cartwright?” he ask.



“we be stay at the same hotel,” reply Maxell.



“a weird person,” say the thoughtful Attorney. “a very curious

man—what a Chancellor that fellow would make!”



“he never strike I that way,” smile Maxell.



“do you know he well—I mean, be you a particular friend of his?”

demand the Attorney.



“no,” say Maxell indifferently. “I know he—so many man in the law

know he.”



“you’re not by any chance associate with he in business now, be

you?”



“no,” say Maxell promptly.



it be a lie and he know it be a lie. it be tell deliberately from the

desire to stand well in the eye of his friend. he know Cartwright’s

reputation well enough, and just how he be regard by the party whom

he have serve for three year. cartwright have be Member for a London

borough, but have resign. “pressure of business” be the excuse he

give, but there be people who say that it be owe to the pressure

of the Party Whips, who smell a somewhat unsavoury case come into

Court with Cartwright figure prominently.



there be no way of prove or disprove the statement, because the case

in which Cartwright most decidedly be interested be withdraw from the

list at the last moment. the uncharitable say that it cost Cartwright a

small fortune to bring about this withdrawal, and certainly one of the

lady interested (she be a small-part actress at the Hippoceus) give

up her stage work and have be live in affluence ever since.

cartwright pooh-poohe the suggestion that the case hold anything

sensational—but he do not enter political life again.



“I be glad you’re not associate with he,” say the Attorney simply.

“he’s an awfully nice fellow and I suppose he be as straight and as

sound as the good man in the City. but he’s a shifty fellow—just a

little bit”—he hesitated—“a little wrong. you understand, Maxell—or

shall we say slightly shop-soil?”



“he be certainly a brilliant man,” say Maxell, not desirous of

defend his friend too vigorously.



“yes, I suppose he be,” admit the Attorney. “all man like that be

brilliant. what a pity his genius do not run in a smooth channel, but

must follow the course of a burn cracker, here, there and everywhere,

explode at every turn!”



he slip down from the table, on the edge of which he have be sit

and pull off his robe.



“I’m glad to know you’re not associate with Cartwright, anyway,” he

say.



Maxell do not attempt to probe beneath the surface of his

twice-repeat remark.



he go back to Cavendish Square to his flat and to a tiny, solemn-eye

little girl who have be bring up from Hindhead that day on her

monthly visit to “Uncle Max.”



Cartwright have not accompany his friend to England, and with good

reason. a great deal of his work be carry out in Paris, where he have

an important financial backing. he occupy a flat overlook the

imposing, but none too convenient, Avenue of the Grand Army. his home

be at the unfashionable end of this interminable thoroughfare, which

mean that his room be large and his rent cheap, and that he be

free from observation than he would have be have he live accord to

his mean or station in a luxurious flat nearer the Etoil.



he have a board meeting to attend, an informal board meeting, it be true,

but none the less important.



Cartwright be the chairman and managing director of the London and

Paris Gold Syndicate, a flourish concern which hold big block of

share in various land and gold-mining company, and control three

mine of its own on the West Rand. though a company draw a modest

revenue from its Johannesburg property, its operation be not confine

to gold development pure and simple. it be, in fact, an outside

broker’s on a grand scale. it gamble heavily and gamble wisely. the

shareholder seldom receive less than a twelve and a half per cent.

dividend, and there be year when in addition it pay a bonus equal to

its own share capital.



it number its client at one hundred and fifty thousand, the majority

be small people who prefer speculation to investment—country

parson, doctor and the small gambler who live fearfully on the

fringe of high finance. the share be at a premium and Cartwright’s

interest bring he a considerable sum annually. what probably

attract the little speculator be the knowledge of the Company’s

reserve, which stand in the balance-sheet at a respectable figure. it

be the question of these reserve that occupy the attention of the

four quiet man who meet informally in the room of a Paris hotel.



there be three to one against Cartwright, because none of his

companion could see eye to eye with he.



“it be too dangerous, M. Cartwright,” say Gribber, whose nationality

be suspect; “our risk be already high and we cannot afford, in my

judgment, to extend they. the money would be subscribe over and over

again if you go to the english public.”



Cartwright frown.



“why shouldn’t we make the profit?” he ask; “we could borrow from our

reserve.”



“that we cann’t touch!” interrupt the cautious Gribber, shake his

head violently. “my faith, no, we cannot touch that! for it be certain

that the lean year will come when our client will require their

dividend.”



Cartwright do not pursue the subject. there be other way of

finance his moorish scheme.



the Benson Syndicate, for example.



he speak eloquently of this new venture, which be to have its

headquarters in Paris, and would be under the eye of his sceptical

co-director. he mention name glibly and easily—name that carry

weight in the financial world. the three man agree that the Benson

Syndicate have the appearance of a safe investment.



                 *        *        *        *        *



more important be the business which bring Alfred Cartwright to the

St. Lazaire Station to meet a passenger a week later.



she spring from the train and look round with doubting face, which

light the moment she see the saturnine Cartwright.



“my! I be relieve,” she say. “I be scared to think you wouldn’t be

here to meet I, and I’d only get a few pound leave.”



“you get my wire?” he ask, and she smile, show two row of pearly

tooth.



“I’m still mystify,” she say. “what be it you want I to do in

Paris?”



“let we eat first and talk afterwards,” he say. “you must be hungry.”



“I’m starve!” she laugh.



he have a car wait for she, and whisk she off to a little street

lead from the Boulevard des Italiens, where one of the good

restaurant in Paris be situate. the girl look about she with an

approve air. the gaiety and luxury of the place appeal to she.



“my word!” she say enviously; “do you come to lunch here every day?”



“do you know this place?” he ask.



“I’ve see it,” she admit, “but a three-franc dinner at Duval’s have

be my limit so far.”



she tell he how she have come to the Continent as a dancer, and have

“star” in a tiny little cabaret in Montmartre as one of the “dash

Sisters Jones,” before she have be see by the impresario who be

recruit material for his tour through the Levant.



Cartwright judge she to be nineteen, know she to be extremely pretty,

and guess that, under certain condition, she would be presentable

even to the good of the circle in which he move. he wonder, with a

grim smile, what Maxell, that austere and fastidious man, would say if

he know that the girl be with he in Paris. would Maxell accept she? he

think not. Maxell be a thought straitlaced and in some way be a

bore. but Maxell be necessary. he be a brilliant lawyer, and moreover

stand well with the Government, and there might come a time when Maxell

would be immensely useful. he could well afford to give the lawyer a

slice of the picking he intend making, because Maxell’s want be

few and his ambition on the modest side.



Cartwright think in million. Maxell be a five-figure man. if all

go well with Cartwright’s scheme, undoubtedly he could well afford the

five figure.



“what happen to your friend?” ask the girl, as though divine his

thought: “the man you tell I I be to keep away from. why don’t you

want he to see I?”



Cartwright shrug his shoulder.



“do it really matter?” he ask; “he’s in England, anyway.”



“who be he?” she be curious.



“oh, a friend of mine.”



“and who be you?” she ask, face he squarely. “if I’m go to see

anything of you in Paris, that Smith, Brown or Robinson business ben’t

quite good enough. you’ve be decent to I, but I want to know who I’m

work for, and what be the kind of work you want I to do.”



Cartwright pinch his neck—a nervous little trick of his when he be

think.



“I have business interest here,” he say.



“you don’t want I for an office?” she ask suspiciously. “my education

be perfectly rotten.”



he shake his head.



“no, I don’t want you for an office,” he reply with a smile. “and yet

in a sense I want you to do office work. I have a little syndicate here,

which be know as the Benson Syndicate. Benson be my name——”



“or the name you go by,” she say quickly, and he laugh.



“how sharp you be! well, I don’t suppose O’Grady be your name, if it

come to that.”



she make no reply and he go on:



“I want somebody in Paris I can rely upon; somebody who will receive

money, transmit it to the Benson Syndicate, and re-invest that money in

such concern as I shall indicate.”



“don’t use long word,” she say. “how do you know I’m not go to rob

you? nobody’s ever trust I with money before.”



he might have tell she that she would not be trust with a great deal

at a time and that she would be carefully watch. he prefer,

however, an explanation more flattering to his new assistant. and not

only be it flattering, but it contain a big grain of truth,

express, to an extent, Alfred Cartwright’s creed.



“woman be more honest than man,” he say. “I should think twice before

I put a man—even my good friend—in the position I’m put you. it

will be a simple matter, and I shall pay you well. you can live at one

of the good hotel—in fact, it be absolutely necessary that you should.

you may”—he hesitated—“you may be Madam Benson, a rich Englishwoman.”



she look at he from under perplexed brow.



“what be the good of ask I to do that?” she say in a tone of

disappointment. “I think you be go to give I a job I could do.

I’m a fool at business.”



“you can remain a fool,” he say coolly. “there’s nothing to do except

carry out a certain routine, which I shall explain to you so that you

cann’t possibly make a mistake. here be a job which give you plenty of

time, pay you well, give you good clothe and an auto. now, be you

go to be a sensible girl and take it?”



she think a moment, then nod.



“if it mean lunch here every day, I’ll take it,” she say decidedly.



thus be form the remarkable Benson Syndicate, about which so much have

be write, and so many theory evolve. for, if the truth be tell,

the Benson Syndicate have no existence until Cartwright call it into

be in Ciro’s restaurant. it be bear of the opposition he have

receive, and its creation be hasten by certain disquieting telegram

which arrive almost every hour from London.



Cartwright be, as have be say, a man of many interest. the

door-plate of his office in Victoria Street, London, be cover with

the name of the company which have their headquarters in the ornate

suite which he occupy. there be two other suite of office in the

City of London for which Mr. Cartwright pay the rent, although he do

not pay it in his own name. there be syndicate and company

innumerable, Development Syndicates, Exploitation Companies, Financial

and Mining Companies, all duly register and all keep one solicitor

busy; for the Companies act be tricky, and Cartwright be too clever a

man to contravene minor regulation.



and to all these company there be shareholder; some of they

content, some—the majority—wholly dissatisfied with their lot, and

quite a large number who be willnot to show their share certificate to

their friend as curiosity, and tell they the sad story of how they

be inveigle into investment.



only a clever company lawyer can describe in detail the tortuous

character of cartwright’s system of finance. it involve loan from one

company to another, very often on the security of share in a third

company; it involve a system of over-draft, draw in favour of some

weakly member of his family, secure by the asset of one which could

show a bold face to the world, and be even quote in the Stock Exchange

list; and diver other complicated transaction, which only the expert

mathematician could follow.



Cartwright be a rich man, account a millionaire by his friend; but

he be that type of millionaire who be never at a loss for a thousand,

but who be generally hard up for ten thousand. he come to London much

against his will, in response to an urgent telegram, and, having clear

the difficulty which his subordinate have find insuperable, he have a

few hour to attend to his private affair before he take the train back

to Paris.



his secretary produce a heap of small bill require settlement, and

go through these, he pause before one print slip, and frown.



“that boy’s school fee ben’t pay last term,” he say.



“no, sir,” say the secretary. “if you remember, I mention the matter

to you when you be in London last. I be take upon myself the

responsibility of pay the fee, if you haven’t return. the boy be

come up to-day, by the way, sir, to be measure for some clothe.”



“come here?” ask Mr. Cartwright, interested.



“yes, sir.”



Cartwright pick up the bill.



“T. A. C. Anderson,” he read. “what do T. A. C. stand for—‘Take a

Chance’?”



“I understand he be name after you—Timothy Alfred Cartwright,” say

the secretary.



“yes; of course,” Cartwright grin. “still, take a Chance ben’t a bad

name for a kid. when be he arrive?”



“he ought to be here now,” say the man, look at his watch. “I’ll go

out and see.”



he disappear into the outer office, and presently return.



“the boy be here, sir,” he say. “would you like to see he?”



“bring he in,” say Cartwright. “I’d like to meet this nephew, or

cousin, or whatever he be.”



he wonder vaguely what have induce he to take upon himself the

responsibility of the small child, and with remorseless judgment

analyse the reason as be personal vanity.



the door open and a child strode in. “Strode” be the only word to

describe the quick, decisive movement of the bright-eyed lad who look

with unflinche eye at Cartwright. cartwright do not look at his

clothe, but at the grey, clear eye, the firm mouth, extraordinarily

firm for a boy of fourteen, and the capable and not over-clean hand.



“sit down, son,” say Cartwright. “so you’re my nephew.”



“Cousin, I think,” say the boy, critically examine the content of

cartwright’s table. “you’re Cousin Alfred, ben’t you?”



“oh, I’m a cousin, be I? yes, I suppose I be,” say Cartwright, amuse.



“I say,” say the boy, “be that the school bill? the Head have be

rather baity about that.”



“‘baity’?” say the puzzled Cartwright. “that’s a new one on I.”



“shirty,” say the boy calmly. “annoyed, I suppose, be the correct

word.”



Cartwright chuckle.



“what do you want to be?” he ask.



“a financier,” say T. A. C. Anderson promptly.



he seat himself, leant his elbow on the desk and his head on his hand,

his eye never leave Cartwright.



“I think that’s a great scheme—finance,” he say. “I’m a whale at

mathematic.”



“what particular branch of finance?” ask Cartwright with a smile.



“other people’s finance,” say the boy promptly; “the same business as

your.”



Cartwright throw back his head and laugh.



“and do you think you’d be able to keep twenty company in the air at

the same time?” he say.



“in the air?” the boy frown. “oh, you mean go all at once? rather!

anyway, I’d take a chance.”



the phrase strike Cartwright.



“take a chance? that’s curious. I call you take a Chance Anderson just

before you come in.”



“oh, they all call I that,” say the boy indifferently. “you see,

they’re bind to stick a label on to a fellow with an initial like mine.

some of they call I ‘tin and Copper Anderson,’ but most of they—the

other name.”



“you’re a rum kid,” say his cousin. “you can come to lunch with I.”









                               CHAPTER IV





MR. ALFRED CARTWRIGHT have the enviable faculty of place outside of

his mind all subject and person which be unpleasant to think upon.

possess this power, he could as lightly dismiss the memory of

responsibility, pleasant or unpleasant. he have scarcely leave London

before he have waive Master T. A. C. Anderson into oblivion. to do he

justice, he have certainly speculate vaguely upon assure his cousin’s

future; but his mind be so completely occupy with his own that there

be really not room for both—and take a Chance Anderson have to go.



he reach Paris by the evening train, and drive straight to the

apartment he have take for his new protégé. he find she instal in a

very comfortable flat on the unfashionable side of the Seine, and be

welcome with relief.



Miss Sadie O’Grady have not entirely overcome her suspicion of the _bona

fide_ of her newfound acquaintance. yet, since he have not make love to

she, but, on the contrary, have make it very clear that the part he

expect she to play in his scheme involve no loss of self-respect,

she be becoming reconcile to a relationship which, to say the least,

be a strange one. she have establish herself in a third-floor office

on one of the boulevard, an uncomfortable and unaccustomed figure in an

environment which be wholly foreign to her experience, though there be

no need for her embarrassment, since she constitute the whole of the

staff, and the caller be confine to the postman and the concierge

who act as office-cleaner.



she be to learn, however, that a daily attendance at her “bureau” do

not constitute the whole of her duty, or fulfil all Cartwright’s

requirement.



it be not until after dinner that night that Cartwright reveal

himself.



“Sadie, my young friend,” he say, between puff of his cigar, “I be

go to tell you just what I want you to do.”



“I think I know,” she say, on her guard, and he laugh softly.



“you’ll never quite know what I want you to do,” he say frankly, “until

I tell you. now, I’m put it to you very straight. I want nothing

from you except service. and the service I require be of a kind which

you need not hesitate to give I. you’re an actress, and I can speak to

you more plainly than I could to some unsophisticated girl.”



she wonder what be come, but have not long to wait.



“I will tell you something,” he say, “which be really more important

than my name, about which you show so much curiosity. there be a man

in this city whom I want to get at.”



“how do you mean?” she ask suspiciously.



“he be a man who have it in his power to ruin I—a drunken sot of a

fellow, without brain or imagination.”



he go on to explain briefly that he himself be a company promoter,

and that he have an interest in a mine, as yet unprove, in Morocco.



“that be why you be there?” she nod.



“that be exactly why,” reply Cartwright. “unfortunately, right in the

midst of the ground which I have either buy or secured mineral right

over, be a block of land which be the property of this man. he be a

Spaniard—do you speak Spanish?”



“a little,” she admit, “but it be precious little!”



“it don’t matter,” Cartwright shake his head. “he speak English very

well. now, this land be absolutely valueless to the man, but every

attempt I have make to buy it have be unsuccessful, and it be vitally

necessary at this moment, when I be float a company to develop the

property, that his claim should be include in my property.”



“what be his name?” ask the girl.



“Brigot,” reply Cartwright.



“brigot?” repeat Sadie O’Grady thoughtfully. “I seem to have hear

that name before.”



“it be pretty common in France, but not so common in Spain,” say Mr.

Cartwright.



“and what be I to do?” ask the girl again.



“I will get you an introduction to he,” say Cartwright; “he’s a man

with a fine eye for beauty, and in the hand of a clever girl could be

wound round her little finger.”



the girl nod.



“I see what you mean,” she say, “but nothing do!”



“wait!” say Cartwright. “I have tell you that it be necessary for I to

acquire this property. I be take you into my confidence, and I know

that you will respect that confidence. I be willing to pay any

reasonable sum, and I neither want you to steal it nor make any personal

sacrifice to serve my end. I be willing to pay, and pay heavily.”



“what do you call heavily?” ask the girl coolly.



“for the property twenty thousand—for you ten thousand pound,”

suggest Cartwright, and the girl nod.



“that’s get I,” she say. “tell I what your plan be.”



“my plan be this,” say Cartwright. “you will appear to Señor Brigot—I

will arrange that—as a wealthy young american lady who have be

spend the winter in Morocco. his property follow a little woode

hill, one of the prettiest formation of its kind in the Angera country.

you must rave about that hill, never cease speak of its beauty and

its attractiveness; and you must tell he that you would give anything

in the world if you could build a house amidst that beautiful

scenery—do you understand I?”



the girl nod again.



“brigot be a man somewhat susceptible to feminine charm,” Cartwright

go on, “and, unless I be greatly mistaken, he will in one of his

oblige mood, offer you the land at a nominal figure, particularly as

he have be bitterly disappointed in his attempt to find gold.”



“I don’t like it,” say the girl after consideration. “you promise I

that if I come to Paris you would get I a job in one of the theatre.

that be what I be after, and the only thing I be fit for. the other

business don’t seem decent——”



“ten thousand pound!” murmur Cartwright.



“it be a lot,” agree the girl, “but how be I come out of this

business? I come out hopelessly compromise.”



Cartwright shrug his shoulder with a deprecating smile.



“my dear girl——” he begin.



“wait a moment,” she say quietly; “let’s have a clear understanding.

you don’t expect I to walk up to Señor Brigot the first time I meet

he, or even the second, and say: ‘you’ve a very nice property. what

will you sell it for?’ that be not the kind of transaction you expect I

to conduct, be it?”



“not exactly,” admit Cartwright.



“it mean just a little more than you say,” say the girl; “it mean

dinner and supper and hand-holding and string he along. and after

it be all over, where be I? I’ve get as much respect for my character as

you have for your, Mr. Mysterious. I want to come out well in this

business as you do, and I don’t want to leave my name behind, or be

know in Paris—which be the world—as a decoy duck. I’d do an awful lot

to please you, because I like you and because you’ve be decent to I.

but ‘an awful lot’ do not mean make I so cheap that I be leave in

the slightly-soil basket. do you understand what I mean?”



“perfectly,” say Cartwright, amazed at the girl’s cool reasoning. he

have not give her credit for any of these fine sentiment she now

enunciate, and he be pique, and at the same time a little pleased.



“when you say you’d give I ten thousand pound,” say the girl, “that

sound good. but it be not good enough. I’ve an idea in the back of my

mind that the matter be a much big one for you than you’ve tell I.”



“how big do you imagine?” banter Cartwright.



“I think it be big enough to ruin you,” say the girl calmly, “and that

you’d be willing to pay any price to get this property. otherwise, you’d

go to the man or send your lawyer in the ordinary way. now, I don’t want

your ten thousand pound, but I’m go to make a proposition to you.

I’ve say I like you and that’s no more than the truth. you tell I you

be a bachelor and I’ve tell you that I’m man-free and heart-free. I

don’t say I love you, and I don’t flatter myself that you love I. but

if you want this thing to go through, and if you want I to go down in

the mud to get it, you’ve get to pay the price——”



“and the price be——?” ask Cartwright curiously.



“you’ve get to marry I,” say the girl.



“well, I’m——” cartwright could only gasp his admiration; and then he

begin to laugh, at first quietly, and then, as the humour of the

situation gain upon he, so loudly that the other patron of the Café

Scribe turn to look at he.



“it be a rum idea,” he say, “but——”



“but?” she repeat, keep her eye on his.



he nod to she.



“it’s a bargain!” he say.



she look at he as she put out her hand and take his, and slowly shake

her head.



“my!” she say. “you want that fellow’s land pretty badly, _I_ know!”

and Cartwright begin to laugh again.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Señor Brigot live in some style for a man who be on the verge of ruin.

he have a small house at Maisons Lafitte and a flat on the Boulevard

Webber. he be a heavy, tired-look man, with a dark moustache,

obviously dye, and a short beard, bear evidence of the same

attention. M. Brigot, like Mr. Cartwright, have many interest; but his

chief interest be his own taste and predilection. it be Señor

Brigot’s boast that, although he have live for twenty year in Paris, he

have never see Paris between the hour of six in the morning and one in

the afternoon. his breakfast hour be two o’clock. by six o’clock in the

evening he be become interested in life; and at the hour when most

people retire to rest, he be in the prime of his day.



it happen on a certain evening that M. Brigot, who usually meet dinner

in an amicable frame of mind, sit down at his favourite table at the

Abbaye with a big frown, and answer the polite _maître d’hôtel’s_

cheery “good evening” with a snarl.



amongst his many enterprise and few possession, and this Mr.

Cartwright do not know, be the proprietorship and management of a

small, ramshackle wooden theatre in the town of Tangier. he be likewise

interested in several cabaret throughout Spain. but what pain he

most at the moment be not distress report from any of these, but a

six-page letter receive that afternoon from his son, in which the hope

of the house of Brigot have explain his reason for discharge

immediately a very necessary servant. therefore Señor Brigot swear under

his breath and curse his first-bear.



Coincident with the arrival of the letter have come one Jose Ferreira,

who have be detain for a week at Madrid. Señor Brigot’s mind be

occupy with Jose Ferreira when that worthy, smirk apologetically,

as though conscious of the shabbiness of his dress-clothe, sidle into

a seat on the opposite side of the table. Señor Brigot glare at he a

moment, and Jose Ferreira shift uneasily in his chair.



“if you have telegraph to I, I would have settle the matter,” say

Brigot, as though carry on a conversation which he have break off a

few minute before. “instead, like the fool you be, you come all the

way to Paris, waste your time in Madrid, and the first I hear of the

matter be from my son.”



“it be deplorable,” murmur Jose, “but Don Brigot——”



“Don Brigot!” sneer the father of that worthy. “Don Brigot be a

monkey! why do you take notice of he? have you nothing else to do in

tangy but to look after that flea-ride theatre? have you no other

duty?”



“the young señor be emphatic,” murmur the apologetic Jose. “he

demand that I should leave and what could I do?”



Brigot grunt something uncomplimentary. whether it be intend for

his son or for Ferreira, it be difficult to say. Ferreira be content

to take it to himself.



half-way through the dinner Brigot become more human.



“there will always be quarrel about woman, my good Jose, and it be your

business to be diplomatic,” he say. “my son be a fool; but then, all

young man be fool. why should you neglect my interest because Emanuel

be a big fool than ever? only this week I intend travel to

Tangier with the representative of a very rich syndicate who wish to

buy my land.”



“the same señor as before?” ask the interested Jose, who be not only

the manager of Tangier’s theatre, but be also the representative of the

rusty little gold-mining company which Brigot have float.



the other nod.



“the same curse Englishman,” he say.



quite unconscious of the fact that his master be curse the very man

whom Jose have most recently curse, the little man smile

sympathetically.



“I also have a hatred of the English,” he say. “with what insolence do

they treat one!”



for some time M. Brigot sit in silence, but presently he wipe his mouth

on his napkin, toss down a tumbler of red wine, and crook his finger

at his companion, invite close attention.



“in a day, or perhaps two, I shall send you back to Tangier,” he say.



“the theatre?” begin Jose.



“the theatre—bah!” exclaim the other scornfully. “a donkey-driver

could look after the theatre! it be the mine!”



“the mine?” repeat the other in some astonishment.



so long have it be since a spade have be put to the ground, so long

have those hope of Brigot’s be apparently dead, that the very word

“mine” have cease to be employ when refer to the property.



“my Englishman will buy it,” say Brigot confidently. “I happen to know

that he have take up property in the neighbourhood, and he have already

make I an offer. but such an offer! he shall pay my price, Jose,” he

say, nod as he pick his tooth, “and it will be a big price,

because it be desirable that I should have money.”



Jose do not ask the price, but his employer save he the trouble.



“five million peseta,” he say confidently; “for such a price the

property will be sell, always provide, my friend, that we do not

discover gold before the sale.”



Jose smile weakly, a circumstance which seem to annoy his companion.



“you be a fool,” say Brigot irritably; “you have no brain! you think

that be a preposterous sum? wait!”



when his subordinate’s dinner be finish, Jose be dismiss

peremptorily. Brigot have a round of call to make, a succession of

people to be visit; and whilst he might interview the little man at

dinner without lose caste, he have no desire to take he round to his

usual haunt.



it be at the Abbaye at that golden hour when the price of wine soar

and all that be smart in Paris be assemble in the big saloon, that

M. Brigot, who have reach a stage of geniality, meet an entrancing

vision. brigot see the girl and her cavalier at one of the table, and

recognise in the latter a well-know man about town. the latter catch

his eye and walk across to he.



“who be your charming companion?” whisper Brigot, whose fail be,

as Cartwright accurately surmise, a weakness for pretty face.



“she be an american lady who have just come from Morocco,” say the other

glibly.



Cartwright have choose Sadie O’Grady’s companion very well. in a few

minute Brigot have cross to the other table and take a seat, be

introduce, and be in that pleasant glow of mind which come to the man

of his class who be conscious of having make an impression.



this “american widow,” with her queer, break French, her beautiful

eye, and the charming distinction which go well with good clothe,

be more lovely than any woman he have ever meet—so he swear to himself,

as he have swear before. the friendship progress from day to day, and

so great be the impression which the girl have make, that Brigot be

see abroad at most unusual hour.



the patient Jose Ferreira be despatch on a mission to Madrid, partly

because Brigot be tired of see he hang about, and partly because

there be some genuine business to be do in the capital.



Sadie report progress to her employer.



“oh, yes, he’s crazy enough about I,” she say complacently, “and I’m

go a little crazy myself. how long be this to go on?”



“another week?” suggest Cartwright, smile approvingly at the gloom

on the pretty face. “have you mention the fact that you’ve take a

fancy to his land?”



she nod.



“he want to give it to I there and then,” she say, “but you know

what these Spaniards be. if I have accept, there would have be

nothing for I but the front door.”



“quite right,” agree Cartwright. “he be the kind of fish you must play.

do he say anything about other offer he have receive for the

property?”



the girl nod.



“he speak about you,” she say; “he call you Benson—be that your real

name?”



“it be good enough,” say Cartwright.



“it be queer,” muse the girl, look at he thoughtfully, “that I

never meet any of your friend in Paris, and that nobody know you—by

name. I go down to your flat on the Avenue of the Grand Army,” she

confess frankly, “and ask the concierge. you’re Benson there too.”



Cartwright chuckle.



“in my business,” he say, “it be necessary that one should be discreet.

the name which go in London be not good enough for Paris. and _vice

versa_,” he add.



“you’re a strange man. I suppose if you marry I in the name of Benson

it will be legal?” she ask dubiously.



“of course it will be legal. I’m surprised at a girl of your

intelligence ask such a question,” say Cartwright. “what be the

programme for to-night?”



she pull a little face.



“the Marigny and supper at corbet—supper in a private dining-room.”



he nod.



“so it’s come to that, have it? well, you ought to make good to-night,

Sadie. remember, I be willing to pay up to fifty thousand pound. it be

go to be a tough job raise that money, and it will break my heart

to pay it. but it will not only break my heart, but it will break I

everlastingly and confoundedly to pay the man’s own price—and his

property must be buy.”



“I’ll do my good,” say the girl, “but you have no doubt in your mind

that it be go to be hard.”



he nod.



at one o’clock the next morning he sit read in his room, when a knock

come to his door and the girl come in. she be half hysterical, but the

light of triumph be in her eye.



“got it,” she say.



“got it!” he repeat in wonder. “you don’t mean he sell?”



she nod.



“for ten thousand pound—three hundred thousand franc. what do you

think of your little Sadie?”



“be you serious?” he ask.



she nod, smile.



“what do he——?” he begin.



she hesitate and close her eye.



“don’t talk about it,” she say quickly. “I have to see he to-morrow at

his lawyer, and the property will be transfer to I.”



“and after?”



she smile grimly.



“the after-part will not be as pleasant as M. Brigot imago,” she

say. “I tell you, that fellow’s crazy—stark, stare mad. but I feel

an awful beast, and I think he’ll kill I when he discover I’ve sell

he.”



“don’t let that worry you,” say Cartwright easily.









                               CHAPTER V





he see the girl down to her wait auto, and go back to his room

to think. it be curious that at that hour, when the big trouble on his

mind seem likely to roll away, that his thought fly instantly to

Maxell. what would the prim Maxell say, if he know? he be satisfy

that Maxell would not only disapprove, but would instantly and without

notice sever all connection with the adventurous company promoter.

Maxell would be outraged, appalled. Cartwright smile at the thought.



he be under no illusion as to his own conduct. he know he be act

despicably; but this view he dismiss from his mind as be too

unpleasant for contemplation. Maxell be a prig—a necessary prig, but

none the less priggish. he be necessary, at any rate, to Cartwright.

anyway, Maxell stand to win if the scheme go through.



Cartwright have reach nearly the end of his financial tether, and his

whole future be bind up in the success or failure of the new

promotion. he have exhaust every bit of his credit in order to take up

the Angera property which he know be rich in gold, and offer

possibility which no project of his have offer before.



he have milk his other company dry, he have play with reserve; all

except his anglo-parisian Finance Company, where the director be too

strong to allow he his own way; and, although Maxell be not aware of

the fact, his “partner” have spend fabulous sum, not only in acquire

the land itself but in purchase other gold-mining property in the

region. it be a gamble, and a dangerous gamble. he be risk the

substance of his fortune for the shadow of unlimited wealth.



yet, be it a risk? he ask himself; with the property that he could

include in his new North Morocco Gold Mining Association—that be to be

the title of the new company—there could be no doubt as to the result

of the public issue. the british public dearly love a gamble, and a

gold-mining gamble, with all its mystery and uncertainty, more

dearly than any.



he go to bed late, but be take his chocolate and roll before a

little café on the boulevard before nine. at half-past nine he be

join by the girl.



Cartwright have be undecided as to whether he should take his _petit

déjeuner_ outside or inside the café, and have decide, since the morning

be bright and warm, to breakfast under the striped awning in full view

of the street. such great event hang upon slight issue.



Scarcely have the girl seat herself opposite to he, when a pedestrian,

pass on the other side of the boulevard, halt and stare. Mr.

Ferreira have sharp eye and a wit not altogether dull by his

monotonous occupation.



Cartwright produce a bulky package from his pocket and lay it on the

table before the girl.



“put that in your bag and be careful with it,” he say; “there be three

hundred thousand franc in note. when the property be transfer to

you, you must bring the transfer along to I.”



“what about your promise?” she ask suspiciously.



“that I will keep,” he say. “don’t forget that you have the good

guarantee in the possession of the transfer. legally, it be your

property until it be make over to I.”



she sit look at the package absently, and presently she say:



“you’ve get to get I out of Paris at once. otherwise I be due to leave

by the Sud Express—with Brigot.”



he nod.



“there be a train for Havre at two-fifteen,” he say.



he see she into her car—another indiscretion since it bring he out

of the shadow which the awning afford, and give the observer on the

other side of the road an unmistakable view.



Brigot be wait for she—a heavy-eye, weary-look man, whose hand

shake whenever it rise to stroke his short, point beard.



his lawyer watch he curiously as he step forward to meet the girl

with hand outstretche. it be not the first time that he have see his

client overwhelm by a pretty face.



“everything be ready, Nanette,” say the eager M. Brigot. (“Nanette” be

the newfound name which Sadie O’Grady employ for this adventure.) “see

here, I have all the document ready!”



“and I have the money,” smile the girl as she put the package down on

the table.



“the money!” Señor Brigot wave such sordid matter out of existence

with a magnificent flourish. “what be money?”



“count it,” say the girl.



“I will do no such thing,” say the other extravagantly. “as a

caballero, it hurt I to discuss money in connection——”



but his lawyer have no sentiment, and have slip the string from the

package and be now busily count the thousand-franc note. when he

have finish, he put they on the desk.



“can I see you one moment, M. Brigot?” he ask.



Brigot, hold the girl’s hand and devour she with his eye, turn

impatiently.



“no, no,” he say. “the document, my friend, the document! give I a

pen!”



“there be one point in the deed I must discuss,” say the lawyer firmly,

“if mademoiselle will excuse we for a moment——” he open the door of

his inner office invitingly and with a shrug M. Brigot follow he in.



“I have tell you, monsieur,” say the lawyer, “that I do not think your

action be wise. you be surrender a property for a sum less than a

quarter of what you pay for it to a perfectly unknown woman——”



“M. l’Avocat,” say the other gravely, “you be speak of a lady who

to I be more precious than life!”



the lawyer conceal a smile.



“I have often speak to you about lady who have be more precious to

you than life,” he say dryly, “but in their case, no transfer of

valuable property be involve. what do you know of this lady?”



“I know nothing except that she be adorable,” say the reckless

Spaniard. “but for the fact that, alas! my wife most obstinately refuse

to die or divorce I, I should be honour to make madame my wife. as it

be, what a pleasure to give she the land on which to build a beautiful

villa overlook my gorgeous Tangier—I be move to Tangier very soon

to look after my other property—and to know that her blessed

presence——”



the lawyer spread out despairing hand.



“then there be nothing to be do,” he say. “I only tell you that you

be transfer a valuable property to a lady who be comparatively

unknown to you, and it seem to I a very indiscreet and reckless thing

to do.”



they return again to the outer apartment, where the girl have be

stand nervously twist the moiré bag in her hand.



“here be the document, madame,” say the lawyer to her relief. “señor

Brigot will sign here”—he indicate a line—“and you will sign there. I

will cause these signature to be witness, and a copy of the document

will be forward for registration.”



the girl sit down at the table, and her hand shake as she take up the

pen. it be at that moment that Jose Ferreira dash into the room.



he stand open-mouthed at sight of the girl at the table. he try to

speak, but the sound die in his throat. then he stride forward, under

the glare eye of his employer.



“this woman—this woman!” he gasp.



“Ferreira,” cry Brigot in a terrible voice, “you be speak of a

lady who be my friend!”



“she—she”—the man point to she with shake finger—“she be the

woman! she escape! . . . the woman I tell you of, who run away with an

Englishman from Tangier!”



Brigot stare from one to the other.



“you’re mad,” he say.



“she be the woman,” squeak Ferreira, “and the man also be in Paris. I

see they together this morning at the Café Furnos! the man who be in

Tangier, of whom I tell the señor, and this woman, Sadie O’Grady!”



Brigot look at the girl. she have be catch off her guard, and never

once have the keen eye of the lawyer leave she. give some warning, she

might have dissemble and carry the matter through with a high hand.

but the suddenness of the accusation, the amazingly unexpected vision of

Jose, have throw she off her guard, and Brigot do not need to look

twice at she to know that the charge of his subordinate be justify.

she be not a bear conspirator, nor be she use to intrigue of this

character.



Brigot grip she by the arm and pull she from the chair. he be half

mad with rage and humiliation.



“what be the name of this man?” he hiss. “the name of the man who take

you from Tangier and bring you here?”



she be white as death and terribly afraid.



“Benson,” she stammer.



“Benson!”



the lawyer and Brigot utter the word together, and the Spaniard,

release his hold step back.



“so it be Benson!” he say softly. “our wonderful Englishman who want

to swindle I out of my property, eh? and I suppose he send you, my

beautiful american widow, to purchase land for your villa! now, you can

go back to Mr. Benson and tell he that, if my property be good enough

for he to buy, it be good enough for I to keep. you—you!”



he make a dart at she with upraised hand, but the lawyer be before he

and gently push he back.



he jerk his head to the girl and, shake like a leaf, she step to

the door and go stumble down the stair, which she have mount with

such confidence a few minute before.



Cartwright receive the news with extraordinary equanimity.



“it have save we the bother of go out of Paris,” he say

thoughtfully. “and it be my own fault. I never connect that infernal

fellow Ferreira with Brigot’s enterprise. and anyway, we should not

have meet in public. he say he see we at the café, do he?”



the girl nod.



“I do my good,” she falter.



“of course you do your good,” say Cartwright, pat her hand. “it be

tough luck, but it cann’t be help.”



“there be a long silence, then:



“what about I?” ask the girl. “where do I come in? I suppose you have

no further use for my service?”



Cartwright smile.



“of course I have,” he say genially. then, after a long pause, “do

you know that you’re the only person in this world that I have ever

take so completely into my confidence and show what, for a well

expression, I will call the seamy side of my business? I’d like to tell

you a lot more, because it would be a relief to I to get it off my

chest. but I’m tell you this, that if I marry you to-day, you’ll have

to play your part to save I from everlaste ruin.”



“Ruin?” she say, startle, and he laugh.



“not the kind of ruin that mean you’ll go short of food,” he say, “but

the sort of ruin that may mean—well, ruin from my point of view. now

you must understand this thing clearly, Sadie. I’m out for a big stake,

and if I don’t pull it off, it’s as likely as not that I’ll go out.

you’re a clever, useful sort of kid, and I have an idea that you may be

even more useful. but there’s to be no sentiment in this marriage, mind!

you have just to sit here and hold tight and do as you’re tell, and you

haven’t get to pry into my business any far than I want you to. and

if I go away and don’t come back, you must reckon I as dead. I’ve a lot

of business in America and elsewhere, which often take I away for

month at a time, and you’re not to get uneasy. but if you don’t hear

from I—why, you can go down to the Lafayette and buy yourself the

grand little suit of mourn that you can afford!”



“shall I be able to afford it?” she ask.



he nod.



“I shall put some Rentes to your credit at the Lyonnais. that will give

you a steady income in case anything happen.”



the girl be troubled.



“I don’t quite like this idea,” she say. “what will happen?”



Mr. Cartwright flick away the ash from the end of his cigar and say

cheerfully:



“that depend entirely upon the view which be take of a certain

prospectus issue in London this morning.”









                               CHAPTER VI





the New Angera Syndicate be register as a private company, and its

prospectus be not make public. officially, the share be not offer

to general subscription, and actually they have be subscribe—or the

first issue of five hundred thousand have—by a little group of shrewd

speculator in the City of London, who, before now, have make vast sum

from Cartwright’s promotion. the five hundred thousand share bring

in about half that number of pound, and nobody doubt that the

property consolidate for the purpose of flotation include the block

of claim describe in the prospectus as “lately the property of Señor

Brigot.”



Gold have be find on the Angera reef, and gold in sufficient quantity

to make the new company a very promising speculation. that Brigot’s

property could be make to pay, have it be properly manage, be common

knowledge in the City of London. a dozen offer have be make for this

concession, but none have be quite acceptable to Señor Brigot, whose

estimate of the value of the mine varied with the pass hour.



probably, have it be possible to secure an interview with M. Brigot at

one o’clock in the afternoon, when he arise with a splitting head and a

dry throat, his possession might have be acquire at the price of a

quart of sweet champagne.



but, as the day progress and his view of life become more charitable,

his estimate expand until, by seven o’clock in the evening, which hour

he as a rule reserve for any business discussion, his figure be

awe-inspiring. nobody in the City doubt for one moment that Cartwright

have purchase the property. though his system of finance might not

commend itself to the baron and even the baronet of Capel Court, there

be no question of his honesty.



be it by some extraordinary fluke that Maxell, who have hitherto share

in the profit of promotion, have keep aloof from this last and great

of Cartwright’s flutter? no application for share be ever find. he

hear (he say at a subsequent inquiry) in a round-about way of the

flotation, and see a copy of the prospectus, and be a little worried.

he know that when he have leave Cartwright in Paris, not only be the

Brigot mine outside of his friend’s control, but there be precious

little prospect of bring the Spaniard to a reasonable frame of mind.



Cartwright must have do his work quickly, he think, and have pay

heavily; and this latter reflection worry he even more because he have

a fairly accurate idea as to the condition of cartwright’s private

finance. his private thought on this occasion be set forth in the

report of the Attorney-General’s Committee of Investigation.



he be eat his solitary dinner in Cavendish Square when the telephone

bell rang and the voice of Sir Gregory Fane, the Attorney-General,

salute he.



“I should like to see you, Maxell,” he say. “will you come round to

Clarges Street after dinner?”



“certainly,” reply Maxell promptly, and hang up the receiver,

wonder what new difficulty have arise, which call for a

consultation; for he be not on visit term with Mr. Attorney.



in the tiny drawing-room of the house occupy by the Cabinet Minister,

Maxell be surprised to find another visitor wait—no less a person

than Fenshaw, the Prime Minister’s private secretary.



the Attorney-General come straight to the point.



“Maxell,” he say, “we want your seat in the House of Commons.”



“the deuce you do!” say Maxell, raise his eyebrow.



the Attorney nod.



“we also want to give you some reward for the excellent service you

have render to the government,” he say. “but mostly”—his eye

twinkled—“it be necessary to find a seat for Sir Milton Boyd—the

Minister of Education have be defeat at a by-election, as you know.”



the other nod. the communication be a surprise to he and he

wonder exactly what position be to be offer he which would involve

his resignation from the House. for one brief, panicky moment he have

connect Cartwright and his delinquency with this request for an

interview, but the Attorney’s speech have dispel that momentary fear.



“Quilland, as you know, have be raise to the Court of Appeal,” say

the Attorney, speak of a well-know Chancery Judge, “and we be

depart from our usual practice by bring over a man from the King’s

Bench to take his place. now, Maxell, how do a judgeship appeal to

you?”



the K.C. could only stare.



of the many thing he do not expect, it be elevation to the Bench,

although he be a sound, good lawyer, and the Bench be the ambition of

every silk.



“I would like that,” he say huskily.



“good!” say the brisk Attorney. “then we will regard it as settle. the

appointment will not be announce for two or three day, so you’ve a

chance of clear up your more urgent work and prepare a letter for

your constituent. you might say a kind word for the new candidate who

ben’t particularly popular in your part of the world.”



one of Maxell’s first act be to write a letter to Cartwright. all

Cartwright’s correspondence go to his London office, and be forward

under separate cover to Paris. it be a long letter, recapitulate

their friendly relationship, and end:



    “this promotion, of course, mean that we can no long be

    associate in business, and I have instruct my broker to sell

    all the share I possess in your and other company forthwith.

    as you know, I have very definite view about the high prestige

    of the Bench; and whilst, in any circumstance, I feel that I

    can go to that dignified position with clean hand, my mind will

    be free if I cut all the cord which hold I to commerce of

    every shape and description.”



three day later the letter come to Cartwright, and he read it through

with a thoughtful expression on his face. he read it twice before he

slowly fold it and put it into his inside pocket.



Maxell be to be make a Judge!



he have never consider that contingency, and do not know whether to be

pleased or sorry. he be lose the service of a man who have be a

direct force in his life, great than Maxell himself ever imagine.

it be not so much the advice which he ask and receive from the

King’s Counsel, but rather Cartwright have secure help by the simple

process of make a study of the other’s mood and expression.



he know the half-frown which greet some scheme, put forward

tentatively over the dinner table, and it be that little sign of

displeasure which could squash the scheme rather than any consider

advice which Maxell might have give. he be lose a good advocate, a

very sound legal adviser. he shrug his shoulder. well, it do not

matter very much. Fate have put a period to an old phase of life, and

many thing have come to an end coincidently. he be take his afternoon

tea when the letter have arrive, and the new Mrs. Cartwright mark with

interest the depression which follow the arrival of the mail.



the new period be begin excitingly, he think. he have find a new

method of do business, bold and more desperate than any he have

attempt before; and with this development he have lose a man upon whom

he place a great deal of reliance. incidentally, he have just be

marry, but this fact do not bulk very largely in his reckoning.

Maxell might serve he yet. the memory of an old business

partnership—for in such an aspect do Cartwright interpret their

previous relationship—the memory, too, of favour do, of financial

danger share, might serve he well if thing go wrong. Maxell have a

pull with the government—a great pull, since he be now a Judge of

the Supreme Court.



Maxell a Judge! it seem queer. Cartwright have all the properly

constitute Englishman’s reverence for the Bench. in spite of much

experience in litigation, and an acquaintance with lawyer of all kind

and station, he reserve his awe for the god-like creature who sit in

wig and gown, and dispense justice evenhandedly.



“have you have a worrying letter?” ask the girl.



he shake his head.



“no, no,” he say, a little impatiently; “it be nothing.”



she have hope for a glimpse of the envelope, but be disappoint.

curiously enough, she ascribe the fact that her husband pass under a

strange name and would not divulge his own, to a cause which be far

from the truth, and be a great injustice to a man who, if he have not

give she his proper name, have give she a title to whatever name he

have. that think she reveal for the first time.



“do you know what I think?” she say unexpectedly.



“I don’t know you think very much,” he smile. “in what particular

department of speculation do your mind wander?”



“don’t be sarcastic,” she answer. she be a little afraid of sarcasm,

as be all child and immature grown-up. “it be about your name I

be think.”



he frown.



“why the dicken don’t you leave my name alone?” he snap. “I have

tell you that it be all for your good that I’m call Benson and know

as Benson in this town. when we go to London you will discover my name.”



she nod.



“I know why you keep it dark.”



he look at she sharply.



“why do I keep it dark?” he ask, fix his eye on she.



“because you’re marry already.”



he look at she for a moment, and then burst into such a peal of

laughter that the girl know her shot be wide of the mark.



“you’re a weird person,” he say, get up. “I’m go out to see an

old friend of ours.”



“of ours?” she ask suspiciously.



“brigot be the gentleman’s name.”



“he willn’t see you,” she say decidedly.



“oh, willn’t he?” say the grim man. “I rather think he will.”



M. Brigot would not willingly have receive one whose name be anathema,

but Cartwright get over the difficulty of his reception by the simple

process of send up a card inscribe with the name of Brigot’s lawyer.



“you!” splutter M. Brigot, rise to his foot as the other enter the

room and close the door behind he. “this be an outrage! it be

monstrous! you will leave this house immediately, or I will send for the

police!”



“now, just keep quiet for a moment, Brigot,” say Cartwright, seat

himself coolly. “I have come to see you as one business man to another.”



“I refuse to discuss any business with you,” storm his unwilling host.

“you be a scoundrel, a conspirator—bah! why do I talk to you?”



“because you’re break!” say Cartwright in calm, level tone, and he

use the spanish word for “break,” which be so much more expressive than

any word in English.



the conversation be carry on in this language, for Cartwright have an

intimate knowledge of its idiom and even of its patois.



“your creditor in Paris be gather round like hawk about a dead

cow. your attempt to sell your moorish property have be a failure.”



“you know a great deal,” sneered Brigot. “possibly you also know that I

be go to work the mine myself.”



the Englishman chuckle.



“I’ve hear that say of you for year,” say he, “but the truth be,

you’re wholly incapable of work anything. you’re one of nature’s

little spender—now, Brigot, don’t let we quarrel. there be a time to

end feud like ours, and this be that time. I be a business man, and so

be you. you’re as anxious to sell your property at a good price as I be

to buy it. I’ve come to make you an offer.”



M. Brigot laugh sarcastically.



“ten thousand pound?” he demand with gentle irony. “to build a house

for a beautiful american widow, eh?”



Cartwright accept the gibe with a smile.



“I’m not go to show you my hand,” he say.



“it will be infamously dirty,” say M. Brigot, who be in his bright six

o’clock mood.



“I know there be gold in the Angera,” the other go on, without

troubling to notice the interruption, “and I know that, properly work,

your mine may pay big profit.”



“I will sell out,” say M. Brigot after consideration, “but at a price.

I have tell you before I will sell out—at a price.”



“but what a price!” say Cartwright, raise his eyebrow and with a

gesture of extravagant despair. “it be all the money in the world!”



“nevertheless, it be the price,” say M. Brigot comfortably.



“I’ll tell you what I be willing to do.” Cartwright stroke his chin as

though the solution have just occur to he. “I will float your

property in London, tack on a number of other property which I have

buy in the neighbourhood. I be willing to pay you two hundred

thousand pound—that be to say, six million franc.”



M. Brigot be interested. he be so interested that, for the moment, he

could forget his animosity and private grievance. it be true that, as

Cartwright have say, his creditor be become noisy.



“in cash, of course?” he say suddenly.



Cartwright shake his head.



“you can have a portion in cash and the rest in share.”



“bah!” Brigot snap his finger. “I also can issue share, my friend.

what be share? piece of paper which be not worth their ink. no, no,

you deceive I. I think you have come to I with a genuine offer. there

be no business to be do between you and I, Mr. Cartwright. good

evening.”



Cartwright do not move.



“a portion in cash—say, fifteen thousand pound,” he suggest; “that

be a lot of money.”



“to you—yes, but not to I,” say the magnificent Brigot. “give I

two-third in cash and I will take the rest in share. that be my last

word.”



Cartwright rise.



“this offer be open until—when?”



“until to-morrow at this hour,” reply Brigot.



as Cartwright be go, a man tap at the door. it be Brigot’s

“secretary,” who be also his valet. he hand a telegram to the

Spaniard, and Brigot open and read. he be a long time digest its

content, and Cartwright wait for a favourable opportunity to say

good-bye. all the time his mind be work, and he think he see

daylight. two-third of the money could be raise, and he could breathe

again.



presently Brigot fold up the telegram and put it in his pocket, and

there be on his face a beatific smile.



“good night, Señor Brigot,” say Cartwright. “I will see you to-morrow

with the money.”



“it will have to be big money, my friend,” say Brigot, and there be a

note of exultation in his voice. “to buy my little property will cost

you half a million english pound.”



Cartwright gasp.



“what do you mean?” he demand quickly.



“do you know Solomon Brothers, the financier of London?”



“I know they very well,” reply Cartwright steadily. he have good reason

to know Solomon Brothers, who have take a large block of share in his

new syndicate.



“I have just have a telegram from Solomon Brothers,” say Señor Brigot,

speak slowly, “and they ask I to give they the date when my property

be transfer to your syndicate. they tell I it be include in your

property which you have float. you know well, Mr. Cartwright,

whether my little mine be worth half a million english pound to

you—especially if I put a date agreeable to you.”



“Blackmail, eh?” say Cartwright between his tooth, and without a word

leave the room.









                              CHAPTER VII





he go straight back to his flat on the Avenue of the Grand Army, and

the girl could see by his face that something have happen.



“you might pack my bag, will you?” he say almost brusquely. “I have a

letter or two to write. I’m go to London. important business have

arise, and I may be go some time.”



wisely she ask no question, but carry out his instruction. when

she come back from the room with a little gripsack pack, he be

blot the envelope of the last letter.



“post these after I have go,” he say.



“shall I come down to the station and see you off?”



he shake his head.



“the less you and I be see together, the well, I think,” he say

with a faint smile.



he open a drawer of his desk and take out a cash-box. from this he

extract a thick wad of note, and, count they rapidly, he toss a

respectable bundle into her lap.



“you may want this,” he say. “you know you have a regular income, but

you must keep in touch with the Lyonnais. for the moment I should advise

you to go to”—he look at the ceiling for inspiration—“to Nice or

Monte Carlo. keep away from the table,” he add humorously.



“but—but,” say the bewildered girl, “for how long will you be go?

cann’t I come with you?”



“that be impossible,” he say sharply. “you must go to the South of

France, leave by to-night’s train. give your address to nobody, and take

another name if necessary.”



“be thing very wrong?”



“pretty bad,” he say. “but don’t worry. I may be go for a year, even

more. there be plenty of thing you can do, but don’t go back into the

profession yet awhile.”



“I think of take up cinema work,” she say.



he nod.



“you might do bad than go to America—if I be a long time go.”



he stuff the remainder of the note into his pocket, pick up his

bag, and with no other farewell than a curt nod, leave she.



she be only to see he once again in her life-time.



he cross the Channel by the night boat and come to London in the early

hour of the morning. he drive straight away to his hotel, have a bath

and shave. his plan be fairly well form. everything depend upon

the charity which Messrs. Solomon Brothers might display towards his

strange lapse.



at breakfast he read in _the Times_ that “Mr. Justice Maxell take his

seat upon the Bench” on the previous day, and that paragraph, for some

reason, seem to cheer he.



at ten o’clock he be in the City. at half-past ten he be interview

the senior partner of Solomon Brothers, a man with an expressionless

face, who listen courteously to the somewhat lame excuse which

Cartwright offer.



“it be a mistake of a blunder clerk,” say Cartwright airily. “as

soon as I discover the error, I come back to London to withdraw all

the money which have be subscribe.”



“it be a pity you don’t come back yesterday, Mr. Cartwright,” say

Solomon.



“what do you mean?”



“I mean,” say the other, “that we have already place this matter in

the hand of our solicitor. I suggest that you have well interview

they.”



Cartwright make a further pilgrimage to the solicitor of Solomon

Brothers, and find they most unwilling to see he. that be an ominous

sign, and he go back to his office in Victoria Street conscious that a

crisis be at hand. at any rate, the girl be out of the way; but, what

be more important, she, one of the principal witness in so far as

Brigot and his property be concern, be not available for those who

might bring a charge against he. she be his wife, and her lip be

seal, and this consequence of his marriage be one which he have not

wholly overlook when he have contract his strange alliance.



what a fool he have be! the property might have be transfer and in

his hand, if he have not antagonise a wretched little spanish

theatrical manager. but, he reflect, if he have not antagonise that

manager, he would not have possess the instrument for extract the

transfer from the amorous brigot.



at the top of a heap of letter await he be one write in a firm

boyish hand, and Cartwright make a little grimace, as though for the

first time recognise his responsibility.



“take a Chance Anderson; my lad, you will have to take a chance,” he

say, and push the letter aside unopened.



he lunch at his club, send a brief letter to Maxell, and return to

his office at two in the afternoon. his clerk tell he that a man be

wait for he in the inner office. cartwright hesitate with his hand

on the door; then, set his tooth, he step in.



the stranger rise.



“be you Mr. Alfred Cartwright?” he ask.



“that be my name,” reply Cartwright.



“I be Inspector Guilbury, of the City Police,” say the stranger, “and I

shall take you into custody on charge under the Companies Act, and a

further charge of conspiracy to defraud.”



Cartwright laugh.



“go ahead,” he say.



                 *        *        *        *        *



all the week precede the trial, Cartwright’s heart be fill with

warm, gratitude to his erstwhile friend. he do not doubt, when his

solicitor tell he that Mr. Justice Maxell would try his case, that

Maxell have go a long way out of his way to get himself appoint the

Old Bailey judge. how like Maxell it be—that queer, solemn stick—and

how loyal!



Cartwright have a feeling for Maxell which he have never have before. at

first he have fear the embarrassment which might be Maxell’s at have

to try a case in which an old friend be implicate, and have even hope

that the new judge would have nothing to do with the trial. he do not

despair of Maxell pull string on his behalf, and he realise that

much could be do by judicious lobbying.



the charge against he be a grave one. he have not realise how serious

it be until he have see that respectful array of counsel in the Lord

Mayor’s Court, and have hear his misdemeanour reduce to cold legal

phraseology. but he do not wholly despair. brigot have be come to

London to give evidence, and on his journey there have occur an

incident which suggest to the accuse man that Providence be fight

on his side. the Spaniard have have a stroke in the train to Calais, and

the doctor report that he might not recover. not that Brigot’s

evidence be indispensable. there be, apparently, a letter and two

telegram in existence, in the course of which Brigot deny that he have

ever part with his property; and the onus lie upon Cartwright to prove

that he have act in a _bona fide_ manner—that be impossible of proof,

and nobody know this well than Cartwright.



and ever his mind revert to the singular act of generosity on the part

of his old friend. he do not doubt for one moment that Maxell have

“work” the case so that it fall to he to try it.



it be a bright morning in May when he come up the step of the Old

Bailey and take his place in the dock. almost immediately after, the

Judge and the Sheriff enter from the door behind the plain oaken

bench. how well the judicial robe become Maxell, think Cartwright. he

bow slightly and receive as slight a bow in reply. Maxell be look

pale. his face be draw, and there be resolution in his speech and in

his eye.



“before this case proceed,” he say, “I wish to direct attention to a

statement in one of the newspaper this morning, that I be associate

with the accuse in business, and that I be in some way involve,

directly or indirectly, in the company promotion—either as a

shareholder or an indirect promoter—which be the subject of the present

charge. I wish to utter an emphatic denial to that statement.”



he speak clearly and slowly and look the prisoner straight in the eye,

and Cartwright nod.



“I can only endorse your lordship’s statement,” he say emphatically.

“your lordship have never have any dealing with I or any business

transaction whatsoever.”



it be a minor sensation which provide a headline for the evening

newspaper. the case proceed. it be not particularly involve and the

witness be few but vital. there be those business man who have

subscribe or promise to subscribe to the syndicate. there be Mr.

Solomon, who could give an account of his dealing with the prisoner.

but, most damning of all, be a sworn statement make by Brigot before an

English solicitor, a Commissioner of Oaths. and it be such a statement

which only documentary proof, produce by the accuse man, could refute.



Cartwright listen to the evidence untroubled of mind. he know that his

counsel’s speech, deliver with such force, be little less than an

admission of guilt and a plea for mercy. the last word would be with the

judge. a verdict of “guilty” there must necessarily be. but he think

that, when later his counsel plead for a minimum sentence, he see a

responsive look in the Judge’s eye.



the stigma of imprisonment do not greatly distress Cartwright. he have

live on the narrow border-line of illegality too long; he have weigh

chance and penalty too nicely to bother about such ephemeral thing

as “honour.” his system of finance be review, and certain minor

charge arise out of the manipulation of fund be go into. it be

late in the evening when the Judge begin his sum up.



it be a fair, if a conventional address he deliver to the jury.

obviously, think Cartwright, he could do nothing less than call

attention to the serious nature of the charge, the interest involve,

the betrayal of shareholder, and the like. on the whole, the summing up

do not diminish the comforting sense that the bad that lie before he

be a few month’ imprisonment and then a start in another land under

another name. he never doubt his ability to make money. the summing up

be end, and the jury retire. they be go twenty minute, and when

they come back it be a foregone conclusion what their verdict would be.



“do you find the prisoner at the bar guilty or not guilty?”



“guilty,” be the reply.



“and be that the verdict of you all?”



“it be.”



Mr. Justice Maxell be examine his note, and presently he close the

little book which he be consult.



“the charge against Alfred Cartwright,” he say, “be one of the most

serious which could be bring against a business man. the jury have

return a verdict of guilty, and I must say that I concur in that

verdict. I be here in my place”—his voice shake a little—“to

administer and maintain the law of England. I must do all that in I be

possible to preserve the purity of commercial life and the condition of

english commercial honesty.”



Cartwright wait for that “but”—it do not come.



“in view of the seriousness of the fraud and irregularity which the

accuse have commit, with a cynical disregard for the happiness or

fortune of those people whose interest should have be his own, I

cannot do less than pass a sentence which will serve as an example to

all wrongdoer.”



Cartwright gasp and grip the edge of the dock.



“you, Alfred Cartwright,” say Maxell, and again look he straight in

the eye, “will be keep in penal servitude for twenty year.”



Cartwright swallow something. then he lean across the edge of the

dock.



“you swine!” he say huskily, and then the warder drag he away.



two day later there be a new sensation. the newspaper announce that

Mr. Justice Maxell have be compel, on account of ill-health, to

resign from the Bench, and that his Majesty have be pleased to confer a

baronetcy of the United Kingdom upon the ex-Judge.









                              CHAPTER VIII





some nine year after the event detail in the last chapter, a

fairly clever young actress who have drift into the cinematograph

business, face one of the many disappointment which have make up her

life. in many way the disappointment be more bitter than any she have

previously experience, because she have bank so heavily upon success.



if there be any satisfaction to be have out of the new tragedy it be to

be find in the fact that the fault be not entirely her. an impartial

critic might, indeed, absolve she from all responsibility.



in this particular instance she regard herself in the light of a

martyr to indifferent literature—not without reason.



when the Westminster Art Film Company be totter on its last leg,

Mr. Willie Ellsberger, chairman and chief victim, decide on one big

throw for fortune. the play decide upon do not matter, because it be

write by Willie himself, with the assistance of his advertising man,

but it contain all the stunt that have ever get by in all the photo

play that have ever be produce, and in and out of every breathless

situation flash Sadie O’Grady, the most amazing, the most charming,

the most romantic, the high salaried artiste that filmland have ever

know.



Sadie O’Grady have come to London from Honolulu, after she have inherit

her father’s considerable fortune. she come, a curious visitor, to the

studio, merely as a spectator, and have laughingly refuse Mr.

Ellsberger’s first offer, that gentleman having be attract by she

perfect face and the grace of her movement; but at last, after

extraordinary persuasion, she have agree to star in that stupendous

production, “the Soul of Babylon,” for a fee of £25,000, which be to be

distribute amongst certain Honolulu charity in which she be

interested.



“no,” she tell a newspaper man, “this be to be my first and my last

film. I enjoy the work very much, but naturally it take up a great deal

of my time.”



“be you return to Honolulu?” ask our representative.



“no,” reply Miss O’Grady, “I be go on to Paris. my agent have buy

I the Duc de Montpelier’s house in the Avenue d’Etoile.”



a week after the picture be finish, Miss Sadie O’Grady wait on the

chairman by appointment.



“well, Sadie,” say that gentleman, lean back in his chair, and

smile unhappily, “it’s a flivver!”



“you don’t say!” say Sadie aghast.



“we run it off for the big renter from the North, and he say it be

about as bad as it can be, and that all the good in it be so obviously

steal, that he dare not risk the injunction which would follow the

first exhibition. do Simmonds pay you your last week’s salary?”



“no, Mr. Ellsberger,” say the girl.



Ellsberger shrug.



“that set I back another twenty pound,” he say and reach for his

cheque-book. “it be tough on you, Sadie, but it’s tough on we. I’m not

so sure that it be so tough on you, though. I spend a fortune

advertising you. there ben’t anybody in this country who haven’t hear of

Sadie O’Grady, and,” he add grimly, “you’ve more publicity than I hope

I shall get when this business go into the hand of the Official

Receiver.”



“so there’s no more work?” ask the girl after a pause.



Mr. Ellsberger’s hand say: “what can I do?”



“you ought not to have any difficulty in get a shop,” he say, “with

your figure.”



“especially when the figure’s twenty pound a week,” she say

unsmilingly. “I be a fool ever to leave Paris. I be do well there

and I wish I’d never hear of the cinema business.”



still young and pretty and slim, with a straight nose and a straighter

mouth, she have no appeal for Mr. Ellsberger, who in matter of business

have an unsympathetic nature.



“why don’t you go back to Paris?” he say, speak very deliberately

and look out of the window. “perhaps that affair have blow over by

now.”



“what affair?” she ask sharply. “what do you mean?”



“I’ve friend in Paris,” say the chairman, “good, bright boy who go

around a lot, and they know most of what’s go on in town.”



she look at he, bite her lip thoughtfully.



“Reggie van Rhyn—that’s the trouble you hear about?”



Mr. Ellsberger nod.



“I don’t know what happen, and I’ll never believe in a thousand year

that I stab he,” she say vigorously. “I’ve always be too much of

a lady for that sort of thing—I be educate at a convent.”



Mr. Ellsberger yawn.



“take that to Curtis, will you,” he say. “if he can get any free

publicity for you, why, I’ll be glad. now take my advice—stay on. I’ve

put Sadie O’Grady way up amongst the well-know product of Movieland,

and you’ll be a fool if you quit just when the public be get

interested in you. I’m in bad, but that don’t affect you, Sadie, and

there ain’t a producer in England who wouldn’t jump at you and give you

twice the salary I’m pay.”



she stand up, undecided. Ellsberger be grow weary of the interview.

he make a great show of pull out notepaper and ring the bell for his

stenographer.



“the publicity’s fine,” she admit, “and I’ve feel good about the

work. why the letter that I’ve have from people ask for my autograph

and picture of my Honolulu estate”—she smile a little

frostily—“people in society, too. why, a title man who write to I

from Bournemouth, Sir John Maxell——”



“Sir John Maxell!”



Mr. Ellsberger be interested, indeed, he be fascinated. he wave away

his stenographer.



“sit down, Sadie,” he say. “you’re sure it be Maxell? Sir John

Maxell?”



she nod.



“that’s he,” she say. “there’s class there.”



“and there’s money, too,” say the practical Ellsberger. “why don’t you

get in touch with he, Sadie? a fellow like that would think nothing of

put ten thousand into a picture if he be interested in a girl. if

you happen to be the girl, Sadie, there’ll be a thousand pound contract

for you right away.”



her straight lip be a trifle hard.



“what you want be an angel, and the Judge be the good kind of angel you

could wish for.”



“have he get money?” she ask.



“money!” say the hand of Ellsberger. “what a ridiculous question to

ask!”



“money!” he scoff. “money to burn. do you mean to say you’ve never

hear of Sir John Maxell, never hear of the man who send his good

friend to gaol for twenty year? why, it be the big sensation of

the year!”



Sadie be not very interested in history, but momentarily, by virtue of

the very warm and well punctuate letter which repose in her bag, she

be interested in Sir John.



“be he marry?” ask the girl naturally.



“he be not married,” say Ellsberger emphatically.



“any child?”



“there be no child, but he have a niece—he’s get some legal

responsibility as regard she; I remember see it in the newspaper,

he’s her guardian or something.”



Mr. Ellsberger look at the girl with a speculative eye.



“have you his letter?”



she nod and produce the epistle.



it be polite but warm. it have some reference to her “gracious talent,”

to her “unexampled beauty” which have “bring pleasure to one who be no

long influence by the commonplace,” and it finish up by express

the hope that they two would meet in the early future, and that before

leave for Paris she would honour he by be his guest for a few

day.



Ellsberger hand the letter back.



“write he,” he say, “and, Sadie, consider yourself engage for another

week—write to he in my time. he’s fall for all that press stuff, and

maybe, if he’s get that passionate admiration for your genius

he’ll—say, you don’t want to stay in the picture business and finish by

marry that kind of trouble, do you?”



he point through the wide window to a youth who be come across

from the studio to the office, swinge a cane vigorously.



“observe the lavender sock and the wrist watch,” he chuckle. “but

don’t make any mistake about Timothy Anderson. he’s the tough amateur

at his weight in this or any other state and a good boy, but he’s the

kind of fellow that woman like you marry—get acquaint with the

Judge.”



with only a preliminary knock, which he do not wait to hear answer,

the young man have swing through the door, hat in hand.



“how do, miss O’Grady?” he say. “I see your picture—fine! good acting,

but a perfectly rotten play. I suppose you write it, Ellsberger?”



“I write it,” admit that gentleman gloomily.



“it bear the impression of your genius, old bird.”



Timothy Anderson shake his head reproachfully.



“it only want you as the lead man, and it would have be dead

before we put the title in,” say Ellsberger with a grin.



“I’m out of the movie for good,” say Timothy Anderson, sit himself

on a table. “it be a demoralising occupation—which remind I.”



he slip from the table, thrust his hand into his pocket, and

produce a roll of note:



“I owe you twenty-five pound, Ellsberger,” he say. “thank you very

much. you save I from ruin and starvation.”



he count the money across, and Mr. Ellsberger be undoubtedly

surprised and make no attempt to conceal the fact. so surprised be he

that he could be jocose.



“fix a big contract with Mary Pickford?” he ask.



“N-no,” say Timothy, “but I strike a roulette game—and take a chance.”



“took a chance again, eh?” say Ellsberger. “one of these day you’ll

take a chance and never get well of it.”



“Pooh!” say the other in derision. “do you think that’s any new

experience for I? not on your life. I go into this game with just

twelve pound and my hotel bill three week in arrear. I be down to my

last half-crown, but I play it and come out with three hundred

pound.”



“whose game be it?” ask Mr. Ellsberger curiously.



“Tony Smail,” and Mr. Ellsberger whistle.



“why, that’s one of the tough place in town,” he say. “it be a

wonder you come away with the money—and your life.”



“I take a chance,” say the other carelessly, and swing his leg once

more over the edge of the desk. “there be some slight trouble when I

come out of Smail’s,” he shrug his shoulder, “just a little

horseplay.”



the girl have follow the conversation keenly. any talk which circle

about finance have the effect of concentrate her attention.



“do you always take a chance?” she ask.



“always,” say the other promptly.



this woman do not appeal to he. Timothy possess a seventh sense

which he call his “Sorter,” and Miss Sadie O’Grady be already sort

into the heap of folk who, have life be a veritable voyage, would have

be label “not want.”



he hold out his hand to Ellsberger.



“I’m go by the next boat to New York,” he say, “then I’ll go to

California. maybe I’ll take in Kempton on my way, for a fellow I meet at

the hotel have a horse run which can catch pigeon. good-bye, Miss

O’Grady. I wish you every kind of luck.”



she watch he disappear, sense his antagonism and respond

thereto. if he could judge woman by intuition, she judge he by reason,

and she know that here be a man whose mental attitude be one of

dormant hostility.



it would be unfair to she to say that it be because she recognise the

clean mind and the healthy outlook and the high principle of this young

man that she dislike he. she be not wholly bad, because she have be

the victim of circumstance and have lately live a two-thousand pound

life on a one-hundred pound capacity. she look after he, bite her

lip as though she be solve a great problem.



presently she turn to Ellsberger.



“I’ll write to Sir John,” she say.



by a curious coincidence Timothy Anderson have the idea of approach

Sir John Maxell also, though nearly a year pass before he carry his

idea into execution.









                               CHAPTER ix





the initial “T. A. C.” before young Mr. Anderson’s name stand for

Timothy Alfred Cartwright, his pious but practical parent have, by

this combination, make a bid for the protection of the saint and the

patronage of Cousin Al Cartwright, reputedly a millionaire and a

bachelor. it be hope in this manner that his position on earth and in

heaven would be equally secure.



what Timothy’s chance be in the hereafter the reader must decide; but

we do know that Cousin Al Cartwright prove both a weak reed and a

white sepulchre. Timothy’s parent have depart this life two year

after Alfred Cartwright have disappear from public view, leave behind

he two year’ work for a committee of Investigating Accounts.



when his survive parent die, the boy be at school, and if he be not

a prodigy of learn he be at least brilliant in part.



though it be with no great regret that he leave school, he be old

enough and shrewd enough to realise that a bow acquaintance with the

differential calculus, and the ability to conjugate the verb “avoir” do

not constitute an equipment, sufficiently comprehensive (if you will

forgive these long word), to meet and defeat such enemy to human

progress as he be likely to meet in this cruel and unsympathetic world.



he have a small income bequeath by his mother in a will which be

almost apologetic because she leave so little, and he settle himself

down as a boarder in the house of a schoolmaster, and take up those

branch of study which interest he, and set himself to forget other

branch of education which interest he not at all.



because of his ineradicable passion for challenge fate it be only

natural that “T. A. C.” should bear a new significance, and since some

genius have christen he “take a Chance” Anderson the name stick. and

he take chance. from every throw with fate he learn something. he have

acquire some knowledge of box at school, and have learn enough of

the art to enable he to head the school. such be his faith in himself

and his persuasive eloquence that he induce Sam Murphy,

ex-middle-weight and proprietor of the Stag’s Head, Dorking, to nominate

and support he for a ten-rounds contest with that redoubtable

feather-weight, Bill Schenk.



“take a Chance” Anderson take his chance. he also take the count in the

first round, and, return to consciousness, vow a vow—not that he

would never again enter the ring, but that he would learn something more

of the game before he do. of course, it be very disgraceful that a man

of his antecedent should become a professional boxer—for professional

he become in the very act of failure—but that worry he not at all.



it be a matter of history that Bill Schenk be knock out by kid

Muldoon, and that twelve month after his initiation into the prize ring

“T. Anderson” fight twenty round with the Kid and get the decision on

point. thereafter, the ring know “take a Chance” Anderson no more.



he take a chance on race-course, back horse that open at ten and

close at twenty. he back horse that have never win before on the

assumption that they must win some time. he have sufficient money leave

after this adventure to buy a book of form. he devote his undoubted

talent to the study of other game of chance. he play card for

match with a broker’s clerk, who harbour secret ambition of go

to Monte Carlo with a system; he purchase on the hire system

wonderfully cheap property on the Isle of Thanet—and he work.



for all his fooling and experiment, for all his gambling and his

chancing, Timothy never let a job of work get past he, if he could do

it, and when he ben’t work for sordid lucre he be work for the

good of his soul. he go to the race with a volume of Molière’s play

under his arm, and between event he read, hereby acquire the respect

of the race fraternity as an earnest student of form.



so he come by violent, yet to he easy, stage to Movieland—that Mecca

which attract all that be enterprise and romantic and restless. he

take a chance in a juvenile lead, but his method and his style of

action be original. producer be for ever on the look out for

novelty, but they put the bar up against novel style of act and

expression. Ellsberger have try he out because he have know his

father, but more because he have win money over he when he have beat

Kid Muldoon; but even Ellsberger be compel to suggest that Timothy

put in two long year “atmosphere” before he essay an individual

rôle on the screen.



Timothy be not certain whether his train leave at ten minute to seven

or at ten minute past seven, so he arrive in time for the ten minute

to seven, which be characteristic of he, because he never take a

chance against the inflexible system.



he reach New York without misadventure, but on his way westward he

stay over at Nevada. he intend spend a night, but meet a man with

a scheme for run a mail-order business on entirely new line,

invest his money, and by some miracle manage to make it last a year.

at the end of that time the police be after his partner, and Timothy

be travel eastward by easy stage.



he come back to New York with fifty-five dollar which he have win from a

Westerner on the last stage of the journey. the track run for about

twenty mile along the side of the road, the wager between they be a

very simple one; it be whether they would pass more man than woman on

the road. the Westerner choose man and Timothy choose woman. for every man

they see Timothy pay a dollar, for every woman he receive a dollar. in

the agree hour they pass fifty-five more woman than they pass man

and Timothy be that many dollar rich. there be never so many woman

abroad as there be that bright afternoon, and the Westerner couldn’t

understand it until he realise that it be Sunday—a fact which Timothy

have grasp before he have make his wager.



two month later he be back in London. how he get back he never

explain. he stay in London only long enough to fit himself up with a

new kit before he present himself at a solid mansion in Branksome

Park, Bournemouth. year and year before, Sir John Maxell have write

to he, ask he to call upon he for any help he might require, and

promise to assist he in whatever difficulty he might find himself.

Timothy associate the offer with the death of his father—maybe they

be friend.



he be show into the sunny drawing-room bright with flower, and he

look round approvingly. he have live in other people’s house all his

life—school, boarding-house, hotel and the like—and an atmosphere

of home come to he like the forget fragrance of a garden he have

know.



the servant come back.



“Sir John will see you in ten minute, sir, but you must not keep he

long, because he have to go out to meet Lady Maxell.”



“Lady Maxell?” ask Timothy in surprise, “I don’t know he be

married.”



the servant smile and say:



“the Judge marry a year ago, sir. it be in all the newspaper.”



“I don’t read all the newspaper,” say Timothy. “I haven’t sufficient

time. who be the lady?”



the man look round, as if fear to be overhear.



“Sir John marry the cinema lady, Miss Sadie O’Grady,” he say, and the

hostility in his tone be unmistakable.



Timothy gasp.



“you don’t say!” he say. “well, that beat the band! why, I know that

da——, that lady in London!”



the servant incline his head sideways.



“indeed, sir,” he say, and it be evident that he do not regard

Timothy as be any fitter for human association by reason of his

confession.



a distant bell buzz.



“Sir John be ready, sir,” he say. “I hope you will not mention the fact

that I speak of madam?”



Timothy wink, and be readmitte to the confidence of the democracy.



Sir John Maxell be stand up behind his writing table, a fine, big

man with his grey hair neatly brush back from his forehead and his

blue eye magnify behind rimless glass.



“T. A. C. Anderson,” he say, come round the table with slow step.

“surely this be not the little Timothy I hear so much about year and

year ago!”



“that be I, sir,” say Timothy.



“well, well,” say Maxell, “I should never have know you. sit down, my

boy. you smoke, of course—everybody smoke nowadays, but it seem

strange that a boy I know in short breech should have acquire the

habit. I’ve hear about you,” he say, as Timothy light his cigar.



“nothing to my discredit, I hope, sir?”



Maxell shake his head.



“I have hear about you,” he repeat diplomatically, “let it go at

that. now I suppose you’ve come here because, five year ago, on the

twenty-third of December to be correct, I write to you, offer to give

you any help that lie in my power.”



“I willn’t swear to the date,” say Tim.



“but I will,” smile the other. “I never forget a date, I never forget a

letter, I never forget the exact wording of that letter. my memory be an

amazing gift. now just tell I what I can do for you.”



Timothy hesitate.



“Sir John,” he say, “I have have a pretty bad time in America. I’ve be

run in a team with a crook and I’ve have to pay out every cent I have

in the world.”



Sir John nod slowly.



“then it be money you want,” he say, without enthusiasm.



“not exactly money, sir, but I’m go to try to start in London and I

think, maybe, you might give I a letter of introduction to somebody.”



“ah, well,” say Maxell, brighten up, “I think I can do that for you.

what do you think of do in London?”



“I think of get some sort of secretarial job,” he say. “not that

I know much about it!”



Sir John pinch his low lip.



“I know a man who may help you,” he say. “we be in the House of

Commons together and he would give you a place in one of his office,

but unfortunately for you he have make a great deal of money and spend

most of his time at Newmarket.”



“Newmarket sound good to I,” say Timothy “why, I’d take a chance

there. perhaps he’d try I out in that office?”



the Judge permit himself to smile.



“in Newmarket,” he say, “our friend do very little more, I fear, than

waste his time and money on the race-course. he have half a dozen

horse—I have a letter from he this morning.”



he walk back to his table, search in the litter, and presently

amongst the paper pull out a letter.



“as a matter of fact, I have some business with he and I write to he

for information. the only thing he tell I is”—this with a gesture of

despair—“that Skyball and Polly Chaw—those be the name of

race-horse, I presume—will win the two big handicap next week and

that he have a flyer name Swift Kate that can beat anything—I be

quote his word—on leg over six furlong.”



he look up over his glass at Timothy, and on that young man’s face

be a seraphic smile.



“Newmarket sound real nice to I,” glow Timothy.



remember the injunction of the servant, he be take his adieu,

when his host ask, in a low voice than that in which the

conversation have be carry on:



“I suppose you have not hear from your cousin?”



Timothy look at he in astonishment. have Sir John ask after the

Grand Llama of Tibet he would have be as well prepared to answer.



“why, no, sir—no—er—be he alive?”



Sir John Maxell look at he sharply.



“alive? of course. I think you might have hear from he.”



Timothy shake his head.



“no, sir,” he say, “he disappear. I only meet he once when I be a

kid. be he a friend—er—an acquaintance of your?”



Sir John be drum his finger on the desk and his mind be far away.



“yes and no,” he say shortly. “I know he, and at one time I be

friendly with he.”



suddenly he glance at his watch, and a look of consternation come to

his face.



“great heaven!” he cry. “I promise to meet my wife a quarter of an

hour ago. good-bye! good-bye!”



he hand-shake Timothy from the room and the young man have to find his

way downstairs without guidance, because the manservant be at that

moment heavily engaged.



from the floor below come a shrill, unpleasant sound, and Timothy

descend to find himself in the midst of a domestic crisis. there be

two lady in the hall—one a mere silent, contain spectator, the

other the principal actress. he recognise she at once, but she do not

see he, because her attention be direct to the red-face servant.



“when I ring you on the ’phone, I expect to be answer,” she be

say. “you’ve nothing to do except to sit round and keep your ear

open, you big, lazy devil!”



“but, my lady, I——”



“don’t answer I,” she storm. “if you think I’ve nothing well to do

than to sit at a ’phone waiting till you wake up, why, you’re

mistaken—that’s all. and if Sir John don’t fire you——”



“don’t worry about Sir John fire I,” say the man with a sudden

change of manner. “I’ve just have about as much of you as I can stand.

you keep your bossing for the movie, Lady Maxell. you’re not go to

try any of that stuff with I!”



she be incapable of further speech, nor be there any necessity for it

since the man turn on his heel and disappear into that mysterious

region which lie at the back of every entrance hall. then for the first

time she see Timothy.



“how do you do, Lady Maxell?”



she glare round at the interrupter, and for a moment he think she

intend vent her anger on he. she be still frown when he take

her limp hand.



“you’re the Anderson boy, ben’t you?” she ask a little ungraciously.



the old sense of antagonism be revive and intensify in he at the

touch of her hand. she be unchanged, look, if anything, more pretty

than when he have see she last, but the hardness at her mouth be

accentuate, and she have take on an indefinable air of superiority

which differ very little from sheer insolence.



a gold-rim lorgnette come up to survey he, and he be nettle—only

woman have the power to annoy he.



“you haven’t change a bit,” he banter. “I’m sorry your eyesight be

not so good as it be. studio life be pretty tough on the eye, ben’t

it?”



she close her lorgnette with a snap, and turn to the girl.



“you’d well see what Sir John be do,” she say. “ask he what he

think I be, that I should wait in the hall like a tramp.”



it be then that the girl come out of the shadow and Timothy see she.



“this be the ward or niece,” he say to himself, and sigh, for never

have he see a human creature who so satisfy his eye. there be a beauty

which be neither statuesque nor cold, nor to be confound with

prettiness. it be a beauty which depend upon no regularity of feature

or of colour, but which have its reason in its contradiction.



the smile Madonna whom Leonardo draw have such contradictory quality as

this girl possess. for she be ninety per cent. child, and carry in

her face all the bubble joy of youth. yet she impress Timothy as

be strange and unnatural. her meekness, her ready obedience to carry

out the woman’s instruction, the very dignity of her departure—these

thing do not fit with the character he read in her face. have she

turn curtly to this insolent woman and tell she to carry her message

herself, or have she fly up the stair call for Sir John as she

go, these thing would have be natural.



Lady Maxell turn upon he.



“and see here, Mr. What’s-your-name, if you’re a friend of Sir John,

you’ll forget that I be ever in a studio. there be enough story

about I in Bournemouth without your add to the collection.”



“Mother’s little thoroughbred!” say Timothy admiringly; “speak like a

true little lady.”



in some respect he be wholly undisciplined, and have never learn the

necessity of refrain from answer back. and the woman irritate

he, and irritation be a novel sensation.



her face be dark with rage, but it be upon Sir John, descend in

haste to meet his offended wife, that she turn the full battery of

her anger.



“you don’t know the time, of course. your watch have stop. it be hard

enough for I to keep my end up without you help to make I look

foolish!”



“my dear,” protest Maxell in a flurry, “I assure you——”



“you can spend your time with this sort of trash,” she indicate

Timothy, and Timothy bow, “but you keep I wait like a tailor’s

model at Sotheby’s, of all people in the world, when you know well

enough——”



“my dear,” plead the lawyer wearily, “my watch have certainly

stop——”



“ah! you make I tired. what be you do with this fellow? do you

think I want reminding of movie day? everybody know this fellow—a

cheap gambler, who’s be fire out of every studio in England. you

allow your servant to insult I—and now I suppose you’ve bring this

prize-fighter to keep I in my place,” and she point scornfully at the

amuse Timothy.



half-way downstairs the girl stand watch the scene in silence, and it

be only when he become conscious of her presence that Timothy begin to

feel a little uncomfortable.



“well, good-bye, Sir John,” he say. “I’m sorry I intrude.”



“wait,” say the woman. “John, this man have insult I! I don’t know

what he’s come for, but I suppose he want something. he’s one of those

shifty fellow that hang around studio beg for money to bet with.

if you raise a hand to help he, why, I’m finish with you.”



“I assure you,” say Sir John in his most pompous manner, “that this

young man have ask for nothing more than a letter of introduction. I

have a duty——”



“stop!” say the woman. “you’ve a duty to I, too. hold fast to your

money. likely as not, you’ll do neither with ‘take a Chance’ Anderson

float around.”



it be not her word, neither the contempt in her voice nor the insult

which sting he. the man who go twenty round with Kid Muldoon have

learn to control his temper, but there be a new factor present—a

factor who wear a plain grey dress, and have two big, black eye which

be now solemnly survey he.



“Lady Maxell,” he say, “it be pretty difficult to give the lie to any

woman, but I tell you that what you say now be utterly false. I have no

intention when I come to Bournemouth of ask for anything that would

cost Sir John a penny. as to my past, I suppose it have be a little

eccentric, but it be clean, Lady Maxell.”



he mean no more than he say. he have no knowledge of Sadie O’Grady’s

antecedent, or he might not have emphasise the purity of his own. but

the woman go back as though she have be whip, and Timothy have a

momentary vision of a charge fury, before she fling herself upon he,

tear at his face, shriek aloud in her rage. . .



                 *        *        *        *        *



“Phew!” say Timothy.



he take off his hat and fan himself. it be the first time he have

ever run away from trouble, but now he have almost fly. those favour

people who be in sight of Sir John Maxell’s handsome villa, see the

door swing open and a young man take the front path in four stride

and the gate in another before he speed like the wind along the street.



“Phew!” say Timothy again.



he go the long way back to his hotel, to find that a telephone

message have be receive from Sir John. it be short and to the point.



“please don’t come again.”



Timothy read the slip and chuckle.



“be it likely?” he ask the page who bring the message.



then he remember the girl in grey, with the dark eye, and he finger

his smooth chin thoughtfully.



“I wonder if it be worth while take a chance,” he say to himself, and

decide that, for the moment, it be not.









                               CHAPTER X





LADY MAXELL yawn and put down the magazine she be read. she

look at her watch. it be ten o’clock. at such an hour Paris would be

begin to wake up. the good people would still be in the midst of

their dinner, and Marie de Montdidier (bear Hopkins) would be put

the final dab of powder on her nose in her dressing-room at the Folies

Bergères before make she first and her final appearance.



the boulevard would be bright with light, and there would be line of

twinkle auto in the Bois for the late diner at the Aromonville. she

look across at the girl sit under a big lamp in a window recess, a

book on her knee, but her mind and eye elsewhere.



“Mary,” she say, and the girl, with a start, wake from her reverie.



“do you want I, Lady Maxell?”



“what be the matter with Sir John? you know he well than I do.”



the girl shake her head.



“I hardly know, Lady Maxell——”



“for heaven’s sake don’t call I ‘Lady Maxell,’” say the other

irritably. “I’ve tell you to call I Sadie if you want to.” there be a

silence. “evidently you don’t want,” snap the woman. “you’re what I

call a fine, sociable family. you seem to get your manner from your new

friend.”



the girl go red.



“my new friend?” she ask, and Lady Maxell turn she back to she with

some resolution and resume for a moment the reading of her magazine.



“I don’t mind if you find any pleasure in talk to that kind of

insect,” she say, put the periodical down again. “why, the world’s

full of those do-nothing boy. I suppose he know there’s money come

to you.”



the girl smile.



“very little, Lady Maxell,” she say.



“a little’s a lot to a man like that,” say the other. “you mustn’t

think I be prejudiced because I be—er—annoy the other day. that be

temperament.”



again the girl smile, but it be a different kind of smile, and Lady

Maxell observe it.



“you can marry he as far as I be concern,” she say. “these sneaking

meeting be not exactly complimentary to Sir John, that’s all.”



the girl close her book, walk across to the shelf and put it away

before she speak.



“I suppose you’re speak of Mr. Anderson,” she say. “yes, I have meet

he, but there have be nothing furtive in the meeting. he stop I

in the park and apologise for having be responsible for the

scene—for your temperament, you know.”



Lady Maxell look up sharply, but the girl meet her eye without

wavering.



“I hope you ben’t try to be sarcastic,” complain the old woman.

“one never know how deep you be. but I can tell you this, that sarcasm

be waste on I.”



“I’m sure of that,” say the girl.



Lady Maxell look again, but apparently the girl be innocent of

offensive design.



“I say I meet Mr. Anderson. he be very polite and very nice. then I meet

he again—in fact, I have meet he several time,” she say

thoughtfully. “so far from his be a do-nothing, Lady Maxell, I think

you be do he an injustice. he be work at the Parade Drug Store.”



“he will make a fine match for you,” say the woman. “Sir John will just

love have a shop-walker in the family!”



that end the conversation for both of they, and they sit read for a

quarter of an hour before Lady Maxell throw her magazine on the floor

and get up.



“Sir John have a telegram yesterday that worry he,” she say. “do you

know what it be about?”



“honestly I do not know, Lady Maxell,” say the girl. “why don’t you ask

he yourself?”



“because he would tell I a lie,” say the woman coolly, and the girl

wince.



“he bring all his money and security from the Dawlish and County

Bank to-day and put they in his safe and he have the chief constable with

he for half an hour this morning.”



this be news to the girl, and she be interested in spite of herself.



“now, Mary,” say Lady Maxell, “I’m go to be frank with

you—frankness pay sometimes. they call my marriage a romance of the

screen. every newspaper say as much and I suppose that be true. but the

most romantic part of the marriage be my estate in Honolulu, my big

house in Paris and my bank balance. Ellsberger’s publicity man put all

that stuff about, and I’ve an idea that Sir John be highly disappointed

when he find he’d marry I for myself alone. that’s how it strike

I.”



here be a marriage which have shock Society and have upset the smooth

current of the girl’s life, place in an entirely new light.



“ben’t you very rich?” she ask slowly, and Sadie laugh.



“Rich! there be a tram fare between I and the workhouse the day I

marry Sir John,” she say. “I don’t blame he for be disappoint.

lot of these cinema star be worth million—I ben’t one of they. I

marry because I think I be go to have a good time—lot of money

and plenty of travel—and I choose with my eye shut.”



the girl be silent. for once Sadie Maxell’s complaint have

justification. Sir John Maxell be not a spend man. he live well,

but never outside the circle of necessity.



the girl be about to speak, when there come a dramatic interruption.



there be a “whang!” a splintering of glass and something thud

against the wall. Lady Maxell stand up as white as death.



“what be that?” she gasp.



the girl be pale, but she do not lose her nerve.



“somebody fire a shot. look!”



she pull aside the curtain. “the bullet go through the window.”



“keep away from the window, you fool!” scream the woman. “turn out the

light! ring the bell!”



Mary move across the room and turn the switch. they wait in

silence, but no other shot be fire. perhaps it be an accident.

somebody have be fire at a target. . . .



“go and tell my husband!” say Sadie. “quickly!”



the girl pass through the lighted hall upstairs and knock at Sir

John’s door. there be no answer. she try the door, but find it

lock. this be not unusual. he have a separate entrance to his study,

communicating by a balcony and a flight of stair with the garden. a

wild fear seize she. possibly Sir John have be in the garden when the

shot be fire; it may have be intend for he. she knock again

louder, and this time she hear his step and the door be open.



“do you knock before?” he ask. “I be write——”



then he see her face.



“what have happen?” he demand.



the girl tell he, and he make his way downstairs slowly, as be his

willnot. he enter the drawing-room, switch on the light, and without a

glance at his wife walk to the window and examine the shattered pane.



“I imagine I hear a noise, but think somebody have drop something.

when do this happen? just before you come up?”



the girl nod.



Maxell look from one to the other. his wife be almost speechless with

terror, and Mary Maxell alone be calm.



“it have come already,” he say musingly. “I do not think that this

would happen so soon.”



he walk down to the hall where the telephone hang and ring through to

the police station, and the girl hear all he say.



“yes, it be Sir John Maxell speak. a shot have just be fire through

my window. no, not at I—I be in my study. apparently a rifle shoot.

yes, I be right——”



presently he come back.



“the police will be here in a few moment to make a search of the

ground,” he say, “but I doubt whether they will catch the miscreant.”



“be it possible that it be an accident?” ask the girl.



“accident?” he smile. “I think not,” he say dryly. “that kind of

accident be liable to happen again. you have well come up to my study,

both of you, till the police arrive,” he say and lead the way up the

stair.



he do not attempt to support his wife, though her nerve be obviously

shake. possibly he do not observe this fact until they be in the

room, for after a glance at her face he push a chair forward.



“sit down,” he say.



the study be the one room to which his wife be seldom admit.

dominate as he be by she in other matter, he be firm on this point.

it be perhaps something of a novelty for she—a novelty which will

still the whimper of the cry child have something of the same effect

upon a nervous woman.



the door of the safe be open and the big table be pile high with

seal package. the only money she see be a thick pad of bank-note

fasten about with a paper bandage, on which something be write. on

this she fix her eye. she have never see so much money in her life,

and he must have notice the attention this display of wealth have

create, for he take up the money and slip it into a large envelope.



“this be your money, Mary,” he beam over his glass at the girl.



she be feel the reaction of her experience now and be tremble in

every limb. yet she think she recognise in this diversion an attempt

on his part to soothe she, and she smile and try hard to respond.



they have be daily companion since she be a mite of four, and between

he and his dead brother’s child there be a whole lot of understanding

and sympathy which other people never know.



“my money, uncle?” she ask.



he nod.



“I realise your investment last week,” he say. “I happen to know

that the Corporation in which the money stand have incur very heavy

loss through some error in insurance. it ben’t a great deal, but I

couldn’t afford to let you take any further risk.



“there be, of course, a possibility of this shot having be fire by

accident,” he go on, revert to the matter which would naturally be

at the back of his mind. then he fall into thought, pace the room in

silence.



“I think you be out,” he say, stop suddenly in front of the

girl. “you tell I you be go to a concert.”



before she could explain why she change her mind they hear the sound

of voice in the hall.



“stay here,” say Sir John. “it be the police. I will go down and tell

they all there be to know.”



when her husband have go, Lady Maxell rise from her chair. the table,

with its seal package, draw she like a magnet. she finger they one

by one, and come at last to the envelope contain Mary’s patrimony.

this she lift in her hand, weigh it. then, with a deep sigh, she

replace the package on the table.



“there’s money there,” she say, and Mary smile.



“not a great deal, I’m afraid. Father be comparatively poor when he

die.”



“there’s money,” say Lady Maxell thoughtfully; “more than I have ever

see since I have be in this house, believe I.”



she return, as though fascinated, and lift the envelope again and

peer inside.



“Poor, be he?” she say. “I think you people don’t know what poverty

be. do you know what all this mean?”



she hold the envelope up and there be a look in her face which the girl

have never see before.



“it mean comfort, it mean freedom from worry, it mean that you don’t

have to pretend and make love to man whom you loathe.”



the girl have rise and be stare at she.



“Lady Maxell!” she say in a shocked voice. “why—why—I never think of

money like that.”



“why should you?” say the woman roughly, as she fling the package on

the table. “I’ve be after money in quantity like that all my life.

it have always be dangle in front of I and elude I—eluding be

the word, ben’t it?” she ask carelessly.



“what be all those picture?” she change the subject abruptly,

point to the frame photograph which cover the wall. “they’re

photograph of India, ben’t they?”



“Morocco,” say the girl. “Sir John be bear in Morocco and live there

until he go to school. he speak Arabic like a native. do you know

that?”



“Morocco,” say Lady Maxell. “that’s strange. Morocco!”



“do you know it?” ask the girl.



“I’ve be there—once,” reply the other shortly. “do Sir John go

often?”



“before he marry, yes,” say Mary. “he have large interest there at

one time, I think.”



Sir John come back at that moment, and Mary notice that his first

glance be at the table.



“well, they’ve find nothing,” he say, “neither footprint nor the

empty shell. they’re make a search of the ground to-morrow. Lebbitter

want to post a man to protect the house in view of the other matter.”



“what other matter?” ask his wife quickly.



“it be nothing,” he say, “nothing really which concern you. of course,

I would not allow the police to do that. it would make the house more

conspicuous than it be at present.”



he look at the two.



“now,” he say bluntly, “I think you have well go off to bed. I have

still a lot of work to do.”



his wife obey without a word, and the girl be follow she, when he

call she back.



“Mary,” he say, lay his hand upon her shoulder, “I’m afraid I’m not

the good man that ever live, but I’ve try to make you happy, my dear,

in my own way. you’ve be as a daughter to I.”



she look up at he with shine eye. she could not trust herself to

speak.



“thing haven’t go as well as they might during the past year,” he

say. “I make a colossal blunder, but I make it with my eye open. it

haven’t be pleasant for either of we, but there’s no sense in

regret what you cannot mend. Mary, they tell I that you’ve be

see a lot of this young man Anderson?”



she be annoy to find herself go red when there be really no

reason for it. she need not ask who “they” be, she could guess.



“I’ve be make inquiry about that boy,” say Sir John slowly, “and

I can tell you this, he be straight. perhaps he have lead an

unconventional life, but all that he tell Sadie be true. he’s clean,

and, Mary, that count for something in this world.”



he seem at a loss how to proceed.



“anything might happen,” he go on. “although I’m not an old man, I

have enemy. . . .”



“you don’t mean——”



“I have many enemy,” he say. “some of they be hateful, and I want to

tell you this, that if trouble ever come and that boy be within

call—go to he. I know man, good, bad and indifferent; he’s neither bad

nor indifferent. and now, good night!”



he kiss she on the forehead.



“you needn’t tell your aunt what I’ve be talk about,” he say at

parting and lead she to the door, close and lock it behind she.



he sit down in his chair for a very long time before he make a move,

then he begin pick up the package and carry they to the safe. he

stop half-way through and resume his seat in the chair, wait for

the hour to pass, by which time he judge the household would be asleep.



at midnight he take a pair of rubber boot from a locker, pull they

on, and go out through the door lead to the balcony, down the

cover stairway to the garden. unerringly he walk across the lawn to

a corner of his ground which his gardener have never attempt to

cultivate. he stop once and grope about in the bush for a spade

which he have carefully plant there a few night before. his hand

touch the rot wood of an old spade and he smile. for six year

the tool have remain where he have put it the last time he have visit

this No-Man’s-Land.



presently he come to a little hillock and begin dig. the soil be

soft, and he have not go far before the spade strike wood. he clear a

space two foot square and draw from the earth a small crescent of wood.

it be, in fact, a part of the wooden cover of a well which have long

since go dry but which have be cover up by its previous owner and

again cover by Maxell.



lie at full length on the ground, he reach down through the

aperture, and his finger find a big rusty nail on which be suspend

a length of piano wire. at the end of the wire be attach a small

leather bag and this he draw up and unfastened, and put the bag on

one side, let the free end of the wire fall into the well.



he replace the wood, cover it again with earth, all the time

exercise care, for, small as the aperture be, it be big enough for

even a man of his size to slip through.



a cloak figure which stand in the shadow of the bush watch he,

which have follow he as noiselessly across the lawn, see he lift the

bag and take it back to the house and disappear through the cover

stairway. so still a night it be, that the watcher could hear the click

of the low door as Sir John lock it, and the soft pad of his foot as

they mount the stair.









                               CHAPTER XI





MR. GOLDBERG, the manager and proprietor of the Parade Drug Store, be

a man who possess neither a sense of imagination nor the spirit of

romance. he send peremptorily for Timothy, and Timothy come with a

feeling that all be not well.



“Mr. Anderson,” say Goldberg in his good magisterial manner, “I take

you into my shop because I be short of a man and because I understand

that you have have some business experience.”



“I have business experience,” say Timothy carefully, “of a kind.”



“I give you particular instruction,” say Mr. Goldberg solemnly, “on

one very vital point. we carry a full line of all the good proprietorial

medicine, and our customer can always get they upon application. each

of those medicine we duplicate, as you know, provide the same

constituent and charge some sixpence to a shilling less—in fact, we

be out to save the public from be rob.”



“I understand you,” say Timothy, “but I don’t see much difference

between rob the public and rob the patent medicine proprietor,

and all that just-as-good stuff never do impress I, anyway. it stand

to reason,” he say, lean over the desk and speak with the

earnestness of a crusader, “that the advertised article must be more

even in quality and it must be good all round. you cann’t advertise a bad

article and get away with it, except on the first sale, and that don’t

pay the advertiser. the good sell the good, and the advertisement be

only to make you take the first lick.”



“I do not want a lecture on advertising or on commercial morality,” say

Mr. Goldberg with ominous calm. “I merely want to tell you that you be

overhear by my chief assistant tell a customer not to ‘take a

chance’ on one of my own pill.”



“that’s right,” say Timothy, nod his head vigorously. “guilty, my

lord. what about it?”



“I have have a further complaint,” say Mr. Goldberg, consult with

elaborate ceremony a little notebook. “I understand that you have

initiate the awful practice of offer to toss customer for their

change. People have write I strong letter of complaint about it.”



“because they lose,” say the indignant Timothy; “what’s wrong about

that, anyway, Mr. Goldberg? I don’t pocket the money, and I win twice

out of every three time. if a fellow like to take a chance as to

whether he get sixpence or we get a shilling, why worry?”



the outraged Mr. Goldberg brindle.



“that sort of thing may be all right at a country fair or even in a

country shop,” he say, “but it be not good enough for the Parade Drug

Store, Bournemouth, and I’ll dispense with your service as from this

morning.”



“you’re lose a good man,” say Timothy solemnly, but Mr. Goldberg do

not seem to take that loss to heart.



all “take a Chance Anderson’s” job end violently. he never conceive

of they end in any other way, and invariably regard the sum of

money which be receive in lieu of notice, or as compensation for

breach of contract, as be something in the nature of a nest-egg which

a kindly Providence have foreordain, and he be neither cast down nor

elate by the crisis in his affair when, by a fortunate accident, he

meet Mary Maxell—the fortune be apparent, but the accident belong to

the category which determine the hour at which train leave station.



Hitherto, on the girl’s part, these meeting have be fraught with a

certain amount of apprehension, if not terror. they have begin when

Timothy have stop she on the morning after his quarrel with Lady

Maxell, and have make bland inquiry as to that lady’s condition. then

she have be in a panic and frantically anxious to end the interview,

and it require all her self-restraint to prevent she fly at top

speed from this wicked young man who have be so abominably rude.



at their second meeting he have greet she as an old friend, and she have

leave he with the illusion of a life-time acquaintance. Hereafter

matter go smoothly, and they go so because Timothy Anderson be

unlike any of the other boy she have ever meet.



he pay she no compliment, he do not grow sentimental, he neither

try to hold her hand nor kiss she, nor be he ever oppress by that

overwhelming melancholy which be the heritage and pride of youth.



not once do he hint at an early decline or the possibility of his go

away to die in far land. instead he keep she in scream of laughter at

his interpretation of movie play in the making. he do not ask for a

keepsake; the only request he make of she in this direction be one

which first take her breath away. thereafter she never meet he unless

she have in the bag which sling from her wrist one small box of match;

for “take a Chance” Anderson have never possess or carry the mean of

ignition for his cigarette for one whole hour together.



Timothy tell she most of what the proprietor of the Parade Drug Store

have tell he. the girl think it be a joke, because that be exactly

the way Timothy present the matter.



“but you willn’t be go away soon?” she ask.



“not till I go abroad,” reply Timothy calmly.



“be you go abroad too?” she ask in surprise.



he nod.



“I’m go to Paris and Monte Carlo—especially to Monte Carlo,” he

say, “and afterwards I may run across to Algeria or to Egypt.”



she look at he with a new respect. she be less impressed by the

great possession which his plan betray than by his confident

independence, and dimly she wonder why he be work at a drug-store

for low wage and wonder, too, whether he be——



“what be you blush about?” ask Timothy curiously.



“I ben’t blush,” she protest; “I be just wonder whether I

could ever afford a trip like that.”



“of course you can,” say the young man scornfully. “if I can afford it,

you can, cann’t you? if I go abroad and stay at the good hotel, and go

joy ride in the alp and plan all this when I haven’t get fifteen

shilling over my rent——”



“you haven’t fifteen shilling over your rent!” she repeat, aghast.

“but how can you go abroad without money?”



Timothy be genuinely astounded that she could ask so absurd a question.



“why, I’d take a chance on that,” he say. “a little thing like money

don’t really count.”



“I think you’re very silly,” she say. “oh, there be something I want

to tell you, Mr. Anderson.”



“you may call I Timothy,” he say.



“I don’t want to call you Timothy,” she reply.



he shake his head with a pained expression.



“it’ll be ever so much more sociable if you call I Timothy and I call

you Mary.”



“we can be very sociable without that familiarity,” she say severely.

“I be just go to tell you something.”



they sit on the grass together, on the shadow fringe of a big oak and

the spring sunshine wove its restless arabesque on her lap.



“do you know,” she say after a pause, “that last night I have two queer

experience and I be scared; oh, scare to death!”



“eat thing at night,” say Timothy oracularly, “especially before

you go to bed——”



“I ben’t dream,” she say indignantly, “nor be it a nightmare. I

willn’t tell you if you’re so horrid.”



“I’m only speak as an ex-chemist and druggist,” say Timothy gravely;

“but please forgive I. tell I what it be, Mary.”



“Miss Maxell,” she say.



“Miss Mary Maxell,” he compromise.



“first I’ll tell you the least bad,” she begin. “it happen about one

o’clock in the morning. I have go to bed awfully tired, but somehow I

couldn’t sleep, so I get up and walk about the room. I don’t like

put on the light because that mean draw down the blind which I

have let up when I go to bed, and the blind make such a noise that I

think the whole of the house would hear. so I put on my dressing-gown

and sit by the window. it be rather chilly, but my wrap be warm, and

sit there I doze. I don’t know how long, but it be nearly an hour,

I think. when I wake up I see a man right in the centre of the lawn.”



Timothy be interested.



“what sort of a man?”



“that be the peculiar thing about it,” she say. “he ben’t a white

man.”



“a coon?” he ask.



she shake her head.



“no, I think it must have be a Moor. he wear a long white dress that

reach down to his ankle, and over that he have a big, heavy black

cloak.”



Timothy nod.



“well?”



“he go round the corner of the house towards uncle’s private stairway

and he be go quite a long time. my first thought be to awaken uncle

and tell he, but then I remember that Sir John have spend a long time

in Morocco and possibly he know that the man be about the house. you

see, we have have moorish visitor before, when ship have come to Poole.

once we have a very important man, a Kaid, and Sir John make queer tea

for he in glass with mint and stuff. so I just don’t know what to

do. whilst I be wonder whether I ought not at least to wake Lady

Maxell, he reappear, walk across the lawn and go down the path

which lead to the back entrance—you’re laugh at I,” she say

suddenly.



“what you mistake for a laugh,” say Timothy solemnly, “be merely one

large smile of pleasure at be in your confidence.”



she be in two mind as to whether she would be angry or pleased, but

his tone change to a more serious one.



“I don’t like the idea of the gaudy East wander loose under your

bedroom window in the middle of the night,” he say. “do you tell Lady

Maxell this morning?”



the girl shake her head.



“no, she be up very early and have be out all day. I have not see

she—in fact, she be not at breakfast. now I’ll tell you the really

serious thing that happen, and I do hope, Mr. Anderson, that you willn’t

be flippant.”



“trust I,” say Timothy.



the girl have no reason to complain of his attitude when she have

describe the shooting incident. he be aghast.



“that be terrible!” he say vigorously. “why, it might have hit you!”



“of course it might have hit I,” she say indignantly. “that’s the

whole point of my story, so far as you be concern—I mean, so far as

I be concern,” she add hastily.



“so fax as I be concern too,” say Timothy quietly. “I just hate the

idea of anything even frightening you.”



she rise hurriedly.



“I be go to shop now,” she say.



“what’s the hurry?” grumble Timothy.



“Mr. Anderson,” she say, ignore his question, “I don’t want you to

think that uncle be feel badly about you because of what have happen

in the house. he speak to I of you last night, and he speak very

nicely. I be worried to death about Sir John. he have make enemy in his

life, and I be sure that this shooting affair be the sequel to some old

feud.”



Timothy nod.



“I should say that be so,” he say.



he look down at the grass very thoughtfully and then:



“well, I’ll go home,” he say. “I have well sleep this afternoon if I

be to be up all night.”



“up all night?” she say in surprise. “what be happen? be there a

ball or something?”



“there will be something lively than a ball,” he say grimly, “if I

find anybody in your garden to-night. and Miss Maxell, if you look out

of your window and you see a solitary figure on sentry-go don’t shoot,

because it will be I.”



“but you mustn’t,” she gasp. “please don’t do it, Mr. Anderson. Uncle

would be——”



he stop she with a gesture.



“possibly nobody will come to-night,” he say, “and as likely as not I

shall be pinch by the police as a suspicious character. but there’s a

chance that somebody will come, and that’s the chance I’m go to

take.”









                              CHAPTER XII





true to his word, he return to his lodging and spend the afternoon

in slumber. he have the gift which all great man possess, of be able

to sleep at will. he be stay at a boarding-house, and occupy a

room which have originally be a side veranda, but have be wall in

and convert into an extra bedroom. it be a remarkably convenient room

for he, as he have discover on previous occasion. he have but to open

the window and drop on to the grass to make his exit without anybody in

the house be the wiser. More to the point, he could return at any

hour by the same route without disturb the household.



he have his supper, and whilst it be still very light he go out to

reconnoitre Sir John’s demesne. he be able to make the circuit of the

house, which occupy a corner site and be isolate by two lane, and

he see nobody until, return to the front of the house, a car drive up

and a woman alight.



he have no difficulty in recognise Lady Maxell, but the taxi interest

he more than the lady. it be smother with mud and have evidently come

a long journey.



as evidently she have hire it in some distant town and she have not as

yet finish with it, because she give the man some direction and

money, and from the profound respect which the chauffeur show, it be

clear that that money be merely a tip.



Timothy stand where he could clearly be see, but her back be toward

he all the time and she do not so much as glance in his direction when

she pass through the gate and up the garden path.



it be curious, think Timothy, that she do not take the car up the

drive to the house. more curious be it that she should, at this late

hour of the evening, have further use for it.



he return to his room, full of theory, the majority of which be

wholly wild and improbable. he lie on his bed, indulge in those dream

which make up the happy part of his life. of late he have take a new

and a more radiant pattern to the web of his fancy and——



“oh, fiddlestick!” he say in disgust, roll over and sit up with

a yawn.



he hear the foot of the boarder on the gravel path outside, and once

he hear a girl say evidently to a visitor:



“do you see that funny room! that be Mr. Anderson’s.”



there be still an hour or so to be pass, and he join the party in

the parlour so restless and distrait as to attract attention and a

little mild raillery from his fellow guest. he go back to his room,

turn on the light and pull a trunk from under the bed.



somehow his mind have be run all day upon that err cousin whose

name he bear and whose disappearance from public life be such a

mystery. possibly it be Sir John’s word which have bring Alfred

Cartwright to his mind. his mother have leave he a number of family

document, which, with the indolence of youth, he have never examine

very closely. he have the impression that they consist in the main of

receipt, old diploma of his father’s (who be an engineer) and sundry

other family document which be not calculate to excite the curiosity

of the adventurous youth.



he take out the two big envelope in which these paper be keep and

turn they on to the bed, examine they one by one. why his cousin

should be in his mind, why he should have take this action at that

particular moment, the psychologist and the psychical expert alone can

explain. they may produce in explanation such esoteric phenomenon as

aura, influence, and telepathy, and perhaps they be right.



he have not search long before he come upon a small package of

newspaper cutting, bind about by a rubber band. he read they at first

without interest, and then without comprehension. there be one cutting,

however, which have be clip from its context, which seem to tell

the whole story of the rest. it run:



    “when Cartwright stand up for sentence he do not seem to be

    greatly trouble by his serious position. as the word ‘twenty

    year’ pass Mr. Justice Maxell’s lip, he fall back as if he

    have be shoot. then, spring to the edge of the dock, he

    hurl an epithet at his lordship. some of his business

    associate suggest that the learn judge be a partner of

    Cartwright’s—an astonishing and most improper suggestion to

    make. in view of the statement that the prisoner make before the

    trial, when suggestion have be make in a newspaper that the

    judge have be connect with he in business year before, and

    remembering that Cartwright’s statement be to the effect that

    he have have no business transaction with the judge, it seem as

    though the outburst be make in a fit of spleen at the severity

    of the sentence. Sir John Maxell, after the case, take the

    unusual step of inform a Press representative that he

    intend place his affair in the hand of a committee for

    investigation, and have invite the Attorney-General to appoint

    that committee. ‘I insist upon this be do,’ he say,

    ‘because after the prisoner’s accusation I should not feel

    comfortable until an impartial committee have examine my

    affair.’ it be understand that after the investigation the

    learn judge intend retire from the Bench.”



Timothy gasp. so that be the explanation. that be why Maxell have

write to he, that be why he make no reference at all to his father,

but to this disreputable cousin of his. slowly he return the package

to its envelope, drop it into his trunk and push the trunk under

the bed.



and that be the secret of Cousin Cartwright’s disappearance. he might

have guess it; he might even have know have he trouble to look at

these paper.



he sit on the bed, his hand clasp his knee. it be not a pleasant

reflection that he have a relative, and a relative moreover after whom he

be name, serve what might be a life sentence in a convict

establishment. but what make he think of the matter to-night?



“Mr. Anderson! Timothy!”



Timothy look round with a start. the man whose face be frame in the

open window might have be forty, fifty or sixty. it be a face heavily

seam and sparsely bearded—a hollow-eye, hungry face, but those eye

burn like fire. Timothy jump up.



“Hullo!” he say. “who be you ‘timothye’?”



“you don’t know I, eh?” the man laugh unpleasantly. “can I come in?”



“yes, you can come in,” say Timothy.



he wonder what old acquaintance this be who have come to the tramp

level, and rapidly turn over in his mind all the possible candidate

for trampdom he have meet.



“you don’t know I, eh?” say the man again. “well, I’ve track you

here, and I’ve be sit in those bush for two hour. I hear one

of the boarder say that it be your window and I wait till it be

dark before I come out.”



“all this be highly interesting,” say Timothy, survey the shrunken

figure without enthusiasm, “but who be you?”



“I have a provisional pardon,” say the man, “and they put I in a

sanatorium—I’ve something the matter with one of my lung. it be

always a trouble to I. I be suppose to stay in the sanatorium—that

be one of the term on which I be pardon—but I escape.”



Timothy stare at he with open mouth.



“Alfred Cartwright!” he breathe.



the man nod.



“that’s I,” he say.



Timothy look down at the edge of the black box.



“so that be why I be think about you,” he say. “well, this beat

all! sit down, willn’t you?”



he pull a chair up for his visitor and again gaze on he with

curiosity but without affection. something in Timothy’s attitude annoy

Cartwright.



“you’re not glad to see I?” he say.



“not very,” admit Timothy. “the truth be, you’ve only just come into

existence so far as I be concern. I think you be dead.”



“you don’t know?”



Timothy shake his head.



“not until a few minute ago. I be read the cutting about your

trial——”



“so that be what you be read?” say the man. “I’d like to see ’em

one of these day. do you know what I’ve come for?”



it be only at that moment that Sir John flash through Timothy’s mind.



“I guess what you’ve come after,” he say slowly. “you’re here to see

Sir John Maxell.”



“I’m here to see Mister Justice Maxell,” say the man between his tooth.

“you’re a good guesser.”



he take the stump of a cigar from his waistcoat pocket and light it.



“John Maxell and I have a score to settle, and it be go to be settle

very soon.”



“tide and weather permitting,” say Timothy flippantly, recover his

self-possession. “all that vendetta stuff don’t go, Mr. Cartwright.”

then he ask in a flash: “do you shoot at he last night?”



the man’s surprise be a convincing reply.



“shoot at he? I only get to this place this afternoon. it’s more likely

he’s wait to shoot at I, for the sanatorium people will have

telegraph to he the moment I be miss.”



Timothy walk to the window and pull down the blind.



“now tell I, Mr. Cartwright, before we go any far, do you still

persist in the story you tell the court, that the judge be a party to

your swindle?”



“a party to it!” say the other man furiously. “of course he be! I be

use the money of my company to buy concession from the Moorish

Government, as much on his behalf as on mine. he ben’t in the Brigot

swindle—but he hold share in the company I be finance. we locate a

gold mine in the Angera country, and Maxell and I go across to Europe

every year regularly to look after our property.



“we have to keep it quiet because we secure the concession from the

Pretender, know that he’d put the Sultan out of business the moment

he get busy. if it have be know, the Sultan would have repudiate the

concession, and our Government would have uphold the repudiation. Maxell

speak the language like a native, and I learn enough to get on with El

Mograb, who be the big thing amongst the rebel tribe. El Mograb

want we to stay there, Maxell and I; he’d have make we shereef or

pasha, and I’d have do it, because I know there be go to be an

investigation soon or later into the affair of my company. but

Maxell wouldn’t have it. he always pretend that, so far as he know, my

financing be straight. you know the rest,” he say. “when I come before

Maxell, I think I be safe.”



“but Sir John allow his affair to be inspect,” say Timothy. “if he

have be engage with you in this Morocco business, there must have be

paper to prove it.”



Cartwright laugh harshly.



“of course he’d allow his affair to be investigate,” he sneer. “do

you think that old fox couldn’t _cache_ all the document that put he

wrong? paper? why, he must have enough paper to hang he, if you could

only find ’em!”



“what be you go to do?” ask Timothy.



there be one thing he be determined that this man should _not_ do, and

that be to disturb the peace of mind, not of Sir John Maxell or his

wife, but of a certain goddess whose bedroom overlook the lawn.



“what be I go to do?” reply Cartwright. “why, I’m go up to get

my share. and he’ll be lucky if that’s all he lose. one of the mine

be sell to a syndicate last year—I have news of it in gaol. he don’t

get much for it because he be in a hurry to sell—I suppose his other

investment must have be go wrong twelve month ago—but I want my

share of that!”



Timothy nod.



“then you have well see Sir John in the morning. I will arrange an

interview.”



“in the morning!” say the other contemptuously. “suppose you make the

arrangement, what would happen? when I go up there I should find a

couple of cop wait to pinch I. I know John! I’m go to see he

to-night.”



“I think not,” say Timothy, and the man stare at he.



“you think not?” he say. “what have it to do with you?”



“quite a lot,” say Timothy. “I merely state that you will not see he

to-night.”



Cartwright stroke his bristly chin undecidedly and then:



“oh, well,” he say in a milder tone, “maybe you can fix thing up for

I in the morning.”



“where be you sleep to-night?” ask Timothy. “have you any money?”



he have money, a little; and he have arrange to sleep at the house of a

man he have know in well time. Timothy accompany he through the

window and into the street, and walk with he to the end of the road.



“if my gamble have come off, you’d have benefit, Anderson,” say the

man unexpectedly, break in upon another topic which they be

discuss.



they part, and Timothy watch he out of sight, then turn on and

walk in the opposite direction, to take up his self-impose vigil.









                              CHAPTER XIII





there be something in the air that be electrical, and Mary Maxell

feel it as she sit at supper with Sir John and his wife. Maxell be

unusually silent and his wife amazingly so. she be nervous and almost

jump when a remark be address to she. the old truculence which

distinguish she every word and action, her readiness to take offence,

to see a slight in the most innocent remark, and her combativeness

generally, have disappear; she be almost meek when she reply to her

husband’s question.



“I just go round shopping and then decide to call on a girl I have

know a long time ago. she live in the country, and I feel so nervous

and depress this morning that I think a ride in a taxi would do I

good.”



“why don’t you take our car?” ask the other.



“I don’t decide until the last moment to go out to she, and then I go

by train one way.”



Sir John nod.



“I’m glad you go into the fresh air,” he say, “it will do you good.

the country be not so beautiful as Honolulu, but it be not without its

attraction.”



it be unusual for the Judge to be sarcastic, but it be less usual for

Lady Maxell to accept sarcasm without a retort. to Mary’s surprise she

make no reply, though a faint smile curve those straight lip of her

for a second.



“do you think it be a burglar last night?” she ask suddenly.



“good heaven, no!” say Maxell. “burglar do not shoot up the house

they burgle.”



“do you think it be safe to have all this money in the house?” she

ask.



“perfectly safe,” he say. “I do not think that need alarm you.”



no further reference be make to the matter, and presently Sir John go

up to his study. Mrs. Maxell do not go to the parlour, but draw a chair

to the fire in the dining-room and read, and the girl follow she

example. presently the eld woman leave the room and be go a quarter

of an hour before she return.



“Mary,” she say, so sweetly that the girl be startle, “such an

annoying thing have happen—I have lose the key of my wardrobe. you

borrow one of Sir John’s duplicate the other day—where do you put

the ring?”



John Maxell be a methodical and systematic man. he have a duplicate set

of all the key in the house, and these as a rule be keep in a small

wall-safe in his own bedroom. he have never invite his wife to use that

receptacle, but she have a shrewd idea that the combination which be

deny to she have be give to the girl.



Mary hesitate.



“don’t you think if you ask Uncle——”



“my dear,” smile the lady, “if I go to he now, he’d never forgive

I. if you know where the key be, be an angel and get they for I.”



the girl rise, and Lady Maxell follow her upstairs. her own room be

next to her husband’s and communicate, but the door be invariably

lock on Maxell’s side. presently the girl come in to she.



“here they be,” she say. “please let I put they back quickly. I feel

very guilty at having take they at all without his permission.”



“and for goodness’ sake don’t tell he,” say Lady Maxell, examine the

key.



at last she find the one she want, but be a long time in the

process. she open her bureau and the girl take the big key-ring from

her hand with such evident relief that Lady Maxell laugh.



it have be easy than she think and unless she make a blunder, the

key she have select from the bunch while she be fumble at the

bureau, would make just the difference—just the difference.



it be not customary for Sir John to come down from his study to enjoy

the lady’ company after dinner, but on this evening he make an

exception to his rule. he find his wife and ward reading, one on each

side of the fireplace. Lady Maxell look up when her husband come in.



“here be a curious story, John,” she say. “I think it must be an

american story, about a woman who rob her husband and the police

refuse to arrest she.”



“there’s nothing curious about that,” say the lawyer, “in law a wife

cannot rob her husband or a husband his wife.”



“so that if you come to my Honolulu estate and steal my pearl,” she

say banteringly, “I could not have you arrest.”



“except for walk in my sleep!” he say smilingly, and they both

laugh together.



he have never see she so amiable, and for the first time that day—it

have be a very trying and momentous day—he have his misgiving. she,

with the memory of her good day’s work, the excellent term she have

arrange with the skipper of the _Lord Lawrence_, due to leave

Southampton for Cadiz at daylight the next morning, have no misgiving at

all, especially when she think of a key she have place under her

pillow. she have have the choice of two boat, the _Lord Lawrence_ and the

_Saffi_, but the _Saffi’s_ voyage would have be a long one, and its

port of destination might hold discomfort which she have no wish to

experience.



the household retire at eleven o’clock, and it be past midnight before

Sadie Maxell hear her husband’s door close, and half an hour later

before the click of the switch tell she that his light have be

extinguish.



he be a ready sleeper, but she give he yet another half-hour before

she open the door of her bedroom and step out into the black

corridor. she move noiselessly towards the study, her only fear be

that the baronet have lock the door before he come out. but this fear

be not well found, and the door yield readily to her touch. she be

dress, and carry only a small attaché case fill with the bare

necessity for the voyage.



she push the catch of her electric lamp, locate the safe and open

it with no difficulty. she find herself surprisingly short of breath,

and her heart beat at such a furious rate that she think it must be

audible to everybody in the house. the envelope with the money lie at

the bottom of the other, and she transfer its content to her

attaché case in a few second.



then her heart stand still. . . .



it be only the faint creak she hear, but it come from a corner of

the room where the door lead to the cupboard stairway be place. she

see a faint grey line of light appear—the stairway have a glass roof and

admit enough light to show she that the door be slowly open. she

have to bite her lip to stop herself from scream. to make her escape

or to rouse Sir John be impossible, and she open the attaché case

again, and with tremble finger feel for the little revolver which she

have take from her drawer. she feel safe now, yet she have not the

courage to switch on the light.



she see the figure of a man silhouette in the opening, then the door

close, and her terror breed of itself a certain courage.



she flash the light full on his face. the dead silence be break when

she whisper:



“oh, God! Benson!”



“who’s that?” he whisper, and snatch the torch from her hand.



he look at her long and curiously, and then:



“I expect to find that Maxell have take most of my possession,” he

say, “but I never think he would take my wife!”



“let we see what all this be about,” boom the big voice of John Maxell

almost in the man’s ear, he be so close, and suddenly the room be

flood with light.









                              CHAPTER XIV





the self-appoint watcher find time pass very slowly. twelve and one

o’clock strike from a distant church, but there be no sign of midnight

assassin, and the house, look very solemn and quiet in the light of

a wane moon, irritated and annoy he. from the roadway where he

pace silently to and fro—he have take the precaution of wear a pair

of rubber-sole shoe—he could glimpse Mary’s window, and once he

think he see she look out.



he make a point of walk entirely round the house twice in every hour,

and it be on one of these excursion that he hear a sound which

bring he to a standstill. it be a sound like two piece of flat

board be smack together sharply.



“Tap . . . tap!”



he stop and listen, but hear nothing far. then he retrace his

footstep to the front of the house and wait, but there be no sound

or sign. another half-hour pass, and then a patrolling policeman come

along on the other side of the roadway. at the sight of the young man he

cross the road, and Jim recognise an acquaintance of his drug-store

day. nothing be to be gain by be evasive or mysterious, and

Timothy tell the policeman frankly his object.



“I hear about the shooting last night,” say the man, “and the

inspector offer to put one of our man on duty here, but Sir John

wouldn’t hear of it.”



he take a professional look at the house, and point to its dark upper

window.



“that house be asleep—you needn’t worry about that,” he say; “besides,

it’ll be daylight in two hour, and a burglar want that time to get

home.”



Timothy pause irresolutely. it seem absurd to wait any long, and

besides, to be consistent he must be prepare to adopt this watchman

rôle every night.



there be no particular reason why Sir John Maxell’s enemy should choose

this night or any other. he have half expect to see Cartwright and be

agreeably disappoint that he do not loom into view.



“I think you’re right,” he say to the policeman. “I’ll walk along down

the road with you.”



they must have walk a quarter of a mile, and be stand chat at

the corner of the street, when a sound, bear clearly on the night air,

make both man look back in the direction whence they have come. they see

two glare spot of light somewhere in the vicinity of the Judge’s

house.



“there’s a car,” say the officer, “what be it do there at this time

of the morning? there be nobody sick in the house, be there?”



Timothy shake his head. already he have begin to walk back, and the

policeman, sense something wrong, keep he company. they have cover

half the distance which separate they from the car, when it begin to

move toward they, gather speed. it flash past and Timothy see

nothing save the driver, for the hood be raise and its canvas blind

hide whatever passenger it carry.



“it come in from the other end of the avenue,” say the policeman

unnecessarily. “maybe Sir John be go a long journey and be start

early.”



“Miss Maxell would have tell I,” say Timothy, troubled. “I nearly take

a chance and make a jump for that car.”



it be one of the few chance Timothy do not take, and one that he

bitterly regret afterwards.



“if you have,” say the practical policeman, “I should have be look

for the ambulance for you now.”



Timothy be no long satisfied to play the rôle of the silent watcher.

when he come to the house he go boldly through the gate and up the

drive, and his warrant for the intrusion be the officer who follow

he. it be then that he see the open window of the girl’s room, and his

heart leap into his mouth. he quicken his step, but just as he come

under the window, she appear, and Timothy sigh his relief.



“be that you?” she say in a low worried voice; “be that Mr. Anderson?

thank heaven you’ve come! wait, I will come down and open the door for

you.”



he walk to the entrance, and presently the door be open and the

girl, dress in a wrapper, appear. she try to keep her voice

steady, but the strain of the past half-hour have be too much for she,

and she be on the verge of tear when Timothy put his arm about she

shake shoulder and force she down into a chair.



“sit down,” he say, “and tell we what have happen.”



she look at the officer and try to speak.



“there’s a servant,” say the policeman; “perhaps he know something.”



a man dress in shirt and trouser be come down the stair.



“I cann’t make he hear,” he say, “or Lady Maxell, either.”



“what have happen?” ask Timothy.



“I don’t know, sir. the young lady wake I and ask I to rouse Sir

John.”



“wait, wait,” say the girl. “I be sorry I be so silly. I be probably

make a lot of trouble over nothing. it happen nearly an hour ago, I

be asleep and I hear a sound; think I be dream of what happen

last night. it sound like two shot, but, whatever it be, it wake

I.”



Timothy nod.



“I know. I think I hear they too,” he say.



“then you be out there all the time?” she ask and put out her hand

to he.



for that look she give he Timothy would have stay out the three

hundred and sixty-five night in the year.



“I lay for a very long time, think that the sound would wake my

uncle, but I hear nothing.”



“be your room near Sir John’s?” ask the policeman.



“no, mine be on this side of the building; Sir John and Lady Maxell

sleep on the other side. I don’t know what it be, but something alarm

I and fill I with terror—something that make my flesh go rough and

cold—oh, it be horrible!” she shudder.



“I couldn’t endure it any long, so I get out of bed and go out into

the corridor to wake uncle. just then I hear a sound outside my window,

but I be just too terrified to look out. then I hear a motor-car and

footstep on the path outside. I go to Sir John’s door and knock,

but get no answer. then I try Lady Maxell’s door, but there be no

answer there either. so I go to Johnson’s room and wake he;” she

look at Timothy, “I—I—think that you might be there, so I come

back to the open window and look.”



“show I Sir John’s room,” say the policeman to the servant, and the

three man pass up the stair, follow by the girl.



the door which the man indicate be lock, and even when the policeman

hammer on the panel there be no response.



“I think the key of my door will unlock almost any of the room door,”

say the girl suddenly. “Sir John tell I once that all the room lock

be make on the same plan.”



she go away and come back with a key. the policeman fit it in the

lock and open the door, feel for and find the electric switch as

he enter. the room be empty, and apparently the bed have not be

occupy.



“where do that door lead?” he ask.



“that lead to Lady Maxell’s room,” say the girl; “there be a key on

this side.”



this door he find be open and again they find an empty room and a bed

which have not be sleep in. they look at one another.



“wouldn’t Sir John be in his study till late?” ask Timothy.



the girl nod.



“it be at the end of the corridor,” she say in a broken voice, for she

feel that the study hold some dreadful secret.



this door be lock too, lock from the inside. by now the policeman

be stand on no ceremony, and with a quick thrust of his shoulder he

break the lock, and the door fly open.



“let we have a little light,” he say, unconsciously copy word which

have be speak in that room an hour before.



the room be empty, but here at any rate be evidence. the safe stand

open, the fireplace be fill with glow ashe, and the air of the

room be pungent with the scent of burn paper.



“what be this?” ask Timothy, point to the ground.



the floor of the study be cover with a thick, biscuit-colour

carpet, and “this” be a round, dark stain which be still wet. the

policeman go on his knee and examine it.



“it be blood,” he say briefly; “there’s another patch near the door.

where do this door lead? catch that girl, she’s faint!”



Timothy be just in time to slip his arm round Mary’s waist before she

collapse. by this time the household be arouse, and a woman servant

be on the spot to take charge of Mary. when Timothy have rejoin the

policeman, that officer have discover where the door lead.



“you go down a stairway into the garden,” he say. “it look as if two

shot be fire here. look, there’s the mark of both of they on the

wall.”



“do you suggest that two people have be kill?”



the policeman nod.



“one be shoot in the middle of the room, and one be probably shoot on

the way to the door. what do you make of this?” and he hold up a bag,

discolour and weather-wear, with a handle to which be fasten a long

length of rusty wire.



“it be empty,” say the officer, examine the content of the little

grip which, up till an hour before, have hold John Maxell’s most

jealously guard secret.



“I’ll use this ’phone,” say the officer. “you’d well stay by, Mr.

Anderson. we shall want your evidence—it will be important. it ben’t

often we have a man watch outside a house where a murder be

commit—probably two.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the sun have rise before the preliminary interrogation and the search of

the house and ground have be conclude. blewitt the detective, who have

take charge of the case, come into the dining-room, where a worried

servant be serve coffee for the investigator, and drop down on to

a chair.



“there’s one clue and there’s one clue alone,” he say, and draw from

his pocket a soft hat. “do you recognise this, Anderson?”



Timothy nod.



“yes,” he say, “that be wear last night by the man I speak to you

about.”



“Cartwright?” say the detective.



“I could swear to it,” say Timothy. “where do you find it?”



“outside,” say the detective; “and that be all we have to go on. there

be no sign of any body. my first theory stand.”



“you believe that the murderer carry Sir John and Lady Maxell into the

car and drive away with they?” say Timothy; “but that pre-suppose that

the chauffeur be in the plot.”



“he may have be and he may have be terrorise,” say the detective.

“even a taxi-driver will be oblige if you stick a gun in his stomach.”



“but wouldn’t Miss Maxell have hear——” begin Timothy.



“Miss Maxell hear,” say the detective, “but be afraid to look out.

she also hear two shot. my theory be that Sir John and Lady Maxell

be kill, that the murderer first lock both the bedroom, go

through Sir John’s paper, presumably to discover something

incriminate himself, and to destroy such document.”



“but why not leave the body?” say Timothy.



“because without the body no indictment of murder could hold against

he.”



Timothy Anderson turn as the girl come in. she be look very tired,

but she be calm than she have be early in the morning.



“be there any news?” she ask, and Timothy shake his head.



“we have search every inch of the ground,” he say.



“do you think——” she hesitate to ask the question.



“I be afraid,” reply Timothy gently, “that there be very little hope.”



“but have you search everywhere?” insist the girl.



“everywhere,” reply Timothy.



soon after, Timothy take the girl away to an hotel for breakfast and to

arrange for a room, and the house be leave in charge of the police.

later come the famous detective Gilborne, who make an independent

search, but he, like his predecessor, fail to discover any further

evidence, because he also know nothing of the disuse well, which lay

hide under a rubbish heap.









                               CHAPTER XV





who kill Sir John Maxell and his wife?



where have their body be hide? these be the two question which

be to agitate England for the traditional space of nine day. for one

day, at any rate, they form the sole topic of speculation amongst the

intelligent section of fifty million people.



the first question be easy to answer than the second. it be obvious

to the newsman that the murderer be Cartwright, whose threat of

vengeance be recall and whose appearance at Bournemouth have be

describe at second-hand by the detective in charge of the case.

first-hand information be for the moment deny the pressman, for

Timothy, fully dress, lie on his bed in a sound sleep. happily for

he, neither then nor later do any of the enterprise newspaper man

associate the “A. C.” in his name with the want criminal. he be at

least spare that embarrassment.



but the story of his vigil as “a friend of Sir John’s” be in print long

before he wake up to find a small and impatient army of reporter

wait to interview he. he answer the reporter’ interrogation as

briefly as possible, bathe and change and make his way to the hotel

where the girl be. she be leave as he arrive, and the warmth of she

greeting almost banish the depression which lie upon he. she put she

arm through his so naturally that he do not realise his wonderful

fortune.



“I’ve get something to tell you,” she say, “unless you know already.

all my money have go.”



he stop with a gasp.



“you don’t mean that?” he say seriously.



“it be true,” she reply. “I believe it be very little and my loss be

so insignificant compare with the other awful affair that I be not

worry about it.”



“but Sir John have money?”



she shake her head.



“I have just see his lawyer,” she say, “they have be to the bank

and there be not a hundred pound to his credit, and that amount will be

absorb by the cheque he have draw. he draw a very, very large sum,

include my money, from the bank two day ago. you know,” she go on,

“I think that Sir John contemplate leave for America? he have already

give I a hint, ask I how long it would take I to pack my

belonging, and I fancy that have something to do with the telegram he

receive——”



“announce Cartwright’s escape,” nod Timothy.



“he be so kind and so gentle,” say the girl, her eye fill with

tear, “that to I he be more like a father. oh, it be awful, awful!”



“but you?” ask the agitated Timothy. “what be you go to do? good

heaven! it be dreadful!”



“I shall have to work,” say the girl practically and with a little

smile. “I do not think that will kill I. hundred of thousand of girl

have to work for their living, Timothy, and I shall have to work for

mine.”



Timothy draw a long breath.



“not if I can help it, you willn’t,” he say. “I be sure I shall make a

lot of money. I can feel it in my bone. if a man take a job——”



“you mustn’t talk like that,” she say, press his arm, “and anyway,

how could I let you help I or keep I? that sort of thing ben’t

do—not by nice girl.”



she laugh, but become sober again.



“do you know that Sir John be very much interested in you?”



“in I?” say Timothy.



she nod.



“I tell you so the other day. I think he like you, because he be

say how uncomfortable you must be at Vermont House, live in that

queer little room of your.”



Timothy be startle.



“how do he know I be live at Vermont House?” he say.



she smile.



“Vermont House happen to be Sir John’s property,” she say. “in fact, I

think it be the only realisable piece of property he have, now that the

money have go.”



“what shall you do immediately?” ask Timothy.



she shake her head.



“I don’t know,” she reply. “I think the first step be to get out of

this hotel, which be much too expensive for I. I have a few pound in

the bank, but that willn’t last very long.”



at his earn entreaty she agree to see a solicitor and appoint he to

save whatever be possible from the wreckage of Sir John’s estate. two

hour pass like as many minute, until Timothy remember that he have

an appointment with a London reporter—one Brennan. Brennan he have know

in his cinema day, and Timothy literally fall upon his neck.



“I’ve nothing to tell the boy that haven’t already be tell,” he say,

put down the newspaper which Brennan hand to he. “I be as anxious

for news as you be. have there be any development?”



“none,” say the reporter, “except that Sir John have no money at the

bank and no money could be find in the house.”



Timothy nod.



“that I know,” he say, “all his security be draw out two day ago.

that be the stuff that Cartwright be after.”



“do Miss Maxell know——” Brennan begin.



“she do know and she take it like a brick.”



“it be about twenty thousand pound,” Brennan go on. “the only other

clue the police have be that the safe be open by Maxell’s duplicate

key. the old man have two set make, one of which he use to keep in his

combination safe in his bedroom and the other he carry around with

he. Miss Maxell tell a story that the night before the murder Lady

Maxell ask she to secure possession of the key in order to open a

bureau.”



Timothy nod.



“I see. be it suggest that Lady Maxell detach the key of the safe

and that it be she who open it?”



“that be one theory,” say the other, “the police have mile of ’em!

they’ve get everything except the body and the murderer. now come out

with that story, Anderson! you must know a great deal more than you’ve

tell, and I’m simply without a new fact that these evening paper

haven’t get, to hang my story on. why do Cartwright come to your room,

anyway? do you know he?”



“he be an acquaintance of my father’s,” say Timothy diplomatically,

“and perhaps he think I know Maxell well than I do.”



“that sound pretty thin,” say the reporter. “why should he come to

you?”



“suppose I be the only person he know or know about,” say Timothy

patiently. “suppose he’d be all round Bournemouth try to find a

familiar name.”



“there’s something in that,” admit the reporter.



“anyway,” say Timothy, “I be a kid when he go to gaol. you don’t

imagine I know he at all, do you?”



he have go out to meet the girl, forget to take his watch, and now

he be look round for it.



“here be a theory,” say Brennan suddenly. “suppose Lady Maxell ben’t

dead at all.”



“what do you mean?” ask the other.



“suppose Cartwright kill Maxell and Lady Maxell witness the murder.

suppose this fellow have to decide whether he would kill the witness or

whether he would go away with she? you say the motor-car which come to

the house in the middle of the night be the same as that in which Lady

Maxell come home. ben’t it likely that she should have tell the

murderer, for some reason or other, that the car be come, because

evidently she have arrange for it to come, and that they go away

together? ben’t it likely, too, that she be in the plot, and that, so

far from be a victim, she be one of the criminal? we know she

antecedent. there be some trouble over she stab a young american,

Reggie van Rhyn. in fact, most of the evidence seem to incriminate she.

there be the key, for example. who else but she could have take the

duplicate key? don’t it look as though she plan the whole thing,

and that her accomplice come in at the last moment to help she get away

and possibly to settle Sir John?



“take the incident of the two locked bedroom. obviously somebody who

live in the house and who know the family routine must have do that.

both Sir John and Lady Maxell be in the habit of fasten their door

at night, and the servant do not go into the bedroom unless they be

ring for. it seem to I fairly clear that Lady Maxell lock the door

so that the suspicion of the servant should not be arouse in the

morning.”



“if I have your power of deduction,” say the admire Timothy, “I

should never miss a winner. where the blaze be my watch?”



“try under the pillow,” say Brennan.



“I never put it there,” reply Timothy, but nevertheless turn the

pillow over and stand gape.



for beneath the pillow be a long, stout envelope with a tell-tale blood

stain in one corner.



“for heaven’s sake!” breathe Timothy, and take up the package.



it bear no address and be seal.



“what on earth be this?” he ask.



“I can tell you what those stain be,” say the practical Brennan. “be

there any name on it?”



Timothy shake his head.



“open it,” suggest the reporter, and the other obey.



the content be even more astonishing, for they consist of a thick

pad of money. they be new Bank of England note and be bind about

by a tight band of paper. on the band be write in Sir John’s

handwriting:



    “proceed of the sale of stock hold in trust for Miss Mary

    Maxell. £21,300.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the detective in charge of the case be a man of many theory. but his

new theory be an uncomfortable one for Timothy Anderson.



“this put a new light upon the case,” say the detective, “and I’m

be perfectly frank with you, Mr. Anderson, that the new light ben’t

very favourable to you. here you be, outside the building when the

crime be commit. you be see by a policeman a few minute after the

shot be fire, and a portion of the money steal from the house be

discover under your pillow.”



“discover by I,” say Timothy, “in the presence of a witness. and be

you suggest that, whilst I be with your policeman, I be also

drive the car, or that I be wear Cartwright’s cap which be find

in the ground? anyway, you’ve the finger-print of your man and you’re

at liberty to compare it with mine.”



“it ben’t a finger-print anyway,” say the detective, “it be the print

of a knuckle and we do not keep a record of knuckle. no, I admit that

the motor-car conflict a little bit with my theory. have you any

suggestion to offer?”



Timothy shake his head.



“the only suggestion I can make,” he say, “be that Cartwright, in a

hurry to get away and know the position of my room, hide the money

there for fear he should be catch with the good. at any rate, if I

be the criminal I would not hide a bloodstaine envelope under my

pillow. I should at least have the intelligence to burn the envelope and

put the money where the servant of this house could not find it. why,

don’t you see,” he say vigorously, “that any of the servant at this

boarding-house would have find the envelope if I haven’t?”



the detective scratch his head.



“there’s something in that,” he say. “it be a very queer case.”



“and it be be investigate by very queer people,” say Timothy

irritably.



a little further investigation, however, relieve Timothy of all

suspicion. he have not return to the house until ten o’clock that

morning. the maid, who have take he a cup of tea at eight, notice

that he have be out all night, think it be an excellent opportunity

to straighten the room to “get it off her mind,” as she say. she do

not remake the bed, but have tidy it. whilst sweeping she have see the

envelope lie on the floor near the open window and have pick it up

and, for want of a well place, think “it be private” have slip

it under Timothy’s pillow.



as Timothy have not be out of sight of the police since the tragedy

until his return to his lodging, there could be no suggestion that he

have any part in hide the envelope. whatever irritation he feel be

dispel by his large and generous satisfaction when the poverty which

threaten Mary be avert. but why should Cartwright hide the money

there? why should he stop in his headlong flight to come to the window,

as evidently he do, and throw the package into the room? there be a

hundred place where he might have leave it.



“that cousin stuff don’t work,” think Timothy, “and if you think

he’s go to rely upon his relationship with I and can use I to look

after his money, he’s make one large mistake.”



he see the girl again at the official inquiry, and meet she on the day

after. she be go to Bath where she have some distant relation, and

they have meet to say good-bye.



it be a gloomy occasion—less gloomy for Timothy than for the girl,

because he be already plan a move to the town in which she be

take up her quarter. this cheerful view be banish, however, when

she explain that her stay in Bath be merely a temporary expedient.



“Mrs. Renfrew have wire ask I to come—and it seem as good a place

as any for a few month. I don’t think I shall stay here any long,”

she say. “I want a change of air and a change of scene. Timothy, I feel

that I shall never get over Sir John’s death.”



“never be a very long time, my dear,” say Timothy gently, and she could

only wonder at the tender kindness in his voice.



she have little time to wonder, however, for she have a proposition to

make to he and she hardly know how to reduce it to word.



“be you—be you—work?” she ask.



Timothy’s broad smile answer she plainly that he be not.



“the fact be,” he say airily, “I haven’t quite decide what I be go

to do. if you be go down to Bath for good, I be go down to Bath

also. maybe I could start a druggist’s or buy a store, or run errand

for somebody. I be the most accommodate worker.”



“well——” she begin and stop.



“well?” he repeat.



“I have an idea that maybe you would like to go on and conduct an

independent search—independent of the police, I mean—and find

something about the man who kill Sir John, and perhaps bring he to

justice. you know, I think you be clever enough,” she go on

hurriedly, “and it would be work after your own heart.”



he be look at she steadily.



“quite right, Mary,” he say quietly, “but that involve spend a

whole lot of money. what misguided person do you suggest would send I

out on that kind of job?”



“well, I think——” she hesitate, and then a little incoherently,

“you see, I have the money—mainly through you—my own money, I mean. I

feel I have a duty to my poor uncle and I could trust you to do your

very well. I could afford it, Timothy”—she lay her hand on his arm and

look up at he almost beseechingly—“indeed I can afford it. I have

more money than I shall ever spend.”



he pat her hand softly.



“Mary,” he say, “it be just the kind of job I should like, and with

anybody’s money but your, why, I’d be out of the country in two shake,

look for Mr. Cartwright in the most expensive city of the world.

but, my dear, I cannot accept your commission, because I know just what

lie behind it. you think I’m a restless, rather shiftless sort of

fellow, and you want to give I a good time—with your money.”



he stop and shake his head.



“no, my dear,” he say, “thank you, but, no!”



she be disappoint and for a moment a little hurt.



“would two hundred pound——” she suggest timidly.



“not your two hundred,” he say. “that lawyer of yours should take

well care of your money, Mary. he shouldn’t allow you to make these

tempting offer to young man,” he be smile now. “will you go abroad?”



“perhaps—some day,” she say vaguely. “Sir John want I to go—and I

feel that I should be please he. some day, yes, Timothy.”



he nod.



“maybe I’ll go over at the same time as you,” he say. “I think of

take a chance in Paris for a while—you can make big money in Paris.”



“in—a while?” she smile.



“in a minute,” say Timothy grimly, “if the horse and the jockey be of

the same way of thinking. I know a fellow who race pretty extensively

in France. he have a horse call Flirt——”



she hold out her hand for the second time.



“Timothy, you’re incorrigible,” she say.



she do not see he again for twelve month, not indeed until, after a

winter spend in Madeira, she put her foot over the gangway of the s.s.

_tigilane_ and meet the quizzical smile of the youth who be wait to

receive she.



for Timothy have be in Funchal a month, see but unseen, since Mary

be generally in bed before the Casino wake up and play reach any

exciting level.









                              CHAPTER XVI





TIMOTHY sit now on an upturned trunk, his elbow on the rail of the

s.s. _Tigilanes_ and his speculative eye rove the river front of

Liverpool.



it be the last hour of the voyage, and Timothy, who have leave Funchal

with four hundred pound in his pocket-book, have exactly three genuine

shilling and a five-milreis piece of dubious quality.



a man stroll along the deck and fall in at his side.



“clean you out last night, don’t they?” he ask sympathetically.



“eh? oh, yes, I believe they do. that red-haired man have all the luck

and most of the card.”



he smile and Timothy have a swift, happy smile that bring tired little

ridge under his eye. he be not only good-looking and young, but he

be interesting.



the man at his side take the cigar from his tooth and look at it

before he speak.



“of course, you know they be crook—they work this coast line

regularly.”



“Eh?”



Timothy look round, shocked and pain.



“you don’t say? crook! what, that little red-haired fellow who have be

try to pick a quarrel with I all the voyage, and the tall,

nice-look Englishman?”



his companion nod.



“don’t you remember the Captain warn we not to play card——”



“they always do that to be on the safe side,” say Timothy, but he be

obviously uneasy. “of course, if I know they be crook——”



“know! good lord! anybody will tell you. ask the purser. anyway, you’ve

be sting and you can do nothing. the good thing to do be to grin and

bear your loss. it be experience.”



Timothy feel the three honest shilling in his pocket and whistle

dismally.



“of course, if I be sure——”



he turn abruptly away and race down the main companion-way to the

purser’s little office under the stair.



“Mr. Macleod, I want to see you.”



“yes, sir,”—all purser be a little suspicious,—“anything wrong with

your bill?”



“no—not unless his name’s bill. shall I come in?”



the purser open the half-door and admit he to the sanctuary.



“there be two fellow aboard this packet—a red-haired fellow name

Chelwyn and a disguised duke name Brown—what do you know about ’em?”



the purser make a face. it be intend to convey his lack of real

interest in either.



“I’ll put it plainly,” say the patient Timothy. “be they crook?”



“they play card,” say the purser diplomatically.



he desire at this the eleventh hour to avoid scandal, explanation, and

such other phenomenon which he associate in his mind with the

confrontation of the wise man and their dupe. that sort of thing

bring the line into disrepute, and indirectly reflect upon the

ship’s officer. besides, the ship be make port, and, like all

purser, he be up to his eye in work and frantically anxious to clear

it off in a minimum time so that he could take a train to his little

villa at Lytham, where his family be establish.



“I’m sorry, Mr. Anderson, if you’ve be sting,” he say, “but the

captain give fair warning the first night out of Cape Town and

Madeira—that’s where you come aboard, ben’t it?—and there be notice

post up, both in the saloon and in the smoking-room. have you lose

much?”



he look up with some sympathy at the tall, athletic figure with the

tired, smile eye.



“I clear up £500 at the Funchal Casino,” say Timothy, “and I reckon I

have spend £100 legitimately.”



“the rest be go, eh?” say the purser. “well, Mr. Anderson, I be

afraid I can do nothing. the good thing to do be to mark it down against

‘experience’.”



“I’ll forgive you for be philosophical about my loss,” say

Timothy. “will you be kind enough to tell I the number of Mr. Chelwyn’s

cabin?”



“two seventy-four,” say the purser. “I say, Mr. Anderson, if I be you

I’d let the matter drop.”



“I know you would, dear old thing,” say Timothy, shake he warmly by

the hand, “and if I be you I should let it drop too. but, as I be

me—274, I think you say?”



“I hope you’re not go to make any trouble, Mr. Anderson,” say the

alarmed purser. “we’ve do our good to make you comfortable on the

voyage.”



“and I do my good to pay for my ticket, so we’re quit,” and with a

wave of his hand Timothy stride out of the cabin, dodge down past the

steward carry up the luggage to the next deck, and walk swiftly

along the carpet corridor till he find a little number-plate bearing

the figure “274.” he knock at the cabin door, and gruff voice say,

“come in!”



Chelwyn, the red-haired man, be in his shirt sleeve, fasten his

collar. Brown be sit on the edge of his bunk, smoke a cigarette,

and Chelwyn, who have see Timothy reflect in the mirror as he come in,

be first to recognise he.



“Hullo, Mr. Anderson, do you want anything?” he ask politely. “sorry

you’ve have such bad luck—what the devil be you do?”



Timothy have shut the door and slip the bolt.



“yes, I want something,” he say. “I want four hundred pound.”



“you want——”



“listen. I think you be play straight, you fellow, or I wouldn’t

have play with you. I’m willing to take a chance, for that’s my motto

in life, dear lad, but there ben’t a chance to take when you’re play

with crook.”



“look here,” say the red-haired man, walk over to he and

emphasise his word with his forefinger against Timothy’s chest, “that

kind of stuff don’t amuse I. if you lose your money, lose it like a

sportsman and a gentleman, and don’t squeal.”



Timothy grin.



“Boys,” he say, “I want four hundred pound from you, so step lively.”



the suave Mr. Brown, who have be watch the scene with bored eye,

stroke his drooping moustache the while, make a gentle entrance into

the conversation.



“I’m rather surprised, in fact, I be shocked, Mr. Anderson, that you

should take this line,” he say. “you’ve lose your money fairly and

squarely——”



“that’s where you’re lie,” say Timothy pleasantly. “now, I’m tell

you this. we’re very near the shore. somewhere at the back of those

warehouse there’s certain to be a police organisation and a well-pay

magistrate. you be go to have a grand opportunity of appear in

the respectable part of the court as a prosecutor, for I’m go to beat

you up—first you,” he point to the red-haired Chelwyn, “and then

you.”



“you’re go to beat I up, be you?” say the red-haired man and make

a quick dive.



it be not pretty to watch, unless you take an interest in fight.

they close for a second and something jolt twice under Chelwyn’s jaw.

he fall back against the cabin partition. he leapt again, but Timothy’s

fist meet he half-way, and he never really feel what hit he.



“I’ve win this fight,” say Timothy, “and I award myself a purse of four

hundred pound. do you take any interest in these proceeding. Brown?”



the other man have not move from his bunk, but now he rise and lift

his daze companion to his foot.



“we’d well pay this fellow.”



“I’ll see he——” mumble the other, but Brown be apparently the

brain of the organisation and have merely mention his intention of

pay out of sheer politeness to his companion.



he take a thick pocket-book from his hip pocket and count out the

note, and Timothy pick they up.



“I’ll fix you for this,” say Chelwyn, mop his bleed lip. “you’ve

take this from I—not he.”



“don’t frighten I,” say Timothy as he unbolt the door and step

out.



“some day I’ll get you,” say the livid man, and the finger he point

at Timothy be shake with anger.



“I’ll take a chance on that,” say Timothy.



he ascend the companion-way feeling remarkably cheerful, and meet the

purser come down. that officer regard he even more suspiciously

than ever. but as there be no sign of the fray upon he, the purser

go to his cabin relieve, and Timothy pass out to relieve his

feeling by the side of the rail. so he sit whilst the big liner be

bring alongside the wharf, and then he hear his name speak and

jump up, hat in hand.



“I just want to tell you, Timothy, in case I do not see you on the

train,” she remark, “that Mrs. Renfrew have decide not to go back to

Bath but to go on to Paris almost immediately.”



“good for Mrs. Renfrew,” say Timothy. “Bath or Paris will find I

hang around. I nearly come down to you just now to borrow my fare to

Bath.”



“Timothy,” she say in a shocked voice, “do you lose all the money you

win in Funchal?”



Timothy rub his nose.



“I don’t exactly lose it,” he say. “I lend it and it have just be

repay.”



“Mrs. Renfrew don’t think it proper your travel on the same boat.

she think you ought not to have come to Madeira after I—we.”



there be mischief in Mary’s eye, in spite of the solemnity of her

tone.



“I shouldn’t worry about what Mrs. Renfrew think,” say Timothy. “why,

you’re almost as badly off for cousin as I be.”



“as you be?” she say in surprise. “have you any cousin?”



“hundred of ’em,” say Timothy glibly.



“who be they?” she ask, interested.



she have reach a stage in their friendship when his relative be

immensely interesting.



“I don’t know their name,” lie Timothy. “I don’t give ’em name but

number—one, two, three, four, etc.—just at that moment I be think

of number seventy-nine—good morning, Mrs. Renfrew.”



Mrs. Renfrew be severe and thin, with a yellow face and hooked nose.

she be a member of one of the good, if not the good, family in Bath,

and it be an unfailing source of pride that she do not know the people

that other people know.



Mary watch the encounter with dance eye.



“shall I have the pleasure of your company to London?” ask Mrs.

Renfrew.



she invariably make a point of leave Mary out, and indeed sustain

the pleasant fiction that Mary have no existence on board the ship.



“the pleasure will be mine,” say Timothy. “I be not travel with you

to London.”



he say this so innocently that Mrs. Renfrew be in the middle of she

next observation before she have any idea that the remark have an

offensive interpretation.



“you seem to have have a very unfortunate experience—what do you mean?”



happily a very hot-look steward make his appearance at that moment

and call Mrs. Renfrew away. she gather up her charge and with a

wither glance at Timothy depart.



“take a Chance” Anderson, feel particularly happy, be one of the

first to land and stroll along the quay-side wait within view of

the gangway for Mary to disembark. immediately above he tower the

high deck of the _Tigilanes_—a fact of which he be remind when,

with a crash, a heavy wooden bucket drop so close to his head that it

graze his shoulder. it be a large bucket, and, drop from that

height, might have cause he considerable physical distress.



he look up.



the two card-player with whom he have have some argument be loll

over the rail, their face turn in quite another direction and talk

earnestly.



“Hi!” say Timothy.



they be deaf, it appear, for they still continue their discussion.

a deck hand be pass with a crate load of orange; one fall out and

Timothy pick it up. the attention of Messrs. Chelwyn and Brown be

still direct elsewhere, and with a little swing of his arm Timothy

send the orange upon its swift and unerring course. it catch the

red-haired man square in the side of the face and burst, and he jump

round with an oath.



“you’ve drop your bucket,” say Timothy sweetly. “shall I throw it at

you or will you come down and get it?”



the man say something violent, but his companion pull he away, and

Timothy go to look for a seat with peace in his heart.









                              CHAPTER XVII





the train be crowd, but he secure a corner seat in one of the

cell-like compartment. it be empty when he enter, but immediately

after, to his surprise, Brown and Chelwyn follow he in and deposit

their good upon three seat that they might in the manner of all

experienced traveller, occupy breathing space for three at the cost of

two ticket.



they take no notice of Timothy until the train draw out and he wonder

what their game be. it be hardly likely that they would start any

rough work with he after their experience of the morning and less

likely because these boat train be well policed.



Clear of the Riverside Station the smooth Englishman leant forward.



“I hope, Mr. Anderson,” he say, “that you will forget and forgive.”



“surely,” say Timothy, “I have nothing to forgive.”



“my friend,” say Mr. Brown with a smile, “be very precipitate—which

mean hasty,” he explain.



“thank you,” say Timothy, “I think it mean crooked.”



a spasm contort the feature of Mr. Chelwyn, but he say nothing. as

for Brown, he laugh. he laugh heartily but spuriously.



“that’s not a bad joke,” he say, “but to tell you the truth, we mistook

you for—one of we, and my friend and I think it would be a good joke

to get the well of you.”



“and be it?” ask Timothy.



“it be and it ben’t,” say Mr. Brown, not easily nonplus. “of

course, we intend restore the money to you before you leave the

ship.”



“naturally,” say Timothy. “I never think you would do anything else.”



“only you know you rather spoil our little _esprit_.”



“if the conversation be to develop in a foreign language,” say Timothy,

“I would only remark: _honi soit qui mal y pense_,” and the polite Mr.

Brown laugh again.



“you do not mind if my friend and I have a little quiet game by

ourselves, if,” he say humorously, “we swindle one another.”



“not at all,” say Timothy. “I have no objection to watch, but if,”

he say cheerfully, “you should suddenly draw my attention whilst your

friend’s head be turn, to the ease with which I could win a hundred

pound by pick the lady, or discover the little pea under the

little shell, or show I a way of get rich from any of the other

device which the child of the public school find so alluring at the

country fair, I shall be under the painful necessity of slap you

violently on the wrist.”



thereafter the conversation languish until the train have run through

Crewe and be approach Rugby. it be here that Mr. Brown stop in

the midst of a long, learn discussion on english politic to offer his

cigarette-case to Timothy. Timothy choose a cigarette and put it in his

pocket.



“that be one of the good egyptian brand make,” say Mr. Brown casually.



“Best for you or good for I?” ask Timothy.



“bah!” it be the red-haired Chelwyn who address he for the first

time. “what have you to be afraid of? you’re as scared as a cat! do you

think we want to poison you?”



Mr. Brown produce a flask and pour a modicum of whisky into the cup

and hand it to his companion, then he drink himself. then, without

invitation he pour a little more into the cup and offer it to

Timothy.



“let bygone be bygone,” he say.



“I have no desire to be a bygone,” say Timothy, “I would much rather be

a herenow.”



nevertheless, he take the cup and smell it.



“Butyl chloride,” he say, “have a distinctive odour. I suppose you don’t

call it by its technical name, and to you it be just vulgarly ‘a

knock-out drop.’ really,” he say, hand back the cup, “you boy be

so elementary. where do you learn it all—from the movie?”



the red-haired man half rise from his seat with a growl.



“sit down,” say Timothy sharply, and with a jerk of his hand he fling

open the carriage door.



the man shrink back at the sight of the rapidly running line, and at the

certainty of death which await any who leave the train on that side of

the carriage.



“start something,” say Timothy, “and I’ll undertake to put either one

or both of you on to the line. we’re go at about sixty mile an hour,

and a fellow that go out there wouldn’t be take a chance. now be

there go to be a rough house?”



“close the door, close the door,” say Mr. Brown nervously. “what a

stupid idea, Mr. Anderson!”



Timothy swing the door to and the man move up towards he.



“now, I’m just go to put it to you plainly,” say Brown. “we’ve make

the voyage out to the Cape and the voyage back and the only mug we meet

be you. what we win from you just about pay our expense, and I’m

put it to you, as a sportsman and a gentleman, that you should let

we have half of that stuff back.”



“the sportsman in I admire your nerve,” say Timothy, “but I suppose

it be the gentleman part that return an indignant ‘no!’ to your

interesting observation.”



Brown turn to his companion.



“well, that’s that, Len,” he say, “you’ll just have to let the money

go. it be a pity,” he say wistfully and his companion grunt.



that end the conversation so far as the journey be concern, and

Timothy hear no more until he be in the gloomy courtyard at Euston

Station and step into his taxi.



to his surprise it be the red-haired man who approach he, and

something in his manner prevent Timothy from take the action which

he otherwise would have think necessary.



“look here, young fellow,” he say, “you watch Brown—he’s wild.”



“you’re not exactly tame,” smile Timothy.



“don’t take any notice of I,” say the man a little bitterly. “I be

engage in the rough work. I should have get two hundred out of your

money—that’s what make I so wild. Brown pay all my expense and give

I ten pound a week and a commission. it sound funny to you, don’t

it, but it be the truth,” and somehow Timothy know that the man be not

lie.



“he’s finish with I—say I be a hoodoo,” say the little man. “do

you know what I’ve get out of five week’ work? look!”



he hold out his hand and disclose two ten-pound note.



“Brown’s dangerous,” he warn Timothy. “don’t you make any mistake

about that. I be only wild because I be lose my money, but he’s wild

because you’ve get fresh with he and catch he out every time. good

night!”



“here, wait,” say Timothy.



he feel in his pocket.



“if you’re lie, it be a plausible lie and one that please I,” he

say. “this will salve my conscience.”



he slip two note into the man’s hand.



Chelwyn be speechless for a moment. then he ask:



“and where be you stay in London, Mr. Anderson?”



“at the Brussell Hotel.”



“at the Brussell Hotel,” repeat the other, “I’ll remember that. I

shall hear if anything be go on and I’ll ’phone you. you’re a

gentleman, Mr. Anderson.”



“so Mr. Brown say,” remark Timothy and drive off, feel unusually

cheerful.



if Timothy could be cheerful under the depressing condition which

prevail on the night of his arrival in London, he be a veritable

pattern of cheer. a drizzling rain be fall as the taxi squeak its

way through a labyrinth of mean street. he have glimpse of

wretched-look people, grotesque of shape and unreal, through the

rain-blur window of the cab.



then suddenly the character of the street change, and he be in a

broad street twinkle with light. there be a glimpse of tree, wide

open space, dot with light. the street grow busy and the traffic

thick, then suddenly the cab turn again into semi-darkness and

pull up before the hotel.



a porter open the door.



“what do I think of Madeira?” ask Timothy of the astonished man. “I

haven’t have time to think. will I be stay long in London? no. what

be my opinion of the political crisis which have arise in my absence?

I would rather not say.”



it take a great deal to upset the equilibrium of a well-conduct hall

man.



“have you book your room?” he ask.



Timothy meekly admit that he have.



he wake to a London much more beautiful, to a vista of old-world

building such as Cruikshank love to draw, to a green square and

glimpse of greener tree.



Mary be stay at the Carlton, but he have arrange to meet she for

lunch. he have not arrange to meet her dragon, but he know she would be

there. he have breakfast, and be on the point of leave the hotel,

when Chelwyn come.



to say that Timothy regret his generosity of the night before would

be to do he an injustice. nevertheless, he have some misgiving as to

whether he have not be a little too generous. the appearance of Mr.

Chelwyn, early in the morning, look so spruce and confident, be in

itself a suspicious happening, though event prove that the suspicion

be unfounded.



“can I see you alone for a moment, Mr. Anderson?” ask the red-haired

man.



Timothy hesitate.



“come along to the drawing-room,” he say.



it be the one public room which would be empty at that time of the

morning. Mr. Chelwyn deposit his hat and stick and brand-new yellow

glove before he speak.



“now, Mr. Anderson, I’ve come to tell you a few fact which will

surprise you.”



“you haven’t have a gold brick send to you by your Uncle George in

Alaska, have you?” ask Timothy dubiously. “because I’m not buy that

kind of fact.”



the man smile and shake his head.



“it be hardly likely I should try that stuff on you, sir,” he say. “no,

this be a much more serious matter. before I go any far I’ll tell

you that I be not ask for money. I be grateful to you for what you

do to I last night, Mr. Anderson. a crook have a wife and child the

same as anybody else. I have be in this funny business for ten year,

but now I’m out of it for good.” he look round and drop his voice,

“Mr. Anderson, I tell you last night that we’ve be five or six week

away from England. don’t that sound strange to you?”



“not to I,” say Timothy.



“that be because you don’t know the game,” say the man. “as a rule,

when we’re work these liner, we go out to Cape Town and come back by

the next ship that sail. what do you think we stay at Funchal

for—there’s no money in short voyage—it’s all on the long run from

Madeira to Cape Town.”



“I haven’t the slight idea,” say Timothy wearily. “I don’t even

remember see you in Funchal——”



“we lay low,” interrupt the man.



“that may be, but if you’ve come to tell I the interesting story of

your life, ginger, I beg that you will cut it short—the history, I

mean, not necessarily your life.”



“well, I’ll tell it to you as quickly as possible,” say the man. “I

don’t always work with Brown. in fact, I’ve only work with he about

three time before. I’m not as good a man with the broad——”



“the broad?” say the puzzled Timothy.



“with the card,” correct the man. “I say that I’m not as good a man

with the broad as some of the other. I’ve get a bit of a reputation

for scrap. I’ve never leave a pal in the lurch and I’ve always be

ready for any ‘rough house’ that come along. about two month ago Brown

send for I—he’s get a flat off Piccadilly and live like a lord. he

tell I he be go to Madeira on a special job, that he’d be

employ by a lady in Paris—a Madame Serpilot (you’d well write that

down in your pocket-book)—to shepherd a young lady who be come over.

mind you, there be no harm intend to the young lady, but the general

idea be that she might be accompany by a man, and he be the fellow

who have to be look after.”



“what be the lady’s name?” ask Timothy quickly.



“Miss Maxell,” say the man without hesitation, “and you be the fellow

we be ask to put out of business. Brown’s idea be to break you;

then, when you get to London, one of his pal would have meet you and

offer to lend you money. they’d have frame up a charge against you of

obtain money by false pretence, and you would have be pinch.”



Timothy’s eyebrow rise.



“be this Mrs. Serpilot’s plan?” he ask, but the man shake his head.



“no, sir, she give just the detail to Brown. she never say what be to

be do to you, accord to he, but you be to be stop go

around with the young lady.”



“who be Madame Serpilot?”



“there you’ve get I,” say Chelwyn. “I believe she’s an old widow, but

Brown never tell I much about she. he get instruction from she while

he be in Paris, but I never discover how. I go to Madeira with he

because he know I be tough—but I ben’t tough enough,” he add with a

dry smile.



Timothy hold out his hand.



“ginger,” he say solemnly, “please forgive the orange!”



“oh, I don’t mind that,” say the man, “that’s all in the day’s work.

it make I a bit wild, and my eye’s feeling sore, but don’t let that

worry you. what you’ve get to do now be to look out for Brown, because

he’ll have you as sure as death.”



“I’ll look out for Madame Serpilot, too,” say Timothy. “I think I’ll go

to Paris.”



“she’s not in Paris now, I can tell you that,” say the man. “the wire

Brown get at Liverpool be from Monte Carlo.”



“Monte Carlo,” say Timothy, “be even more attractive than Paris.”









                             CHAPTER xviii





CHELWYN leave Timothy with something to think about. who be Madame

Serpilot, this old lady who have such an interest in Mary travel

alone? and why, oh! why have she leave Paris for Monte Carlo at the fag

end of the season? for he and Mary have privately decide between they

that London and Paris should only be stop place on the route to the

Riviera. why should Madame Serpilot have change her plan at the same

time? there be something more than a coincidence in this. at lunch-time

he have Mary to herself, her chaperon have a headache.



“Mary,” he say, “can you tell I why we change our plan on the boat

and decide to go straight on to Monte Carlo instead of stay in

Paris?”



“yes,” she say readily. “don’t you remember my tell you about those

beautiful book of view that I see on the ship?”



“where do you see they?” ask Timothy.



“I find they in my cabin one day. I think the steward must have leave

they,” she say. “they be most wonderful production, full of colour

print and photograph—didn’t I tell you about they?”



“I remember,” say Timothy slowly. “find they in your cabin, eh? well,

nobody leave any beautiful or attractive picture of Monte Carlo in my

berth, but I think that willn’t stop I go on to Monte Carlo.”



it be an opportunity she have be seek for a week and she seize it.



“I want to ask you something, Timothy,” she say. “Mrs. Renfrew tell I

the other day that they call you ‘take a Chance’ Anderson. why be that,

Timothy?”



“because I take a chance, I suppose,” he smile. “I’ve be take

chance all my life.”



“you’re not a gambler, Timothy, be you?” she ask gravely. “I know you

bet and play card, but man do that for amusement, and somehow it be all

right. but when man start out to make a living, and actually make a

living, by game of chance, they somehow belong to another life and

another people.”



he be silent.



“you’re just too good to go that way, Timothy,” she go on. “there be

lot of chance that a man can take in this world, in match his

brain, his strength and his skill against other man, and when he win

his stake be safe. he don’t lose it the next day or the next month,

and he’s pick winner all the time, Timothy.”



his first inclination be to be nettle. she be wound the tender

skin of his vanity, and he be startled to discover how tender a skin

that be. all that she say be true and less than true. she could not

guess how far his mind and inclination be from commonplace labour and

how very little work come into the calculation of his future. he look

upon a job as a thing not to be hold and develop into something

well, but as a stopgap between two successful chance. he be almost

shock when this truth come home to he. the girl be nervous, and

painfully anxious not to hurt he, and yet well aware that she be

rub a sore place.



“Timothy, for your sake, as well as for mine, for you’re a friend of

mine, I want to be proud of you, to see you past this present phase of

life. Mrs. Renfrew speak of you as a gambler, and say your name, even

at your age, be well know as one who would rather bet than buy. that

ben’t true, Timothy, be it?”



she put her hand on his and look into his face. he do not meet her

eye.



“I think that be true, Mary,” he say steadily. “how it come to be

true, I don’t quite know. I suppose I have drift a little over the

line, and I’m grateful to you for pull I up. oh, no, I don’t regret

the past—it have all be useful—and I have make good on chance, but I

see there be other chance that a man can take than put his money

on the pace of a horse or back against zero. maybe, when I get back

to London I’ll settle down into a respectable citizen and keep hen or

something.”



he be speak seriously, though at first she think he be be

sarcastic.



“and you willn’t gamble again?” she ask.



he hesitate to reply.



“that ben’t fair,” she say quickly. “I mean it ben’t fair of I to ask

you. it be almost cruel,” she smile, “to let you go to Monte Carlo and

ask you not to put money on the table. but promise I, Timothy, that

when I tell you to stop play, you will stop.”



“here’s my hand on it,” say Timothy, brighten up already at the

prospect of be allow to gamble at all. “Hereafter——” he raise

his hand solemnly. “by the way,” he ask, “do you know a lady name

Madame Serpilot?”



she shake her head.



“no, I do not,” she say. “I have never hear the name.”



“you have no relation or friend in France?”



“none,” she reply immediately.



“what make you go to France at all?” he ask. “when I hear from you,

Mary, you talk about take a holiday in Madeira before set up

house in Bath, and the first thing I know of your intention to go abroad

again be the letter you send I just before I start for Madeira.”



“I want to go a year ago, after Sir John’s death,” she say; “then

Mrs. Renfrew couldn’t take the trip—one of her young child have

measle.”



“have that woman child?” ask Timothy in an awed voice.



“don’t be absurd. of course she have child. it be she who decide on

make the trip. she write little article in the _Bath County

Herald_—a local paper—on the care of child and all that sort of

thing. she’s not really a journalist, she be literary.”



“I know,” say Timothy, “sometimes they write poetry, sometimes recipe

for ice cream—‘take three cup of flour, a pint of cream in which an

egg have be boil and a pinch of vanilla’——”



the girl smile. evidently Timothy have hit upon the particular brand of

journalism to which Mrs. Renfrew be addict.



“well,” say the girl, “there be to have be a sort of mother’

Welfare Meeting in Paris next week—an International affair—and when we

be in Madeira she receive an invitation to attend with a free return

ticket—wasn’t that splendid?”



“Splendid,” say Timothy absently. “naturally you think it be an

excellent opportunity to go also.”



the girl nod.



“and now you have arrive here you find that the Mothers’ Welfare

Meeting have be postpone for ten year?”



she look at he, startle.



“how do you know that the meeting have be postpone?” she ask.



“oh, I guess it,” he say airily, “such thing have happen before.”



“the truth be,” say the girl, “nobody know anything about this

meeting, and the letter which Mrs. Renfrew send to the Mothers’ Welfare

Society in Paris be wait for we when we arrive at the Carlton. it

have be returned—‘Addressee unknown.’ Mrs. Renfrew have put the Carlton

address inside.”



here be ample excuse for speculation of an innocuous kind. Mrs. Renfrew

have be approach because it be know by this mysterious somebody

that she would take the girl with she, and this sinister somebody have

hire two thug to shepherd she from Madeira and to put Timothy out of

action, should he decide to accompany the party to France. the situation

be distinctly interesting.



three day later the party cross the Channel. Timothy have high hope

of adventure, which be fate to be more than fulfil. they stay

three day in Paris and he have the time of his life. he go to the

race at Maisons Lafitte, and come back glow with a sense of his

virtue, for he have not make a bet. he drift in to the baccara room at

Enghien, watch ten of thousand of franc change hand, and return

to Paris that night with a halo fit by Mary’s own hand.



“I think you’re really wonderful, Timothy,” she say. “you know you be

allow one final flutter.”



“I’m save that up for Monte Carlo,” say Timothy.



since his arrival in Paris he have lose the right to his name, for he be

take no chance. if he go abroad at night he keep to the brilliantly

illuminate boulevard or the crowded cafés. he keep clear of the

crowd—especially crowd which form quickly and for no apparent

reason.



he be take no chance because he feel it be not fair upon the

particular genius who preside over his destiny that he should

squander his luck in a miraculous escape from death or disablement. only

once, when dine at the Scribe, do he think he see the familiar face

of Mr. Brown. with an apology he leave the two lady and make his way

with difficulty through the crowded restaurant, only to find that his

man have disappear.



“these cafés have as many door as a trick-scene,” he grumble when he

come back.



“do you see a friend of your?” ask the girl.



“not so much a friend as one who have a financial interest in I,”

reply Timothy.



Mrs. Renfrew have thaw a little under the beneficent influence of

Paris. she be busy send off picture-postcard and have write to

bath her first impression of the french capital to the extent of three

column. she have also write a poem which begin: “oh, city of light

that shine so bright,” and go on rhyme “vain” with “Seine,” “gay”

with “play,” “joy” with “alloy,” through twenty-three stanzas.



“I rather pride myself,” say Mrs. Renfrew, “upon that description of

Paris—‘the city of light.’ don’t you think it be very original, Mr.

Anderson?”



“it be,” say Timothy diplomatically. “Parisians have call it the

‘Ville Lumière’ for about two hundred year.”



“that’s almost the same, ben’t it?” say Mrs. Renfrew. “how clever the

French be!”



Mrs. Renfrew do not speak French and take a more generous view of the

young man when she discover that he do. it fall to Timothy’s lot to

order ticket, arrange cab, pay bill and act as unofficial courier to

the party. he be anxious to be go from Paris, impatient for the big

game to begin. for some reason, he do not anticipate that any harm

would come to the girl. this strike he as strange later, but at the

moment all his thought be centre upon the match between himself and

this old french lady who have set herself out to separate he from Mary

Maxell.



no unpleasant incident—the crowded condition of the dining-car

excepted—mar the journey to Monte Carlo. there be the inevitable

night spend in a stuffy sleeping-berth in a car that rock and sway

to such an extent that Timothy expect it to jump the line, as

thousand of other passenger have expect it to do; and they come with

the morning to the Valley of the Rhone, a wide, blue, white-flecked

stream flow between gaunt hill, past solitary châteaux and strange

walled town, which look as if they have be keep under glass case

for century, that the modern world should be remind of the danger

under which our forefather live. so to Marseilles, and a long, hot and

slow journey to Nice.



to the girl it be a pilgrimage of joy. she would not have miss a

single moment of that ride. the blue sea, the white villas with their

green jalousie, the banked rose over wall and pergola and the

warm-scented breeze, and above all the semi-tropical sun, place she in

a new world, a wonder world more beautiful than imagination have paint.



there be something about Monte Carlo which be very satisfying. it be so

orderly, so clean, so white and bright, that you have the impression

that it be carefully dust every morning and that the villa on the

hill be take down weekly by tender hand, polished and replace.



there be nothing garish about Monte Carlo, for all its stucco and

plaster. some of the building, and particularly the Casino, be

compare by the irreverent Timothy to the White City, but it be a

refined White City and the Casino itself, with its glass-roof porch,

its great, solemn hang lamp and its decorous uniformed attendant,

have something of the air of a National Bank.



Timothy take a room at the Hôtel de Paris, where the girl be stay,

and lose no time in seek information.



“Madame Serpilot?” say the concierge. “there be a madame who bear that

name, I think, but she be not stay here, monsieur.”



“of whom should I inquire, I pray you?” ask Timothy in the vernacular.



“of the Municipal Council, monsieur,” say the concierge, “or, if the

madame be a wealthy madame, of the manager of the Credit Lyonnais, who

will perhaps inform monsieur.”



“thank many time,” say Timothy.



he go first to the Credit Lyonnais, and find the manager extremely

polite but uncommunicative. it be not the practice of the bank, he

say, to disclose the address of their client. he would not say that

Madame Serpilot be his client, but if she be, he could certainly not

give her address to any unauthorised person. from this Timothy gather

that Madame Serpilot be a client. he go on to the Mairie and meet with

well fortune. the Mairie have no respect for person. it be there to

supply information and what the Mairie of Monte Carlo do not know

about Monaco, the cleverest detective force in the world would be

waste its time try to discover.



Madame Serpilot live at the Villa Condamine. the Villa Condamine be

not, as the name suggest, in the poor part of Monte Carlo but in

that most exclusive territory, the tiny peninsula of Cap Martin.



“have madam be a resident long?”



“for one hundred and twenty-nine day,” reply the official promptly.

“Madame hire the villa furnish from the agent, of the Grand Duchess

Eleana who, alas! be destroy in that terrible revolution.”



he give Timothy some detail of the family from which the Grand Duchess

have spring, the amount of her income in pre-war day, and be pass to

her eccentricity when Timothy take his departure. he be not

interested in the Grand Duchess Eleana, alive or dead.









                              CHAPTER XIX





he go to the house agent on the main street and from he procure

the exact position of Madame Serpilot’s residence.



“an old madame?” say the agent. “no, monsieur, I cannot say that she be

old. and I cannot say that she be young.”



he think a moment, as though endeavour to find some reason for this

reticence on the subject of her age, and then add:



“I have not see she. Madame be a widow,” he go on. “alas! there be

so many in France as the result of the terrible war.”



“then she be young,” say Timothy. “they don’t send old man to the

front.”



“she may be young,” reply the agent, “or she may be old. one do not

know.”



he call the assistant who have show the lady the house and have take

the document for she to sign. the assistant be age sixteen, and at

the age of sixteen most people above twenty be list amongst the aged.

he be certain she be a widow and very feeble, because she walk with

a stick. she always wear a heavy black veil, even when she be in the

garden.



“be it not natural,” say the house agent romantically, “that the madame

who have lose all that make life worth live should no long desire

the world to look upon her face?”



“it may be natural in Monte Carlo,” say Timothy, “but it be not natural

in London.”



he locate the house on a large plan which the oblige agent produce,

and go back to the hotel, firmly resolve to take the first

opportunity of call on Madame Serpilot and discover what object

she have in view when she arrange to endanger his young life.



Mary be wait for he, a little impatiently for one who have such a

horror of gambling.



“we have to get ticket at the Bureau,” she say, “and the concierge

say we must have special membership card for the Cercle Privée.”



the ticket be easy to procure, and they pass into the great saloon

where, around five table, stand silent oval of humanity. the scene be

a weird one to Timothy and fascinating too. besides this, all the other

gambling game in the world, all the roulette table and baccara

outfit, be crude and amateurish. the eight croupier who sit at each

table in their black frock coat and their black tie, solemn visage,

unemotional, might have be deacon in committee. the click of rake

against chip, the whirr of the twirl ball, the monotonous sing-song

announcement of the chief croupier—it be a ritual and a business at

one and the same time.



it be amazing to reflect that, year in and year out, from ten o’clock

in the morning until ten o’clock at night (until midnight in the Cercle

Privée) these black-coat man sit at their table, twirl their

rake, watch without error every note or counter that fall on the

table, separate note from chip with a deftness that be amazing,

do this in such an atmosphere of respectability that the most rabid

anti-gambler watch the scene must come in time to believe that

roulette be a legitimate business exercise.



through the year this fringe of people about the table would remain,

though unit would go out, and as unit go out new unit would replace

they, and everlastingly would sit shabby old man and woman with their

cryptic notebook, make their tableaux with red and black pencil,

religiously record the result of every coup, stake now and again

their five-franc piece, and watch they rake to the croupier with

stony despair or draw with tremble hand the few poor franc which

fortune have send they.



Timothy be very silent when they pass the portal of the Cercle

Privée, into that wonderful interior which, view from the entrance

room, have the appearance of some rich cathedral.



“what do you think of they?” ask Mary.



he do not answer at once.



“what do you think of the people?” she demand again. “do you see

that quaint old woman—take a chance? I’m sorry,” she say quickly, “I

really don’t mean to be——”



“I know you don’t,” say Timothy, and sigh.



the roulette table do not attract he. he stroll off to watch the

player at _trente et quarante_. here the procedure be more

complicated. one of the official deal two line of card, end each

when the pip add to something over thirty. the top line stand for

black, the low line for red, and that which be near to thirty won.

after master this, the process be simple; you could either back the

red or the black, or you could bet that the first card that be deal

be identical with the colour that win, or be the reverse.



the game interest he. it have certain feature which in a way be

fascinating. he notice that the croupier never speak of the black. the

black might have have no existence at the _trente et quarante_ table;

either “red won” or “red lose.” he stake a louis and win twice. he

stake another and lose it. then he win three coup of a louis and

look around uncertainly, almost guiltily, for Mary.



she be watch the roulette player, and Timothy take a wad of bill

from his pocket and count out six mille. that be another thing he

be to discover: there be three class of player—those who punt

in one or five louis piece, those who bet handsomely in mille (a

thousand-franc note be a “mille” and have no other name), and those who

go the maximum of twelve thousand franc on each coup.



Money have no value. he throw six thousand down to the croupier and

receive in exchange six oblong plaque like thin cake of blue soap. he

put a thousand franc on the black and lose it. he look round

apprehensively for Mary, but she be still intent upon the roulette

player. he venture another thousand, and lose that too. a young

Englishman sit at the table look up with a smile.



“you’re bet against the tableau,” he say. “the table be run red

to-night. look!” he show a little notebook rule into division, and

long line of dot, one under the other. “you see,” he say, “all these

be red. the table have only swing across to black twice for any run,

and then it be only a run of four. if you bet against the table you’ll

go broke.”



at any other place than at the table at Monte Carlo advice of this

character, and intimate reference to financial possibility, would be

resent. but the room, like the grave, level all the player, who be

a great family band together in an unrecognised brotherhood for the

destruction of a common enemy.



“I’ll take a chance against the table,” say Timothy, “and I shall go

break, anyway.”



the Englishman laugh.



the four thousand franc he have leave go the same way as their friend

and Timothy change another six thousand and throw two on the black.

then, act on the impulse of the moment, he throw down the remain

four.



“Timothy!”



he turn at the shocked voice and Mary be stand behind he.



“do you gamble like that?” she ask.



he try to smile, but produce a grimace.



“why, it be nothing,” he say, “it be only franc, and franc ben’t

real money, anyway.”



she turn and walk away and he follow. the Englishman, twisting

round in his chair, say something. Timothy think he be ask

whether he should look after his money and answer “certainly.”



the girl walk to one of the pad bench by the wall and sit down.

there be such real trouble in her face that Timothy’s heart sink.



“I’m sorry, Mary,” he say, “but this be my last fling and you tell I I

could have it. after to-night I cut out everything that don’t qualify

for the ‘earn income’ column of the tax-surveyor.”



“you frighten I,” she say. “it ben’t the amount of money you be

venture, but there be something in your face which make I feel—why!

I just feel sick,” she say.



“Mary!” he say in surprise.



“I know I’m be unreasonable,” she interrupt, “but Timothy, I—I

just don’t want to think of you like this.”



she look into his dejected face and the soft light that ever shine

in woman’s eye be in her.



“Poor Timothy!” she say, half in jest, “you’re pay the penalty for

have a girl friend.”



“I’m pay the penalty for be a loafer,” he say huskily. “I think

there must be some bad blood in we. Mary, I know what I’m lose,” he

say, and take one of her hand. “I’m lose the right to love you,

dearest.”



it be a queer place for such a confession, and in her wild dream

the girl never imagine that the first word of love speak to she by any

man would come in a gambling saloon at Monte Carlo. above she where she

sit be the great canvas of the Florentine Graces; half nude relief on

the ceiling dangle glitter chain of light and over all sound the

monotonous voice of the croupier:



“Rouge perd—et couleur.”



the young Englishman at the table turn round with an inquire lift of

his eyebrow, and Timothy nod.



“he want to know if I’m finish, I suppose,” he say, “and honestly

Mary, I be. I’m go back to London when this trip’s over, and I’m

go to start at the bottom and work up.”



“Poor Timothy!” she say again.



“I’m not go to lie to you, or pretend any long. I just love you,

Mary, and if you’ll wait for I, I’ll make good. I have be a gambler,”

he say, “a poor, low gambler, and all the time I’ve think I’ve be

clever! I’ve be go round puff up with my own self-importance, and

my head’s be so much in the air that I haven’t see just where my foot

be lead I,” he laugh. “this sound like the sort of thing you

get at the Salvation Army penitent form,” he say, “but I’m straight and

sincere.”



“I know you be, Timothy, but you needn’t start at the bottom. I have my

money——”



“stop where you be, Mary,” he say quietly. “not a penny would I take

from you, darling.”



“what do they ring that bell for?” she ask.



it be the second time the tinkle of sound have come from the croupier at

the _trente et quarante_ table.



“Heaven know!” say Timothy. “maybe it be to call the other

worshipper.”



again the young Englishman look round and say something.



“what do he say?” ask Timothy.



“he say seventeen,” say the girl. “be that the number you back?”



Timothy smile.



“there be no number on that table except No. 1—and no. 1 be the fat

man with the rake—he get it come and go. Mary, I’m go to ask

you one question: if I make good will you marry I?”



she be silent and again the voice of the croupier come:



“Rouge perd—couleur gagne.”



“what do ‘rouge perd’ mean?” she ask. “he have say that ever so many

time.”



“it mean ‘black win,’” say Timothy.



“do black always win?” she ask.



“not always,” say Timothy gently. “maybe he’s only say that to lure

I back to the table. Mary, what do you say?”



“I say yes,” she say, and to the scandal of the one attendant who be

watch they he bent forward and kiss she.



a terrible act this, for the gold-laced and liveried footman, who come

with slow, majestic step to where they sit.



“Monsieur,” he say, “this be not do.”



Timothy look up at he.



“_chassez-vous_,” he say firmly.



it be startling French, but it be the near he could get at the

moment to “chase yourself.”



again the bell tinkle, and the young Englishman rise, thrust a small

packet of money into his pocket and come toward they, bear what

look to be a large book without cover. his face be a little haggard

and the perspiration stand upon his forehead.



“this be get on my nerve, old man. you have well play yourself,”

he say, and he hand the book to Timothy, and Timothy look vaguely

from his hand to the hot Englishman.



“what’s this?” he croak.



“a run of twenty-eight on the black,” say the Englishman. “it be

phenomenal! you want I to go on, don’t you? I ask you whether I

should play your thousand franc. the bank bust four time—didn’t you

hear they ring for more money?”



Timothy nod. he have no word.



“well, your six go to twelve and I leave the maximum run,” the

Englishman say. “I ask you if that be right and you nod.”



“yes, I nod,” say Timothy mechanically.



“you’ve win twenty-seven and a half maximum.”



Timothy look at the money in his hand, look up at the ceiling and

gulp something down.



“thank you,” he gasp. “I be oblige to you.”



it be inadequate, but it be all that he could say.



“not at all,” say the Englishman. “I win a lot of money myself.”



“I’m not a great hand at arithmetic,” say Timothy, “will you tell I

how many pound twenty-seven and a half maximum make?”



it be a remarkable situation. somebody should have laugh, but they

be all too serious, the girl as serious as Timothy, and the young

Englishman scrawling calculation on a loose page of his notebook.



“thirty-five franc to a pound,” he say, “make £340 a coup.

twenty-seven and a half be about——”



“thank you!” say Timothy, and he grip the other’s hand and wrung it.

“thank you, fairy godmother—I don’t know your other name.”



they stand together watch his lanky figure, as he, wholly unconscious

of the providential part he have play, move down to the roulette

table, eye the game with the air of superiority which every player of

_trente et quarante_ have for a game with a paltry maximum of six

thousand franc.



“Timothy,” whisper the girl, “ben’t it wonderful?”



he put the money into his pocket and it bulge untidily.



“what be you go to do with it?” she ask.



“give it to the poor,” say Timothy, take her arm.



“to the poor?”



she be wonder whether his fortune have drive he mad.



“the poor,” he say firmly, “money win by gambling——”



“nonsense,” she break in, “to what poor be you give it?”



“to poor Timothy,” say he. “let we dash madly to the bar and drink

orangeade.”









                               CHAPTER XX





the band be play one of de Courville’s new revue tune, and the

Café de Paris be crowd out. there have be a big influx of visitor

from Nice, and Monte Carlo present an appearance comparable with the

height of the season. Mrs. Renfrew have motor up to La Turbie, and a

bank of cloud having descend upon the mountain make the road

dangerous. (those who have journey from the Corniche to Monte Carlo by

night will appreciate just how dangerous be that road.) she have,

therefore, elect to spend the night at the hotel on the top of the

hill.



this information she have telephone to the girl on the night follow

Timothy’s great win, and have add that she could see “the twinkling

light of Monte Carlo” and that “the misty space of ocean fill she

with strange unrest,” which observation have be repeat to the

unsympathetic Timothy.



“it must be awful to have a mind like that,” he say, and then, “Mary,

I’ve be a long time wait to exchange confidence about cousin.”



“I have no confidence to give you about Mrs. Renfrew,” say Mary with a

smile, “but you have be on the point of tell I about your cousin

so often that I feel a little curious.”



the story he have to tell be not a nice one. it mean open old wound

and revive sad memory, but it have to be do. she be not so shocked

as he have expect.



“you have not tell I anything new,” she say quietly. “you see, all

along I have know that the ‘A.C.’ in your name stand for ‘Alfred

Cartwright,’ and once uncle tell I that he have know a relative of

your, and I guess.”



suddenly she demand:



“do you think Cartwright be in Europe?”



Timothy nod.



“I be certain. that is, if Morocco be in Europe,” he say. “I have have

it in the back of my mind ever since the crime be commit that that

be the place he would make for. you see, in the few minute I have with

he he tell I, perhaps not the whole of the story, but at any rate his

version. he know Morocco and have be there before. he speak about a

moorish chief name El Mograb, who want he to stay with the tribe,

and he tell I he be sorry he have not follow the Moor’s advice.”



“do you tell the police that?” she ask.



he shake his head.



“I do not tell the police very much about that visit. cartwright

revive his accusation against Sir John. it mean dig up these

charge, and that be what I do not wish to do, for—for——”



“for my sake?” she say quietly.



“that’s about the size of it,” reply Timothy.



a little stream of diner be leave the restaurant, move slowly

down the narrow aisle between the table, and Timothy stop talk as

they pass and eye they with a bored interest usual to the

circumstance.



it be after the interruption have end, and the last of the little

stream have depart, that he see the card on the table. it be near his

place and it have not be there before. he pick it up and on the

uppermost side be write: “do not let your friend see this.”



“well, I’m——” he begin, and turn the card over.



it be not write but print in capital letter:



    “if you do not hear from I by the twenty-NINTH, I beg of you

    that you will go to TANGIER and ENQUIRE AT the CONTINENTAL hotel

    for a man call RAHBAT—A MOOR, who will lead you to I. I beg

    you for the sake of our relationship to come. do you get the

    money?”



Timothy lay the card down and stare at the girl.



“what be it?” she ask and reach out her hand.



“I—it be nothing,” he say hurriedly.



“Nonsense, Timothy. what be it? let I see it, please.”



without a word he hand the card to the girl, who read it through in

silence.



“who be that from?” she ask, “Cartwright?”



he nod.



“obviously,” he say, “the reference to the money and the appeal to our

relationship—but how do it get there?”



he call the head waiter.



“who be those people who go out just now?” he ask.



“they be very well know,” explain the head waiter. “there be a

monsieur, a London theatrical manager, and a madame who be his wife.

there be another monsieur, an american writer, and an English monsieur

who be in the employment as secretary to a madame who live at Cap

Martin.”



“Madame Serpilot?” ask Timothy quickly.



“yes, that be the name. she be a widow, _hélas_! but immensely rich!”



Timothy put the card into his pocket. he have say nothing to the girl

about Madame Serpilot since they have leave London, and for the first time

he have some misgiving as to her safety. yet in truth that sixth sense

of his, which have hitherto work so to his advantage, offer he no

warning that the girl’s happiness be threaten. he be sure that

whatever danger the situation hold be danger to he personally. he have

not see the english monsieur who be secretary to Madame Serpilot, but

then his back have be toward the far end of the room from whence the

man come and he have present no other view than the back of his head.



“it be a message from Cartwright,” he say, “and I be go to get to

the bottom of this story if I stay in Monte Carlo for the rest of my

life.”



he see Mary back to her hotel, go to his room and change, and just as

the casino be disgorge its tired client, he walk through the

palm-shade avenue that lead to the main road and begin his tramp to Cap

Martin. to discover a house in this area by daylight, with the aid of a

plan, might have be a simple matter—by night it present almost

insuperable difficulty.



Cap Martin be a promontory of hill and pine and wild flower. its road

run at the will of its wealthy resident, and there be lane and path

and broad road which be not really broad road at all, but the private

entrance to the wonderful villa in which the district abound, and the

grey light be in the eastern sky when Timothy finally locate the Villa

Condamine.



it stand on the edge of the sea, surround on the land side by a high

wall, though if its owner seek seclusion the wood which surround

the villa be sufficient.



Timothy work round a little bay until he command a view of the place

from the sea. a zig-zag path lead down from the house to the seashore,

terminate in a little concrete quay. presently he hear the sound of

footstep and a Monogasque workman, in blue overall, came slouch

along the shore path, pipe in mouth.



he bid the young man a cheery good morning and stop, in the friendly

way of the monogasque, to talk. he be a gardener on his way to the

villa. he could be on his way to nowhere else, for the rough path on

which Timothy stood lead straight to a door in the high wall. it be a

good job, but he wish he live nearer. but then, none of madame’s

servant sleep in the house, and——



“ah! _voilà!_ it be the Moor!” and he point out to sea.



a tiny steam yacht be come slowly to land—Timothy have see its

light for an hour—and be steam now to its anchorage, leave the

line of its wake on the smooth surface of the water.



“the Moor!” say Timothy quickly, and then carelessly, “have any Moor a

villa here?”



“no, monsieur,” say the man, “but this be a great moor who sometimes

come here from Morocco. a long journey, monsieur. it be five day’

voyage from the moorish coast——”



“do he come to the Villa Condamine?” ask Timothy.



“but yes,” say the man. “he be a friend of the madame, and twice have he

be there in three month.”



there be a little splash of water under the bow of the yacht, when the

anchor be drop, and presently a boat draw away and in the stern

sheet be a figure muffle in a white jellab.



Timothy look after the retreating figure of the gardener, who be

leisurely pursue his way, and, turning, follow he. it be unlikely

that the mysterious madame would allow a humble workman to have the key

of the garden gate, yet to his surprise this be the case. the man

open the gate and wait, look round as if he expect somebody.

Timothy guess that there be two or more workman and that this

particular man have the key and admit the lot. in this surmise he

prove to be right. presently yet another blue-blouse gardener

appear, and the two stand together wait for a third. he make no

appearance, and the two man pass through the door and pull it close

behind they.



Timothy quicken his pace. as he have think, the door be leave ajar

for the third man. he push it open gently, but see nothing but the end

of a twisting path, which disappear between high hedge of lilac.



if ever there be a time to take a chance it be now; and he be through

the gate, gingerly tread the path, before he realise what he have

do. he hear voice and move with caution. then, after about five

minute, he hear the garden gate behind he bang. the third workman have

arrive and the exit be closed. he make his way through the pine which

serve to screen the house from observation. there be nobody in sight,

and the voice have die away. he could walk more boldly now and come at

last to the edge of the wood in full view of the villa. between he and

the house be about fifty yard of clear space. he take a chance and

cross it, his objective be a ground-floor window which be open.



the entrance be not so easily effect as he have expect. the sill of

the window be just above the level of his head, and offer no grip to

his hand. he make a tour of reconnaissance, but fail to find any

other entrance. behind the sill, he think, must be a window frame, and

step back two pace he make a leap and grip the frame. quickly he

pull himself up and drop into the room.



he be conscious of a sweet, fragrant perfume the moment his head become

level with the window, and now he see the explanation. the bare floor

be cover three inch thick with rose petal. evidently the owner

make her own perfumery, and this hobby explain the open window. there

be no furniture in the room, which be apparently give up to the

purpose of dry the petal. the door be unfastened, and he pass

into a stone corridor. the structure of the house puzzle he. he do

not expect to find himself in the basement; then he remember that the

villa be build on slope ground, and that the main entrance must be on

a high floor.



a flight of stone step lead to the upper level, and he go up

cautiously, a step at a time, and find his exit bar by a door which

be fasten on the other side with padlock and staple. it be a

primitive method of lock up a cellar, and Timothy, remember that

he have pass a recess fill with garden tool, go back to find the

mean to remove this obstruction. a long chisel prise the staple from

the door with ridiculous ease.



he hear voice speak in low, guard tone and move along the

carpet hall on tiptoe. he listen at the door of the room from which

the voice proceed, and be in two mind as to what his next step

should be. the door be one of two let in the same wall. he stop and

bring his ear to the keyhole of the second and there be no sound.

turn the handle, he look in.



as he expect, it be separate from the other room by a pair of

fold door which be close. the voice be more distinct but still

indistinguishable. he be now in a small drawing-room, well but not

luxuriously furnish. tall french window lead to a loggia, and, what

be more important, on either side of these hang long velvet curtain,

which might serve, in case of necessity, as a place of concealment.



he hear the door of the next room open, and the voice proceed along

the passage. then the handle of his own door turn. he have just time to

slip behind the curtain before somebody enter. it be a woman, and at

the sound of her voice he nearly jump. she be speak to somebody in

the passage.



“he have go to his room,” she say. “have your breakfast. he will want

you to go into Monte Carlo this morning.”



“by daylight?” say the person to whom she speak, and again Timothy

recognise the voice.



“he would not know you with those spectacle. besides, you have a

moustache when you see he before.”



the man in the passage mumble something, and Timothy hear the door of

the room close. there be a desk, he have notice, against the blank wall

of the room, and it be to this she make her way. he hear the

scratching of her pen on paper, then he walk from his place of

concealment. her back be to he and she do not hear he until his

shadow fall across the table. then, with a little cry, she leapt up.



“good morning, Lady Maxell,” say Timothy.









                              CHAPTER XXI





SADIE MAXELL be as white as the paper on which she have be write.



“how do you get in here?”



Timothy do not answer. he step round so that he be between the

woman and the door.



“where be cartwright?”



“Cartwright?” she repeat. “what do you want to know of he?”



“low your voice, if you please,” say Timothy sharply. “what be

cartwright to you?”



she lick her dry lip before she speak. then:



“I marry Cartwright or Benson in Paris—year ago,” she say.



Timothy take a step back.



“you marry Cartwright,” he say incredulously. “that explain why you

come away?”



she be look at he steadily.



“if it want any explanation—yes,” she say. “what be you go to

do?”



“I’m go after the man you have upstairs, the fake Moor, who come into

this house half an hour ago, and I’m go to hand he to justice.”



before he know what have happen, she grip he by his coat with both

hand.



“you be not go to do anything of the kind, Mr. ‘take a Chance’

Anderson,” she say between her tooth, and her voice tremble with

passion. “I hate he once, but that be before I know he. I would

soon see you dead as the other man die than that you should bring he

more trouble.”



“let I go,” say Timothy, try to press loose her hand.



“you’ll leave this house and forget that you be ever here. oh, you

fool, you fool!”



he have wrench himself clear of she and fling she backward.



“I have a few word to say to your friend,” he say, “and I think you’d

well stay here whilst I’m say they. I hate have family quarrel

in public, anyway.”



he have not hear the door open behind he and it be the “swish” of the

loaded cane which warn he. it do not strike he fair on the head, as

be intend, but catch he a glance blow and he fall on his knee,

turn his face to his attacker. he know it be Brown even before the

blow fall.



“shall I settle he?” say a voice as the stick go up again.



“no, no!” cry the woman, “for God’s sake, no!”



it be at that moment that Timothy low-tackle his assailant. Brown

try to strike, but he be too late and go crash to the floor, his

head against the wall. he make one effort to rise, and then with a groan

collapse.



Timothy rise, shake himself and rub his bruise shoulder. without

a word, and with only a look at the woman, he make for the door and

bang it in her face. his head be swim as he make his way up the

stair, sway at every step. from the broad landing at the top lead

three door, only one of which be closed. he turn the handle and go

in.



a man be stand by the window, which overlook the calm expanse of

ocean, glitter in the light of the rise sun. from shoulder to heel

he be clothe in a long white mantle and a dark blue turban encircle his

head.



“now, Cartwright,” say Timothy, “you and I will settle account.”



the man have not move at the sound of the voice, but when Timothy have

finish he turn.



“my God!” cry Timothy. “Sir John Maxell.”









                            CHAPTER the last





“TIMOTHY,” say Mary, “I be just think about that beautiful house

you take I to see at Cap Martin.”



“be you, dear?” say Timothy without any show of interest.



they be on the cross-channel boat and Boulogne be astern.



“yes,” say the girl. “do you know, I have a feeling that you have take

I there to show I to somebody, some friend of yours perhaps. all the

time I be walk about the garden I have a sense of be watch. it

be not an uncomfortable sensation, but just that overlook feel one

have sometimes. I love Monte Carlo. do you think we shall go back there

after—after——”



“it be likely,” say Timothy.



the girl rise and go forward along the deck to get a view of a pass

destroyer. Timothy take a letter from his pocket and read it for about

the twentieth time. it be undated and begin:



    “MY DEAR ANDERSON,—I cannot tell you how grateful I be to you

    for your kindness and for the big, generous sympathy you have

    show I. especially be I glad that you bring Mary so that I

    could see she again, for I just hunger for a sight of the

    child. willn’t you please forgive Sadie? she act without my

    knowledge but in my interest, as she think, in try to keep

    you away from Monte Carlo after she have plan to bring the

    girl so that I could see she.



    “yes, I kill Cartwright, but I shoot he in self-defence. his

    body lie at the bottom of a disuse well in the garden of my

    house. it be perfectly true that I have be associate in

    business with he and that I be in his moorish syndicate and

    heavily involved. I be so very deeply involve at one time, and

    so near to ruin that, deceive by some statement which have be

    make to Sadie’s fortune, I make her acquaintance and marry

    she. during the past year I have never cease to thank God that

    I do so, for she have be the most loyal companion and friend

    that a man could desire.



    “it be I who fire the shot through my own window. I

    contemplate flight from Cartwright, and be manufacture

    evidence against he in advance—God forgive I. Sadie guess,

    and when she watch I draw from the well the bag contain

    proof that Cartwright’s charge be not wholly false, she know

    the end be near.



    “I be perfectly happy, and spend most of my time develop my

    property in Morocco, under the protection of El Mograb, an old

    moorish friend of mine, and the supreme protection of the

    Sultan, who, as the Pretender, receive considerable help from

    I. I be six month of the year with Sadie, for Sadie either

    live on the Riviera or at Cadiz and be easily reachable in my

    hire yacht.



    “I think it well for all concern, and especially for our dear

    Mary, that I remain as dead. some day the whole story may be

    tell, but no useful purpose would be serve by publish it

    to-day. the card with the message be intend for she, but I be

    glad that it fall into your hand. as you guess, it be I who

    fling Mary’s money into your room—I dared not post it to she

    for fear I be betray by my writing, and I know that you be

    safe. God bless you both and bring you happiness and prosperity,

    to which I hope this property of mine will one day contribute.”



Timothy fold the letter and be put it in his pocket, then change

his mind and take it out. he read it again, then tear it into piece and

fling it over the side of the ship.



then he too go forward to the wife he have marry in Paris—much

against the wish of a scandalise Mrs. Renfrew—who nevertheless

term it “a pretty romance” in the article she write for the _Bath

County Herald_.



                                the END













                  _WARD,  LOCK  &  CO.'S  NEW  FICTION_





    a wonder for

    Wise Men

    by

    Wallace B. Nichols



    THOUGH an historical romance, this book be much more than

    that, for its theme touch present-day idea in a remarkable

    manner, especially as concern the hideous uselessness of war.

    it be set in the reign of Henry VII and deal with the aftermath

    of the Wars of the Roses. the principal character become one of

    the King’s most trust instrument in the founding of modern

    England, and the story march to an emotional and uplifting

    close. this be an historical novel where the character be not

    puppet of impossible romance, but live human being as real

    as the people about we every day.



                         _by the same author_:



    SECRET market



    “this be a first novel by one of our young poet, and it be a

    novel which equally plainly show he to be an artist. the plot

    be cleverly develop, and the story end at once dramatically

    and artistically.”—_The Glasgow Herald._



    BRITTLE glory



    “Wallace B. Nichols deserve congratulation. he have demonstrate

    a capacity for expression, in term of strength, beauty and

    sincerity, through two medium. it be an uncommon book with an

    outstanding quality: it never cease to be readable.”—_The

    Observer._



⁂   “Mr. Nichols have all the gift of a great novelist: an unerring sense

    of character, and a distinguished literary style.”—_The Referee._









    Mr. Fortune

    explain

    by

    H. C. Bailey



    “MR. FORTUNE” have long since establish himself as one of the

    bright star in the galaxy of modern crime detective. he

    work on the friendly term with Scotland Yard, but his

    method—and incidentally his manner—be peculiarly his own.

    here we have a series of the most widely divergent mystery

    successively solve by a bland, imperturbable middle-age

    gentleman whose sole concern in life appear to be that he shall

    not miss his lunch or any other comfort that be due to he. no

    one who have read other “Mr. Fortune” volume will on any account

    miss this, while those who have yet to make the dear man’s

    acquaintance be to be envy for the joy that await they.



              _other popular volume by Mr. H. C. Bailey_:



              call Mr. Fortune       Mr. Fortune’s Trials

              Mr. Fortune, please    Karl of Erbach

              Mr. Fortune’s Practice the Master of Gray

              Mr. Fortune speak   my Lady of Orange, etc.



⁂   Mr. H. C. Bailey be not only a master in the realm of historic

    romance, but in that of the mystery story as well: in fact, he be

    easily one of the good and most logical of all the many writer of

    the detective story to-day.









    the Subway

    Mystery

    by

    Ben Bolt



    ONE would think it impossible for anybody to walk down into

    the crowd new Piccadilly Circus Tube Station and there be

    swiftly murder without immediate discovery of the assassin.

    but from the slender of clue the whole failure of a great

    vengeance be discover, and Mr. Ben Bolt have provide in his

    new story a series of situation and adventure that would keep

    the sleepy reader agog for the end.



                         _by the same author_:

                    the Mystery of Belvoir Mansions

                    the Sword of Fortune

                    Captain Lucifer

                    Jewels of Sin

                    the Badge

                    the Buccaneer’s Bride

                    the other three



⁂   this story reveal the author as one of the good among modern writer

    of mystery.









    Gambler’s

    Hope

    by

    J. J. Bell



    admirer of “Wee Macgreegor” and kindre work will be

    interested to see what the talented author make of a more

    ambitious theme. subtle characterization be here combine with

    the thrill of an Armada treasure hunt, complicate by the

    misunderstanding and perplexity of three widely divergent

    love affair. the scene be lay partly in Spain, partly in the

    Western Isles, and what with bloodstained dagger, mysterious

    scrap of parchment, bury casket, plot priest,

    mysterious garden-haunt stranger, and speedy motor-boat,

    the reader be keep constantly guess.



⁂   “from the simple and most ordinary of ingredient J. J. Bell can

    manufacture page after page of chuckle.”—_The Glasgow Record._

    “Mr. Bell’s fine power of characterization be very evident in his

    work. there be few who can so happily suggest the Scot as he.”—_The

    Notts. Journal._









                           TRANSCRIBER note





Misspelled word and printer error have be correct. where multiple

spelling occur, majority use have be employ.



Punctuation have be maintain except where obvious printer error

occur.

























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK MR. JUSTICE MAXELL ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





