The project Gutenberg eBook of Margaret Capel: a Novel, vol. 1 of 3

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Margaret Capel: a Novel, vol. 1 of 3



author: Ellen Wallace



Release date: June 16, 2012 [ebook #40006]



language: English



credit: produce by Robert Cicconetti, Sue Fleming and the Online

        distribute Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this

        file be produce from image generously make available

        by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK MARGARET CAPEL: a NOVEL, VOL. 1 of 3 ***









produce by Robert Cicconetti, Sue Fleming and the Online

distribute Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this

file be produce from image generously make available

by the Internet Archive)





















                                 MARGARET CAPEL.



                                     VOL. I.





                                       by



                                 Ellen Wallace









                                 MARGARET CAPEL.



                                    a novel.



                 by the Author of "the CLANDESTINE marriage," &c.





    "one of the good kind of fashionable novel, not only free from the

    vulgar impertinence of the 'silver-fork school,' but have the tone

    of good society, and well still, a vein of pure and healthful

    sentiment. the grave incident of the story be treat with good

    taste and genuine pathos, but enliven by very amusing scene, in

    which the ridiculous and vicious peculiarity of character, so

    often meet with in real life, be cleverly hit off with a pencil

    which emulate the witty drollery of caricature without its

    coarseness."--_Spectator_.





    "a very superior work. without the coarseness of Mrs. Trollope's

    writing, it have all her vigour and rapidity of narrative, with

    touch of ideal grace and beauty, and a perception of the elevate

    impulse of the heart to which that lady seem utterly a stranger.

    it might almost be call a dramatic novel, for the character and

    story be develop in a series of animate conversation which be

    sustain with remarkable power, distinctness, and variety. the

    descriptive portion of the work be write with much

    elegance."--_John Bull_.









                                MARGARET CAPEL.





                                   a novel.





                               by the AUTHOR of



                          "the CLANDESTINE marriage."







                              in three VOLUMES.



                                    VOL. I.





                                    LONDON:



                     RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.



                                     1846.













                                   LONDON:



                 print by Schulze and Co., 13, Poland Street.











                              MARGARET CAPEL.



                     *       *       *       *       *









CHAPTER I.





    and he have ever on his lip some word of mockery.



    MAISTRE WACE.



    therefore whenever that thou dost behold

    a comely corse with beauty fair endewe,

    know this for certain, that the same doth hold

    a beauteous soul, with fair condition thewe;

    Fit to receive the seed of vertue strew,

    for all that fair be, be by nature good;

    that be a sign to know the gentle blood.



    SPENSER.





"left guardian to she, be you?" say Mr. Casement, look with an

expression of much satisfaction at his friend Mr. Grey.



"I tell you so three month ago," return Mr. Grey, in a tone of voice

that betray his vexation.



"I have be very busy for these three month, and forget all about it,"

say Mr. Casement.



"I think you never be busy, Casement," remark Mr. Grey.



"one of your mistake," return Mr. Casement, as if Mr. Grey's mistake

be a synonyme for the dull of all possible blunder. "why, you seem

to have the luck of it; you be always be make guardian, or executor,

or what not."



"I know I be," say Mr. Grey, look more and more cold, and vex, and

peevish; and rub his knee with great perseverance, as he draw close

to the fire; "but never before to a girl."



"what have become of the two young trevor?"



"one of they drown near Ilfracombe the summer before last--the other

in India."



"cann't you marry she to one of they?"



"which?" ask Mr. Grey shortly, "they be both equally within my

reach."



"I think there be another--Alfred Trevor?"



"he be marry already."



"and how old be the girl?"



"Seventeen, I tell you."



"when do you close account with young Haveloc?"



"last Christmas, don't you know?"



"I forget. sharp work, Master Grey, upon my word. if you be to have a

ward every year, I don't envy you. as well open a boarding-school at

once. that be the good," continue Mr. Casement, turn round and

address the fire, "that be the good of be a single man; he be

bother with every body's child. now, I never be appoint guardian

in my life. you have well, my good friend," say he, turn again to

Mr. Grey, "you have well cajole Master Haveloc to take the young lady

off your hand as quickly as possible. there be an arrangement which

would please all party."



"I have a great regard for young haveloc," say Mr. Grey seriously; "and

I don't wish he so ill as to force a wife upon he. I never see any

good come of make match. Margaret Capel be near to I than the

Trevors, who be only second cousin. she be my own sister's child. she

will inherit my property in all likelihood, and then she will find no

difficulty in obtain a husband without the disgrace of go in

search of one."



"that's a long speech," remark Mr. Casement.



Mr. Grey make no reply to this statement.



"that be to say," resume Mr. Casement, "if you don't leave your money

to a hospital."



"I have no intention of leave a doit to any hospital in the world,"

say Mr. Grey.



"but Master Haveloc would make she a nice husband," say Mr. Casement

maliciously, "you have hear of the pretty thing he have be do at

Florence."



"yes," reply Mr. Grey shortly.



there be no excuse for repeat the "pretty thing," as Mr. Grey

profess to recollect they; and Mr. Casement look a little baffle

for a moment.



"Mrs. Maxwell Dorset must be a delightful woman," say he, at length.

"it be a pity Haveloc could not manage to run off with she."



"do you think so?" retort Mr. Grey, still more shortly.



"he don't do you much credit," resume his provoke companion, "I be

afraid you do not bring he up in the way he should go."



"I do not bring he up at all," reply Mr. Grey. "I have the direction

of he, or his affair, for a couple of year, from nineteen to

twenty-one. there begin and there end my control."



"and so," say Mr. Casement, "you expect Miss Peggy here every minute."



"I expect my niece, Margaret, to arrive before nine o'clock."



"fresh from a boarding-school, good luck!" exclaim Mr. Casement, "with

her head full of sweetheart. you must go over to S----, and call upon

the red-coat, only you must get a well cook, let I tell you, or they

willn't come very often to dine with you. I think the _fondu_ worse than

ever to-day. Miss will never want amusement as long as there be a lazy

fellow to be find, with a spangled cap on his head, to go about

sketch all the gate-post, far and near, and keep her guitar in

tune."



Mr. Grey employ himself busily during this harangue in make up the

fire; then suddenly drop the poker and start. a carriage stop at

the door. now, he have be cross, not because he be expect his

sister's child; but because he do not know what on earth to do with she

when she come.



he hurry out into the hall regardless of the wintry wind, and receive

the new comer in his arm.



"you be kindly welcome, my dear, to Ashdale," he say, as he lead she

into the drawing-room. "Casement, this be my niece, Miss Capel."



"well, I suspect as much," say Mr. Casement, stare into her bonnet;

"and now the first question to be determine be--who be she like?"



"I be consider like my mother," say Margaret, in a very quiet sweet

voice, lay aside her bonnet as she speak, almost as if to facilitate

Mr. Casement's impertinent scrutiny; but with so self-possess a manner

as to perplex even his degree of assurance.



"why then your mother be--a very pretty creature, that's all," say Mr.

Casement, turn away.



Most person would have be dispose to echo Mr. Casement's remark, as

Margaret bring to view a profusion of bright hair of a rich deep

brown, fall in low band over cheek of velvet softness, where the

warm colour glow like gather rise leave upon the pure white

surface, a small accurate nose, short curve lip, as red and almost as

transparent as ruby; and long almond-shape blue eye, with a fringe

of black lash curve outward from the upper and under lid, so as to

deepen and almost change the colour of the eye itself.



while Mr. Casement be take note of these particular, Mr. Grey place

his niece beside he close to the fire; and ring for tea, with such

accompaniment as he think might be acceptable to she after her long

journey.



Margaret, who have be attentively peruse by the two gentleman, now

take a survey of they in return, although in a more guard manner. Mr.

Grey be a small, quiet old gentleman, with a thin, pale face, wear

his white hair cut almost close to the head; very mild and pleasing in

his address, with a little of the kind and polished formality of the

old school. she think she never have see so hideous an old man as Mr.

Casement, with his snaky grey and sandy hair, his ragged tooth and long

project upper lip. as he sit, with the lamp on the other side of his

head, the exaggerated shadow trace upon the wall perfectly amazed she

when she reflect that it belong to a human creature. she then look

with some curiosity at the room, which be large though not lofty, with

dark oak panel, and heavy crimson curtain; all the furniture be of

carve oak and crimson velvet, which give a rich but somewhat gloomy

appearance to the apartment.



"you be very hungry, ben't you, little woman?" say Mr. Casement, who

generally know exactly what would most annoy those to whom he speak. a

school-girl never like to be think very hungry; and as Margaret be

not tall, she be extremely sensitive to her small stature. with hand

and arm like a greek nymph, and a small round neck that would have

delight a sculptor, she envy every girl in the school, however ugly,

who measure any thing above her own five foot two inch. she be very

shy, with all her apparent self-possession; and she sit deeply

colour, first at the imputation of be hungry, and secondly with a

distressing consciousness that she ought, as the only lady present, to

offer her service in make the tea, instead of allow the old butler

to prepare it.



the tea be make, and Mr. Grey inform of the fact, the butler

withdraw; and then Mr. Casement remark that the little girl would pour

it out, and it would be good practise against she grow to be a woman,

and have a house of her own.



Margaret go to the tea-table, and Mr. Casement follow she to explain

his peculiar fancy. "that large cup be mine," he say, "give I four

lump of sugar, and put the cream in first; it make all the

difference."



she comply with his direction in silence; but she turn to Mr. Grey

and ask if she have make his tea right for he, in that soft low voice

which be in itself a courtesy.



"quite right, my dear," say Mr. Grey, "a great deal well than when

Land make it."



"and so, you leave school to-day;" say Mr. Casement, as soon as tea be

over.



"yesterday," reply Margaret, "I go as far as Winchester with a

school-fellow, and staid all night there, and come on here to-day."



"be you sorry you have leave school?"



"no, Sir."



"what--do you not like it?"



"not much, Sir."



"how's that? be you a naughty girl, eh? do you not learn your

lesson?"



"yes, Sir, I learn my lesson."



"why do you not like school, my dear?" ask Mr. Grey, kindly.



"don't give she enough to eat, I dare say!" exclaim Mr. Casement.



"quite enough, Sir," reply Margaret; "but I feel I be waste my time

there."



"ay!" cry Mr. Casement, delight at the reply; "no young spark

there, eh? no inamorato! a little in the convent style, be it not? ugly

old music master, ditto drawing, and dancing teach by a lady!"



"don't mind he, my dear," say Mr. Grey, take Margaret's hand in his,

"tell I about it."



although the indignant blood flash fast over neck and brow, Margaret

make no answer to Mr. Casement, but turn to Mr. Grey.



"I be learn word all day, Sir," she reply, "and music; they give

I no time for think. I should be sorry if there be no more to learn

than what they teach at school."



"you will have plenty of time here for thinking, little woman," say Mr.

Casement, "for hardly a soul ever cross his threshold; but I be afraid

you will have nobody to think about, if you have not a spark already, I

don't know where you be to find one. such a neighbourhood for young

man!"



"there be as many young man hereabout as there be in other place,

I suppose," say Mr. Grey. "what have become of the young Gages?"



"he live in the Ark," say Mr. Casement, point to Mr. Grey. "the

Gages be all fly. George be in Ireland, and Everard in Canada, and

Hubert I hope from my heart at the bottom of the sea! but they willn't do

for you, my dear, naughty, swear trooper. you don't like trooper,

do you?"



"I don't know any, Sir," return Margaret.



"I think Hubert Gage be a sailor?" say Mr. Grey.



"right as my glove," say Mr. Casement, "so he be, I forget. I hate the

Gages. George Gage draw a caricature of I; and Everard use to take I

off to my face; and Hubert, he use to bolt out of my way as if I be

poison. I have know he jump out of the parlour window as I come in at

the door."



Margaret find nothing singular in the conduct of the young Gages, she

only wonder what a caricature of Mr. Casement could be like.



"the only one of the family worth any thing be Elizabeth. I mean

Elizabeth for my second," say Mr. Casement.



this remark let Margaret into the secret that he have one wife to begin

with, a thing she would otherwise have think impossible.



"though I don't know, now I have see you," he say turn to Margaret.



"Casement, be quiet; you shall not teaze my child," say Mr. Grey,

draw Margaret towards he as he mark the angry flush again rise to

her brow.



neither of they be prepare for what follow--she burst into a

passion of tear.



Mr. Grey pass his hand over her hair, and press she close to he.

Mr. Casement be confused.



"I be really very sorry I have make you cry--I be, indeed," he say.



"you do not, Sir," return Margaret, become calm by a single effort,

and wipe the tear from her bright eye.



"what be it then, my darling?" ask Mr. Grey.



"you say, 'my child,' and it be so very long since--" a choking in her

throat prevent she finish the sentence.



"well, I'm glad it be not my fault," say Mr. Casement. "good night, I

must be go homeward, or my old woman will scold."



"do he come here very often, Sir?" ask Margaret, look up into Mr.

Grey's face, as Mr. Casement close the door after he.



"yes, he do, my dear," reply the old gentleman; "but you need not

mind that. you will get use to his way, and he do not mean any

harm."









CHAPTER II.





    Ma chi conosce amor, e sua possanza

    Farà la scusa dì quel cavaliero

    Ch' amor il senno, el' intelletto avanza,

    Ne giova al provveder arte, o pensiero;

    Giovanni e vecchi vanno a la sua danza,

    La bassa plebe col signor altiero;

    Non ha rimedio amor, se non la morte,

    Ciascun prende d' ogni gente, e d' ogni sorte.



    BOIARDO.





when Mr. Grey come down to breakfast the next morning, he find Margaret

sit close by the fire reading from a large book. she advance to

greet he, half shy, half smile, and look more fresh and softly

beautiful from a long and undisturbed night's rest. as soon as Mr. Grey

have inquire, with scrupulous care, how she have sleep, and whether she

have find everything comfortable in her room, he beg to know what

book it be she have be read. it be Josephus. he laugh a little,

and stroke her hair, and tell she not to read too much for fear of

spoil her good look; but he be glad, he say, that she like

reading, because he live very much alone. he be a great invalid, and

unable to pay visit, or receive company. as he speak he lead she to the

window, and remark that there be but a dreary prospect for she at

present; but that in summer she would find the ground very pretty.



immediately under the window the man be sweep the snow from a

broad terrace. beyond that, lay a wide lawn, dot with clump of

shrub, and skirt by magnificent cedar, whose bough lie darkly upon

the whitened grass.



Margaret be sure the garden must be beautiful in summer. she wish to

know if there be many flower-bed, and whereabout the violet grow,

and the lily of the valley.



Mr. Grey be very much amuse by her question, though he hardly know

how to answer they; but as he have some curiosity in his turn, he ask

she, as they sit at breakfast, what make her wish to read Josephus, and

whether she have not learn sacred History at school?



"yes," she say, "but that consist of Bible story, which she have

rather read from the Bible itself. she have hear of Josephus, and she

think she should find there what she want to know of the Jews

between the Old and New Testaments."



"and have she not read," Mr. Grey ask, "about the Greeks and Romans?"



"yes; but she wish to know something of the States which have exist

before the foundation of Rome, and particularly the Etruscans. and she

have read nothing upon grecian art or poetry. she feel," she say, "that

she know very little."



Mr. Grey could not forbear a smile as he think of Mr. Casement's

prophecy about his niece. he imagine that he should not be compel to

call in the aid of the red-coat to amuse she, if her research fall

upon etruscan relic, or the dythyrambic of the early greek bard. he

puzzle a short time in silence, and then say he have forget all

those thing; but he would introduce she to the Vicar, who be his only

visitor except Mr. Casement; and the Vicar be a very good-natured man,

and would, he be sure, explain to she every thing she wish to know.

he only hope she would not find herself very dull. there be a piano in

the drawing-room, and he have a fine organ in the gallery up stair.



"an organ!" cry Margaret, her eye sparkle with delight. "oh, Sir!

may I try to play on it?"



"yes," Mr. Grey say, "she might if the gallery be warm enough. he

would ring and ask Land if it be safe for she."



Land's answer be satisfactory, and he be direct to wait on Miss

Capel in the gallery; and then Mr. Grey say that he be go to be

busy all the morning, and that she might walk with Land whenever she

please; and that Land would be very glad and proud to take care of she.



so Margaret be leave, with the beauty of a Juliet, and an old butler for

her nurse, to do as she like with herself from ten in the morning till

seven at night. but what a luxury be this compare to the irksome

restraint of a school. she be her own mistress. she might learn what

she please, walk out when she like, go to sleep if she have a mind--and

play the organ!



she be as impatient "as a child before some festival" till she have

try this organ. the grey-haired servant smile to see her stand

chafe her hand with eagerness, her part lip disclose she

glitter tooth, as he pull out the stop, and prepare the noble

instrument.



"and who ever play on it here, Land?" ask Margaret, as she take she

place before the key.



"nobody but Mr. Warde, our Vicar, Miss Capel," say the butler,

"sometimes he come here and run over a few psalm tune."



"be he an old man?"



"yes, Miss Capel, old than Mr. Grey."



"perhaps he will tell I how to use these pedal. do you know what that

note be?"



"no, Ma'am, I do not."



"well, I will leave alone the pedal, give I Judas Maccabæus, that thin

book; and let I have the trumpet stop. oh, dear, it be all trumpet!

what shall I do for a bass?"



"take the choir-organ, Miss Capel."



"so I will, you do know something about it. what be this thing? a swell?

oh! this be what we should call a pedal. I see I shall make nothing of

it by myself. I'll try if I can play Luther's hymn."



"very well--very well; a little too staccato, young lady. keep your left

hand down."



Margaret spring from the organ in a panic. Mr. Grey have bring Mr.

Warde to see she. but he be such a delightful look old man, with

long white hair fall over his collar, and such a benevolent

expression of face, that Margaret feel acquainted with he directly. he

give she a good lesson on the organ to her great delight. let she into

the secret of stop, and pedal and swell, and tell she she be the

quick scholar he have ever have; and yet he have teach quick pupil

too. "that young man, Mr. Haveloc," he say, turn to Mr. Grey, "who

have such a fancy for the organ; it be surprising how he improve in

those few month he spend with you. what have become of he lately?"



Mr. Grey say he believe he be on his road to England.



Mr. Warde, who be seat at the organ, begin to play the Kyrie of one

of Mozart's Masses. talk of Mr. Haveloc, he say, have put he in mind

of it--it have be one of his favourite movement. he have a taste for

the high order of musical composition, that seem to be very rare

among Englishmen, indeed, Mr. Warde say, he have think he full of

fine quality.



"a mingled yarn," say Mr. Grey.



"so we be all," say Mr. Warde, "so we be all." he glance at Margaret

as he speak, and see she seat in one of the deep window seat,

look eagerly through a volume of Masses, he take it for grant that

she be out of hearing, while she listen in breathless silence to

every word of the conversation that follow.



"and now that he have leave Florence," say Mr. Warde, "I trust we may

conclude that the influence of that design woman have cease."



"no doubt," reply Mr. Grey, uneasily. he do not seem as if he liked

refer to the subject, and he begin to pull out the stop and put

they in again, as if his thought be occupy by one engross topic.



"how greatly the world fail in its measurement of a character like

his," say Mr. Warde.



"true--true," return Mr. Grey.



"proud, susceptible, extreme in every thing, and easily deceive from

the very integrity of his own nature. I can scarcely picture to myself a

character more likely to become the dupe of an unprincipled woman; for

while her vanity prompt she to make he her slave, he firmly believe

that her heart be devoted to he, and a mistaken sense of justice

impel he to return her suppose regard."



"you know that he do not elope with she," say Mr. Grey.



"so I hear," reply Mr. Warde; "but it be say that the husband

intercept they."



"her tame husband," remark Mr. Grey, "there be no duel."



"thank God for that!" say Mr. Warde, "matter be quite bad enough."



all this pass in a very low voice, but Margaret listen with all her

might, and catch nearly the whole of the discourse. the iniquitous

conversation of a boarding-school have render she no stranger to

history like the present; but she have rather consider they in the

light of improper fiction, which it be very naughty in the girl to

talk about, than as some of the actual occurrence of life, such as

might be discuss by two grave old man like those before she. she

look at the music-book which she hold in her hand, and see the name

of Claude Haveloc on the title-page, she lay it aside, and resolve to

play from her own music in future. she be in many respect a remarkable

little creature.



it might be reckon one of the great advantage of her early life,

that she have not be send to school until the death of her mother,

which take place when she be fourteen year old. until that time she

have be well and delicately bring up. her father, a Colonel in the

Company's service, have send she to a highly respectable school,

intend at the end of three year to return to England, and place she

at the head of his house; but not long afterwards, he be kill in an

engagement under circumstance that in Europe would have exalt his

name to the star, but which never transpire beyond the confine of the

distant province in which it take place; if we except a brief and

inaccurate statement in the paper, couple with a hasty regret that the

Company should have lose an efficient servant.



the school he have choose for his daughter be a religious and remarkably

select academy; but there be plenty of spare minute during the day,

when the young lady could tell each other who have look at they at

church, and who they could not help smile at when they take their

daily walk. while the girl be discuss the eye and waistcoat of

the young man they know by sight, Saint Margaret, as she be call,

would steal away to her book, and endeavour by study to drive from she

head the trifling conversation that go on around she.



still, history like the one hint at, possess to her imagination a

fearful interest. she regard Love as a mysterious agency which sweep

into its vortex all those who suffer themselves to approach its

enchant confine. she imagine that the first step to this delusion

might be avoid; but that once entrance, the helpless victim follow

the step of the blind leader through danger, or neglect, or guilt,

without the will or the power to shake off its deadly influence. she have

much to learn and to unlearn.



"but what be that affair in Calabria? not another entanglement, I

hope," say Mr. Warde, content in see Margaret still at the window

arrange her book.



"oh! that be a harmless affair enough," say Mr. Grey; "if you mean

that encounter with the brigand?"



"I hear something of brigand," say Mr. Warde, "and something about a

lady and her daughter."



"aye--aye! the lady and daughter have take shelter in a hut, having

receive intelligence that there be brigand on the road. it be a

lonely spot, and you may suppose that Haveloc and his servant, chance

to come up at the time, be press into their service. the brigand

be as good as their word, and do come; but find the hut so well

line that they march off again. still, in the scramble, Haveloc be

hurt by a shot from one of their carbine, which I dare say render he

very interesting in the eye of the lady. I think he mention in one

of his letter to I, that he fall in again with they at Sorrento; but I

imagine that they be nothing more than a pass acquaintance. that

be before his stay at Florence."



"oh, yes! a very satisfactory version of the business," say Mr. Warde;

"but I must now be go. I have a sick person to visit. good bye, Miss

Capel. I expect you to be wonderfully improve by the time I come

again."



Margaret rise, bid the old gentleman good bye, and offer he her good

thank for his kind instruction.



as soon as she be leave alone, she begin to think over all she have

hear. she feel as if she have be transplant into the region of

romance--so strange be it to think that Mr. Grey actually know somebody

who have defend two lady against an attack of brigand, and be

wound in the contest. this somebody, it be true, be very wicked; but

still so very brave, that she could not but admit she should like to see

he of all thing. she think he must resemble one of Byron's hero,

and she detect herself wonder whether he have blue eye or brown.



she be interrupt in her reverie by Land, who beg to know whether

she would like to walk; and advise she to wrap up very warm, for it be

a bitter frost.



her heart beat with delight as she hurry on her fur, and run down the

great staircase to meet her old escort. she feel free as air, she could

walk exactly which way she like, with only a servant behind she,

instead of be link arm-in-arm during the whole promenade with some

young lady, who be unintereste if not disagreeable as a companion. it

be as Land have predict, a bitter frost; her breath whiten her veil,

and the ground feel like granite under her foot. every thing around have

be transform, as Ariel say, "into something rich and strange." the

tree stand like coral grove; every branch thickly crust with

sparkle crystal; every brook be ice-bind; every roof pendant with

icicle. the sharp air seemed fill with a visible brightness. the

pale blue sky appear to have recede into a farth distance, and the

silent field and hill-side desert by the graze flock, present an

unbroken extent of dazzle snow. Margaret bound forward with an

elasticity of spirit that seem as if it could never tire. she could

not sympathise with old Land when he beg she to walk a little slow;

but she wrap her fur more closely round she, and comply. she have a

thousand question to ask as they proceed. she must know who live in

every house they pass, and the direction of every road and narrow lane

that cross the highway.



Mr. Land pass over the village dwelling very slightly; but when they

come in view of a large white house stand on the river-side with

broad lawn and cluster elm, he point it out to she with an air of

great dignity.



"that seat, Chirke Weston, belong to Captain Gage. quite the gentleman,

Miss Capel."



the father of the young gage who dislike Mr. Casement. Margaret

look with much interest at the white wall of the house.



"they be expect home, Mr. Hubert," say Land, "such a fine young

gentleman. a sailor like his father--they be a fine family. Miss Gage

be the handsome young lady in the county."



Margaret feel interested in the Gage family, she beg Land to point

out to she where they sit at church, that she might know they by sight.

they come to some field which take they another way to Ashdale.



"be this field, my uncle Grey's?" ask Margaret, "what a large pond! I

say, Land, when I be a little girl I could skate very well. could you

get I a pair of skate? I will give you the money."



Land look very grave; but Margaret coax and beg so much, that he

say he would see about it; and the next morning a small pair of skate

be lay beside her shoe outside her bed-room door.



the frost continue: she hurry over her organ practice; and go down

to the pond with Land. her skate be on in a moment; and have there

be any spectator, they might have enjoy the sight of an old man

hold a young lady's muff and boa, while she amuse herself by

skim over the ice. she be never weary. poor old Land walk up and

down the side of the pond with his hand in her muff, wish every

minute that she would bring her sport to a conclusion, until he be

force to tell she that his time be up, for he have to go in and see to

the cleaning of the plate. the next day she manage to go out early,

for the frost be still hard, and she determine to make the most of it

while it last.



she excite the unqualified approbation of Land by her performance, for,

as she bid he observe, she be fairly get into practice.



she fly round the pond, and across, and back, until he be almost tired

of watch she.



"Miss Capel--Miss Capel! quick! here come Mr. Casement," cry Land,

but Margaret be career round the pond and do not hear he.



"Miss Capel! bless the child, he will go and say all sort of thing to

Mr. Grey. oh, dear I! Miss Margaret--"



"well, Land, what be the matter? you look in such a bustle. you don't

mean to say the ice be give way?"



"Mr. Casement be come across the field, that's all, Miss Capel."



"oh! I don't care for he--horrid old man! just look how nicely I can

turn this corner."



Mr. Casement pass through the field on his way to the house, and

Margaret continue her skating with great eagerness.



presently a footman be see run towards the pond follow by the

gardener's boy at a little distance; then appear the fat coachman,

and, in the farth distance, Mr. Grey himself.



the footman, quite out of breath, bring his master's compliment, and

he beg Miss Capel to come off the ice: then up come the boy,

grinning, but say nothing, then the coachman toil up, and say that

master be in a mortal fright lest the young lady have come to any harm;

and inform Mr. Land, aside, "as how that canker old toad, Casement,

have be tell master a pack of lie about a thaw;" and by the time

Margaret have disengage the strap of her skate from her little foot,

Mr. Grey have reach she all in a tremble, and take she in his arm

have begin a gentle remonstrance on her imprudence in venture upon thin

ice. land come forward, and vow that the ice be as firm as the rock

of Gibraltar, and recommend, in proof thereof, that the fat coachman

and the gardener's boy should cross the pond arm-in-arm. but Mr. Grey's

fear once excite, could not so easily be set at rest; if the ice be

not thin, it would probably be slippery--not an uncommon

attribute--people have break their limb before now by a fall on the

ice; indeed, he be not sure that there be not a case of the kind at

present in the village, which he hope would be a warning to Margaret

never to skate again. and see that she be half cry as she

resign her skate to Land, he promise she a plum-cake for tea as the

only mean that come into his head of soften the bitterness of she

disappointment.









CHAPTER III.





    the red rise medle with the white yfere,

    in either cheek depeinten lively chear;

    her modest eye,

    her majesty,

    where have you see the like but there?



    SPENSER.





Mr. Grey do not go to church on the Sunday after Margaret's arrival. he

very seldom venture during the winter to encounter the cold and damp

common to most village church at that season; from which some person

augur that he have a bad heart, while other content themselves by

suppose that he have a delicate chest.



having see his little niece warmly pack up in the carriage, he

return to his library to read the service to himself, and she

proceed, with some little elevation of feeling, on her way. it be new

to she to have a carriage all to herself, to recline alone in the corner

with her foot in a carriage-mat; and to have Land to hand she out, and

carry her prayer-book to the pew-door. having deposit Margaret and

her book, and having whisper to she that the Gages' seat be next to

her, Land withdraw to his own part of the church.



presently, a tall, elderly man of impose appearance, with an empty

sleeve, and hair touch with grey, open the door of the Gages' seat,

and step back that the young lady by his side might pass in. these,

Margaret be sure, be Captain Gage and his daughter. Captain Gage cast

one quick glance from his clear blue eye at Margaret, and then take his

seat. Miss Gage linger a second long, without any apparent rudeness

of manner, from a genuine reluctance to remove her eye from so lovely a

face. although Miss Gage be all fur and black velvet, yet her regal

figure and magnificent stature could not be mistaken.



she be strikingly like her father, with straight feature, light brown

hair, and calm, clear, full-open blue eye; but although it be

impossible to deny to her face the regularity of an antique statue, and

the sweetness of expression that almost always accompany regularity,

she possess one drawback in the eye of Margaret; she must have be

two or three and twenty, at least, an age that to a girl of seventeen

seem to approach very near to the confine of the grave.



Margaret possess too correct a sense of her religious duty to spend

her time in watch her neighbour, but as they sit just in front of

she, she could not raise her eye without see they; and before church

be over, she have become perfectly acquainted with Miss Gage's

appearance, from the large ruby that flash on her white hand, to the

purple prayer-book inlay with silver in which she look out all the

place for her father.



Mr. Grey be very much amuse by her account of what she have see when

she come home. he be very careful that she should have plenty of

sandwich, and hot wine and water for luncheon to counteract the cold

of the church, and sit listen and smile to hear she describe Miss

Gage's velvet pelisse and little ermine muff. he see plainly, he tell

she, that she would like a black velvet gown herself. Margaret colour

and laugh, but could not deny the fact, and the next morning after

breakfast, he tell Land to go over to the next town and get one.



"Ready make, Sir?" ask Land, endeavour to impress upon his mind the

exact height of his young lady.



"no, no, Land; black velvet enough to make a gown for a lady. that be

the way, be it not, my darling?"



Margaret be profuse in her thank, and be begin to imagine what a

grand appearance she should make, in it; when Mr. Grey tell she, after

look at she attentively with a smile, that it would make she look

like a little old woman. her unfortunate height be one great obstacle

to her enjoyment.



once when she be out walk with Land, she meet the Gages. Captain Gage

be pace leisurely up and down before a cottage, sometimes look

sharply up into the sky as if watch the weather; and just before

Margaret come up, Miss Gage join her father from the inside of the

cottage, and say, "I have keep you wait unmercifully, to-day, my

dear father, but she be so very ill."



"Ill, be she, poor old soul!" say Captain Gage, "take care that she

have all she want. give I your basket, Bessy."



but Bessy would not give her father her basket, and they walk out of

hearing.



Margaret grow to be interested in the Gages; she like to hear all Land

have to tell she in their daily walk about they; and as Captain Gage

divide with Mr. Grey the honour of be the great person in that

neighbourhood, he pay the usual penalty of greatness, and could not

stir abroad, or stay at home without have his doing register. land

know to an hour when the ship in which Mr. Hubert be second Lieutenant

arrive at Plymouth, and when Captain Gage set out to meet his son, and

accompany he home. he be likewise well inform as to whether Miss

Gage drive out in the chariot or the britschka, and how many people be

stay at Chirke Weston.



this sort of gossip be certainly not the good thing for Margaret, and

it be contrary to her habit to seek for such amusement; but she feel a

kind of interest in the family, particularly in Miss Gage, that she

could hardly explain to herself.



with regard to her own occupation, she play the organ, she read

history, particularly the book that Mr. Warde either recommend or

lent; as she could not skate, she walk with Land every morning, and

after luncheon Mr. Grey's carriage be at her service if she choose to

drive out. she be quite a little queen in the house; she have only to

express a wish, and it be fulfil. she have a very skillful maid

entirely for herself, her dressing-room be fit up in a style of

elegance that might have serve a duchess; in short, her uncle do not

quite know, as Mr. Casement tell he, how to spoil she enough. it may be

suppose that she become exceedingly attach to he, in the evening she

sing to he, or sit on a low stool by his side, tell he all the

little piece of news she might have hear during the day, or relate

with equal interest the historic tale that she be read, or exciting

his sympathy, by a detail of the uncomfortable period she have pass at

school.



it happen one morning that Margaret walk down to the Vicarage with

Land to exchange a volume of history she have borrow, and when she be

show into Mr. Warde's morning room, she find he talk earnestly

with Miss Gage.



"I beg your pardon," say Margaret, draw back, "I do not know you

be busy."



"oh! come in, come in, little one," say Mr. Warde, "we be talk no

secret. ah! you want the second volume. why, what a reader you be!"



"and will you not come near the fire, while our good friend be find

your book?" say Miss Gage to Margaret.



"thank you," return Margaret, draw towards the fire, and unglove

her beautiful hand.



"do you like this cold weather?" ask Miss Gage, kindly.



"yes, when it be a hard frost," return Margaret; "but I be look

forward very much to summer time."



"you will find the neighbourhood beautiful in spring," say Miss Gage,

"and I think Mr. Grey have the prettiest place in the county."



"I be glad of that," say Margaret, "I have not half explore it yet."



"I dare say you have plenty of amusement in-door," say Miss Gage, "I

be sure you have an unfailing one if you be fond of reading."



"yes, reading and music," say Margaret, "and the house be keep so warm,

that I can play wherever I like on wet day."



"and what do you play at?" ask Miss Gage.



"Battledore," say Margaret, blush as she make the confession; "but

it be rather stupid with only one player."



"you will give this note to Mr. Grey, little one," say Mr. Warde,

return to Margaret with her book, "and make good haste home, or you

be likely to be catch in the rain. and now, Miss Elizabeth, I have

do your bidding."



"thank you very much for your kindness," say Miss Gage, as she shake

hand with he. then turn to Margaret with a sweet smile and a bow,

she say, "I hope it may happen that we shall be well acquaint with

each other."



Margaret endeavour to say a few word expressive of her pleasure in

the idea; and then hurry off to Land with her book and note.



now Miss Gage have beg Mr. Warde to write to Mr. Grey, that she might

know whether it would be agreeable to he that she should make the

acquaintance of his niece. he be recognise as such a determine

invalid by all the country round, that she never think of call upon

Margaret, take it for grant that such a step would be an intrusion

upon Mr. Grey's habit. but she wish much to show she every attention

in her power, from a sincere desire to make her happy than she be

likely to be if always shut up with a nervous old man for her only

companion; and from a hope that her society might be of some advantage

to a girl so much young than herself; for Margaret be right, Miss

Gage be turn of two-and-twenty.



for act of disinterested kindness be not quite so frequent as good

people imagine, nor yet so uncommon as selfish people, who never perform

they, would fain make out. the pitiful phrase of nothing for nothing

be unceasingly use by those sorry person, who give nothing, it be

true; but who invariably take all they can pillage, or beg from every

human being they approach.



Mr. Grey accept Miss Gage's kind advance with much gratitude, and she

immediately write to ask Margaret to dine with she the next day, that

they might lose no time in becoming acquaint with each other. Margaret

be equally pleased; to be sure, the idea of go to a strange house

all alone be rather formidable, but there be a sweetness in Miss

Gage's manner that give she some confidence. however, the day be not

to be one of unmixed satisfaction, for Mr. Casement come to dinner; and

she be oblige to take his arm into the dining-room instead of her

uncle's, and as they be cross the hall, he ask she if she do not

wish he be a nice young man; which question have the desire effect of

make her blush, though she long to tell he that it would be a great

gain if he could be change into any thing that be nice, young or old.

then he begin to teaze she about her skating, which she bear in silence

till Mr. Grey interfere, and beg he to talk of something else,

which request he comply with immediately by change his point of

attack, and laugh at her dress, which be in the fashion of the day,

and consequently quite different from any thing that his "old woman"

wear.



this strain of banter, Mr. Grey interrupt by mention Miss Gage's

kind invitation.



"Oho!" say Mr. Casement, "then there be some hope for you, little

woman."



the very manner in which he utter the interjection, oho! with a little

jerk at the end, be unpleasing to Margaret: she sit with her beautiful

lip compress, resolve to be silent.



"it be particularly kind in Miss Gage," say Mr. Grey, "know the

state of my health to be so bad."



"there be nothing the matter with your health, I be sure," say Mr.

Casement, "you will live to be a hundred!"



Mr. Grey smile quietly, and make no reply.



"it be all nerve--what be nerve? don't tell I!" say Mr. Casement.



Mr. Grey do not seem at all inclined to tell he; and Margaret, rise

pettishly from the table, push her chair back, and her dessert plate

forward, and turn about to leave the room.



"go, little woman?" say Mr. Casement, "go to sit in state in the

drawing-room, and play at be grow up?"



"go away from you, Sir;" return Margaret, take courage from be

almost outside the door.



Mr. Grey laugh; although he tolerate Mr. Casement's caustic remark

from very long habit, he be not at all sorry that any other person

should be less forbearing.



Meantime Margaret have much to think about as she sit over her

embroidery; she be consider first, how she should be dress on the

morrow, and next, how she should behave. her one anxiety be always to

conceal her shyness, which she do beneath a repose of manner that

deceive almost every one.



when the gentleman join she at tea-time, Mr. Grey be in excellent

spirit. the evening post have bring he a letter from Mr. Haveloc,

announce his arrival in England, and say he would be at Ashdale in

a day or two. he be very much attach to his former ward, and the

idea of see he so soon give he great satisfaction; he could not

avoid express this feeling several time, unawe by Mr. Casement's

satirical glance, which be alternately direct to Mr. Grey and to

Margaret. she hear the news with anything but pleasure. it would

materially alter her comfort and freedom to have any one stay in the

house; and she forget Mr. Haveloc's picturesque encounter with the

brigand while muse on the annoyance she be likely to experience

during his visit to Ashdale.









CHAPTER IV.





              she be a child in year,

   and though in wit a woman, yet her heart

   untempere by the discipline of pain

   be fancy lead.



   TAYLOR.





Margaret feel terribly shy as the carriage stop at the Gages' door.

not all the beautiful basket-work of her elaborate plait of hair; not

even the long coveted black velvet which set off to so much advantage

her snowy neck and shoulder; not the pearly delicacy of her white and

silver glove could reconcile she to the distress of enter the

drawing-room alone. she be tremblingly alive to everything; to the

stately appearance of the hall with its marble column, and the

beautiful exotic creeper train round they; the powerful scent of the

choice hot-house plant; the pompous manner of the servant, who take

her cloak from she; and when the drawing-room door be throw open, she

do not see distinctly anything within, so overpowering be her shyness.

but Miss Gage meet she almost on the threshold, take both her hand in

her, and welcome she so kindly and yet so calmly, that she feel quite

happy.



Captain Gage come forward, shake hand frankly with Margaret, and ask

after Mr. Grey's health; and then Miss Gage turn round and present

her brother to Margaret. she see then for the first time that he have

be stand on the hearth-rug beside his father. indeed, it would not

have be particularly easy to have long overlook he. all the Gages

be on a large scale, and Hubert Gage be as like his father and sister

as it be possible to be, except that his blue eye have more of mischief

than Elizabeth's, and it may be say, rather less intelligence. like

she, he have light brown hair of that silken texture which be stir

with every breath of wind, straight feature, and a fine upright

carriage which join to his unusual height would have give an air of

great dignity to his deportment, but that his manner partook of that

restless enjoyment, and that careless frankness which be still not

uncommon among man of his fine profession. directly Margaret be name

to he, he shake hand with she as if he take it for grant she be

somebody he ought to recollect very well, and sit down beside she.



"I be very sorry to hear that Mr. Grey have become such an invalid," he

say, "when I be last at home he do not shut himself up in this way."



"I do not know my uncle till lately," say Margaret, "but I understand

he be always in delicate health."



"so he be," remark Miss Gage, "but as Hubert have the full range of

his orchard, and preserve, and sometimes meet his kind old friend

walk on the terrace, he never have an idea that there could be

anything the matter with he."



"a pretty couple you be to be turn loose upon an invalid," say

Captain Gage, "you and Claude Haveloc."



"I be sure we always behave admirably," say Hubert, "all the old woman

in the parish use to hold we up as a pattern to every mischievous

urchin who plague they. do they not, Bessy?"



"I never hear it before," say Elizabeth, laugh.



"I allow we get into a scrape with the poacher," say Hubert; "poor Mr.

Grey be really frightened then."



"you come home on a pair of shutter. do not you?" ask Captain Gage.



"not so bad as that," reply Hubert; "but Haveloc have his arm break.

you know Bessy, how I use to teaze he about it. I always declare that

one of the poacher strike at he with a broomstick."



"and do they?" ask Margaret, with wide open eye.



"no. it be the stock of a gun, I believe," say Hubert Gage, look at

she with much complacency: "but if you have ever see Claude Haveloc you

could imagine how little he would enjoy such an undignified

catastrophe."



"and poor Mr. Grey give up game-keeper ever after," say Elizabeth,

"and entirely neglect his fine preserve. he be so shocked at the

danger two silly boy have bring upon themselves."



"and Claude get a shot in the shoulder in that adventure with the

bandit," say Hubert; "some people have the luck of it."



"your father to wit," say Captain Gage.



Margaret notice the proud admiring glance that Hubert Gage throw on his

father as he speak; but at that moment dinner be announce. Captain

Gage come up to she and offer his arm; Hubert Gage whisper something

in her ear about his father cut he out, which do not lessen the

tint on her cheek, and then fall back and lead his sister from the room.



at dinner, Margaret sit with perfect tranquillity listen to the

conversation, and reply quietly to everything say to she. Hubert be

exactly opposite to she, and though she seldom lift her eye to he,

she feel that he be look at her much more constantly than he ought.

she be a rapid observer of character, a faculty common to shy people;

for the very sensitiveness which occasion that feel, quicken their

perception of the quality of other. she detect that Hubert Gage,

with a great deal of candour and good-nature, have but little

enthusiasm--his father have tenfold more ardour in his composition, even

at his age. he be anxious that no one should be able to discover that

he be a sailor by his language or appearance; take the great pain

that his dress should not betray the secret; never use a technical

term; affect not to know which way the wind be; and pride himself

with some reason upon his horsemanship; and this not because he have the

least dislike to his profession, but from an idea that it be vulgar to

display any trace of it.



Elizabeth be talk to Margaret about some book she be read, when

she catch something her brother be say to her father, and pause to

listen.



"what do you say, Hubert, about Sir Philip?" she ask.



"that he be to undertake this survey," he reply; "he have scarcely

return before he will go out again. before I land, he be on his

road to London for his instruction, and he will be off I dare say in a

few day. just the thing for he, Bessy."



"very unwise in his state of health," say Captain Gage.



"oh, Sir! pray let he kill himself his own way," say Hubert, laugh;

"he enjoy it amazingly."



"I wonder at you, Hubert," say Miss Gage, "such an honour as you ought

to feel it to have sail under such a Captain."



"it be an honour I be very willing to resign," say her brother,

laugh still more, "we be always on the good of term, but I don't

much like he."



Elizabeth regard her brother in speechless amazement. have he say he

do not like King William IV., she would hardly have think the remark

more treasonable. Sir Philip d'Eyncourt, whose ship be a model ship,

whose scientific knowledge be quote as infallible; who have be her

father's favourite officer; who have see real service; who have be

shipwreck in a romantic manner, on a romantic island; who be go

out to make a survey, when he ought to have come home for his health;

who pursue his profession after he have succeed to a baronetcy, and a

large estate; who know how to manage his crew, a very different thing

from command they. however, as she be strike quite dumb, she be

unable to inquire of her brother whether he be in the enjoyment of his

right sense.



"oh, look at Bessy!" exclaim Hubert, "I forget that Sir Philip be her

hero."



"never mind, Bessy," say her father; "I like Sir Philip, let that

content you."



Miss Gage smile her approval of this sentiment; and nothing far

occur until she leave the table with Margaret.



"I must do the honour of my own sitting-room to you," say Miss Gage,

as she usher Margaret into a room plainly furnish; but adorn with

abundant book-shelf, and a few picture and bust. there be a round

table of green marble between the window, on which stand a small bust

of Lord Nelson in white composition under a glass. two masterly water

colour sketch of Captain Gage, and of Hubert, her favourite brother,

hang over the mantelpiece. she show these to Margaret with a calm

pride in her eye and voice, that pretty plainly discover the

estimation in which she hold they. if she have a weakness, it be her

ardent admiration of the navy. if she could have be bring to

confession, I believe she would have own that she think it a

contemptible waste of time in any man to adopt another profession, if he

could by any mean go on board a ship. she adore her father, not only

with the affection which so delightfully attach parent and child; but

with a boundless admiration, a devoted pride, that make she seriously

consider he unequalled in character both private and professional. she

tell Margaret of the engagement in which her father have lose his arm:--a

desperate encounter with a french ship shortly before the close of the

war.



"they tell I," she say, "that his arm might have be save, if he

would have consent to leave the deck in time; but he know his presence

be needful, and he remain until the Frenchman strike. my

father--there be always an accent on the word--would fight his ship as

long as he have a stick stand, and then blow it up, rather than

strike his colour. I be glad he lose his arm!"



Margaret shudder, and look with wonder at Elizabeth, who stand with

her bright eye kindle as if she be quite equal to perform the action

she applaud. yet there be nothing masculine or ungraceful in her

emotion. the phrase she use be those she have alone hear employ

from her childhood to describe certain transaction, and she would have

find it difficult to allude to they in other term.



"but I must show you my other brother," say Miss Gage, "or you will

call I an unnatural sister."



she open two miniature case which lie on the table.



these be the "trooper" Mr. Casement have mention. George Gage stare

arrogantly out of the ivory over an immense pair of very light

moustache, and Everard stand look so exceedingly languid, that he

threaten to drop into the background altogether. Miss Gage clasp

they up, rather carelessly, as Margaret think, and then hold a taper

to the bust of Nelson. "that be my hero, of course," she say, "that,

and the gallant King Christian IV.; here be a small oil painting of his

Danish Majesty. have you read Carlyle on 'Hero worship?'"



"no," Margaret say, "she fear she have read very little. it be so

difficult to find book, or time to pursue any study at school but those

assign to you."



"I do believe," say Miss Gage, "that you be wise enough to begin your

education just where everybody ought to begin it; as soon as other

people have do teach you."



"I have nee to begin it," say Margaret look round on the

book-shelf. "how much you know! here be book in--how many

language?"



"oh!" say Miss Gage smile, "I should never measure a person's

knowledge by the language, or the accomplishment they happen to have

learn."



Margaret look inquiringly at she, but have not courage to ask for an

explanation of so strange a remark. she know that at school a girl who

learn German be think more highly of than one who only learn

French, and one who play the guitar take precedence of the young lady

who only pay for lesson on the piano.



"I mean," say Miss Gage, "that the education which be of most value to

we through life, be that which teach we to think and act with judgment

and integrity, which be quite independent of the knowledge of spanish

and German, or of any accomplishment, however pleasing."



this be a new idea to Margaret, but before she could make any

observation upon it, a servant come to let they know that coffee be

ready, and they go immediately to the drawing-room.



after tea, Hubert Gage ask his sister for some music.



"will you have the harp?" say Miss Gage ring the bell, "I will just

give my father his book, and then play what you like. my harp, Davis."



"why don't you keep it down here?" ask her brother.



"ah! you know nothing of female politic," say Miss Gage, smile; "the

young lady like I a great deal well for keep my harp, and some

other thing in the background."



"but the young gentleman don't;" say Hubert, as he stand lean on the

harp.



"I be very sorry," say Miss Gage laughing, "I cannot arrange it to

please all party; but in society where every one be anxious to play a

prominent part, I feel it to be a real kindness not to take up their

time by my performance."



"don't you think Bessy spoil I?" ask Captain Gage of Margaret, as

his daughter find the place in his book, and arrange the wax light

beside his chair.



she have not courage to make any other reply than a blush and a laugh.



"after all, Bessy, I be half tired of this book," say Captain Gage, "I

shall never have patience to get through it. have you see it?" he

ask, hold out the volume to Margaret. it be the 'tour to the

Sepulchres of Etruria.'



she could hardly read it aright in her impatience. here be undoubtedly

all she want to know--she would be able to find out at last who the

Etruscans be.



Elizabeth smile, and tell she when her father have make up his mind not

to finish it, which she foresaw would be very soon, she would send it to

she. "but," she say, "you must not expect too much; this be an account

of a lady's visit to some tomb. there be but little information

regard the people, except what may be infer from the degree of

excellence they display in the decoration of their sepulchre."



"but you know, Bessy," say her brother, "that a people's progress in

art be the good standard you can have of their degree of civilization."



"yes; if you have look upon they as a barbarous race," say Miss Gage

to Margaret, "you will find sufficient proof in this book that you have

not do they justice."



"why, Bessy," say Hubert, "no Ph[oe]nician colony ever be, or could

be, in a state of barbarism."



"assume that they be Ph[oe]nicians," say Elizabeth.



"there can be no doubt of that," return her brother, "their character

be sufficient evidence of their origin. the old greek character, write

from right to left, after the fashion of the Ph[oe]nicians."



Elizabeth unlock a cabinet, and take out a gold serpent-ring--she

show it to Margaret as an undoubted etruscan relic, which her brother

have bring she from Rome. Margaret look at it with great

reverence--it be thick and heavy, and the gold be of a dull

colour--not like the bright trinket in a jeweller's shop; but it be

delightful to hold in her hand something that be two thousand year

old.



Miss Gage go on to talk of the circlet of gold leave find in some

of the tomb; of the city of C[oe]re, and the origin of the Vestal

Virgins; and the degree of religious knowledge enjoy by the Etruscans;

and Hubert take pencil and paper, and sketch for Margaret one of the

allegorical procession paint on the wall in the tomb; take care to

exaggerate, as much as possible, the evil spirit which figure in those

decoration.



Margaret listen earnestly--she be afraid to lose a word--it be not

to she a dry narrative of fact, but a dim unfolding of the page of a

gorgeous and mystical romance. a people so magnificent, and of whom no

write literature remain, appear to she so contradictory and so

tantalising, that she long to seize the book at once, and never rest

until she have read it through. she hope Miss Gage would say something

more on the subject, but just then Elizabeth see Captain Gage try to

open one of the illustration in his book, and she go to his chair to

help he. Margaret notice that Miss Gage be always on the watch, and

whenever her father be at a loss, from have only one hand, she

supply the deficiency; and that so quickly and quietly that few people

would have be aware of it.



"now for your harp, Bessy," say her brother, "we have forget all

about it."



"because we have be well employ;" say Miss Gage, place herself

at the harp; "music be always a _pis aller_; when people cannot talk,

they very naturally have recourse to a noise."



Margaret could not echo this remark: she love music from her heart, and

she sit absorb in the sweet sound, quite unconscious this time that

Hubert Gage's eye be fix upon her face. Elizabeth play

splendidly--well than any young lady at her school, and without a

book. she sit watch her fine marble hand and arm as she still the

harp-string, and begin to fancy that she should like to play the harp

instead of the organ.



Hubert Gage press she very much to play in her turn, but she decline

with a feeling of panic that almost make she giddy; and Elizabeth, at

her request, sing she a ballad. it be the first time she have ever hear

a song _speak_, if the phrase may be apply to vocal music, and it

move she almost to tear. Hubert ask she if Bessy do not sing very

well, and Margaret, lift up her dewy eye, say, "beautifully!" and

look so beautiful when she say it, that he lean across to his

sister, and declare that there be not upon the face of the earth such

an exquisite little creature as her friend.



Miss Gage rise from the harp, and they sit round the fire for a chat,

but there be no time for any more conversation, for Margaret's carriage

be announce.



Captain Gage tell she that she must soon come to see Bessy again.

Elizabeth take an affectionate leave of she, and Hubert lead she into the

hall and wrap her cloak all round she, much as one would muffle up a

little child, talk and laugh all the time, and stop to gather

her flower from the creeper in the hall in the interval of hand

her glove, and wind her boa round her neck. he then go to the

door, and assure she that it be a hard frost, he offer she a cloak

of his own, which she have some difficulty in prevent he from put

on, and which he absolutely insist on throw to the bottom of the

carriage to keep her foot warm.



Margaret drive off a little tall than she be before. she wonder

what the girl at school would have say if they have hear a young man

declare he think she an exquisite creature. she believe nobody

think she so at school. girl have often tell she that young man have

quite look at they, and squeeze their hand at a Christmas dance,

but she wonder whether they ever throw their cloak at their foot,

almost like Sir Walter Raleigh and Queen Elizabeth. she have learn some

few thing that evening. she have spend several hour with a young lady

who have not acquire a proficiency in an accomplishment for the sake of

exhibit to her acquaintance, but in order to make her home cheerful.

Miss Gage have never ask she for a list of the thing she have learn,

a list so important to school girl who graduate, by its length, their

good opinion of every girl they meet.



Margaret have always a thirst for knowledge, and she feel more desirous

than ever to cultivate her intellect, now that she find how agreeable

it be to converse, or to listen to person who talk well. she be

ashamed to think that she do not know who King Christian be; she have

be hurry, when at school, through a compressed history of England,

but there have be no hurry in the way she have journey through

Chaulieu's and Czerney's exercise. once impressed with the importance

of acquire information, she determine that nothing should divert she

from a steady course of application.



in the midst of these reflection the carriage stop, and she hasten

to the drawing-room to give Mr. Grey an account of her visit before she

go to bed. to her great vexation, she find he seat in earnest

discourse with a stranger. the candle have burn low, one of the lamp

have go out, and the room be only half light. Margaret pause at the

door, but Mr. Grey call she in.



"come here, my child," say he, "I be afraid it be a very cold night. I

hope you have take no chill. Claude, my niece. well, do you pass a

pleasant evening?"



Mr. Haveloc, on be name to Margaret, rise and bow slightly, place

she a chair, and return to his own. she feel all her shyness return:

colour, bow without raise her eye, and go up to Mr. Grey.



"well, and how be they all?" say Mr. Grey.



Margaret, stand with she back to Mr. Haveloc, and her hand in Mr.

Grey's, feel her courage somewhat restore. "I dare say they be all

very well, Sir," she say in a low voice: "but oh! I wish you have hear

Miss Gage sing, Sir, and play on the harp; and she have such a nice

sitting-room of her own, Sir, and so many book! she be go to lend I

one about Etruria. Elizabeth wear such a beautiful nosegay, Sir, of

azalea--sweet smelling one. may Richard get I some azalia?"



"yes, my love, that he shall--to-morrow," say Mr. Grey. "and what do

you talk about?"



"oh! most about Etruria. I wish Miss Gage have tell I some more curious

thing. I think she know more about it than Mr. Warde. he tell I if he

meet with some thing in Livy, he would mark they and read they to I; I

wish he would. look, Sir, I cannot think how this stain come on my

glove. oh! I recollect: I be gather myrtle in the green-house just

before I go."



"what a little bit of a hand it be," say Mr. Grey, "be you sleepy, my

child?"



"a little, Sir. Mr. Warde say he would teach I Latin, if I wish to

learn it, but I think I have well leave it alone till I know more of

other thing."



"oh, my child! don't learn Latin whatever you do," say Mr. Grey, "it

really will--quite wrinkle she, willn't it, Claude?"



Mr. Haveloc give a short laugh, and Margaret recollect that he be in

the room, and grow uncomfortable again.



"Elizabeth never play in company, do you know," say she, after a short

pause, "be not that odd? oh dear, Sir, what a dreadful thing it be to

have only one arm!"



"why, my child, Elizabeth Gage have--oh true! she be think of the

father--yes, very awkward indeed!"



"well, I shall wish you good night, uncle, I be quite tired," say

Margaret, and stoop her head a very little as she pass Mr. Haveloc,

who hold open the door for she, she go up-stair without have the

slight idea of his personal appearance, for she have never once raise

her eye to his face. she merely think, as she maid brush out her

luxuriant hair, that Mr. Hubert Gage have take a great deal more notice

of she, and be a much more agreeable person.









CHAPTER V.





    oh! how much more doth beauty beauteous seem,

    by that sweet ornament which truth doth give!

    the rose look fair, but fair we it deem

    for that sweet odour which doth in it live.



    SHAKESPEARE.





the next morning when Margaret come down to breakfast, she enjoy in

perfection all the feeling which shyness produce in very young people.



she hope that Mr. Haveloc would not be in the library, and that he

would not speak to she if he be there; and she try to recollect what

people always tell very shy girl, that she be not of sufficient

importance to be take notice of. this, by the way, be not exactly the

mean well adapt to the end in view; a sense of insignificance be a

very material cause of shyness, and to strengthen this idea be one way

to confirm a person in shyness for the rest of their life.



her colour mount as she open the door, and she be not a little

relieved to find the library vacant.



while she be employ in make the breakfast, she see Mr. Haveloc pass

the window apparently in deep thought. he be accompany by a couple of

beautiful dog, a spaniel and a setter. but he pay no attention to

their movement, except by sometimes pass his hand over their silken

head in return for their caress.



a recollection of his adventure induce Margaret to regard he with

some attention, now that she be able to do so unseen. he would not have

be generally consider handsome. his forehead be remarkably massive,

and his eye a dark hazel, capable of every variety of expression: he

be, to say the truth, very much sun-burn; and he wear his black hair,

not long, indeed, but turn inward like a scroll, after the fashion

of some of our early king. there be an expression of discontent and

disdain on his face which Margaret think very disagreeable; but at any

rate he be just as much discontent with himself as he be with other

people, and no doubt with equally good reason.



Mr. Grey come down, and receive Margaret with his usual affection, and

see Mr. Haveloc walk at a little distance, he call to he, and

bade he come in, say to Margaret as he return from the window,

"that young man now, be the only one who remind I of what they use to

be in my young day. they be quite altered now, my dear; they be much

more selfish and calculate; they don't neglect their own interest so

much, but they neglect other people's feeling a great deal more. there

be some vice certainly; they drink hard, my dear, but they tell the

truth, and that be a great blessing. I think when I be young, a man

would be ashamed to tell a falsehood. it could not be do, my dear;

they do it now every day."



Margaret say, "yes, Sir," to every clause in this speech, and wonder

to herself whether all the young man use to look so gloomy and

distract as Mr. Haveloc look when he enter the room. he bow to

she, and she think he say "good morning." she return the

salutation, but not the word; and then he turn to Mr. Grey and

offer to banish his dog, which have follow he into the room.



"by no mean," Mr. Grey say, "he like animal about he, unless

Margaret be afraid of they."



"oh, Sir! I be afraid of nothing," say Margaret, smile at Mr. Grey

under shelter of the urn.



whether the sentiment, or the delightful voice in which it be utter,

strike Mr. Haveloc, be uncertain; but he move his chair with the

intention of gain a well view of the fair speaker. the urn be,

however, unfavourable to he, and she afford he little more

opportunity of hear the sound of her voice during breakfast. as soon

as breakfast be over, Mr. Haveloc ask Mr. Grey how soon it would be

possible for he to call on Mr. Warde. he have yet to learn, he say, how

these thing be manage in England.



Mr. Grey be certain that Mr. Warde would be glad to see he at any

time, such an old friend as he be.



Mr. Haveloc ask if Mrs. Somerton and her daughter be stay at the

vicarage?



"no," Mr. Grey say; "they have be on a visit to one of their relation

for some month."



Margaret think she hear Mr. Haveloc mutter a thanksgiving as he

turn away. he walk to the window and begin caress his dog.



"and what be you go to do, my darling?" ask Mr. Grey.



"a great many thing, Sir. first, I shall practise as soon as ever

Land--oh! come here, Land; when can you spare time to come with I to

the organ? not before twelve--very well. I shall read till Land be ready

for I, and then--oh! dear Sir, there be Miss Gage on her beautiful grey

horse. oh, Sir! it be not a very hard frost, it be very nearly spring.

will you soon buy I a pony? that be to say a horse, dear uncle; I

should look so little on a pony. there be nothing in the world I wish

for so much, and it be so long to wait until spring."



"but which be it?" say her uncle stroke down her soft thick tress

of hair, "be it a very long, or a very short time till spring?"



Margaret pause a little--she wish to make it appear short; but early

in February it would not do. "the truth be uncle," say she blush

with the effort, "it be a long time."



"right, my child, the truth!" say Mr. Grey; "you shall have a horse as

soon as I can meet with one; only we will not ride he until the weather

be a little warmer."



Margaret be almost speechless with delight, and have fairly forget

the presence of Mr. Haveloc, who stood regard she with a smile of

such soften expression, that she would scarcely have recognise he.



Miss Gage be ride with her brother, and when they arrive before the

house, they pull up their horse. Hubert Gage dismount, run up the

hall step, ring the bell, push open the door, and come into the

library without any farth ceremony.



Mr. Grey welcome he very warmly. he be very fond of young people, and

feel sincere pleasure in see he again. Mr. Haveloc come forwards

with more animation than Margaret have see he express, shake hand

heartily with Hubert, and remark that he be very glad their return to

England should chance at the same time.



"why do not you tell I he be here?" say Hubert turn to Margaret,

"when we be talk over old story last night?"



"I do not know it," reply Margaret.



"well, Bessy will not dismount, it be such a trouble to mount she

again," he say; "so she desire I to ask if you will drive out with

she after luncheon?"



"I shall like it very much--it be very kind of she," say Margaret. "I

may, Sir?"



"with all my heart, my child," say Mr. Grey.



"ay, I should first have ask your uncle, should not I?" say Hubert

laughing. "have you be out to-day?"



"no--not yet."



"oh! bless I, of course it be too early," say he, take out a

diminutive watch, which look more striking on he than on a person of

ordinary dimension. "I wonder you be up at this hour."



"you be keep Miss Gage in the cold all this time," say Margaret.



"so I be, but I cannot get away," he return, look archly at she.



she wish she could help colour, but the beautiful crimson stole

over her cheek at the imply compliment.



"don't you think we half mad to ride in such weather?" ask Hubert.

"the truth be, I wish to see Bessy in her habit again."



"I think it be well to ride than sit still in the cold," say

Margaret. "I shall run out, and tell Miss Gage it be not my fault."



"you will not do any such thing," say Hubert, place himself in the

doorway, "you shall not catch cold for my sin--I be off."



"but Hubert," say Mr. Grey, detain he, "will you dine with we?

Claude will be very glad, I be sure--and if you could prevail on Miss

Gage to accompany you, it would give great pleasure to my little niece."



"I be sure Bessy will be very happy," say Hubert, "as for I, I shall

be delighted."



this be say with a distinct bow to Margaret, which leave but little

doubt of his meaning.



"only allow I to say to-morrow instead of to-day, because my father

go to a county meeting to-morrow, and so--"



"that will do just as well," say Mr. Grey, "very considerate of you,

Hubert."



Mr. Haveloc, who have be stand with some hesitation of manner for

some moment, now take a sudden resolution, dash down the step, and

speak to Miss Gage. Margaret could see from the window that she greet

he with her usual sweetness of demeanour; and, when her brother be

mount, that she stretch her hand out, which he take with an air of

great respect.



Little Margaret, whose brain be somewhat active in give to every

day occurrence the colouring of romance, fancy that their interview

be like that of a queen with some favour noble, and as Land's gossip

have assign Mr. Haveloc to Miss Gage in common with a crowd of other

suitor, she fancy that, in this instance, there might be some truth

in the report. and such a wicked young man! she suppose Miss Gage do

not know the dreadful story she have hear about he.



"what a fine young man Hubert Gage have grow," say Mr. Grey, as he

return from the window, "the fine young man I ever see!"



Margaret colour as the remark be address to she, and go off to

her own occupation.



she see nothing more of Mr. Haveloc during the morning; her study keep

she employ until luncheon, and she have hardly finish her cold

chicken when Miss Gage's carriage drive up to the door. she put on her

bonnet in a hurry, fly into the hall, and almost run against Mr.

Haveloc, who be come up the step at the moment.



he stop, take off his hat, and hand she into the carriage. Miss

Gage greet she very kindly--ask she which way she would like to

drive; give her order; draw up the glass and drive off.



after a few general remark, Margaret colour, pause, play with her

boa, and then said:--



"I should like to talk to you about something, if you would not think I

foolish."



"what be it, my dear?" ask Elizabeth, take Margaret's hand; "never

mind if it be foolish--we be all foolish sometimes."



"it be such a plague to I, Mr. Haveloc come," say Margaret. "it

spoil everything. I cannot talk to my uncle, or play the organ, or do

anything so comfortably now that he be in the house. I cannot stand on

the library step, and read from the shelves;--perhaps you would laugh

at this, but you don't know the difference it make."



"I can very well understand that it do," say Miss Gage, "but Mr.

Haveloc's society be a great happiness to your uncle, and you must

weigh that against the embarrassment he make you feel."



"so I ought," say Margaret.



"I recollect when I know he, several year ago," say Miss Gage,

"although he possess great power of pleasing where he be intimate,

yet he be a little too reserved in general society."



"and I be sure he be very proud!" say Margaret, eagerly.



Miss Gage laugh at this remark, and make no attempt to exculpate he

from the charge: she merely add that she think he very much alter

in appearance, but that a person of his character would be less

troublesome as an inmate, to she, than one of a more sociable

disposition, since she would very rarely be oblige to enter into

conversation with he.



Margaret agree to this, and the subject be drop.



now, have Miss Gage choose to exercise her wit by jest with Margaret

upon her timidity instead of calmly talk it over, she would have

confirm she in a silly bashfulness, as much oppose as possible to

real modesty. as it be, she feel a sort of composure from have

_talk through_ a subject she rather dread to mention; and her

feeling acquire an equilibrium, that very much add to her comfort

when she again encounter the person in question. but how few people

could have resist the pleasure of laugh at a young girl about any

young man who might chance to be stay in the house.



Mr. Warde come to dinner. Margaret be very glad to see he; but there

be so much to be talk over between he and Mr. Haveloc, that there

be little time for she to make any historical enquiry. the

conversation do not prevent Mr. Haveloc from be very attentive to

she, as far as action go. he take the carving out of her hand--see

that she have every thing she want--direct the screen to be alter

which protect she but imperfectly from the fire, and mention to she

that Richards have bring a whole forest of azalias into the library

while she be take her drive; with which piece of information he begin

and end his discourse.



she learn, during dinner, that he be very near-sighted, which

circumstance give her great satisfaction. the certainty that he could

not distinguish she across the table, unless he take up his glass, which

she have never see he do, give she a confidence and a feeling of

freedom, which remove one strong objection she have feel to his

presence.



the evening pass as usual; as they dine late, the serving of coffee

and tea nearly take up the time until they separate. Mr. Warde talk

kindly to Margaret about the book she be anxious to read, and Mr.

Haveloc play a game of piquet with Mr. Grey. when she see how very

attentive he be to her dear uncle, she could not help wish that he

be less wicked, but as she remark to herself, it be no business of

her.









CHAPTER VI.





      the passion will dispense

   to such a wild and rapid eloquence,

   will to the weak mind their strength impart,

   and give the tongue the language of the heart.



   CRABBE.





it be a very eventful day for Margaret on which Miss Gage and her

brother be to dine at Ashdale, for it might actually be term a

party, and she be to preside at the head of the table.



she take infinite pain with her toilet; choose she very prettiest silk,

and allow she maid as much time as she like to dress her hair:

instead of start up, as she do on common occasion, after the first

half-minute, wringing into a perfect cable the beautiful profusion of

her tress behind, and fasten they up with a comb to the great

discomposure of her attendant. all the time the airy plait be

weaving, which be to form the pretty coiffure, designate as the

_antique moderne_, Margaret be convince herself that she be not

take all this trouble because Hubert Gage be come. nothing could be

so unlikely, or so undignified; it be entirely on account of his sister

Elizabeth.



she be dress so early, that she have plenty of time to spare. she

think she should like to play on the organ; but Land be busy, so be

the footman, she dared not ask the coachman to blow: Mason would, she

know, be shock at the idea; so she send down to the gardener's boy,

who spend the good part of his time in the kitchen, and he come up, shy

and awkward enough, but very willing to do his good. unfortunately, he

occasionally leave off blow to listen with open mouth to her

performance, thus cause a sudden stop that be very provoking to she.

she be improve so nicely too--her little foot steal over the pedal

with as much ease as her finger over the note; and when she be in the

midst of a very pretty effect, that sharp cessation of sound quite

destroy her patience.



"there, you naughty little boy," say she, "don't you see the wind be

out? you must not do that again!"



the little boy, who be a great deal big by the way than herself,

_do_ do it again, and always in the most provoking place, though the

moment she look he begin to blow with renew vigour.



"I declare," cry Margaret, stamp her foot on the pedal, and

produce thereby an awful roar, "I will tell my Uncle Grey the very

next time!"



this be not a very formidable threat; but the boy plead that she do

play so beautiful he could not help it; and she forget her anger.



now, at the moment she stamp, one of the gallery door open, and

Mr. Haveloc come out, intend to go down to the drawing-room; but

attract by the singular sound that meet his ear, he remain in the

doorway listening. he be very much amuse by the short dialogue which

he overheard, and delight when Margaret resume she more regular

performance; for she have that fine sensibility for music which impart

to the finger a charm that cannot be acquire, but which be an absolute

requisite to person of the same temperament.



"there go seven, Miss," say the boy, as Margaret be bring to a

conclusion one of Handel's chorus.



"how tiresome!" cry Margaret, "oh, dear! and I promise Mr. Grey that

I would always shut up the organ. I shall be late, that I shall! oh! do

hold the candle for I!"



"allow I to save you the trouble," say Mr. Haveloc, come forward,

"it be the least I can do in return for your music."



"for my music!" gasp Margaret; while all the blunder she have be

commit rush into her mind, turn she quite sick with shame.



"you may trust I to leave all right," say Mr. Haveloc, begin to

put in the stop, "I be use to an organ."



"oh! thank you, I will then," say Margaret, and take up her glove,

she lose no time in make her way down stair.



the Gages' carriage be draw up as she take her seat beside her

uncle. she could not command her complexion, and it rise amazingly as

Miss Gage enter with her brother.



Elizabeth be more dressed than at her own house, and poor Margaret

ascribe her calm, graceful appearance to the stiff violet water silk,

and the delicate pearl brooch and bracelet which she wear. her bouquet

be compose of geranium this time, and Margaret begin to undervalue

her azalias now.



while Mr. Grey be talk to Miss Gage, Hubert Gage, lean on the

back of Margaret's chair, enter into conversation with an air of so

much intimacy, that she could hardly feel shy of he. he enquire about

her pet, and she confide to he that she have a beautiful bullfinch

which could whistle two tune, and draw up a bucket of water; and that

Mr. Grey have an eagle in the court-yard which have a great many odd way;

and that she have not a lap-dog yet, but that Mr. Grey mean to see about

it.



Hubert Gage, with an air of great interest, recommend she to have an

italian greyhound, and then tell she that her hand be like snow; but

Margaret never could recollect how he manage to introduce that piece of

information.



then Mr. Haveloc come down and plant himself beside Miss Gage's chair

until dinner be announce.



Mr. Grey give his arm to Miss Gage, and Hubert take possession of

Margaret, beg she to observe how much more fortunate he be now,

than the last time he have the pleasure of see she.



as they enter the dining-room everybody be surprised to see Mr.

Casement calmly stand before the fire.



Mr. Haveloc, who follow Hubert Gage, catch up his eye-glass, drop

it with an air of great vexation, and exclaim, in a suppress tone,

"Good Heaven, Hubert! be that fellow not dead yet?"



"I wish anybody could tell I when he _would_ die," say Hubert,

laugh; "but I be firmly persuade, for my part, that he be the

Wandering Jew."



"ay! here I be," say Mr. Casement, in reply to Mr. Grey's exclamation

of surprise; "Miss Gage, your servant. so you two young fellow be

return at the same time. no fear of your not come back--eh! a bad

shilling! you know the saying."



Hubert Gage burst into a hearty laugh at this address; but Mr. Haveloc

knit his brow with an air of extreme disgust.



by this time, as everybody be seat, and Hubert help the soup for

Margaret, Mr. Casement bethink himself of something disagreeable to

say to she.



"ben't you very much oblige to I, little woman," he say, "for come

straight in here, and so leave you to the young spark? suppose I have

take you into dinner?"



"Mr. Casement," say Miss Gage, in her very calm manner, "you know I

always keep you in order. you must not forget I be here."



Mr. Casement make a contortion he mean for a smile, and vow he be

her slave.



Mr. Haveloc tell Miss Gage that everybody present owe she a vote of

thank. a remark which Mr. Casement do not forget.



when a convenient pause occur, he lean forward, and say, in a

sufficiently mark tone, "oh, by the bye, Claude! and how be all our

friend at Florence?" Margaret absolutely turn pale, and could not

avoid glance anxiously at Mr. Haveloc.



he merely reply, take up his glass to examine the dish he be about

to carve. "I do not know, Mr. Casement, that you have any friend in any

part of the world."



Margaret be the only person who observe that his hand tremble.



Miss Gage be pleased with his reply, for she know the ill-natured point

of the remark. Hubert laugh so heartily, that he be force at

interval to beg Margaret's pardon for be so rude. Mr. Grey try to

turn the conversation. Mr. Casement look sullen; and Mr. Haveloc,

still appearing occupy with the dish before he, say, "there be two

way of carve these bird; which do you like good?"



"oh! the old fashioned way, don't you Sir?" ask Miss Gage of Mr. Grey,

"it be much the good."



"yes; all old fashioned way be in my opinion;" say Mr. Grey smile,

"but then I be an old man."



Margaret could not easily regain her composure of feeling after this

incident; she pity Mr. Haveloc, she admire Miss Gage, and she envy

the readiness with which she direct the conversation into other

channel until all constraint seemed banish from the party.



in the evening Hubert Gage beset Margaret with entreaty that she would

play; and with a feeling of intense misery, she sit down to the piano

and play a Fantasia by Moscheles with great delicacy and effect. Miss

Gage turn round in the midst of her conversation with Mr. Grey, and

tell Margaret that she could take no excuse from she in future, now

that she have show how she could perform.



then Mr. Casement beg Miss Gage to play some old air, which she do

with the utmost good humour; and afterwards sing whatever she be ask

with an ease and sweetness that delight Margaret; who for her own part

would have much preferred die at once to singe before half-a-dozen

people.



in the midst of the singing, Mr. Gage beg Margaret to tell he the

name of some fine print he be look at, which she do as far as she

know they; while in return, when he come to any very beautiful face in

the collection, he inform she that it be strikingly like she's, with

any little additional compliment that his fancy suggest. Margaret be

not quite so over-power by this as might have be expect, for she

be listen all the time to a conversation between Miss Gage and Mr.

Haveloc.



Elizabeth have rise from the piano, and be stand with a sheet of

music in her hand talk to Mr. Haveloc about Metastasio: this lead to

some remark upon the early poetry, and the early painting of Italy,

and the infancy of art in general.



Miss Gage remark that the infancy of poetry be unmarke by those

sign of feebleness and inaccuracy that denote the first stage of

painting.



"it be true," he reply, "the imagination be at once transfer into

word, unfettere by those mechanical mean which be need to express

thought upon the canvass; because the soul be the elder and the nobler

bear, and its work be perform without the tedious interval of

experience which be necessary to bring to perfection the physical

power. he think the good that could be say of painting be, that it

be a high order of imitation."



Miss Gage mention the delight bequeath to a succession of age by a

beautiful picture or statue.



"it be true," he say, "but it be a delight for which the eye must be

train, and the mind prepare. it be in a great measure an artificial

enjoyment; for I need not remind Miss Gage that the rapture of most

person with regard to art be purely affect. but every poet who

deserve the name, appeal at once to the common and spontaneous

feeling of mankind; and can be discern, not by the ignorant indeed,

but without any especial cultivation."



Miss Gage say something of the difficulty of art, and the respect due

to those who surmount they.



"I confess," say Mr. Haveloc, "I cannot see much to respect in a

successful painter. I allow he great acquirement; a highly train eye;

the mastery of a very difficult and laborious process, and certainly a

perception of the most ingenious arrangement of his subject. but, good

Heaven! at what an immeasurable distance be these from the gift that

constitute a poet. where be the exquisite atmosphere of music that

suggest to he his delicious rhyme? where the invisible and mystic

shadow that invite he to weave his tissue of unreal scene? where the

deep and solemn philosophy which reveal to he the strange source of

those emotion which be know to common man by their outward working

alone? no, Miss Gage, I cannot admit toil be a sign of worth, for I

know many bauble that be difficult of attainment."



"ah! you think all that very fine!" say Mr. Casement look up from

his game of piquet, "but it be sheer nonsense every word of it."



Mr. Haveloc do not deign to utter a word in reply to this flattering

tribute. Elizabeth smile, and move to the table where Hubert and

Margaret be look at the engraving.



"do not these," she ask, "go far to shake your opinion? and be not the

ideal in art worthy of as much veneration as the high effort of the

poet?"



"I must be uncourteous enough," say Mr. Haveloc, "to differ from you in

your estimate of the Ideal over the real in art. I do not think that the

purely Ideal either elevate or instruct; in fact unless the real be

the basis of the design, it be an illusion that only make one

discontent with nature."



"but in that case, the antique----" say Miss Gage.



"it be the exquisite reality of the great work of ancient art which

make they so invaluable;" say Mr. Haveloc, "the form may be ideal, but

the expression be real. it be the concentration of all nature in its

fitness for the quality or emotion intend to be display, that

constitute their inapproachable beauty and grace. beauty be the

proportion of form; and grace, the proportion of action to the feeling

mean to be express."



"I be not quite willing to cede the Ideality of the ancient statue,"

say Miss Gage; "but I can conceive that a different order of excellence

be demand of sculpture from that of painting."



"for sculpture be to paint what Epic be to tragic poetry. the

External against the Internal;" rejoin Mr. Haveloc, "the one demand

perfection of form--the other rely chiefly upon truth of expression."



"Guido then ought to have be a sculptor," say Miss Gage.



"yes!" he reply. "in Guido's picture the Ideal prevail after this

fashion; in the omission of accident, or defect in his form--that be,

in the omission of character or individuality. they be beautiful

embellishment to a room--great technical achievement; but they do not

appeal to the depth of the heart, although much beauty will often

affect the feeling."



"I understand the distinction," say Elizabeth, "murillo appeal to the

sympathy by take being make of common clay, form that have

exist--more powerful agent than only such as might exist--and

elevate they by the profound sensibility with which he have endow

they."



"exactly," return Mr. Haveloc. "his Virgin, in his great picture of

the Holy Family, be a woman of humble life, in simple garment, and not

remarkable for beauty of form; he have paint she with faultless truth,

and inspire her face with an expression of maternal love, so tender,

so earnest, so overwhelming in its fulness and its anxiety, that I

should think few people could view it without be deeply affect."



"it be only when truth be outdo," say Miss Gage, "that I object to

the Ideal. as for instance, when Raphael, a name I do not mention but

with the deep respect, depict the Virgin Mary with all the delicate

beauty of a pampered princess, and attire in the most gorgeous

garment."



"yes," he say, "although he have throw into the feature all the

refinement of intellect and tenderness of feeling of which woman be

capable; high-bear, caress, educated, magnificent woman. I do consider

that Murillo have bequeath a grander lesson to the future, have achieve

more in art, and awaken our sympathy at a purer source, by his

strict adherence to nature, than Raphael by his exquisite and ideal

conception of female grace."



"in fact," say Miss Gage, "to go a little aside of the old saying, you

think that truth be the well from which every poet and every artist

should draw their inspiration; and that no important, no ultimate good

can result from any exaggeration, even when the falsehood be enlist on

the side of unearthly and transcendent beauty."



"I need not say, Miss Gage," say Mr. Haveloc, "that I could not have

express my meaning so completely as you have do."



"you young fellow," say Mr. Casement, rise from the table, "you

think you know everything now-a-day."



Margaret who have be look up in Miss Gage's face listen--her

feature radiant with breathless and earnest attention--look round at

Mr. Casement with something like horror in her countenance. she be

shock that he should interrupt a discourse so replete to she with new

and interesting idea.



Mr. Haveloc's scorn prevent his taking up the remark; Miss Gage who

be well accustomed to tolerate Mr. Casement, turn round with some

playfulness of manner:



"if I be not go away, Mr. Casement," she say, "I hear the

carriage, Hubert--I should take you very seriously to task. pray, Mr.

Haveloc, before I go, acknowledge that Murillo be a poet of the high

order, and an exception to those artist whom you have praise for mere

mechanical excellence."



"I do acknowledge," he reply, "that in his hand the pencil become a

sceptre, to which every enlightened mind must do homage."



when Mr. Haveloc return from see Miss Gage to her carriage, he

find Mr. Grey just conclude his encomium upon Margaret for having

behave so very prettily to his guest. he turn round and ask Mr.

Haveloc if Miss Gage do not sing charmingly.



Mr. Haveloc hesitate a little, and at length say, "that her singing

be rather sensible than impassione."



"why really, Claude," say Mr. Grey, "in a wife I should prefer the

sensible style."



"my dear Sir," return Mr. Haveloc with a short laugh, "I have no idea

of presume to aspire to Miss Gage's hand. I imagine that even the

industry of scandal could attribute nothing to our intercourse but the

most distant acquaintance."



he speak with some bitterness, but Mr. Grey who be singularly exempt

from irritable feeling himself, seldom detect they in other.



"I don't know, Claude," he say; "I think she look splendid this

evening. she be the handsome woman in the county; and when I see you

talk so nicely together, I wish with all my heart it might come to

something."



"I wish she a well fate, Sir," say Mr. Haveloc turn away.



"why, Claude, ay to be sure! one should not talk of such matter before

little people. go away my little pet? good night--sleep well!"



Margaret have a great deal to think about when she find herself in her

own room. Miss Mason tangle and untangle her hair at pleasure; her

thought be too busy in recall all that have be say and do that

evening. she have hear person talk who possess idea; who have

think, and form opinion upon different subject; this be such a

different thing from school knowledge, that she feel confused for some

time in the uncertainty she feel as to the mean of acquire such

mental power herself. she determine at least to be guide by Miss Gage,

who she be sure would direct she as to the book she ought to read; and

perhaps in time she might become wise enough to talk to person who know

as much as Mr. Haveloc. she wish again that he have not be so wicked;

but she remember with displeasure Mr. Casement's impertinent allusion

to his former conduct. she be convince he be very sorry for it, and

though she sincerely wish he out of the house, she be employ in

pity he, when Miss Mason having conclude her duty, wish she

young lady good night.









CHAPTER VII.





   a melancholy, ground and resolve

   receive into a habit argue love,

   or deep impression of strong discontent.



   the LADY'S TRIAL.



   since my come home I have find

   More sweet in one unprofitable dream

   than in my life's whole pilgrimage.



   SUN'S DARLING.





now Mr. Haveloc be at this time enjoy the delightful consciousness

that he have be make a great simpleton of himself; but this be a

state of feeling which indicate some superiority of character; for your

common people when they have be expose themselves to the derision of

all their acquaintance, generally parade themselves with all the dignity

of a peacock, and feel convinced that they have be behave with

singular discretion. this state of feeling be agreeably relieve by the

knowledge that people have say a great many thing of he which be

untrue, and which be particularly exasperate to a person of his

temperament.



they have fill up the outline of his attention to Mrs. Maxwell

Dorset--attention far more marked than be consistent with

propriety--by a variety of incident, extremely wrong, but, which be

much bad in his eye, exceedingly ridiculous. they have exaggerate the

regard which the lady have abundantly profess for he into an idolatry

that be painfully absurd; and they invent a narrative of an

unsuccessful attempt on his part to carry she off, which drive he from

Florence, and very nearly frantic into the bargain. as he return to

his sense, he contemplate Mrs. Maxwell Dorset with unmixed contempt

and disgust. very exact and fastidious in his idea of woman, he

could imagine nothing more opposed to all his demand of female

delicacy and dignity, than this woman, who have for a time blind he by

her flattery, and her foolish and criminal preference. he be angry with

she, and still more angry with himself, and yet more enraged against

society at large for the unceremonious manner in which they have

discourse of his proceeding; and his feeling of dissatisfaction on

the subject be by no mean diminish by the knowledge that he be not

the first person by very many whom her artifice have enslave. this fact

which of course reach his ear when it be too late--for your friend

never tell you of a thing when you might profit by it--in divest she

attachment of the complimentary aspect it might otherwise have wear,

open his eye more effectually than a score of homily could have

do.



in this happy frame of mind, he come to Ashdale, think that it would

be a relief to plunge into solitude with his friend, Mr. Grey. he be

very much annoyed to find that Margaret be reside with her uncle; but

Mr. Grey press he so warmly to take up his abode with he for a time,

that he hardly know how to decline his hospitality. he could scarcely

tell Mr. Grey that he detest the idea of remain under the same roof

with his niece. it be a great relief to he when he find that Margaret

be entirely different from any young lady he have ever see. she never

enter into conversation with he, and never, if she could help it,

remain in the room with he for a single moment. he begin to be

disappointed that she invariably steal out after her uncle as he leave

the breakfast-table, and come down into the drawing-room exactly as the

bell ring for dinner. he become more and more strike with her beauty and

her simplicity, and he feel a curiosity to know whether her intellect at

all respond to the beautiful countenance which vary with every shade

of thought that float through her mind.



it so happen that he be not able to pursue his investigation for

some time, for some affair of business require his immediate return to

his own home. he mention this to Mr. Grey as they be stand round

the fire just before dinner, and would have give much to have see

Margaret's face at the moment.



it be too late when they take their place at the table to hope that

any expression of emotion, or surprise would be visible. indeed it be

not be quite so reasonable as man ought to be upon those subject, to

expect that she should regret the departure of a visitor, who, though

perfectly courteous to she, have be remarkably deficient in those

attention which a beautiful girl might almost expect from one of the

other sex. in fact, Margaret be exceedingly glad to hear the news. she

feel that among other advantage, the library would be no long

forbid-ground to she. she would again be able to loiter among the

book and map, instead of carry those volume she wish to read

into her own room, and send they back by Land when she have do.



Mr. Haveloc be always in the library, read or writing, which be one

of his most serious offence in her eye. as for she attempt to

attract or interest he, she would have consider such a thing as

seriously and entirely out of the question. she know very well that the

girl at school would have call he a capital match, and she know also

that there would have be no end to their jest if they have hear that

she be stay in the house with so desirable an article of property as

a rich young man. but Margaret be romantic. she think he very much

in the way; and she be rather shocked that any one so immoral should

help she to salad, or to orange-jelly.



"the somerton be come back, Claude," say Mr. Grey; "I wish you be

not go away just now. they always make the place gay."



"thank you, Sir," return Mr. Haveloc, "I dare say I shall not much

regret lose the somerton."



"let I see," continue Mr. Grey, "Blanche must have be about sixteen

when you leave England."



"very likely, Sir, I never attempt to guess a lady's age."



"I hardly know," say Mr. Grey, muse over his scallop oyster,

"which of they be consider the beauty; but I rather think it be

Blanche."



"oh both, my dear Sir," reply Mr. Haveloc, "Mrs. Somerton tell

everybody that each of her daughter be the belle of whatever place they

may be stay at."



"a great satisfaction to their mother, I be sure," say Mr. Grey, never

dream that there be anything like satire in Mr. Haveloc's remark;

"and very nice companion they will be to my little niece during the

summer; perhaps we may prevail on Mrs. Somerton to spare one of her

daughter sometimes to stay here for a week or two."



Mr. Haveloc knit his brow, and looked so much discompose at this

proposition that Margaret be perfectly astonish. how could it concern

he if her uncle succeed in obtain a companion for she? some of the

wonder she feel must have make itself very visible in her face, for he

turn and say to she in a constrained voice, "I hope you will find

much enjoyment in the society of the Miss Somertons."



"I shall like to know they," say Margaret quietly, "but Miss Gage be

kind enough to prevent my ever feel the want of society."



"very kind she be," say Mr. Grey; "but my love, I know young people

like to be together; now, Blanche be hardly a year old than you be."



"you see," say Mr. Haveloc smile, "that you be fate to become

intimate with the somerton."



Margaret smile too. she recollect that at school she have make no one

intimacy; and she think it be very easily avoid with any person

whom you do not completely approve--especially if you do not live

under the same roof.



nothing more be say during dinner; but in the evening when Margaret

be make tea, and her uncle doze in his arm-chair, Mr. Haveloc,

contrary to his custom, take a chair next to she's, and after a short

pause--for the subject be rather embarrassing--say, "I be afraid you

think I guilty of some rudeness at dinner in allow you to perceive

the surprise I feel at your uncle's proposition. I be aware that I have

no right to interest myself in your affair."



it would have be difficult to convince any body of the extent of

Margaret's shyness, for she have the advantage of a very self-possess

manner; therefore, though her heart seem die within she, at the

effort of make a reply to such a speech, her sweet voice be as calm

as ever, when she answer:



"I do not think you rude at all, Mr. Haveloc, for you say nothing; and

it would be hard indeed to deny people the free exercise of their

thought."



"thank you," say Mr. Haveloc with energy. "I will not be so

presumptuous as to offer you any advice; but I hope you will allow I to

recommend that you ask Miss Gage her candid opinion of those young

lady. she be so much your friend, that I believe she will have no

hesitation in give it."



"I will, indeed," say Margaret, "you could not have give I well

advice."



she smile and blush as she speak, and look so very lovely, that it

be no wonder Mr. Haveloc retain his chair, and make some attempt to

draw she into conversation.



Mr. Grey wake up, take his cup of tea, and look very much pleased to

see they talk together, although no two stranger could carry on a

more distant and disjointed discourse. he so completely recognize

Margaret as a child, that his fancy never suggest to he the

possibility of a future attachment be form between his favourite

ward and his beautiful little niece. he merely think to himself that

if Claude would but brighten up a little, and forget all that italian

business, it would make the evening much more cheerful for poor

Margaret.



his musing be interrupt by the entrance of Mr. Casement, whose "old

woman," as he inform Mr. Grey, have two or three village gossip to

drink tea with she, and therefore he have be drive out this miserable

night to take his chance of a cup of coffee, and a game of piquet with

his friend, Mr. Grey.



"and glad enough you must be to see I," he remark, "for I suppose

these two young people chatter together, and leave you to count the

bar of the grate all the evening."



Mr. Grey eagerly disclaim be ever leave to the console occupation

suggest by his friend.



"never," he say, "be there kind or more attentive companion than

Claude Haveloc and his niece."



Margaret ring for more coffee, and make up her mind with a look of calm

endurance to pass a disagreeable evening. among other annoyance to she,

Mr. Casement be very fond of music, and always insist on her playing

to he while he be engage at card.



Mr. Haveloc, highly indignant at be accuse of chattering, fling

himself into an arm-chair at another table; beg Margaret's pardon

when she half rise to give Mr. Casement his cup, make some show of

take it from she, and then throw himself back in his chair with the

Quarterly Review in his hand, and a very tolerable share of contempt in

his feature.



then Mr. Casement manage to teaze Margaret by ask she to play 'the

Roast Beef of Old England;' or, 'the Girl I leave behind I;' air that

she have never hear of; and by turn into ridicule the name and

composition of Doehler and Moscheles, with whose work she be

familiar. and every now and then he look up from his game, and ask

Mr. Haveloc what he be about, that he do not turn over the young

lady's book, and praise her music; until at last Margaret leave the piano

in a great pet, and sit down to her netting.



"well, now, little woman," say Mr. Casement, as soon as he have win his

game, "how do you get on with Hubert Gage?"



Mr. Haveloc's eye be full upon she, and she feel the question to be

embarrassing. she blush, indeed, but she draw herself up, and reply

that she get on with he quite well enough. her acquaintance be with

his sister.



"and this young spark, too," say Mr. Casement, turn to Mr. Haveloc.

"what! you be let he slip through your finger? he go away

to-morrow, I hear." Margaret, change from red to white, persevere

with her netting. Mr. Haveloc dash his book down on the table, and

stalk out of the room; mutter something as he go about "the

great bore in existence;" and Mr. Grey begin a gentle remonstrance

with his friend on the impropriety of talk in such a manner to young

people.



"they don't like it, Casement. these joke never please the party

concern. there's Claude go out of the room in a rage, and my poor

little Margaret seem disposed to go out of the room after he."



"I think," say Mr. Casement, with a chuckle laugh, "I tell you what,

in my young day, the fancy of old people be to be consult. now,

we have nothing to do but to think how we can please the young one."



"nobody can accuse you of that, Mr. Casement," say Margaret, who have

take refuge by the side of Mr. Grey.



"egad, that's true enough, Miss Peggy," return Mr. Casement. "no one

shall ever tax I with help to spoil the rise generation."



Mr. Grey say he be no advocate for spoil people; but he really

could not see why such silly remark should be make on person; that

Claude Haveloc do not like to be the subject of Mr. Casement's

raillery, and therefore he do hope--



"why," interrupt Mr. Casement, "the remark, as you call it, that make

Master Claude bounce out of the room in such tragedy fashion, be

address to this little woman here. I ask she, as any body would, how

she could let such a sweet-temper, well-behave young gentleman slip

through her finger."



"well--well--the child do not like it;" say Mr. Grey, rather shortly.



"beg your pardon. Miss Peggy, like other young lady, have no sort of

objection to a hint of that kind. but you don't relish it, that be very

plain; so I'll mind my manner for the present, at least. hadn't you

well step out to the young man, my dear, and say that it's all right,

and he may come back again?"



Angry as Margaret be, she could not help smile at the idea of be

send out to call Mr. Haveloc back like a child. she be very angry,

however, and say, that she suppose Mr. Haveloc would return when he

choose; but that she imagine few people would be long than they could

help in Mr. Casement's society.



"she be too sharp for you, Casement;" say Mr. Grey, laugh.



"I have raise a hornet's nest about my ear, I think," say Mr.

Casement, laugh in his turn. "I do not know the child have so much

spirit. well, my old woman, will be on the look out for I, so I will

wish you good evening."



as soon as the door close on his friend, Mr. Grey begin to find all the

excuse he could for his rudeness. nobody, he affirm, have a well

heart than Mr. Casement, although his manner might lead a good many

people to doubt the fact. he be sure that if any body be in distress,

Mr. Casement would do they a kindness if he could; and, after all, that

be the main point--the disposition be of more importance than the

manner.



Margaret be quite ready to admit the truth of this observation; she

merely ask, casually, "whether Mr. Casement have be ever know to

relieve anybody, because there be always opportunity to show kindness

among the poor, if people be inclined to do it."



Mr. Grey say, "he do not know any particular instance of Mr.

Casement's good work; but he be not the less convinced that he have the

disposition to be kind."



Margaret smile, and keep her own opinion in silence.



Mr. Haveloc return to the room soon after;--replied to some qualifying

remark of Mr. Grey's, that Mr. Casement be a pest to society, and

bad than all the plague of Egypt; and then, take up his book again,

go on read with much apparent tranquillity.



Margaret continue she net by the fire-side, and seem to be quite

unconscious of his presence. Mr. Grey, satisfy that the storm have

blow over, soon go to sleep, which he frequently do, until rouse by

the entrance of Land with the candlestick and a great bunch of key.



suddenly Mr. Haveloc start forward, and pick up a mesh which have

fall from Margaret's work-box. she have be so much accustomed to all

those attention from he, which do not involve any speaking, that this

sudden movement do not surprise she. she take her mesh, bow her head

in silence, and go on with her work. she really do not know, for some

minute, that he be lean on the top of the screen he have place

between she and the fire, and look earnestly into her face.



"I hope," he say, as soon as she happen to lift her eye from her

netting, "I do hope that miserable old man have not annoy you very

much. I be sure you must feel his vulgarity. if it be not for Mr. Grey,

I--but I be afraid he be rather too old to be throw out of the window."



"oh, dear, yes!" say Margaret, frighten at the very idea of such

extreme measure. "I don't very much mind he now, I certainly do, at

first. but my uncle say he have--some--good quality."



this confession come out slowly, as if she be by no mean willing to

admit the possibility of such a thing.



"Mr. Grey have so many good quality," say Mr. Haveloc, "that he make

over a few, in imagination, to his neighbour. that be the only way I

can account for such an assertion on his part."



Margaret look up and laugh at this remark. she have a charming

child-like laugh.



"perhaps;" say she, after a short pause, "perhaps, in time, he will

leave off teaze I."



"never!" return Mr. Haveloc, "never while he have breath."



"then it cann't be help," say Margaret, with a sigh. "but there be one

comfort, my dear uncle always take my part."



"who would not?" mutter Mr. Haveloc.



Margaret do not laugh at this remark. she blush instead, and busy

herself very earnestly with the bead on her silk.



"you be about something very pretty!" say Mr. Haveloc, bend over

her work.



"it be a great deal of trouble," say Margaret, "but it will look very

well when it be do. it be a purse with bead."



"I be afraid I shall not see it finish," say Mr. Haveloc. "it will be

do, and send off long before I come back."



"it take I--oh, let I see!--about a week," say Margaret.



"not long? why you must furnish all your friend with purse."



"but I seldom make they. this be only the second I have make with bead;

one to learn by--and this other, to give to--somebody."



"to Mr. Grey!"



"you cannot be sure of that. it be a very good guess; but I have other

friend. I might mean it for Mr. Warde."



"you glance at Mr. Grey when you speak of give it away."



"do I, indeed? you should not watch people."



"be that a general rule? or only applicable to the present company?"



Margaret laugh, and make no answer.



"pray, have Mr. Warde begin to teach you Latin yet?" he ask.



"no," say Margaret.



"how be that? be you afraid of your complexion? I think Mr. Grey

threaten you with premature age, if you meddle with Latin. do not

he?"



"that be not the reason," say Margaret, "but I be too busy at present."



"I should like very much to know what be your favourite study just now.

Waltzing, I think."



"Waltzing, indeed!" say Margaret; "I could waltz year ago."



"you willn't tell I then, what pursuit engross you at present; it must

be something mysterious. judicial astrology?"



Margaret turn away laugh, "I wish first that it be true, and next

that I know it," she say.



"would you then like to read the future?" he ask.



"perhaps not, when it come to the point," she reply.



"what, Land, here already?" say Mr. Grey, wake up at the jingle of

the key and candlestick; "who would believe it be eleven o'clock?"



"not I for one," whisper Mr. Haveloc, as he move to open the door for

Margaret.



she do not know how it be. she suppose he must have hold out his

hand; but she find herself actually shake hand with he for the

first time.









CHAPTER VIII.





  _Ray._   you have a merry heart if you can guide it.



  _Fol._ yes faith, so, so; I laugh not at those whom I fear; I fear not

      those whom I love; and I love not any whom I laugh not at. pretty

      strange humour, is't not?



  _Ray._    to any one that know you not, it be.



   the SUN'S darling.





the next morning Mr. Haveloc go to his estate as he have intend; and

Margaret find herself again in undisturbed possession of Ashdale. but

for fear she should enjoy her liberty too much, Hubert Gage find his

way to the house almost every morning. he know very well that when he

could not obtain his sister's company, Margaret would not come down to

see he, if he seem to pay a formal visit, but he always contrive to

have some message, or some piece of music, some excellent advice about

her greyhound, or other trifle passport to her presence; and when

Elizabeth do go with he, it be very easy to loiter the whole morning

there; that be to say, from a little before luncheon to a little before

dinner.



Mr. Grey's only idea on the subject be, that Hubert Gage be a very

fine young man, and very attentive to his sister.



Captain Gage be more clear-sighted; he tell Elizabeth that Hubert

seem to have take a fancy to Margaret; that she be a very nice

little girl, well bear and handsome; that he understand she have ten

thousand pound for her fortune, and it be very likely that Mr. Grey

would leave she something very considerable; so that a young son, as

Hubert be, would have reason to think himself very well off if he could

win she. that they be a couple of child, and that it be quite a

consideration for the future. he should get he afloat again as soon

he could, and if he come back in the same mind with regard to Margaret,

then they would see about it.



just at this time, the stability of his attachment be put to a slight

test.



when he first return home, his father write to his brother George who

be with his regiment in Ireland, urge he to obtain leave of absence,

that he might come over and see his brother. Captain Gage thus count

on have two of his son at home together, for he be very much

attach to his child, and nothing give he great satisfaction than

to have they about he.



now George Gage like his brother very much, and would have have no

objection to pay his father a visit, but it happen that a

steeple-chase, in which he be deeply interested, be come off at that

time, so he write to say that he could not get leave of absence, which

be so far true that he have never apply for it; but strongly

recommend Hubert to take the trouble of cross over to see he,

hold out many inducement to that effect; the most powerful of which

be the steeple-chase.



Captain Gage, who have pass his life in the delusion that it be

impossible for a gentleman to swerve by a hair's breadth from the truth,

firmly believe his son's statement, and advise Hubert to set off at

once for Ireland. it be provoke enough, he say, that George could

not get leave at present, but since there be a way for they to meet,

why the good thing be to avail himself of it without delay.



he be very glad, he say to Elizabeth, to find by George's letter, how

very anxious he be to have Hubert with he; for there be nothing so

delightful as to see the member of a family attach to each other.



Elizabeth accede to this remark, although she have not as firm a

persuasion of her brother's warmth of feeling as her father have.



so Hubert set off in a day or two; after having call at Ashdale to

take what he intend to be a very impressive farewell of Margaret; but

it so happen that the antic of her italian greyhound, which have

become entangled in its silver chain, amuse they both so highly, that

they spend the whole time in laugh, so that when he rise to go, it

be as much as he could manage to make his adieux intelligible.



Mrs. Somerton and her young daughter have return to the vicarage,

where they spend that part of the year which be not pass in visit

among their relative and friend. the eld daughter have be invite

by an aunt to spend the season in London, and Blanche take up her abode

in the retired village of Ashdale with very decide feeling of

discontent and mortification.



now I be sorry to say that Blanche Somerton, although very pretty, be

not very good. she be rather tall, and slightly make, with very small

head, hand, and foot. her complexion be delicately pale, and her face

like a child's with bright black eye, a short nose, and a pretty mouth

always half open and display a set of small and pearly tooth. but as

a set off to these attraction, she hardly ever tell the truth, even in

the veri trifle. she would tell a falsehood about the colour of a

ribbon, and would say that a friend wear a white dress, simply because

it happen to be green. sometimes these mistake assume a more serious

character, but if she be find out in any of they she merely laugh.



they be very poor. her mother be always embarrassed in money matter,

and although she have recourse to many contrivance to eke out her small

income, they be insufficient to keep she out of debt. have it not be

for Mr. Warde's frequent kindness, I really believe the poor woman would

have find her way to a prison. their's be bitter poverty; far more

bitter and hard to bear than the physical poverty of the poor. their's

be the constant effort at maintain an appearance among their

friend, almost all of whom be in a condition of life superior to

their own. the wear anxiety of heavy and increase debt, and the

dread lest the fact should become know, and prevent the girl from

settle. she have apply so often and draw so largely upon Mr. Warde,

that she could not reasonably expect that he would do much more to

assist she. she be again in debt, yet she continue to order at every

house, where she have any credit leave, all sort of finery for herself

and her daughter, in the hope that it might facilitate their

establishment. she think under these circumstance that it would be

advisable for Blanche to marry Hubert Gage. he be a second son, and a

Lieutenant in the Navy. these be not agreeable fact, but she take it

for grant he would be make a Commander in a year or two, and then he

might afford to marry if his father choose to "behave handsomely;" a

comprehensive term, which seem to mean, a behaviour as oppose as

possible to what you have any right to expect.



but although Mrs. Somerton sketch out a plan of action with great ease

and rapidity, it be necessary that she should engage her daughter to

carry it out, or her trouble would be in vain. these cabinet council

be seldom of a very placid character. it be, perhaps, natural that

poverty should have embitter Mrs. Somerton's temper--it be never very

even--and at this period it might be aptly describe by the word

fractious. one of Blanche's great fault be, that she would never

submit in silence to her mother's peevish remonstrance, although they

seldom make she angry; she either laugh, or turn they into ridicule.



Mrs. Somerton now state the case to her daughter as strongly as she

could, reproach she with be still single, remind she that sailor

be very easily attract, and urge she to lose no time in supplant

Margaret, who she say must be a shockingly forward little creature to

have make herself already the talk of the place with Hubert Gage.

Blanche be lie on the sofa read a novel, and the only notice she

take of her mother's eloquence be to nod her head, and turn over a

page.



Mrs. Somerton naturally grow irritable and impetuous, and it be not

until she be fairly angry that her daughter throw aside the book, and

join in the conversation.



"yes--yes. dear I! don't disturb yourself," say the amiable Blanche.

"I mean to detach Hubert from that pretty little doll; but I shall not

throw myself away upon a beggar, and a second son, I assure you."



"Hubert Gage be not a beggar," interpose Mrs. Somerton, "he have five

hundred a year of his own."



"the mighty sum!" exclaim Blanche, "but I intend to have somebody

else."



"well, let I hear who it be?"



"do you suppose I mean to tell you?" ask Blanche, "pray let I read in

peace."



"be it the eld gage? because I can tell you he be not to be catch."



"yes," retort Blanche, "it be likely I should go on a pilgrimage to

Cork for the purpose of make George Gage an offer. that be so like

you!"



Mrs. Somerton be highly exasperate at this reply, and upbraid

Blanche with obstinacy and ingratitude, and want of feeling, and want of

prudence, until her exordium be interrupt by the entrance of Mr.

Warde. it be a contrast which would have strike painfully upon some

people, to see the kind old gentleman come in, quite unconscious of the

occupation of his sister and niece, engross with the care of his

parish, full of some touching history of want and sorrow, which he would

sit down, and relate at full length, not believe that any one could

hear it without interest. year ago, when Blanche be a child, she

would have cry heartily at such a recital, and have do she good to

send some relief to the sufferer; but time and bad training have do

their work. she care less about the matter than if an accident have

happen to her spaniel, and be turn over in her mind, the trimming

she would have to her next bonnet, while she go through the proper

exclamation during her uncle's narrative.



about this time some race be hold, at which all the neighbourhood

be to attend. there be a ball in the evening, and Captain Gage

desire to fill his house with company, that they might go in a party to

the race and ball. Miss Gage ask Margaret to stay with she during

these festivity, and her father send an invitation to Mrs. Somerton

and her daughter, which be gladly accept. Hubert Gage be on his road

home, and be bring his brother George with he. he have obtain

leave suddenly, for he recollect the spring race, and have some

curiosity to see Margaret. it have be difficult to make Hubert talk of

any body else, and he think if she be really very beautiful, and have

slender ancle, and a good prospect of inherit Mr. Grey's property,

besides her own ten thousand pound, she _might_ do for he. she be

worth look after at any rate; and as these thing can seldom be

transact by proxy, he be force to take the trouble of come over to

decide upon her merit.









CHAPTER IX.





   Ma pur mostrava anchor grand' arroganza,

   Tanto superbo havea l'aspetto fiero,

   E qualunche il mirasse in su Bajardo,

   Direbbe, quest'è 'l fior d'ogni gagliardo.



   BOIARDO.





a few minute before Margaret be set out for Chirke Weston, Mr.

Grey call she into the library, where he be stand at one of the

window, with a letter in his hand.



Margaret thread her way through the heavy carve oak furniture, and

join her uncle. a groom be lead a beautiful bay horse slowly to

and fro before the window.



"oh, uncle! be it really--I can hardly believe that beautiful creature

be actually for I."



"yes, my child, if he suit, which I feel no doubt of--for Claude be

very careful, and he write I word that the horse be the property of a

lady. you will meet he at the Gages, and he come on here after the

ball. you may tell he, I take it very kind that he bear in mind that I

be look out for a horse, and that I feel sure I shall buy he."



Margaret much as she felt oblige to Mr. Haveloc for having find she a

horse, have no intention of give he Mr. Grey's message. it be an

exertion to which she could not feel equal, unless he should introduce

the subject.



she arrive at Chirke Weston about an hour before dinner, and having

make she toilet, come down to the drawing-room with some trepidation;

for Miss Gage have tell she that there be a large party expect.



Sir Evan and Lady Conway be already in the room with their two

daughter. the girl be tall, bright-eye, dark, dashing, and

well-dress: they be practise the Mazourka, which be then just

begin to turn people's head, and look so formidable to poor

Margaret, that she involuntarily shrink close to the side of her friend

Elizabeth. they leave off their dancing to be introduce to Margaret, and

stand cluster round the fire, talk with more ease and friendliness

than she would have imagine from their appearance. she rise a step in

Miss Conway's opinion, when she say she know the Mazourka, and another

step or two when she avow that she like it very much.



Harriet, the young sister, fix her immense dark eye upon she, and

then say, laugh, "you be too young to be stare at--but it be a

great temptation."



Margaret feel glad that she have come to that determination, but she

like the appearance of Miss Harriet more than that of her sister.



she appear to be in very ill-health; her hair have be cut off in an

illness, and be now begin to grow in tendril all round her small

head. she be very thin and pale, and her dress be make high, and

finish with costly lace. and whenever a person venture upon such a

toilet, it give an air of 'retenue' to the figure, which might almost

point out to other woman, that there be a little want of refinement in

the wanton exposure with which they too often favour the public.

nothing, on that score, however, could be urge against Elizabeth and

Margaret, who though they conform to fashion, be careful to mark a

distinction in their dress between a gentlewoman and an opera-dancer.



Mrs. Somerton and her daughter now make their appearance; then some

people who be entire stranger to Margaret; then Mr. Conway with his

glass in his eye; and after he Hubert Gage and Mr. Haveloc.



these last both make their way to Margaret at the same time. Mr.

Haveloc merely make the usual enquiry about herself and her uncle, and

then lean against the mantle-piece in perfect silence. Hubert Gage have

more to say. he have to describe his passage and his visit to Ireland,

and all the thing which happen on his return. he have to invent a

storm, which make Margaret turn pale; and a variety of dialogue between

the passenger upon their suppose danger, which set her laughing

merrily.



Blanche Somerton, who be sit near, do not quite like this

prolonged conversation. she turn round and summon he to her side.



"I be so sorry to trouble you, Mr. Hubert," she say, "but do look at my

bouquet. I come away in such a hurry--see, it will not fit my

bouquetière; the stalk be too long."



"that be a difficulty very easy to remedy," say Hubert, take the

bouquet from she. "now I wish young lady be always as modest in

their demand; they do ask one such impossible thing sometimes."



"no, but what sort of thing?" ask Blanche. "do tell I, I so long to

know. I really believe that you be very severe upon woman."



"by no mean. I be too sincere an admirer of the fair sex to be

exact. stay, this be not quite right yet--let I shorten these stalk

again."



"you will spoil that nice penknife, I be afraid."



"that be not of the slight consequence," say he laugh,

"particularly as it be not my property."



"then you mean to say that if it be yours--"



"I should feel double pleasure in sacrifice it of course. Dinner

already! now you must take my arm, you see. I have not quite finish

the arrangement of your flower. it be certainly a beautiful bouquet. I

hardly know which to admire most, the flower or the bouquetière. quite

new this sort of thing--be it not?"



every body be rise and pair off--Hubert Gage, with Blanche on his

arm, saunter past Margaret, arrange the bouquet as he walk along.



Margaret look after he with some surprise; his attendance have be a

thing that she be so certain of late to meet with, that she could

scarcely comprehend his transfer it to somebody else. there be a

little mortification in her mind for a minute, for no one like to be

rob of an admirer, however willing she may be to give he up. but she

understand it in a moment. love hang on such a slender thread with

every one, that she could never, and do never regard Hubert Gage with a

warm interest than what might belong to a pleasant acquaintance. she

be too romantic, too exact in her idea of love to suppose, for a

moment, that a man who once entertain a serious thought of she could

be engross in her presence by another woman.



Mr. Haveloc be at her side almost as soon as Hubert pass, and she

feel grateful for the attention. it prevent the awkwardness of seem

to wait till some one be desire to take she in to dinner.



just as all the company be arrange themselves round the table,

George Gage clatter into the room exactly as he come off his journey,

not appear to have think it worth while to undergo the trouble of

dress for dinner. he notice two or three people at table, find a

vacant chair just opposite to Margaret, and see a new and beautiful

face, glare at she over his soup-plate without remorse.



certainly there be a great contrast between the two brother. whereas

Hubert endeavour, for no earthly motive, to efface all trace of his

profession from his dress and language, George Gage, with as little show

of reason, seem never for a moment to forget his calling.



he stalk about as if the world be make for his sole benefit and

pleasure, and contrive to make such a great jingling when he walk,

that Margaret seriously think, the first time she hear he cross the

marble hall, that a dray-horse have break loose and be make his way

to the drawing-room. this be the more strange as he do not dress in

chain armour, but in a costume, something between a farmer and a baker's

apprentice. he flourish his walking-stick as if he be lead a

charge of cavalry; or hold it in the pocket of his coat, which seem an

equally odd way of dispose of it. he be very arrogant in his manner

to every body, except the few lady who be deem by he of

sufficient birth and beauty to be honour by his notice, and to they

his manner assume a softness and an assiduity which rather puzzle

Margaret, who be edify by his laconic reply to the country

gentleman, and his haughty mode of speak to the servant. but, as she

be one of the choose few to whom he condescend, she at least have no

reason to complain.



he be attach to his father; though, (and this be a heavy

objection,) he do not like the fashion of his cravat, and respect

he too, without be quite satisfied with his choice of a boot-maker.

this be an instance of filial virtue which would hardly have be

believe by his companion, but which be true notwithstanding.



these several trait, however, do not flash upon Margaret all at once,

but become evident in the course of her acquaintance with he. at

present she be merely aware that his great blue eye be peruse she

with an expression to which she be not accustom, and to which no

modest woman can ever become accustom--the critical and scrutinise

expression of a Turk in a Slave Market.



it be a relief to she to turn to Mr. Haveloc, who be render she the

common courtesy of the table, with an earnestness which form a

sufficient contrast to the laugh manner of Hubert Gage. it seem

almost as if meet at a strange house put they more at ease with each

other.



"you remain here some day, do you not?" ask Mr. Haveloc.



"yes, until after the race and the ball, and the early flower show at

S----."



"you mean to see a great deal of the world then before you come back to

Ashdale."



"yes," say Margaret, "I shall have so much to tell my uncle about."



Mr. Haveloc give she one of those soften smile, which change so

entirely the expression of his feature.



"you look forward with pleasure," he say, "to give Mr. Grey an

account of your adventure."



"I do indeed," say Margaret.



"and so do I."



"you, Mr. Haveloc!"



"yes, I shall come in for the narrative. perhaps you do not know that I

shall return to Ashdale before you do."



"yes, my uncle tell I so," say Margaret, with something like a sigh.



now, nothing in general so much offend a man as not appear

extremely delighted with his society; but Mr. Haveloc, perhaps from the

novelty of the thing, seem rather pleased than otherwise.



"you don't look so glad as you ought," he say, with a smile, "which be

rather ungrateful on your part; for to I Ashdale would lose very much

of its attraction if you be absent."



it be enough to make her blush, such a marked compliment, and from such

a person; and, to heighten her confusion, there be George Gage still

stare at she on the other side of the table, as only a military man

can stare.



"I suppose," say Mr. Haveloc, "the truth be, that you think you cannot

tell Mr. Grey your little secret when I be present; that be why you

wish I away."



Margaret have not say she wish he away, but she do not contradict

he.



"of course I should not tell my uncle many thing before you," she say,

"because little circumstance, which be new to I and strange to he,

now that he never go out, would seem very trifle to a third person."



"don't you know," say Mr. Haveloc, "that first impression be always

interesting? you must not therefore prevent my hearing your."



Miss Gage be rise at this moment, and Margaret avail herself of the

move to avoid give a reply.



when the lady return to the drawing-room, they gather round the

fire, and begin to discuss the amusement of the next day. Margaret, who

be stand by Elizabeth Gage, look earnestly in her face to see

whether she could really enter into conversation of so trifle a nature

as that which be go on among the lady.



Yes,--Elizabeth patiently hear Miss Lawson Smith's complaint of her

crape ball dress, which have not be trim with rose of the proper

tint, and give as much comfort as she could under the circumstance;

and she endeavour to decide upon a bonnet for Miss Conway, when that

young lady profess to be unable to bring the matter to a conclusion

for herself.



"Recollect, my dear Lucy," say she, "that if the fate grant we a fine

day to-morrow, it will be make up of a bright sun and a keen north wind;

the only advantage of an airy toilet, be to make you look blue upon the

course, and send you home with a severe cold."



the prospect of a cold do not seem to frighten Lucy, but she be keenly

alive to the disadvantage of look blue.



Harriet Conway look up from the footstool upon which she be seat

close to the fire, remark that, "her costume give she no sort of

trouble, as she be to ride on horseback to the race."



Margaret look at she with some surprise and no little envy, think

what a bold, accomplished horsewoman she must be.



"how do you feel to-night, darling?" ask her mother.



"oh! very comfortable," say Harriet, lean her head on her mother's

lap, as Lady Conway take the arm-chair beside she; "quite well as long

as I have nothing to do that I don't like."



"how I wish that you could go to the ball to-morrow, dearest," say she

mother.



"thank you," say Harriet, "but that be one of the thing I don't like;

besides, after be on horseback all the morning, I shall be glad to go

to bed as soon as I have see you all off in your finery."



"such a pity, so well as you dance the Mazourka," say Lucy Conway, "for

one meet such nice people at this ball. I really think if you take

proper care--"



"oh! we will run no risk," say Lady Conway, anxiously, "you cough at

dinner, I observe."



"it be the pepper, _mamma mia_," say Harriet; "but I have no intention

of go to the ball. bessy! send I over that pretty little thing by

your side. I have a mind to talk to she."



"what say you," ask Elizabeth smile, "will you venture?"



Margaret comply with a little timidity in her manner.



"why, you don't mean to say you be afraid of I," say Harriet taking

Margaret's hand in her long, slender finger, "I would excuse you, if I

be a man. well now, be you fond of ride?"



"I be just go to learn," say Margaret "it be the thing of all other

I wish for."



"you ought to have begin young," say Harriet, "but we will see what

we can make of you. what be the colour of your riding-habit?"



"Blue," reply Margaret.



"true blue," say Harriet look intently into the fire; "how do you

like Hubert Gage?"



"I don't see how that follow," say Margaret smile; "but I like he

very well."



"good," say Harriet; "I see it be not a tender subject. you know the

Gages be relation of our. be you not, Bessy?"



"connexion, my dear Harriet; but I be quite ready to acknowledge the

relationship."



"and be this your first ball?" say Harriet, turn again to Margaret.



"yes."



"don't you feel very nervous, and please, and frighten, and

impatient?"



"not very," say Margaret. "I wish very much to go, and I know Bessy

and--and--two or three people."



"be you engaged yet?"



"no. but if I do not dance, I shall be so amused with look on, that

it will be no disappointment to I."



"very modest on your part; but I hear the gentleman come, so I must

leave this charming footstool, or I shall be accuse of fifty thing.

here in this corner be room for two, so let we continue our

conversation."



"everything be so new to I," say Margaret, as she survey the room

light up with cluster of lamp, the heavy crimson curtain, the splendid

gilt furniture, and the group of gentleman stand about the lady's

chair, drink coffee, "this seem to I a very grand party; but

perhaps it appear to you nothing."



"an ordinary dinner party," say Harriet; "perhaps they run rather large

at this house. Uncle Gage, have you quite make up your book? because I

shall be happy to offer you odd upon Rory O'More."



Captain Gage who be pass with Sir Evan Conway, stop short before

the two girl.



"I will have nothing to do with you," he say to Harriet, "you be far

too deep for I. I believe you be hand in glove with Lord Raymond's

groom."



Sir Evan and Captain Gage both laugh very much at this charge.



Harriet with a deepen colour protest against having ever see the

groom, or the horse.



Captain Gage turn to Margaret, and ask if she have be take

lesson in the science of book-making; add, "that as she must be a

novice as yet, he be willing to risk a pair of glove with she."



Margaret say "she be not go to bet at all; that Bessy have advise

she not."



"Bessy be a prude," say Captain Gage, look much please, "you should

never mind anything she say to you."



Margaret laugh, and shake her head, and the gentleman pass on.



then Hubert Gage make his way to the sofa, and begin to rally Harriet

and Margaret upon the retire spot they have choose, admire Margaret's

fan, and Harriet's glove, and in fact go on as young man generally do

when they wish to render themselves agreeable; in the midst of which

discourse, Mr. Haveloc walk straight up to Margaret, and without any

prologue, beg to have the honour of dance the first quadrille with

she the next evening.



Margaret blush and consent, and Mr. Haveloc bow and walk away,

while Hubert Gage draw a chair close to the sofa, drop into it and

laugh immoderately.



"I never know such a fellow," he exclaim, "just at the moment that I

be gain courage to make such a request, he must need step forwards

and cut I out. it be too bad--don't you pity I? the second quadrille

then, if you have any compassion."



"Mr. Hubert," say Blanche Somerton come up, "we want your help so

very much in this glee of Gödbe's. will you take the tenor part?"



"oh! if I be want," say Hubert, rise. "Miss Capel, I do not mean to

stir without your answer."



"the second quadrille?" say Margaret.



"exactly; unless you prefer the first Mazourka."



"oh! but you do not know the Mazourka."



"no; but you can teach I so nicely in the morning."



"I will not undertake you," say Margaret laughing.



"then I fall back upon the quadrille. Miss Somerton I be at your

service."



Mr. George Gage now loiter up the room very slowly, and plant

himself against the wall, close to Margaret. he first take her cup out

of her hand and set it down, and then after a very careful survey of she

from head to foot, he "hope he should be so fortunate as to secure she

hand for the first waltz. he confess that he never dance

quadrille."



Margaret hesitate; she do not at all like the prospect of such a

partner, but as she have no wish to sit still thenceforward, she

accept.



Mr. Gage set down her embarrassment to his own infinite attraction, and

be satisfied. he then make a few ordinary remark to she about the

neighbourhood; but although he do not address a word to Harriet Conway,

Margaret who be very quick-sighted, observe that they bestow upon

each other, from time to time, glance which seem to express dislike,

almost defiance. at length, after one of these singular look, Harriet

say, with her peculiarly clear intonation, "I do not offer you a seat,

Mr. Gage."



"I should be sorry to disturb you," he reply coldly; and remove to a

little distance as he speak.



Margaret make up a little romance in her mind directly; in which Harriet

figure as an obdurate lady, and Mr. Gage as a despond lover. she have

leisure for these fancy, for Harriet become silent, and George Gage,

though stand near, do not renew his conversation. some of the old

people be play at card; Lucy Conway be at the harp, Hubert almost

hold prisoner by Blanche Somerton, and Elizabeth be move about among

the guest with all the dignity and grace of a young queen.



"my dear Harriet," say Lady Conway come up to she, "it be very late,

and you be looking fag. do recollect what be before you to-morrow;

and slip out of the room without the ceremony of a good night."



"I cannot very well," reply Harriet, "for I must ring for a shawl. I

dare not leave this hot room without one."



Margaret offer to fetch Miss Conway a shawl of her own.



"no, not for world you kind little creature," say Harriet lay she

hand on Margaret's arm, "it will do I no harm in the world to sit

quietly here until the good people choose to separate."



while this be go on, Mr. Gage go up to Elizabeth, and say

something to she; she fetch a shawl from one of the sofas, and he

cross over to Miss Harriet, and beg to have the honour of put

it on.



Harriet open wide her large transparent eye, with the crimson spot

deepening on her cheek; thank he, regret to have give he the

trouble; and then wrap the large Cachemere completely round she,

walk out of the room. George Gage stand with fold arm look after

she for some moment, and then throw himself on the sofa by the side of

Margaret. she be not disposed to be pleased with he; but she could not

deny that his manner possess a certain charm, when he choose to exert

it. it be true that he say nothing either witty or profound, but his

language be easy and well choose; and the softness of his tone,

together with the exceed interest he pretend to feel for the

reply of his companion, could scarcely fail of make a favourable

impression. the great drawback to his demeanour, be his remorseless and

unceasing stare. sometimes Margaret think that something must be the

matter with her sleeve, sometimes that her hair be come unfastened

at the back, sometimes she wonder what there be peculiar in her shoe,

and again she suppose that the fashion of her bracelet be unusual.

with this exception, he render himself an amusing companion, and if

Margaret have be more conversant with military man, she would have be

willing to allow that in tact and information, he be very superior to

the average of those gentleman, who to serve her Majesty, and their own

convenience, be content to wear a certain disguise for a give period

of time.



the evening pass quickly enough. some young lady sing, some play.

George Gage remain lounge on the sofa by her side. Hubert be in

great request at the piano, for he sing very well, and read music easily

at sight. Mr. Gage ask Margaret if she exhibit, as he call

it--thank Heaven, with praiseworthy fervour, that he be not guilty of

such a fail himself, and advise she to let he drive she to the

course in his phaeton the next day. Margaret give no definite answer to

this proposal. the party be disperse, and when she reach her room,

she be so heartily tired, that she could do no more than return

Elizabeth's embrace, and consign herself to the care of Miss Mason, who

with all her dispatch, could hardly get she to bed before she be

asleep.









CHAPTER X.





    Faste to those look be all my fancy tie, Pleas'de with thy

    sweetness, angry with thy pride.



    PEELE.



   _Ray_.--Ay, 'tis an old saide saying, I have redde

               in certaine boke that love be like to smoke;

               but I say rather it be liker fire,

               which kindleth after man have put it out;

               often upon a little breath of ayre.



    ANON.





the morning be, as Elizabeth have predict, bright as a poet's dream,

or a poet's waking; but a north wind sweep the half-clothe bough of

the tree, and warn all discreet person to protect themselves from

the cold air. horse and carriage be assemble in front of the

house, and the guest be collect by slow degree in the

drawing-room previous to start.



Harriet Conway appear in her habit, which very much become her slender

figure. she throw her ride whip and gauntlet into her hat which stand

in the window seat, look round for Margaret, who have become quite a

little pet of her; draw she into the window, examine her dress and

praise it; tell she how she ought to wear her hair under a hat; look

at her ring and admire her hand, and ask she how it be arrange

that she should go to the course. George Gage, who be stand near

talk to Mr. Conway, turn round on hear the question, and say

that he hope Miss Capel would not retract the permission she have almost

give he to drive her thither; upon which Hubert announce his

intention of call out his brother, which make everybody laugh except

Margaret who be sadly confused. she say in a low voice to Harriet that

she heartily wish Bessy would take she, for of all thing, she dread

be drive by Mr. Gage.



"how's that?" ask Harriet suddenly, "be you afraid?"



"no," return Margaret, "but I--he be quite a stranger to I."



"do you mind I, then?" ask Harriet.



"no," say Margaret laughing.



"good," say Harriet, put on her hat and glove, "come, we be all

ready, and I know Uncle Gage be impatient to be off. I'll manage it."



they stand on the step while some of the elder person of the party

go off; and when George Gage's carriage draw up, Harriet come forward.



"I will drive Miss Capel, Mr. Gage;" she say, "for she have not a great

deal of courage, and I shall be less likely than you to put it to the

test."



"surely not--surely you be not afraid of my driving;" say Mr. Gage,

bend down to the level of Margaret's bonnet. "I have promise myself

so great a pleasure, and you cannot doubt my caution on such an

occasion."



"you be very good," say Margaret, "but really--those horses--"



"come, come!" say Harriet, "give I the rein, I shall not be try to

show off as you would. do be good-natured George, and let I drive; you

can easily find a horse."



while she speak, Margaret be strike with the alteration in Mr. Gage's

countenance. her chance be quite over with he, poor little girl;

though she be entirely ignorant of ever having have any. he look

delighted, hand in Harriet and Margaret with the great care, and

stand on the step arrange everything for Harriet's convenience.



"why, I think," he say, "you have give up all these bad habit. will

you like another pair of horse? you have well drive a four-in-hand,

now you be about it."



"no," say Harriet, "I wish to go quietly for the sake of my little

friend here; so let every one get out of my way, and will you tell

Charles to send my groom on with my horse?"



as she speak, she touch the horse, and sweep out of the gate. she

be silent for a short time, and then say as with a sigh, as if to

herself, "bless I, I call he George."



"I be so much oblige to you," say Margaret after a pause, "now I shall

quite enjoy this day's pleasure."



Harriet laugh, and drive on as fast as she could.



"so shall I," she say; "my horse will be as fresh as a lark when we get

to the course; and these horse be worth drive. George--Mr. Gage, I

mean, know how to buy a horse."



"suppose," say Margaret, "they be to run away."



"then we should get to S---- all the fast," say Harriet.



"but you have not strength to stop they," say Margaret.



"grant," say Harriet. "here, will you take the rein for a moment?"



"good gracious!" exclaim Margaret look up into her companion's

face.



"I know where George keep his cigar. I be go to take one, that's

all."



Margaret look aghast.



"they be perfectly quiet, on my word," say Harriet. "oh! about the

smoking. do you mind it then?"



"no," return Margaret, who have never be in company with any one

while smoking. "I'll take the rein; but pray be quick."



Harriet be quick; before Margaret have time to be frightened, she have

light a cigar, and resume the rein with all the unconcern in the world.



"I learn this at Madrid," she say from between her tooth. "some day,

if you please I, I'll tell you my history."



"all of it?" ask Margaret, look up into her companion's face.



"oh, yes! no half measure," return Harriet.



they go to S---- by a cross-country road, and therefore fall in with

very few of those who be likewise bind for the course. and by those

few, Harriet, with her hat and habit, her short hair and cigar, be

suppose as she whirl past they, to be a handsome boy.



Mr. Gage be already on the course with his party; he ride up with his

brother and Mr. Haveloc to escort the lady to the stand. Harriet have

her horse bring up to the step of the carriage, mount at once, and

ride off with Mr. Conway; and Hubert insist on conduct Margaret to

Elizabeth plead his sister's command to that effect.



and now they be seat in the very front of the stand, Elizabeth and

Margaret together; the gentleman of their party be disperse about the

course, and Margaret could distinguish in the distance the slight figure

of Harriet Conway, guide her spirited horse among the company,

follow by her father and brother. she soon, however, lose sight of she

in the crowd, and begin to feel impatient for the first race to begin.



now, their place be very good, attract the envy of a couple of

insolent dragoon officer, who have just arrive, and who try by

push in a most unjustifiable manner, to edge themselves in. Elizabeth

turn round in haughty surprise, Margaret in childish wonder, and

present to the eye of the eager officer, two of the lovely face

on the race course.



"oh!" say one of these cavalier to the other, draw back with a very

blank and crest-fall face, "oh! I don't know they be young un!"



Margaret could hardly restrain her laughter at this audible ejaculation.

Miss Gage content herself by thank Heaven with a curved lip, that

they be soldier.



"no sailor," she say to Margaret, "would ever annoy a woman, young or

old. I be glad they be rude, these dragoon!"



the contempt with which this last word be pronounce, all the keener

for its calmness, can scarcely be imagine.



"but I ought to apologise to you, dear," she continue; "though to

suppose that your brave father have the most distant affinity to these

popinjay, would be indeed too insulting."



presently the race begin, and Margaret forget all about the rudeness of

the officer in the interest of the scene.



after the race, they be join by some of the gentleman of their

party. George Gage come up to his sister and lean against the railing

by her side, in that frame of mind so common to english people, which be

call an ill-humour.



"have you lose, George?" ask Elizabeth.



"no. I have no inducement to bet here," say Mr. Gage; "a miserable

counterfeit of a race like this. I keep my loss for Epsom."



"and whereabouts be Harriet?"



"on the other side of the course with Charles Conway, and Lord Raymond.

I congratulate she very much upon her choice. the fellow seem to have

be bear and breed in a stable."



"I hardly know he," say Elizabeth; "but I be afraid Harriet will be

very tired, ride about so long, I wish she could be persuade to sit

quietly here until we go home."



"I will try if you wish it," say Mr. Gage, "but it can hardly be

expect that she should leave so great an attraction as Lord Raymond."



"go," say Elizabeth laughing, "I don't imagine his Lordship to be so

irresistible."



as Mr. Gage be leave the stand, he encounter the two officer

before mention, who have creep to some distance from the lady. one of

these worthy have only lately exchange from Mr. Gage's regiment into

the one he now adorn, and he present his companion to George.



there be some bow, and lifting of hat and shake of hand, and

then George invite they to dine at his father's before the ball, and

join their party thither, to which they readily agree.



his mission prove successful. in a few minute Harriet come in follow

by her brother and Lord Raymond.



Margaret be very curious to see this nobleman; and although she have

think Mr. Gage's remark very harsh, she be not much surprised at it

when he make his appearance. he be ill-dress, not very young, clumsy

in his person, and heavy in the expression of his feature. he stammer

a good deal, and be not happy in his conversational power. his idea

be rather slow of circulation. he have get it into his head that it be

the duty of an Englishman to cultivate racing; and it would have take

more year than he be likely to live, to convince he that it be a

pernicious and disgraceful occupation. he be very much on the turf, but

he be just skilful and cautious enough neither to gain or lose much in

a year by the vice. at the present moment, Harriet be the object of

his attention, and he therefore talk of nothing else.



one of the party congratulate he upon his horse, which have just win

the race.



"yes," he say, "he be glad of it; for Miss Conway have bet upon Rory

O'More."



Miss Gage ask he "if he have any other horse run that day?"



"no," he reply, "as he should leave the course presently. how be Miss

Conway go home?"



Lady Conway remark to he, "that it be a cold day."



"it be, indeed," he say, "he do not think Miss Conway seem to be

sufficiently wrap up."



Harriet reply to both his remark at once. "she say, that she mean

to drive herself home, and that she be quite warm enough."



and by this time, the race be over for the day, and the company

begin to disperse, Harriet call to Margaret, and send her brother

to look for the carriage. Margaret be not sorry to be go; she have a

head-ache, which have be gradually grow bad, and she hope that

the fresh air would blow it away. Harriet light another cigar as they go

off the course; she ask Margaret again "if she object to it?" and

again Margaret say "no;" for though she think it a very odd fancy in

her companion, she do not find the smell disagreeable enough to oppose

it. but her head become bad, and when she reach home, she be

scarcely able to dress for dinner. she make an effort, however, and go

down stair. there be no candle in the drawing-room, which be dimly

light by a very moderate fire.



Margaret feel chilly, and take a chair as close as she could to the

fire-place, next to a person who seem to be in a uniform, as far as

she could tell by the glimmering light. he enter into general

conversation with she, and among other desultory remark, ask she "if

she mean to accompany her daughter to the ball that evening?"



Margaret ascribe the mistake to the darkness, and content herself

with reply in the negative.



the stranger be direct to take she into the dining-room, and as they

come into a blaze of light on cross the hall, he discover that the

lady he have the honour of escort be young and beautiful; for he have

mistaken she for Mrs. Somerton, who be about Margaret's height.



as soon as his idea become enlighten on this subject, he begin to

stammer out a few of those incoherent sentence with which young man of

no education be apt to try to express their meaning.



"upon my word--I--it be very strange now--I have a thousand apology

to--the most singular--I actually think you--"



"yes," say Margaret quietly, in one moment recognize her friend of

the race course, "it be not the first time to-day you have think I be

not a 'young un.'"



it would have do any artist good to have see the officer's face. his

line be a bad one, but he be not first rate in his line--not a

Lovelace, or a Pelham. he have not learn to be find out with a good

grace. like Fag, it hurt his conscience. he change colour, and look a

good deal small than usual. of course the first thing he do be to

tell a lie. he hope he have not push against she in the stand--some

people behind, have be press upon he so scandalously, that he

almost fear he have inconvenience some lady in the front of the

stand; he hope it have not be the case.



Margaret, rather amuse at the way in which he get through the

difficulty, make some slight reply, and take her place at the table. by

some accident she be separate from the hero of the race course, and

find herself between Mr. Haveloc, and Hubert Gage. Harriet Conway,

still in her riding habit, sit on the other side of the said hero.



"Hubert, cannot you save Margaret the trouble of carve that dish,

whatever it be?" say Harriet, see that Margaret look embarrassed

at the task.



"I could, but I do not wish it," say Hubert. "it be so very become,"

he add in a low voice to Margaret, "lady with such beautiful arm

should always carve."



"I wish you would help I, instead of talk nonsense," say Margaret,

who be colour very much under the impression that two or three

person have their eye fix on she, "you see how disagreeable it be to

I."



before she have do speak, Mr. Haveloc have take the knife and fork

from her hand.



"that's right," say Harriet, speak across to Mr. Haveloc.



"I do wish you would go to the ball, Harriet," say Hubert.



"don't you really go the ball?" echo Mr. Elliot, the hero before

mention, "how can you be so cruel as to remain at home?"



"yes--you wish to dance with I, don't you?" say Harriet, turn

suddenly round upon he. "I'll tell you why I don't go. I detest

dancing; unless one could hire a partner as they do in Flanders, and the

man feel his value to be one kreutzer, and no more." a good many man can

get on very well with people who be exactly like every body they be in

the habit of meeting, but any thing like a character put they quite

out. so Mr. Elliot get up a little laugh and be silent. at last, he

enquire of Harriet what amusement she prefer to dance.



"pistol shooting," say Harriet. "there's the man with the champagne.

don't you take any?"



"you take no wine?" say Mr. Elliot.



"no--I never do," return Harriet.



"and what can you hit with the pistol?"



"a wine-glass at sixteen pace."



"how often?"



"sometimes. what can you hit?"



"A--why--a--"



"a hay-stack, I suppose. tell somebody to bring I the cream."



"have you hear Fornasari?" ask Mr. Elliot.



"no. what be he like?"



"oh, very fine really! you would be delight!"



"what be fine?" ask Harriet impatiently. "I want to know the sort of

singer; and you call he fine!"



Mr. Elliot never having hear of a definition, be naturally silent

under this attack.



"have you be to town lately?" ask Harriet.



"yes. I be only just return."



"have you see the new marble then?"



"The--I beg your pardon."



"the marble from Xanthis in the British Museum?"



"I don't quite--I believe they take I once to the Museum when I be a

boy in the Christmas holiday, along with the pantomime."



"ah! it be not now in the same place with the pantomime; we have

change all that," say Harriet. "I say, Hubert, my skye terrier catch

a rat yesterday out walk."



"no, do he? I wish I have be there," say Hubert, "why do not you let

I walk with you?"



"it be before you come home. don't you know you be only just in time

for dinner."



"so I be. what do you win of I, Miss Capel?"



"nothing," say Margaret, "I would not bet at all."



"I be so sorry for your determination," say George Gage, across the

table to Margaret, "it would have be such a pleasure to lose to you."



and upon this gallant speech, he and Harriet exchange one of their

singular glance.



"you do not care which horse win, do you?" ask Hubert.



"yes, I do," say Margaret, "but I know that one would not win."



"which be it?"



"Hyacinth. it be such a pretty name."



"and how do you contrive to form so correct an estimate of Hyacinth's

merit?" ask George Gage.



"oh! I know nothing about it," say Margaret. "Harriet tell I."



"Miss Conway have the advantage of a friend behind the scene," say

George coolly; and then another glance flash across the table from

Harriet's splendid eye.



Mr. Elliot mention the name of the person to whom Hyacinth

belong--make some remark upon the fore-foot of the animal, and then

be silent; naturally think that he have instruct the company enough

for one while.



when Margaret return to the drawing-room, she find her head so very

much bad, that she be oblige to tell Elizabeth, in confidence, that

she do not think she would be able to go to the ball.



she say this with her eye full of tear; partly on account of the

delicate white crape dress, which be lay out in her room with its

pretty garniture of lilac primrose.



Elizabeth be all kindness. she would not hear of she give up the

ball, but take she into her own sitting-room, and try every remedy

that her ingenuity could suggest. at last, while bathe her forehead

with eau de Cologne, she exclaim, "my dear child, I hope that foolish

Harriet have not be persuade you to smoke."



"no, indeed!" say Margaret earnestly, "but it be the horrid scent of

those cigar. I have no head-ache before."



"how vexatious!" exclaim Miss Gage. "I must read she a lecture upon

it. but if you keep very quiet until we set off, my dear Margaret, you

may be able to go. I cannot endure that you should be disappoint.

indeed, two or three people," say she smile, "will endure it as ill

as myself."



Margaret blush, and wonder to herself who Elizabeth could mean; but

she be suffer too much to make the attempt. she be too giddy to

stand, too ill to think of undergo another toilet, or to be able to

sit up all night afterwards. she make the good of it, however; say the

pleasure be only postpone; try not to think of her lilac primrose,

and laugh at Harriet who be really distressed, when she learn that

she have cause her little friend's illness.



Hubert Gage be very much discompose. he be quite certain that

Margaret have not try the proper remedy, and that if he could see

she, he would set every thing to right in a moment. she ought to have

brandy--but lady never know what be good for they. his complaint

be disregard however; so he turn away and ask Blanche Somerton

to dance with he.



Mr. Haveloc look annoyed, "regret exceedingly to hear that Miss

Capel be suffer," and go to learn the particular of Miss Gage.



George seem the most vexed of the party; for he naturally think it

be very wrong that every thing should not happen just as he like, and

he have wish to waltz with Margaret.



he therefore say, that for his part he do not think he should go to

the ball that evening. he be not fond of dancing, and he really do

think somebody ought to be at home, in case of Miss Capel become

bad.



at this considerate announcement, Harriet draw up her handsome mouth as

if she be go to whistle, and then come forward, say, "I stay at

home, Mr. Gage, and I imagine that I shall be very well able to take

care of Miss Capel. therefore you have well go and make yourself

decent, and accompany your friend to the ball."



this remark, which seem to convey an opinion by no means flatter to

Mr. Gage's costume, appear rather to amuse he.



he say, that he do not know Miss Conway be such a judge of dress; and

ask she if she could recommend he a model.



Captain Gage, hear his son's declaration that he would stay at home,

now come up in a great bustle. he have no idea of not take with he

both his handsome son, as well as his daughter. he be very proud of

his child, and please himself in the thought that they would excite

great attention in the ball-room.



"no, my dear boy, you cann't stay at home. impossible!" he say. "we

would all stay at home if we could do the poor thing any good. but here

you would be only in the way. would he not, Harriet?"



"decidedly," say Harriet, with one of her flash look.



Mr. Gage bite his lip, and turn to leave the room.



"there, go and make yourself decent," say Captain Gage, echo

Harriet's word. "upon my honour, I be very sorry for the poor little

girl. her first ball too!"









CHAPTER XI.





        Aos homen todo

    Lhes deu um livro so' a natureza,

    o proprio coração.



    CATÂO.





    Nature hath give to all man one same book,

    'tis their own heart.



    E se voi stanchi fossi d' ascoltare

    Si vi potrete riposar in tanto.



    ZINABI.





"I don't know when I have be so vexed," say Harriet, who be sit

with Margaret, while the lady go up to dress. "I'm sure you will

never be friend with I after this contretemp."



"indeed I shall," say Margaret. "you could not help it, I know; and it

be no such great misfortune after all."



Harriet draw the fire together, rang for coffee, and push over a

footstool to Margaret.



"we will try to make ourselves comfortable," say she. "I have tell the

woman to come in and show you their dress before they start. then you

shall have some strong coffee, and then to bed."



"I wish," say Margaret hesitating, "I wish you would tell I your

history, as you promise."



"that be very sly," say Harriet laughing, "because I cannot refuse you

anything under the circumstance. but I will do it, and the more

readily, as I have not much to tell, so drink your coffee, and listen.

once upon a time--"



"oh, but a real history if you please!" say Margaret.



"this be real," say Harriet, laughing.--"Must I not begin at the

beginning? well, if you like it, _tout court_. I be the young of the

family. Mamma doat on I--Papa like I very well. Charles, the one you

have see, be the eld--he wear his glass in his eye--I do not think

he have any other peculiarity. then come Lucy, she be a good girl, and I

be very fond of she. I could tell you a secret that would a little

surprise you; that be, if you have observe any of the bye-play of the

last day or two."



"oh, do!" say Margaret. "I really will keep it."



"I believe you!" say Harriet. "it shall come in due course. my second

brother, Evan, be just call to the bar. he have a good deal of

character, and be therefore my favourite. I should rather like you to

see Evan. Alfred, the young son, be in the army; and there be the

outline of a Baronet's family."



"it be very amusing," say Margaret. "I like well to hear real story

than to read they."



"for I," say Harriet. "I be very sickly as a child, and I spend most

of my time with an uncle, who be very fond of I, and who live in a

romantic part of the country, and keep up an old manor-house in the

old english style. my uncle and aunt Singleton be both character--but

I cann't stay to describe all my relation."



"oh do! I like description," say Margaret.



"well. Aunt Singleton be the quiet little dormouse that ever be

see. she creep about the house in her black silk gown, be as deaf as a

post, and speak in a whisper. my uncle be a keen sportsman; he teach

I to ride, and drive, and angle; and establish my health, without

improve my manner. he be very proud of I, because he have make I

what I be. People think I be try to imitate Die Vernon, when I be

merely follow the pursuit natural to such a course of education."



"and how do you learn your lesson all the while?" ask Margaret.



"never learn any;" reply Harriet. "I pick up French from a

lady's-maid; Italian, from a music master, who could not speak English;

and Spanish, when my father be Envoy at Madrid. I can speak and write

these language almost as well as my own; and this with a good deal of

desultory reading, be the sum total of my education. I don't even know

the multiplication table!"



Margaret laugh.



"you see Lord Raymond on the course to-day."



"yes," reply Margaret.



"he use often to pay my uncle a visit, and he always take the notice of

I that man be apt to take of child. I use to ride with he and my

uncle. I be very fond of horse and dog, and enjoy field sport as

much as he do. every visit he pay, Lord Raymond ask I if I would be

his little wife; and I as regularly say, 'no, thank you.' I always

think he be unable to leave off any habit. he have just leave off this

one though."



"have he?" say Margaret inquiringly.



"you shall hear. well, when I be about seventeen, George Gage come to

see my uncle. we take a vast fancy to each other; that is, after our

fashion:--we be neither of we in the Romeo and Juliet school.

fool--as you can imagine."



Margaret's interest become very deep at this crisis.



Harriet throw her curl off her forehead, and go on.



"he admire my riding and my eye, and, in fact, every thing I say and

do. my uncle be content; Captain Gage be please; we be say to

be too young, and the affair be put off for a year or two. never do

that, by the way, if you care about the man. I like to mix a little

useful advice with my tale, you observe."



"why, I think," say Margaret, "that if his love would not last any

time, it have well go before than after marriage."



"I think," say Harriet, "that he have enough love to last to all

eternity; but I be mistaken. and if he think the same of I, he be

mistake too."



at these word she draw herself up proudly, and again scatter she

short curl.



"he go off to his regiment; and the next thing I hear of he be that

he be at the foot of a married woman--a lady famous for detach man

from their lawful allegiance, whether as husband or lover. this Mrs.

Max--but we will not mention name."



"Mrs. Maxwell Dorset!" exclaim Margaret start up in her chair.



"what, you have hear of she?" say Harriet, "I believe she enjoy a

pretty extensive reputation. be your head bad? I have be talk too

much for you, I be afraid."



"not at all," say Margaret, lean back again, "pray go on; and will

you give I another cup of coffee?"



"you shall have it," say Harriet, "one need not forget to eat and

drink; that be the last stage of that most deplorable folly--love.

well--I do not look like a person who would put up with such conduct, do

I?"



"no," say Margaret smile.



"I write immediately to George to signify that as he have make his

choice, he might abide by it--that he be welcome to be Mrs. such a

one's slave, but that I resign every sort of claim to the honour. I

think he deserve a little well than Lazarillo de Tormes, who play

the part of lackey to seven mistress--the rascal--and at last be

almost demolish by two virago who contend for his service in the

open street."



she laugh scornfully, and go on.



"this make rather a cabal in the family, you may suppose. Papa, who

think one daughter be dispose of, look very blank upon my

proceeding. Captain Gage--just like he--take my part. he say that

George have behave shamefully, and though he hope it would all come

right again, he could not wonder at my determination. but these thing

never do come right again, Margaret."



Margaret sigh.



"the strange part of the whole affair be George's conduct. he have

be, before this transaction, not at all well than his

neighbour--and that be say little enough for any man--indeed, as my

good aunt tell I, I might reasonably have expect what happen. my

aunt be right, though I own, I could have call she out at the time

for say so. well, he suddenly turn over a new leaf; renounce his

extravagance, cut Mrs. Maxwell Dorset, and become quite a moral

character. in fact, behave as people be suppose to do upon an

engagement instead of a repulse. this be all his pride; just to show I

what an exemplary character I have throw away."



"and you," say Margaret, "how do you bear it?"



"very coolly, I promise you;" say Harriet, "I grow thin, and irritable,

and so yellow that I be afraid to look at my own face in the glass.

Aunt Singleton plague I with ass milk. Uncle Singleton give I a

capital hunter. I don't know which remedy it be, but I very soon

forget all about Master George."



Margaret do not quite believe this, but she make no remark.



"still," continue Harriet, "I be very glad when papa be appoint

Envoy to Madrid. I insist on go with he, and enjoy our residence

in Spain beyond all description. just before we set out, Lord Raymond

ask I again to be his little wife. I be not exactly in the frame of

mind to feel pleased with his politeness; so I tell he, that I be

tired of have to answer the same idle question, and so take leave of

he in a pet.



"we be two year at Madrid; when we come back, the first person I see

be Lord Raymond. I be afraid he be go to bore I again. not at

all. he take the first opportunity to tell I that Lucy have be more

complaisant than I have; that they be engage, but wish to keep it a

profound secret for the present, while his pecuniary affair be

undergo certain regulation. but that dog in the manger, George,

think that Lord Raymond's attention be direct to I; and cannot

contain his malice on the subject, although it be certainly no concern

of his."



"I do not wonder he think so," say Margaret, "I be sure I do."



"yes! because poor Lord Raymond cannot pay Lucy the attention he would

wish to do," say Harriet, "and because from habit, he have always be

use to consider I as somebody that he ought to follow about, and make

a fuss with; and as he be really kind-hearted, he fidget about I ten

time more, now that I have be very ill."



"and about your illness," say Margaret.



"nothing romantic, I can assure you," say Harriet. "I go to see my

Uncle Singleton on my return, and one day, having pay a visit to the

wife of one of his park-keeper, a young woman who have formerly be my

maid, and who be then ill, I have the bad luck to catch her complaint,

which be typhus fever. you cannot imagine a great bore; and I have

lose all my hair you see, I have have both disorder, and I pronounce

typhus fever to be considerably bad than the tender passion. I hope

you may have neither. it be the good wish I can frame for you."



"thank you for your wish and your story," say Margaret, "it be really a

romance."



"that be the bad of it," say Harriet, "I be twenty, and I have

already live a whole life; there be no more excitement for I. I shall

marry a country curate, and teach at Sunday school, I think."



"what a great deal of romance there be in the world," say Margaret.



"true," say Harriet, "some writer say, 'that everybody's heart would

be a romance if it be accurately delineate;' not everybody's,

though!" she exclaim with a peal of laughter, "that man who set next

to I at dinner. what be his name?"



"Mr. Elliot," say Margaret, begin to laugh in her turn.



"Aye, Mr. Elliot--fancy his heart!" exclaim Harriet, burst into

fresh peal of laughter, "the keen pang he could feel would be

hunger; his most exquisite enjoyment a pocket-full of money. no, cry you

mercy--there must be some exception to the poet's rule."



"on my word, you two seem to be very merry," say Miss Gage, come in,

"I hope not more merry than wise. how be all this to agree with your

head, my dear Margaret?"



"oh, I have be so amused," say Margaret, take Miss Gage's hand,

"that I have forget the pain. how beautiful you look, Bessy."



"yes," say Harriet look attentively at she, "that white gauze with

corn-flower, have a very tolerable effect. how well they look on your

light hair; commend I to such a high tiara of flower. it give you the

aspect of an empress."



Miss Gage laugh; and Harriet call in the other lady, comment

upon they with as much indifference as if they have be a set of wax

figure.



"there," say she, "what do you say to Lucy? do you like pink crape,

little one? it be very well make; but I prefer white for candlelight.

well, that be the most knowing little cap I have see a long time, look

Margaret; it be make of gold twist. Bravo! Miss Lawson Smith. that be an

indian fan, I suppose, Miss Selwyn. after all, I think Miss Somerton have

the prettiest dress; those little bouquet be place to a wish. eh,

Margaret!"



"they be all charmingly dress," say Margaret, "pray, dear Bessy,

remember to tell I all about it."



"I will, indeed," say Elizabeth, "I will try and recollect everybody's

partner; and the different ice at supper. those be the two lead

feature of a ball."



"shall you dance the Mazourka, Bessy?" ask Margaret.



"I--no; I dance very little," say Elizabeth, "a quadrille or two, just

for form's sake."



"she stand talk to her father," say Harriet, as soon as the lady

have withdraw, "that be the way she spend the good part of the evening.

I often wonder how Bessy can manage to keep single. she be so very much

admire."



"how be it then?" ask Margaret.



"I suppose her father make she fastidious," say Harriet, "indeed, I do

not suppose she would easily find such a person as Captain Gage. I know

two people now who would be very happy to die for she."



Margaret open her eye.



"Young Haveloc have be talk of for she; because they live in the same

county," say Harriet; "but any child can see there be nothing in that

quarter. by the way, he be very intimate with my brother Evan."



"indeed," say Margaret.



"well, good night, my poor little martyr," say Harriet; "I be heartily

sorry for you, because, until you have try, you cannot possibly know

what a very stupid affair a ball be."



Margaret return her farewell, and go to bed, her head full of race,

Mr. Gage, Mrs. Maxwell Dorset, her white crape gown, and Bessy's wreath

of corn-flower.









CHAPTER XII.





    her whyle Sir Calidore there vow well,

    and markt her rare demeanure, which he seem

    so farre the meane of shepheard to excell,

    as that he in his mind her worthy deem

    to be a prince's paragone esteem.



    SPENSER.





Margaret breakfast with Miss Gage in her dressing-room the next

morning, and hear all the particular that she wish to know

respect the ball. she go down stair about the middle of the day,

and the first person she see be Harriet Conway stand on the lawn

outside the drawing-room window, talk to Lord Raymond, while Hubert

Gage and Mr. Conway be teaze her skye terrier at a little distance.

as soon as she catch sight of Margaret, she come to the window and

greet she.



"quite well, really? that be right! no remain whatever of that unlucky

head-ache? I hope devoutly the dog will bite you both!" she exclaim,

turn round to the gentleman.



Hubert leave the dog to its fate, and come up to condole with Margaret

upon her disappointment of the last evening--his disappointment he ought

to say; for he be sure that he have be the great sufferer on the

occasion.



Margaret, know very well that he have be dance, and enjoy

himself all the evening, laugh, and say she be sorry for he.



Lord Raymond, who be just go off, take Harriet on one side, and

seem to be talk very earnestly to she. Mr. Conway join Margaret

at the window with the dog, and converse with she in a very

condescending manner; try to persuade she to think Donald a great

beauty, and tell she how much money the little beast be worth.



while they be thus employ, Mr. Gage come into the drawing-room, and

advance leisurely to Margaret. he immediately catch sight of Harriet

and Lord Raymond; but he be far too experienced to suffer any vexation

to be trace in his manner. he make the most anxious inquiry after

Miss Capel's health; regret very much the loss their party have

sustain on the previous night; abuse the ball as intolerably stupid;

and try to persuade Margaret to allow he to drive she out after

luncheon. he hope now that she have see how quiet his horse be, she

would feel disposed to trust herself with he. he trust that Miss

Harriet Conway have inspire Miss Capel with a little of her courage.



Harriet, hear her own name, turn round, and see George Gage,

colour, wave her hand to he by way of "good morning," and then

renew her conversation with Lord Raymond. his Lordship do not speak

very fast; and like many people, the more he make up his mind to go, the

far he be from go. he have to say a great many thing which he

be very earnest in deliver, and which make Harriet laugh very much;

and the bystander would hardly have imagine that the substance of his

narrative be the history of some tulip root which his sister have pay

a great deal of money for, and which, owe to some carelessness on her

part, have never blossom at all.



meantime, while Mr. Gage talk to Margaret of the flower-show, he be

watch every movement and look of Harriet's; and his patience be

go by inch, while he appear much interested in moss rose and

Neapolitan violet. at last he say to Mr. Conway in a remarkably calm

manner, that consider his sister be an invalid, it occur to he

that it be hardly prudent to stand out in a high wind without a shawl.



Mr. Conway laugh, say it be true enough; but that Harriet have a will

of her own, and would not thank he if he interrupt her conversation

for the minor consideration of a bonnet and cloak.



"what be that you say of I?" ask Harriet, run up to the window,

having just part from Lord Raymond. "here, Hubert, stand out of the

way, you be such giant, you Gage's. give I my dog, Charles. now,

Margaret, if you wish to see a beauty--but what be you say of I?"



"merely remark that it would have be unpardonable to break in upon

your tête-à-tête to save you from the chance of another illness. I

venture to think that you be slightly clothe for so cold a wind," say

Mr. Gage, draw his chair to the fire, as if in proof of the inclement

weather.



"People have no business to think at all upon my proceeding," say

Harriet, carelessly, "Hubert! I wish you would go and get Donald a

little bit of meat on a plate; he ought to have his dinner about this

time of day. my dog be not a dog in the manger," she add; draw

close to Margaret with Donald in her arm. "how frightened you look. he

do not hear I."



"he will be worth nothing for sport if you nurse and pet he so," say

her brother, "you have much well have a lap-dog."



"now be not that quite a man's idea?" say Harriet laughing, "if you can

make anything of use to you, well; but you have literally no notion of

companionship. you judge everything by what it would fetch; and why you

ever marry, I cannot think, unless you get some money by the bargain."



"oh! that be too severe upon my word. do not you think so?" say Hubert,

turn to Margaret.



"I hope so," say Margaret, "but I have see too little to judge."



"I cannot think that experience will ever make you judge hardly of

other," say Mr. Gage in a soft voice to Margaret.



"experience will tell she that to judge truly, be to judge hardly in

five case out of ten," say Harriet disdainfully.



"Luncheon be ready," exclaim Hubert, take Margaret's hand and

hurry she out of the room, "and a good thing too, for our discussion

be grow rather stormy; and I have no objection to interrupt my

courtier of a brother in his pretty speech."



Margaret laugh as she take her seat at the table, and say she think

that pretty speech run in the family. she feel now perfectly at her

ease with both brother; feel convinced that George be still

attach to Harriet Conway, and that Hubert do not know what it be to

be attach to any body.



"oh, by the way!" say Hubert, as he draw a chair beside Margaret,

"Haveloc would go off after breakfast. he make many inquiry about you,

and be very sorry, as everybody be, last night. Bread! to be sure, I

beg you a thousand pardon. now don't starve; it be dreadful to see

woman eat so little, it remind I of that story,--did you ever read the

Arabian Nights?"



"often," say Margaret, "you mean the story of the Ghoul. I do not mean

to be a Ghoul to-day; you may give I some chicken."



"that's right," say Hubert. "Hallo! here be the Governor with that old

wretch, Casement. how I wish Haveloc be here; he hate the old fellow

so cordially. don't you?"



"I be glad he be away," say Margaret, "for they always quarrel."



"you be an angel of peace," exclaim Hubert, gaze at she with

admiration.



"pray don't be sentimental at luncheon," say Margaret, laugh, "it be

so very inappropriate."



Captain Gage and Mr. Casement now come up to the table. Captain Gage

take a vacant chair on the other side of Margaret; shake hand, and

say a great many kind thing to she on her loss of the ball; hope it

would not be long before there be another in the neighbourhood;

wonder what people be about that they do not give as many dance as

they use to do, and insist on she drink a glass of wine. Mr.

Casement stop short, and take out his glass, survey everybody

at table with much deliberation; and odious as he be, there be

something in his manner which show that he have be use to a great

deal of society, and that he hold himself on a level with everybody he

meet.



"Hallo!" say he, "you have get a party together. how do you manage to

keep they out of mischief; eh, Captain? there be something go on at

your elbow there, as I'm alive. eh, little woman! shall I go home and

tell uncle?"



Margaret colour deeply. Miss Gage shake her head at Mr. Casement.



"Miss Gage, your most devoted," say he, bow to she. "no, I never

touch anything at this time of day--well, for once, give I a bit of

tongue, little woman. thank you, Master Hubert."



and not be able to express himself fully, under the kind but

command eye of Miss Gage, he be oblige to content himself by make

a face at Hubert and Margaret, which be intend to speak the content

of a whole valentine.



"and who be that curly-head thing yonder?" say Mr. Casement point

with his glass to Harriet.



"my niece, Harriet," say Captain Gage, who be so used to hear Harriet

call he uncle, that he forget at the moment that their relationship be

rather more distant.



"Niece--by Adam's side," say Mr. Casement. "eh, Captain Gage! it look

rather suspicious when gentleman call lady their niece--ha! ha!"



"Sir!" say George Gage, stare in his most arrogant manner at Mr.

Casement.



"eh! you there Master George?" say Mr. Casement. "I think you could

not get leave; really, when one consider what a farce the service be

now-a-day, one be puzzle to know why you should not get leave, as you

call it, every mother's son of you at once. what be you do over in

Ireland?"



George Gage seem very little disposed to give Mr. Casement an answer;

but after stare at he haughtily for a moment, he reply "nothing."

and then turn to his sister, he ask she some question about her

plan for the afternoon.



"do you know, Uncle Gage," say Harriet, "that I be go to stay here a

whole week long?"



"the long the well," say Captain Gage. "I wish you be all go

to stay. the house will seem desert when you be go."



Lady Conway make some polite reply to this speech, and thank Miss Gage

for take charge of Harriet, for she know they be to have a very gay

week at Wardenscourt, and it be important that Harriet should be

quiet.



George Gage on hear this announcement, direct his merciless stare

to Harriet in some surprise; for Wardenscourt be Lord Raymond's place,

and it seem but natural that she should have make an effort to go

there.



Harriet care nothing for his gaze; she be use to be look at, and

she do not even seem to perceive that his eye be upon she; she keep

her eye on her plate, and a suppress smile play for an instant on

her cheek, as she say, "ah! Wardenscourt; they be sure to be really

gay there. it be the only house almost--but I shall have the pleasure of

be with you Bessy."



"Wardenscourt be not far off, fortunately," say George.



Harriet look up, still smile.



"no," she say. "I hope Lord Raymond will come over one morning to tell

I about the pointer his keeper be train for Uncle Singleton. take

care that you remind he, Lucy."



Lucy laugh and colour. Margaret feel very much inclined to laugh

too.



"it will be worth while for he to come over," say George, "if he

occupy you as profitably as he do this morning."



"how be that, Mr. Gage?" ask Lady Conway.



"the fact be this, mamma," say Harriet hastily, "Mr. Gage having

forget my out of door propensity, be astonish to see I stand

on the lawn for a few minute without my bonnet."



"oh! pray be careful while we be away, my dear," say Lady Conway. "you

must not take cold."



they be rise. Mr. Gage draw back Harriet's chair; and she, in

pass out, fix her splendid eye upon he, and mutter in a

distinct manner, 'tu I lo pagherai.'



he bow as if to say, he be willing to make payment at any time.



the lady remain loiter among the beautiful plant in the hall,

and Elizabeth come up to Margaret, urge she, in a low voice, to stay

with she as long as Harriet remain at Chirke Weston.



"it will be more cheerful for both of you, and though I do not propose

she as a model for your imitation; you be safe with she, she always

speak the truth. and your uncle can well spare you now Mr. Haveloc be

with he."



Margaret accept with much pleasure, and the visitor have now all

drop off, she begin really to enjoy herself. they walk out,

accompany by George and Hubert over a beautiful country.



Hubert divide his attention very much between Margaret and the Skye

terri.



Harriet take her own course, swinge in her hand a little riding-whip

which have a whistle at the end of it, with which she be use to summon

her dog.



George walk with Elizabeth, be out of humour, and think very

properly that his sister be create for the especial purpose of

cheer he under the influence of that complaint.



she succeed in do so, for her evenness of temper be remarkable.

she agree that it be a miserable day--that the wind be keen--that it

be very likely to rain--that the ball have be a dull one, and that the

post come in at Chirke Weston at an inconvenient time--and then, (for it

do not answer to agree too much with people,) she qualify his

censure of Lord Raymond, defend her father's black cravat,

maintain there would be a great many people at the flower-show, and

say she have not at all pity he for be oblige to dance with Lady

Farquhar, though she be fat, and five and forty.



George be a little restore by this time, begin to grow confidential.

he tell Elizabeth that he be very thankful that thing have turn out

as they do between Harriet and he. that he be convince she have no

heart. that she be very well suited to Lord Raymond, and he have no

doubt but that they would be extremely happy!



he say this in rather an angry tone, and do not look as if he at all

wish that their married life should prove an elysium; so Elizabeth

change the subject.



"what do you think of my little friend?" she ask. "you must admire

Margaret."



"yes," he say. "she be a lovely little creature, but such a mere child,

and so shy; and it be too much to expect that one can take the trouble

to draw a woman out. I should not be surprised if she be to grow a

little taller, which would be an advantage. she dress well, and her

hand and arm be really a model. I be strike with it immediately. and I

be glad to perceive," he say, direct his glance to Margaret, as she

walk on in front with Hubert and Harriet against a pretty strong

breeze. "I be glad to see that her foot and ancle be equally perfect."



"well," say Elizabeth smile. "on the whole, your decision seem to

be favourable."



"yes, decidedly," say Mr. Gage quite seriously. "I be very well

please; for I have not be use to be ashamed of my sister, and I

should care to be ashamed of my sister-in-law; for that I suppose will

be the end of it, Bessy?"



"I shall be very glad if it be so," reply Elizabeth.



"he might do bad," say Mr. Gage. "sailor be so _inconséquent_. they

often marry the most extraordinary person--people that one never have

hear of. Miss Capel, however, seem highly respectable. but," he add

in a low tone, "to put that little doll in competition with such a woman

as Harriet! Hubert need not fear I for a rival."



"very fortunately," say Elizabeth smile, "it would be dreadful if we

be to have the Theban brother over again."



"they fight for a crown, not a woman," say Mr. Gage, "be wise man."



"be Mr. Gage very amusing to you, Bessy?" say Harriet, look back,

"that you don't come to join our party?"



Elizabeth good-naturedly quicken her step, and Harriet say aloud to

Margaret, "it be a charity to break in upon their tête-à-tête, for Mr.

Gage have grow so dull, I think he must have catch cold on the race

ground."



Margaret look frightened, and Mr. Gage pretend not to hear Harriet's

speech.



Margaret be very happy during her stay at Chirke Weston. Hubert Gage

be always pay her compliment which she laugh at, and contrive

all sort of scheme for her amusement, for which she be much obliged.



she become every day more attach to Elizabeth; she admire she

character, and love her sweetness; and it be delightful to see the

term upon which she live with her father and brother.



George Gage pay Margaret the most devoted attention whenever he

wish to pique Harriet, and at other time consign she to the care of

Hubert, as if he have too much delicacy to interfere with his brother's

pretension. fortunately, she find amusement in the society of both

brother, without allow their courtesy to penetrate her heart.









CHAPTER XIII.





    and she will die ere she make her love know; and

    she will die if he woo she, rather than she will 'bate one

    breath of her accustomed coyness.



    MUCH ADO about nothing.





it be the last day of Margaret's stay. Harriet be also to leave Chirke

Weston the next morning. she be stand with Margaret in one of the

drawing-room window after breakfast, make her promise over and over

again that she would come and see she at her uncle Singleton's, when

Lord Raymond drive up to the house in his dog-cart. he produce out of

this vehicle the two pointer which Harriet have be anxious to see;

and, on a signal from her hand, he bring they up to the window where

she be stand.



as soon as she have do admire and comment upon these pointer,

Lord Raymond deliver they to his groom to pack up in their box again,

and join Harriet in the drawing-room. Elizabeth look up from her

carpet-work, and receive Lord Raymond with her usual graceful calmness;

and George Gage who be write at the other end of the room, rise

from his letter, take a chair by the side of that distinguish

nobleman, and engage he in conversation; and as he do this with an

air of extreme politeness, Margaret do not guess that his sole motive

be to expose his rival's deficiency in that useful art.



but Lord Raymond never actually converse, he only answer question.

so, when he have tell Mr. Gage that John Baldwin be a connexion of his,

but that it be Ferdinand Baldwin who marry Miss Thoresby; that he

believe her fortune have be greatly overrate; that Ferdinand be a

first cousin of John's;--that certainly Miss Thoresby have be engage

to a Colonel Carpenter, who have think himself very much ill-used when

she break off the engagement; that Henry Baldwin be a roman Catholic,

and that there be a great many of that name in Staffordshire, he have

nothing more to say for himself; and rise to depart, he ask Harriet

whether she have any message to send to her sister at Wardenscourt.



"tell Lucy," say Harriet look archly at Lord Raymond, "that I should

be dispose to envy she if I be any where but at Chirke Weston."



as soon as Lord Raymond be go, Mr. Gage stalk back to his writing,

and Harriet, call Margaret to her side, begin a panegyric on his

Lordship; vaunt his good principle, his kindness of heart, and above

all his even temper.



as all these quality may exist under a very ordinary exterior,

Margaret have nothing to do but to acquiesce; but when Harriet go on to

say that she think he unquestionably the most aristocratic man that

she have ever see, Margaret open her eye with a gesture of

astonishment; and Mr. Gage, throw down his pen, in something like a

passion, say that Miss Conway be know to be original in her opinion;

but that certainly, he imagine, she would find herself perfectly unique

in this idea. that most people would find it difficult to credit from

his appearance that Lord Raymond be a gentleman--and that, except the

late Earl of D----, the peerage have seldom be disfigure by such a

speciman of humanity.



"do I say he be handsome, Squire Sullen?" retort Harriet. "I merely

give my opinion of his deportment, which I consider quite fascinating."



"unquestionably," Mr. Gage say, resume his pen with great dignity.

"Miss Conway's opinion of Lord Raymond be of more consequence than any

other person's. he merely regret that he could not in this instance

agree with it."



Harriet merely reply by one of her most scornful look. Mr. Gage take

up the newspaper, and Hubert, come in at the moment, persuade

Elizabeth and Margaret to go with he to one of the hot-house to see

some beautiful american plant.



now on this very morning it chance that Mrs. Somerton feel it her duty

to call at Chirke Weston.



for, as she say, it be impossible to know what that artful little

creature, Margaret Capel be about with those two brother, unless she

go to see it with her own eye; and that it be Blanche's business to

counteract she as much as possible: that if Margaret have really

entangle Hubert, to flirt with he would be a mere waste of time; but

that although George be not an impressible subject, yet by management,

something might be do with he. even a little attention from so

fastidious a person might be of service to she; for there be several

man in the neighbourhood who take for gospel all that George Gage choose

to say.



"ah!" say the amiable Blanche, "it be very well that I know how to

manage matter without your help! see what you have do for my sister.

thank you! I don't wish to follow her example. I shall find a match for

myself!"



"you be look very well to day," say Mrs. Somerton, put up her

glass, "if you would but wear your hair a little low on your face."



"much oblige," retort Blanche. "I say, look at my sister, as complete

an old maid as ever live; all owe to your valuable hint. she have

nothing for it now but to go to Missionary meeting, and pick up a stray

Methodist preacher."



"there be one thing," say Mrs. Somerton, exasperate by this attack. "I

don't believe anybody ever have such ill-dispose ungrateful child as

mine!"



"chip of the old block, I suppose," return Blanche laughing.



"come, come;" say Mrs. Somerton, as they reach the entrance to Chirke

Weston, "this be not to the purpose; recollect that George be your

object to-day."



while this attack be prepare for the unconscious Mr. Gage, he be in

the drawing-room pretend to read the paper, and employ himself in

watch intently every movement of Harriet Conway.



as soon as Elizabeth be go, Harriet take up a book, draw a footstool

close to the fire, and sit down upon it. she wear a beautiful morning

gown of purple Cashemere, work in floss silk, and trim, and tie

with cord and tassel. her attitude be strike and graceful, and as

she slowly turn the leave of her book, the light of the fire sparkle

on the costly ring that adorn her slender finger.



although Mr. Gage never remove his eye from she, she feign to be

totally absorb in her book, and unconscious of his presence. at last

he approach she under pretence of mend the fire.



she look up and nod to he.



"what be that you be read?" say he. "a french novel? I think

lady never do such thing in public."



"I think you know, Squire--I mean Mr. Gage, that I be never ashamed of

any thing I do," say Harriet. "besides, this be a very readable one of

Eugène Sue's."



"yes--a certain class of french novel be very harmless," say Mr.

Gage.



"look!" say Harriet, turn the book round, and hold it up so that

he might read the title: 'Arthur.'



now Mr. Gage have never read 'Arthur;' so he say directly, that it be a

very clever work; indeed, in part, really beautiful. there be

something quite touch in one or two of the scene.



as this might be safely say of any book write by Eugène Sue, Mr. Gage

be not out of his depth.



Harriet acquiesce, and ask he what he think of the character of

Hélène.



Mr. Gage reply without hesitation, that it be very ably depict, but

that his idea of female perfection be not exactly form upon that

model.



"too statuesque, perhaps, for your taste," say Harriet.



"yes, that be the case," Mr. Gage say, catch at the hint. "he

think something a little less unbend more attractive in the female

character."



"and do you not think Arthur very interesting, in spite of his fault?"

say Harriet.



"undoubtedly," reply Mr. Gage, "but whether he would find any favour

with the fair sex, you can determine well than I."



"I don't know. I cann't quite make out," say Harriet. "you see one would

never be prepare for so strange a disposition. but how beautifully he

describe scenery," she continue, turn the leave. "he make quite a

paradise of this cottage ornée."



"your taste," say Mr. Gage, in a very pointed manner. "your taste would

lead you to a much less simple style of architecture."



"oh, yes!" say Harriet put up her book to conceal her smile. "I

hate cottage. my idea of perfect felicity be to be find only in a

nobleman's seat."



"I trust," say Mr. Gage, look very grand and injure, "that you will

never have reason to acknowledge yourself mistaken."



"why, George," say Harriet, just trust her laugh eye over the

top of her book, "how long have you be an advocate for live in

cottage? I should think they must be just one degree bad than

barrack."



"Heartless!" mutter Mr. Gage, turn away, and walk to the window.



Harriet bury her face in her handkerchief to stifle her laughter. she

be not in the slight degree afraid that Mr. Gage would transfer his

regard to another, in consequence of her provoke mystification. she

feel that she have regain her power over he, and that as long as she

remain single, so would he. but she delight in mischief, and would

not for the world have let he discover that she care anything about

he. at this instant the bell rang.



"now don't for Heaven's sake, George, leave I to entertain your

guest," say Harriet, look up with a very flushed face, "it be only

fair to stay and support I."



"pray don't call they my guest," say Mr. Gage, come back, however,

"I should have rather a different visit list if this house be in my

possession."



"yes, your list would be very extensive if you live in one of your

favourite cottage," say Harriet, seat herself on the sofa; "all the

neighbour farmer and their wife. how I should like to see you

play cribbage with Farmer Jenkins!"



Mr. Gage lean against the mantelpiece, "regret that he be unable

to follow all Miss Conway's flight of fancy," and "be not aware that

he have say anything that could lead she to suppose he intend form

an intimacy with Farmer Jenkins."



the door be open and Mrs. Somerton and her daughter be announce.

Harriet bow coldly; and Mr. Gage, after a still more frigid fashion.



Mrs. Somerton, who have see the world, be not at all put out by this

english reception; and Blanche with a manner full of _minauderie_,

glance sideways at Mr. Gage, and glide into a chair as near to he as

she conveniently could. now any person totally unacquainted with

society, and form their notion of good manner from abstract

principle, would perhaps imagine that Mr. Gage and Harriet would

instantly begin to talk to the visitor, and endeavour to amuse they

until Miss Gage should arrive. not at all; they have see enough of

company, to know how much they might leave undo; a code much more

extensively put in practice than that which might teach people how much

to do.



Mr. Gage stare across at Mrs. Somerton. Harriet with her head draw up,

survey Blanche.



at last, Mr. Gage say to Harriet, "have you any idea where Bessy be?"



"I suppose," say Harriet, "that she be somewhere among the hot-house.

Hubert say something about the american plant. I dare say she will be

in to luncheon."



"it be not half past one yet," say Mr. Gage, point to the

time-piece.



"that french piece of trumpery be always wrong," say Harriet.



"my watch be the same, all but two minute," say Mr. Gage, take it

out.



"if they happen to meet your father, you know, he would carry they all

over the country," return Harriet.



"of course he would," say Mr. Gage, "whenever I see his straw hat, I

make a point of get out of the way. I have no idea of be hand

round the farm yard, and introduce to every fresh litter of pig."



"have not you?" say Harriet mischievously. "I think those humble

pleasure belong especially to the sphere of life you be so partial

to. Most cottage, I believe in these day, can boast a pig-stye."



Mr. Gage hardly know whether to laugh or be angry; at that moment

Elizabeth and Margaret make their appearance together, follow by

Hubert with a splendid bouquet of flower.



Elizabeth seat herself beside Mrs. Somerton. Hubert deliver the

flower to Margaret, and draw his chair close to her.



"but what be I to do with all these, Mr. Hubert?" say Margaret.



"you be to wear all these heath this evening, you know," he say

select the heath from the nosegay. "I will make a wreath for you."



"but how very smart I shall be," say Margaret, hesitatingly.



"oh! you promise--you will not draw back; see this be the way I shall

mix they. all the shade, from white to crimson--no, a cluster will be

pretty than a wreath. you cannot refuse--your last day. ah! how

beautiful you will look--but that you always do. come, you will promise

to wear they?"



"will you promise to talk something like sense then Mr. Hubert?" say

Margaret archly. "these striped camellia be for you, Harriet."



"thank, little one," say Harriet. "tell Hubert to keep they all in

water for we till we go up to dress."



Mr. Gage, by this time, having notice Blanche's childish, sparkle

face, and pretty figure, condescend to say to she in a haughty

tone, "do you walk here?"



"to be sure!" say Blanche, "such a beautiful morning. I would not have

have the carriage out on any account."



there be one slight drawback to she use a carriage, if she wish it;

namely, that she do not possess a vehicle of any description. but Mr.

Gage who be very little at home, and who know nothing of the concern

of his neighbour, be easily impose upon.



"yes," he say rather less haughtily, "it be hardly worth while for a

short distance."



"and then I be such a walker!" say Blanche, her pretty face kindle

and dimple with smile; "I be never tired of wander about this

lovely country. I tell mamma positively that I never would pass a season

in town. my sister be there now with our relation, Lady K----, in the

midst of ball and gaiety. but I should think they a very poor

exchange for the Ashdale wood."



have Mr. Gage possess more than the usual amount of penetration, he

could not have be expect to guess that Blanche be in a perpetual

ill-humour, because her sister be in town this season instead of

herself; he merely think it be odd for so pretty a girl to be

content with retirement, and that there be something rather

attractive in the novelty of it.



"I suppose your taste be quite pastoral," say Mr. Gage, relax

still more of his dignity. "I dare say, if the truth be tell, you have

a pet lamb, which you crown with flower every morning before

breakfast."



"oh, Mr. Gage!" say Blanche shake her head with a little air of

reproach, "the day be go by when country people be oblige to

depend on such childish amusement. we can have new book and music now,

almost as soon as they appear in town. indeed, we can bring everything

from London, but its smoky atmosphere."



Harriet who have be watch Hubert arrange the flower in a glass,

now turn round and beheld Mr. Gage actually talk to Blanche

Somerton,--bending down and smile at she. she colour with anger and

contempt.



"Mr. Gage," say she, point to a work-box close to he, "shall I

trouble you to give I that box?"



Mr. Gage bring it she; she take out of it what she want, and then

return he the box. he sit down beside she still hold it.



"I think you don't often work," he say. "I do not remember to have see

you."



"no. this be not work exactly; this be crochet," say Harriet, hold

up a purse of blue and silver twist. "don't you think it very handsome?"



"yes. only so stiff; you could not draw it through a ring."



"of course not; it be to have a clasp. see, this will match it very

well; silver and turquoise. now, wrap it up again in the silver paper.

put it neatly away. now who do you think it be for?"



Mr. Gage's brow darken.



"Uncle Singleton! when he play at card, he always like to have a

handsome purse. would you believe it? I think it be only that he may

have the pleasure of say, 'my niece Harriet make this for I.!'"



"you be a great favourite there," say Mr. Gage, look quite

comfortable again.



"can you wonder?" say Harriet, look very like a coquette into his

face.



"no indeed," reply Mr. Gage.



"it be there I first meet Lord Raymond," say Harriet, heave a deep

sigh.



Mr. Gage put down her work-box, and rise from the sofa; but he do not

return to Blanche, he go to his newspaper.



"too bad!" say Blanche to herself, swell with rage and spite. "she

do not want he for herself, and yet she must need interfere with I,

when I be get on so nicely. a malicious creature! I should like to

drown she! I don't think anything in this world so mean as to interrupt

another's flirtation when you have no good reason for do it."



and Blanche cross the room and try very hard to detach Hubert from

Margaret.



George Gage do not at all recover this last attack before dinner-time;

he be very grand and sullen. Harriet, on the contrary, be in the

wild spirit. in many respect Margaret think these two very well

suit to each other. kind and cordial as Harriet be to she, nothing

could exceed her pride; and she be as haughty and as distant to people,

whom she do not consider on a level with herself, as Mr. Gage could be.

her manner that morning be merely a sample of her general style of

behaviour. a cold stare, and a monosyllable be all she vouchsafe to

any of the village people who happen to be on visit term at Chirke

Weston, and the only subject on which she and George Gage be sure to

sympathise, be disgust at the intrusion of such person while they

condescend to honour the house with their presence. at such time,

their eye would meet with an expression of endurance very different

from the hostile look they so frequently exchange.



Harriet come down to dinner look like an old picture. she wear a high

dress of black satin, ornament with spanish button of gold filigree.

her hair be frizz out round her head like some of Van Dyck's early

picture, and the striped camellia put in just behind the ear--she

seem determined to look she good this last evening.



George Gage stare directly. he have a great fancy for see woman in

fine clothe; and clothe that look as if they cost a great deal of

money. he take she into dinner, and try to command his temper, and

keep up a conversation with she.



"you drive out after luncheon, do you not?"



"yes. do not you hear Uncle Gage and I plan a secret expedition

together?"



"no. might I ask where you go?"



"we go all the way to S----. be you not very anxious to learn our

object?"



"if it be not a breach of confidence, certainly."



"you could not guess, Mr. Gage?"



"I fear not."



"it be to get pack-thread for garden-net."



"a very important mission," say Mr. Gage.



"you will think it important when the season come for fruit; but,

perhaps, you will not be here."



"I shall not. I go back to Ireland in about a fortnight."



"still you know, though you will not be here to steal the plum, other

people will be enjoy they; and you can leave word with the gardener

to send your friend, little Blanche Somerton, the first basket of ripe

cherry."



"I really do not know any person of that name," say Mr. Gage,

indignantly.



"well, after that!" say Harriet lift up her hand. "Hubert, I hope

you see what be go on this morning."



"oh, yes! I see plainly enough," say Hubert. "she be a great flirt,

that little thing; and rather pretty, I think."



"very pretty!" say Harriet magnanimously. "I be not blame Mr. Gage.

I merely suggest a little offering--quite a cottage offer Mr.

Gage."



"oh! the little creature who be here this morning," say Mr. Gage;

"rather a nice little creature! yes, I should not object take she a

basket of cherry."



"you could eat they with she like Napoleon, you know," say Harriet.



here Hubert burst into a violent fit of laughter, at the idea of his

brother do anything like Napoleon.



"she be a very pretty girl," say Captain Gage, join in the

discussion. "do not you dance with she a good deal at the ball,

Hubert?"



"yes, Sir, that is, I believe, once or twice. that miserable ball," he

add in a low voice to Margaret.



"oh, Mr. Hubert!" say Margaret laughing.



Elizabeth Gage do not say one word either for or against Blanche

Somerton. she know she to be almost devoid of good quality; but she

know that people, man especially, will always form their own opinion.



"you shall sing, little one;" say Harriet to Margaret after tea. "I

will not let you off any long."



"no. it distress she, Harriet," say Elizabeth kindly, "I never press

she."



"I dare say. be she to have her own way always? I want to hear the

quality of her voice," say Harriet positively.



"indeed, Harriet, I be not a man; you might let I have my way," say

Margaret, shrink back from the piano.



"my dear Harriet, I hope you apply that remark; there be a little bit of

unconscious satire in it," say Elizabeth.



"Bah! there be no truth in it. I never tyrannise," say Harriet,

laugh. "but as I be not so timid, I will try and sing you something.

Mr. Gage, you like italian music. have you ever hear this?"



she sing beautifully. Margaret be entrance.



Mr. Gage come round to the piano to look at the name of the song. it be

'senza pace, senza speme;' and on the top be write, as if with a

coarse lead pencil:--



  "Harriet Conway,

     from Lord Raymond."



now Margaret have see Harriet busy write something on the song with a

pencil, a few minute before she have sit down to sing, and she could not

help wonder at the perseverance with which she contrive to teaze Mr.

Gage. it need not be say that Lord Raymond have never give she the

song, although from his long intimacy with her family there would have

be no great crime if he have.



Mr. Gage, who have take the song from the stand, drop it again as if

it have burn his finger.



"be it not a beautiful thing?" say Harriet look up at Mr. Gage. "he

have such a taste for music!"



"who have, my dear?" ask Captain Gage.



"Lord Raymond, uncle."



"have he, indeed?--I never know that before," say Captain Gage. "why he

have never any music at his house, unless there be a very large party."



"he have no wife, you know, Uncle Gage, and he cannot play the piano

himself."



"he must marry a good musician, then," say Captain Gage. "I don't know

anything that more contribute to the cheerfulness of a family circle

than a little good music."



"so Lord Raymond seem to think," say Mr. Gage, in a low voice to

Harriet.



"yes. nothing so very first-rate though," say Harriet, think of

Lucy, who play in a pleasing style, but nothing more, on the harp and

piano.



"oh! you be too modest," say Mr. Gage.



"thank you," say Harriet laughing. "do you think I then such a very

good player?"



"can you never be serious?" say Mr. Gage, turn away reproachfully.



Harriet laugh more merrily than before at the tone of this last

remark. Margaret watch they earnestly. surely, she think, this last

evening something will be say, something will occur, to bring about an

understanding. Harriet will surely not be able to keep up this

appearance of indifference to the last.



but the taper be bring in, people wish each other good night, and

Harriet touch Mr. Gage's finger, and bid he good bye, as if she

should see he to-morrow. and the next day, before he have leave his room,

she be on her way to join her friend at Wardenscourt.









CHAPTER XIV.





    her word be like a stream of honey fleeting, the which doth

    softly trickle from the hive, able to melt the hearer's heart

    unweete and eke to make the dead again alive.



                    *       *       *       *       *



    much like an angel in all form and fashion.



    SPENSER.





Margaret be welcome to Ashdale with such sincere pleasure by Mr. Grey

and her italian greyhound, that she could not find it in her heart to

regret the social circle she leave behind. seat in a low chair by her

uncle's side, with Gessina on her lap, she spend the evening alternately

in play with her beautiful pet, and of give he a history of she

week's visit.



Mr. Grey, like many people who live very retired, delighted in this

specie of gossip. he be pleased to hear the name of the people who

dine at Captain Gage's during her stay, and the dress which Margaret

have wear on each day. and if, during her narrative, she happen to

mention a name that be familiar to he, he would interrupt she to

remark that he have know a person of that name many year ago, who be

of such a county; and to wonder whether the one Margaret have meet, be

relate or not, to his old acquaintance.



these episode be sometimes interrupt by the perverseness of

Gessina, who would creep under the sofas, or the heavy chair, and have

to be fish out from these hiding place by the united industry of Mr.

Haveloc and Margaret.



these little pursuit seem to bring they still more acquainted, so

that sometimes she venture to appeal to he during her recollection to

confirm her statement.



"and so she lose the ball at last, poor child," say Mr. Grey draw

she towards he. "what a pity that be!"



"oh, yes uncle! I be very sorry at first. but I have such a head-ache.

do you ever smoke cigar, Mr. Haveloc?"



"I have do such a thing," say he smile. "but it be not a practice

of mine."



"and how do you spend that evening, my love?" say Mr. Grey, who have

not perceive the connexion between the ball and the cigar.



"I sit talk with Harriet Conway until I go to bed. do you know

Harriet, Sir?"



"I have not see she, my dear, since she be a child," say Mr. Grey.



"oh! she be so handsome, Sir. be she not, Mr. Haveloc? I think she be

the handsome girl in the party, except Bessy, I hardly know which to

say."



"which do you decide for, Claude?" ask Mr. Grey.



Mr. Haveloc pause a little, glance at Margaret with a smile, and say

that he should not have consider either of those lady the beauty of

the party. he have hardly notice Miss Harriet Conway, but if he

recollect she, she have fine eye.



Margaret feel embarrassed for a moment, but feel sure that his remark

could not have refer to she in any way, she let the subject pass, and

continue her account.



"the flower-show be very delightful, Sir. there be a band of music,

and such a beautiful display of plant. Captain Gage's gardener have a

prize for hyacinth. do you know, Sir, that four of my hyacinth be

blow in my dressing-room? I think I shall bring they down into the

drawing-room."



"do, my love," say Mr. Grey.



"Bessy know a great many people there, Sir; but Mr. Gage say he be

bored. I wish he have not come with we. and Mr. Hubert frighten I,

for he declare he be go to steal a cluster of the flower for

Harriet and I; and there would have be such a scene!"



"and what do Miss Harriet say to that?" ask Mr. Grey.



"oh! she laugh, and encourage he," say Margaret. "but I think it

be only to put I in a fright; and just then, Bessy come up, and ask

if we would go, because Mr. Gage be so tired of it all."



"and do you have any more visitor afterwards?" ask Mr. Grey.



"yes. two foreigner, the Marquis de----, (a very long name that I

cannot remember), and his son. they talk Spanish with Harriet, and

French with the other. Mr. Hubert use always to contrive that I should

sit next one of they, that I might be oblige to speak French."



"Hubert be rather mischievous, be he not?" say Mr. Grey.



"oh! yes, Sir; but very good-natured; and so be Captain Gage. we go

every day to see something or other. once we go to hear service in

the Cathedral. I be so glad that Mr. Gage be not of the party that

morning. I wish, Mr. Haveloc, you would go on reading."



"I will, indeed," say he, take up his book. "only I have some

curiosity to know first, why you do not like George Gage?"



"you should not listen, Mr. Haveloc. one cannot like every body in the

world--though I do not say I dislike he."



"the Gages be all handsome," say Mr. Grey, musing. "George call on

I one day last week. I think it must have be the day you go to the

Cathedral. he say the lady be out sight-seeing. I be very glad to

see he; and I take it kind, his come to a dull house like this, to

pay a visit to a poor invalid."



"Kind, indeed!" exclaim Margaret, her beautiful face all in a glow. "I

think he ought to feel much pleasure in see an old friend again. I

recollect Mr. Hubert come directly to see you, and he often talk of

your kindness to he when a boy."



Mr. Grey laugh, and pat she on the head. "well, you like Hubert the

good it seem," he say. "but now tell I how you pass your evening

when you be alone."



"that be the pleasantest time, Sir. after dinner we go into Bessy's

sitting-room; and one day, Harriet show I how to make wreath and

trimming of natural flower. Bessy have a large basket gather for we,

and I wear they that evening; and then, Harriet be so clever, she use

to give we description of the people who live near Singleton Manor, and

make we die of laugh. she can talk like the poor people in

Somersetshire. and then Mr. Hubert use to come in before tea-time, and

sometimes he would roast chestnut on the bar of the grate--and we eat

they, Harriet and I. Bessy could never persuade he to have they do

by the housekeeper. and after tea, we have always plenty of music, for

Captain Gage like music so much. and one evening Mr. Hubert would have

a twelfth cake, because he have not be at home for so many Twelfth

Nights; and Bessy be oblige to get one make on purpose at S----. and I

be the Queen, uncle! Captain Gage draw the king, and would not give it

up to Mr. Hubert. you should have see Mr. Gage, uncle. he be oblige

to join in it all, half against his will; and Harriet laugh at he so

much for be grand."



"and so you pass a merry time of it;" say Mr. Grey.



"very, Sir. but I be very glad to drive up the old avenue again, and

see you and Gessina. do you know, Sir, Mason say that as soon as

Gessina hear the carriage she be wild to get down stair."



"be she, my love?" say Mr. Grey. there be a pause.



Mr. Grey fall asleep, Margaret caress her dog, and Mr. Haveloc make a

sketch of her attitude in the fly-leaf of his book.



at last Margaret look up.



"oh! Mr. Haveloc, you have be to Italy. do you not allow Gessina to be

a beauty? Blanche Somerton say I ought to have have a white greyhound."



"she be a very pretty creature," say Mr. Haveloc, come over to her

side of the fire. "I believe the white one be more expensive, which be

quite sufficient to account for some people's preference."



"oh! I do not care about that. I like this fawn colour. I declare I

never see such a beautiful head. Bessy say that the next time I go to

Chirke Weston, I be to be sure and take she with I."



"Miss Gage be always considerate," say Mr. Haveloc.



"I know you think very highly of she," say Margaret colouring, "because

you once advise I to consult she; and I think, in that affair, her

opinion be very like your."



Mr. Haveloc smile, and remain silent, watch Margaret, whose

attitude rival those of her greyhound in beauty.



"Mr. Haveloc," say Margaret, look up again, and blush, "what be

you draw just now?"



"so, you have some curiosity," he say, smile.



"because," she say timidly, "I should not wonder if you be draw

Gessina--and--I wish you would show it to I--if you be."



"with pleasure. I will just put a few more touch. you will not be

satisfied if it be not a very flattering likeness."



"have you do, Mr. Haveloc?"



"not quite."



"will you show it I presently, Mr. Haveloc? will you show it I now?"



"you do not give I time to do my good," say he, as he hand she a

sheet of note paper, on which he have just make a pretty little sketch of

the greyhound.



"oh, how exactly like! how very pretty! may I keep it, Mr. Haveloc?"



"if you please--I shall be too happy."



"I wish my uncle be awake," say Margaret look towards he. "I

should like to show it to he. I wonder if he would know it directly. I

dare say he would!"



"not a doubt of it," say Mr. Haveloc, "all italian greyhound be

alike. any picture of an italian greyhound would do for your dog. do you

wish I to wake Mr. Grey, that he may decide the question?"



"oh, no! what be you think of? People should never be waken."



"will you tell I now, why you do not like George Gage?"



"what, have you not forget that yet? well I will tell you one reason.

because he stare so much."



Mr. Haveloc laugh. "I really do not think," he say, "that lady

resent that offence, so strongly. fortunately I cannot offend in that

way, since I be half blind."



"I wish Mr. Gage be near-sighted," say Margaret laughing, "he be quite

mistaken if he think lady like to be stare at; even Harriet, who

do not care for many thing, tell he one evening that it make she

quite nervous to have he opposite when she be singe, look into

her mouth like a dentist."



"and when do you mean to ride out?" say Mr. Haveloc.



"oh! do you know I have quite forget my horse," exclaim Margaret,

"Uncle Grey!--There I have wake he at last."



"what be it, my love?" say Mr. Grey look up.



"Miss Capel be so dismayed at having wake you," say Mr. Haveloc

laugh.



"oh! I be not asleep," say Mr. Grey rub his eye, "I have be

listen to all you have be say."



Mr. Haveloc and Margaret exchange smile.



"will you let I ride out to-morrow, dear uncle?"



"yes, my love; you be quite sure of the horse, Claude. if somebody

would go out first, just to try he; or if you have no engagement

to-morrow, Claude, perhaps you would go with Margaret and Evans, just to

see that all be right for the first time. Evans be a very steady man;

afterwards I could trust he with comfort."



no one could mistake the delight that be visible on Mr. Haveloc's

countenance at this proposition. he could not have ask to ride out

with she, but here be a reason--a sufficient cause. "nothing could give

he more pleasure," he say, "he beg to know what time would suit

Miss Capel, that he might be in the way."



anybody but Mr. Grey would have notice the impatience with which Mr.

Haveloc look forward to this ride: any one else would have be aware

that it be some strong feeling that could make so ordinary an

occurrence a matter of so much importance to he.



Margaret never spend the morning in the library with they; and Mr.

Haveloc settle to nothing; he neither read nor write, but wander

about the room, sometimes watch the weather, and sometimes glance

over the newspaper. but Mr. Grey having provide for Margaret's safety,

forget the subject altogether, and spend his time in puzzle over his

steward's account, and cut the leave of a new review without

take any note of his companion's idleness. and when Margaret do make

her appearance, look beautiful with excitement, and he hasten to

meet she, Mr. Grey follow he to the hall door give he a string of

caution, which any third person could have tell he be quite

unnecessary in the present instance. he be quite eager enough to

examine the girth and the curb, and to prevent her horse from go too

fast.



it be a beautiful day; the tree be just out and the young leave

tremble in the bright sunshine. there be that peculiar fragrance in

the air, which result from the opening bud in shrub and hedge; and

in some place, the sweet breath of violet seem to linger on the soft

wind, mingle with the fresh scent of dewy tuft of moss.



Margaret have no fear, and the pace of her horse be so easy, that she

feel no fatigue. Mr. Haveloc take the great care of she, and exert

himself to amuse she so effectually, that she be really sorry when her

ride be conclude. whether she would have enjoy it quite as much with

the groom, for her sole attendant, be a question that she have no present

opportunity of solve; for Mr. Haveloc tell Mr. Grey that he think

her horse go good in company, and that while he remain at Ashdale,

he be entirely at the service of Miss Capel whenever she choose to ride

out.









CHAPTER XV.





    but who can tell what cause have that fair maid

    to use he so that love she so well?

    or who with blame can justly she upbraid

    for love not? for who can love compel?



    SPENSER.





it be customary with Mr. Grey to pass his morning in the library

unless some very particular business cause he to take refuge in his

study. he be fond of desultory reading, and be accomplish in the

knowledge of several modern language. Mr. Haveloc usually employ

himself at the other end of the room, without any reference to Mr.

Grey's occupation; read with as much eagerness upon any subject that

happen to engage his attention, as if he be still a candidate for

academic honour.



they seldom exchange a remark during these hour, unless Mr. Grey

suddenly become alarmed at the steadfastness of his young friend's

application, when he would favour he with some of those caution, which

he be in the habit of address to Margaret, regard the injurious

effect of too much study.



one morning a letter be bring to Mr. Grey, which he open and look

at with some surprise, glance at the signature, and exclaim, "from

Hubert Gage! how extraordinary! why could not the silly fellow come and

say what he want, instead of write it?"



Mr. Haveloc look up at the unwonted interruption, and see Mr. Grey

read his letter with many sound of impatience and vexation, he could

not avoid "hope that there be no bad news from Chirke Weston."



"no; not bad news," say Mr. Grey lay down his letter and his

read glass upon it, and lean back in his chair, as if quite

tired out: "not exactly bad news."



this remark be, perhaps, rather calculate to excite than to gratify

his curiosity; but Mr. Haveloc resume his reading without farther

inquiry, and Mr. Grey remain for some time in deep thought.



at last Mr. Grey look up, and turn round to his companion.



"a very strange thing, Claude," say he. "I be sure, as far as I be

concern, the most unlooke-for occurrence. here be Hubert Gage

propose for my little niece, Margaret--a mere baby!"



Mr. Haveloc start from his chair, make a step or two towards Mr. Grey,

and then return quietly to his seat, and make a great show of find

the place in his book again.



"yes, it be very remarkable," say Mr. Grey, who have interpret Mr.

Haveloc's sudden movement into an expression of surprise; "I could

never have foresee it. and really, Hubert Gage, a mere boy! of course

the connexion be highly honourable, impossible to be well; but at

their age. not that anything can be more fair and manly than his letter;

but if he have Captain Gage's consent to fetter himself by an engagement

of this kind before he be one and twenty year old--why his father have

not half the sense I give he credit for."



Mr. Haveloc be silent.



"yet poor young fellow," say Mr. Grey, take up his letter, "if he be

in love as he say he be, perhaps all this impatience be more natural in

he than in an old man. and although this love be very often a source

of great inconvenience, yet we all look back to that period, whether

successful or not, as to the most spiritual, and the happy portion of

our life. faith, I will do all I can for he in the business."



"and Miss Capel," say Mr. Haveloc, speak with effort.



"oh! for she, poor little girl, I dare say she fancy herself attach

to he. for I have often remark, Claude, that when a handsome and

agreeable young man pay a great deal of attention to an inexperienced

girl, it generally end in this way; first impression be everything.

and you hear she tell I the other night that Hubert use to roast

chestnut for she, and all that sort of thing. I dare say it be all for

the good."



Mr. Haveloc make no reply. a dark frown settle on his face, and he

lean his head on his hand, seem to be immerse in the folio volume

that stand on a desk before he.



"if," he think, "the love of a creature like Margaret can hinge upon

such wretched trifle, why let it go. if she can love he, why should I

regret she?"



yet he feel that all he be worth would be too little to purchase such

affection as hers would be, where it be freely give.



both party be silent for some time. Mr. Grey forget the presence of

Mr. Haveloc, so entirely be he engross with the subject on his mind;

and he be employ himself in make a mental estimate of the amount

of Margaret's and Hubert's property, and the sum he mean to add to it,

when he hear her voice and step in the drawing-room, half-dancing,

half-singing, as she come near the library. the sound cease as she

turn the handle of the door, and she enter with the most demure

expression in the world.



"Uncle Grey, may I have the carriage after luncheon, if you please, to

go to S--," say she advance to he, "for I have break my guitar

string--this silver one, and I cannot play till I have get another."



"yes, my love, certainly," say Mr. Grey, draw she towards he, "be

you busy now?"



"no; this be the last piece of business I have do," say Margaret

laugh, and show he the string, which she be twine round her

finger, "a very bad business; you cannot think how it startle I when

it snap."



"have you learn that song which Hubert Gage give you?" ask Mr. Grey.



"the Neapolitan one? oh, yes! it be very easy;" say Margaret, singe

one or two bar in a low tone, "Mr. Hubert think himself so fine

because he can play that air on the guitar. it be the only tune he can

play."



"well, my love," say her uncle, "I have have a letter from Hubert Gage

this morning. you may read it, if you will."



as he speak, he put the letter into her hand. he entirely forget that

Mr. Haveloc be in the room; and even have he recollect it, he would

have take it for grant, that sit at such a distance, and engage

in read so closely, his presence would have be no drawback to the

conversation he wish to hold with his niece. Margaret, stand with

she back to he, never perceive he at all; and for Mr. Haveloc, he

never imagine that Mr. Grey would have do more than give Margaret the

letter, and recommend she to read it at her leisure. he could not leave

the room, except by pass Margaret; and he think the sight of he

would embarrass she while converse on such a subject, therefore he

remain where he be. and an intense curiosity to learn how she would

receive such tiding, hold he, breathless and motionless, until she

leave the room.



Margaret read the letter through attentively, and steadily, the crimson

deepen every moment all over her face, and then look up straight

to her uncle as she return it, she say:



"I be glad you will have to answer this letter, uncle, instead of I,

since I have no practice in these matter; and it be unpleasant to be

oblige to say--no."



"but, my dear child," say Mr. Grey, quite puzzle at receive a reply

so totally different to what he have expect, "what objection have you

in the world to such a fine fellow as Hubert Gage?"



"he do not love I, uncle, that be one objection," say Margaret with

a slight smile; "and I be sure I do not love he."



"why, my child," say Mr. Grey, "what, do you suppose can induce a man

to make you an offer, if he be not in love with you?"



"a great many reason, uncle. I will not suppose that all the marry

people in the world who be so indifferent, or unhappy, have once love

each other. in my case, I can acquit Mr. Hubert of any interested

motive. it be a pass fancy of his."



"but, my dear--time--you do not know how attached you might become to

he. you would not like to give pain to the poor young man."



"Uncle," say Margaret, look steadily into his face. "I must love a

person a little, before I would suffer pain myself, rather than occasion

it to he. I would do so for you, or Elizabeth, but not for Mr. Hubert

Gage, I tell you frankly. if I think he really love I, I should be

grieve and pain at the necessity of wound his feeling; but, as it

be, I be only ashamed, that he should have single I out as the object

of so trifling, so fleet a regard."



"but, my dear little girl," persist Mr. Grey, "what on earth can have

put it into your head, that he do not love you?"



"little thing, uncle, that it would not be easy to put into word. it

may seem vain, Sir, but at one time I be afraid he mean to pay I

particular attention. a very little observation set I at rest on that

point. I be young, and do not know much; but this be a matter of

feeling, and not of knowledge. I be old enough to feel that he have make

a mistake."



"well, my love," say Mr. Grey, "I do not understand it:" he fold and

unfold the letter in his hand for some moment, and at last go on.



"you must reflect a little, my dear. this young man be of good family;

highly connected, and, in the event of your marry he, you would find

yourself in as good a circle of connexion and acquaintance as you

could possibly desire. he have something, and so have you. I would come

forward, and I have no doubt his father would come forward; and you

could be able to keep a carriage, and have every comfort about you."



"I be afraid, uncle," say Margaret, smile, "that I be not old enough

to appreciate these advantage."



her uncle pause again. "he will not be satisfied, my dear, with my

reply. what do you say to see he yourself?"



"I have rather not, uncle," say Margaret blushing still more deeply. "it

be rather embarrassing--it be not agreeable to discuss this subject,

even with you, Sir."



"well, my dear," say Mr. Grey, "we will see about it; but I can tell

you the young man will not give it up so quietly, if you have not

another attachment."



"I can understand that such a question concern he," say Margaret,

with a faltering in her voice; "and, therefore, if you please, you can

tell he I be free in that respect; but if I be free, uncle, I need not

choose a person whom I do not like."



"the idea of not like Hubert Gage!" say Mr. Grey.



"I do like he, uncle, as an acquaintance, and shall do so, if he do

not teaze I; but, as a suitor--why, Uncle Grey," say Margaret

brighten up, "he will forget all about I now, before I forget he,

though he do profess a regard for I that I cannot return."



"well, my love," say Mr. Grey, "you shall act exactly as your feeling

dictate; but it be an awkward business I can tell you, all this

propose and reject."



"thank you, dear uncle," say Margaret lean forward, and kiss he

on the forehead. "but--I may have the carriage all the same, Sir, may I

not, to go for my guitar string?"



"oh! poor Hubert Gage," say Mr. Grey lean back, as Margaret leave the

room, and look very much exhausted. "if she can think of her guitar

string at such a time, I be afraid there be a remarkably small chance

for the young gentleman."









CHAPTER XVI.





    but woo she, gentle Paris, get her heart,

    my will to her consent be but a part;

    an she agree, within her scope of choice

    lie my consent and fair accord voice.



    SHAKESPEARE.





    which when he hear, he inly touch be

    with tender ruth for her unworthy griefe;

    and having cheer she, thus say; Faire Dame

    in evil, counsell be the comfort chiefe,

    which though I be not wise enough to frame,

    yet as I well it meane, vouchsafe it without blame.



    SPENSER.





as soon as Margaret have close the door after she, Mr. Haveloc draw a

long breath, like one relieve from an oppressive state of suspense; and

remain for a short time in hesitation as to what his next step should

be. his admiration of Margaret have rise with every word that she have

speak; and have he follow the impulse of the moment, he would, more

than once, have interrupt the even progress of the dialogue by rush

forward and throw himself at her foot. he be delighted, and

penetrate with the clear judgment, and the beautiful simplicity of

character which she evince. he resolve, with all the determination of

a sufficiently wilful character, that he would spare no exertion to

obtain her affection; and as a preliminary, which her youth render a

matter of honour and propriety, he determine to demand the sanction of

her uncle to his address, before he could attempt to engage the regard

of Margaret. but just at this moment, that Mr. Grey have be so annoyed

by the application of Hubert Gage, he feel a reluctance to enter upon

the subject. still there be no time to be lose. Margaret might receive

another offer any day--it be as well to be early in the field. while he

be make up his mind to this effect, Mr. Grey turn to the table,

and search among the paper heap in confusion around he, for his

writing-case, that he might dispatch an answer to Hubert Gage; say,

as he take a sheet of paper for that purpose, "I do not know what to

think--I cannot understand it all. I don't believe the child know she

own mind."



"I be sorry to interrupt you, Sir," say Mr. Haveloc, come hastily

forward, "still more sorry to demand your attention on my behalf at a

time when you be engross by a disagreeable subject."



"why it be disagreeable, Claude," say Mr. Grey, look up and lay

down his pen, "I never anticipate any objection on her side. do you,

now?"



"I never anticipate such a proposal," say Mr. Haveloc, "I imagine

that every one would have consider, as I do, that Miss Capel be too

young to receive such address."



"so she be," return Mr. Grey, "but if I say so to Hubert, his answer

will naturally be that he will wait until she be old; now that be an

answer that I think would not exactly meet her wish."



Mr. Haveloc bow his head.



"and," pursue Mr. Grey, "when there be not a single objection that can

be urge against a man; it be rather difficult to give he a reason that

shall dissuade he from continue his suit."



"there be one reason that should content any man," say Mr. Haveloc,

"indifference."



"it be the last that do content they, though," say Mr. Grey, take

up his pen and look earnestly at it, "they think it be so easy to

overcome it. they be a very singular race," say he--speak of lover

as he would of Albinoes, or Cingalese, or other strange beings--"they

have a great many troublesome peculiarity; sometimes so pertinacious;

at other time so easily discourage. and here be a match which, a few

year hence, would be all I could desire for my niece; and the little

romantic creature absolutely throw the chance away. not that I would

influence her decision one way or other; Heaven forbid. but you be

go to say something or other, Claude. have you hear any thing

far from your tenant at Tynebrook?"



"I be about to trouble you upon a subject far more interesting to

myself," say Mr. Haveloc, hesitate.



he have never feel so embarrassed in his life. it seem to he that in

everything but the mere accident of fortune, Hubert Gage be his

superior. that he have the advantage in person, in manner, in that gaiety

of disposition which be so generally attractive and endearing; that his

character be unimpeached, and that he belong to a profession which of

itself would render he an object of interest to an Englishwoman. if

Margaret have reject this suitor, how could he expect to make a deep

impression on her heart?



it need not be say that this condition of feeling be very rare in the

nobler sex, and may be account for by the want of confidence which be

say ever to accompany an earnest and engrossing passion.



Mr. Grey look anxiously at his young friend; await his disclosure

with much curiosity.



"I feel at this moment," say Mr. Haveloc, endeavour to speak with

great composure, and fail signally in the attempt, "so very unworthy

of the favour I be about to ask you, that it be with a painful sense of

reluctance I proceed."



"I be sure, Claude, anything in the world that I can do for you," say

Mr. Grey, grow still more puzzled as he mark Mr. Haveloc's evident

embarrassment; "only," he add with a smile, "I hope you be not in

love, because, as you see, in such a case I have no power at all."



"I think, Sir," say Mr. Haveloc quietly, "it would be difficult for any

one to avoid that weakness, who have the happiness of be long in Miss

Capel's society. I must confess myself entirely engross by the hope

of one day obtain her affection; and my present anxiety be to gain

your sanction to my pursuit."



Mr. Grey's blank, uplifted look of amazement can hardly be express. it

be in vain to expect an immediate answer, for at first he could not

really comprehend that a second application have be make to he for the

hand of his niece: but Mr. Haveloc interpret his silence into a

reluctance to entrust Margaret to his care. his thought revert

immediately to his conduct at Florence, and he remain silent, and pale

with anger and confusion.



after a pause of a few moment, Mr. Grey reach out his hand to he.

"this give I great pleasure, Claude," he say. "how it will turn out,

be another matter. but you have my free consent, if that be of any use.

but," he continue, interrupt the thank which his companion be

begin to pour out, "I consider this quite a subject for the future.

there be no hurry."



"Good Heaven, Sir, no hurry!" say Mr. Haveloc, "when every one that

see Miss Capel--"



"my dear Claude," say Mr. Grey smile, "I be likely to be a little

partial to my own niece; but I see plainly how it be. with Hubert

Gage--poor fellow, I be very sorry for he--she be the first pretty

girl he see on his return; and sailor be proverbial for fall in

love, and out of it, fortunately. there be no danger that she should be

more seek in general society than other girl of her age and fortune.

in a year's time you will find she just where you leave she, depend upon

it."



"and be I to leave she now, Sir, in all this uncertainty," exclaim Mr.

Haveloc, "and for a year. Good Heaven! be there ever such a probation

demand of any one? a year, Sir! in half that time, I may learn she be

married to some one else."



"my good friend, your imagination be now rather active," say Mr. Grey.

"no. I do not bid you leave she until, whether soon or late, you have

ascertain that she return your regard, or that you become convinced

that you cannot obtain it. then it be my wish that you separate for a

year; and if before that time have expire," he continue with a smile,

"she be married to some one else, you will be willing to confess,

Claude, that your loss have not be very great."



"Good Heaven!" exclaim Mr. Haveloc again, gaze vacantly forward, as

if a year be a period without any know termination.



"such be my wish, Claude," say Mr. Grey, "you be neither of you common

character; if you be, I might hasten the matter for fear either of

you should change your mind, and so ensure to my niece a large property

without the least apprehension for her future peace. but although the

world rub off all that be true and beautiful from most character, it

would take a great deal of such collision to destroy the simplicity of

her disposition; therefore, I wish that she should have the opportunity

which a frequent intercourse with society give, to make a selection, as

freely as if you have not a hundred pound in the world. let she

acceptance of you be a choice in the true acceptation of the word, a

distinction of you from other people. and I have the same feeling with

regard to yourself. you may not be altogether satisfied that you have

obtain a beautiful child; you may feel, after a time, that you require

the companionship of a more mature mind. it be, therefore, absolutely

necessary that you should try if the impression will stand the test of

absence."



"Impossible, Sir!" exclaim Mr. Haveloc; "of all torment in the world,

to put off--to forego--the uncertainty--you do not consider."



"I think, Claude," say Mr. Grey, look at his breathless companion

with a quiet smile, "that I consider this subject a little more

leisurely than you do at this moment."



"I endeavour to regard the subject with all calmness," say Mr. Haveloc,

tremble with impatience; "but I cannot make out the necessity for my

undergo so long an interval of misery as you would assign to I.

pardon I, but I cannot think you a competent judge of Miss Capel's

perfection."



"much oblige," say Mr. Grey, quietly.



"you be under no suspense," continue Mr. Haveloc. "no one can break

the tie which subsist between you and your niece; and therefore you do

not view she with the trembling admiration of one who fear to risk

everything in the parting from she."



"she be a very nice little girl," say Mr. Grey, "I see that plainly

enough."



"I feel myself very inadequate to pronounce an eulogy upon her exquisite

beauty, either of person or mind," say Mr. Haveloc, colour deeply

with indignation at the phrase, 'a nice little girl.' "but no one live

rate these perfection high than I do. and I must confess my extreme

reluctance to leave they unguarded to any man who choose to enter for

the prize: any common fellow, who without sincerity and without

tenderness, desire to possess what all must covet."



"ought you not," say Mr. Grey who seem quietly to enjoy the

discussion, "ought you not to ascribe to your mistress a little

discrimination among all her perfection?"



"by no mean," say Mr. Haveloc, "it be no merit in a woman."



and here he speak perfect truth; for of all quality, it be the one

which man dislike most bitterly in the fair sex. it be just possible

that the great number of they imagine that they should fare but badly

in the opinion of woman if they be not able to deceive they readily.



"just put the fire together a little, Claude," say Mr. Grey, "I do not

find that this talk be warm work."



Mr. Haveloc do as he be desire.



"well now, I suppose you be content," say Mr. Grey. "if you will

ring for a taper, I will write this letter; it be grow very dark. I

wonder what o'clock it be in the name of goodness?"



"I be not content, Sir, by any mean," say Mr. Haveloc ring the

bell; "but it be nearly seven, and you will not be able to write till

after dinner."



"bless I, and I be not dress," say Mr. Grey, who in all his solitude

never omit that ceremony.



"nor I, Sir," say Mr. Haveloc.



"you a lover," say Mr. Grey laugh. "why, even Benedict brush his

hat o' morning."



"if you would spare I another minute," say Mr. Haveloc.



"I be sure, Claude," say Mr. Grey, "I have give you reason enough. it

be not my fault if you will not apply they."



"they be very excellent," say Mr. Haveloc; "but certainly an absence

of six month would answer every purpose."



"or three month," say Mr. Grey.



"undoubtedly, Sir."



"six week, perhaps."



"any separation whatever, Sir. I need no trial. I can undergo no change;

and you may imagine it be not a very agreeable prospect to I that Miss

Capel be to be take into society during my absence, and invite to

select some one whom she may like well than myself."



"well--well," say Mr. Grey, "you will see the advantage of it one day

or other. and now I have no more time to spare; my man will think I

dead as it be. seven o'clock, I declare. well, thank Heaven, these

thing do not happen every day!"



"hello! a cabinet council!" exclaim the well know voice of Mr.

Casement; "let's make it a Council of Three. what be it all about? what

not dress, old gentleman? then there's something in the wind, as sure

as my name be Roger Casement. you have well tell I, for I shall be

sure to find it out. have this young fellow been propose for Miss

Peggy?"



Mr. Haveloc fling himself out of the room in great disdain; and Mr. Grey

take up his candlestick, say "that he be really in a hurry, and that

Mr. Casement would no doubt find his niece in the drawing-room."



Margaret be there, ready dress, and in some wonder that her very

punctual uncle have not yet appear.



Mr. Casement enter, take his usual place on the hearth-rug, and nod

to Margaret, who return his salutation in silence.



"what's the matter, little woman--be cry?" ask Mr. Casement.



"no, Sir," return Margaret in some surprise.



"what have they be do all the afternoon, in there--uncle and the

young fellow. eh?"



"I dare say they have be read, Sir," say Margaret, "my uncle be

alone when I last see he."



"read--bah!" say Mr. Casement; "I say, it be my belief that the

young fellow be go to be marry; eh?" and Mr. Casement stir the

fire, and watch her countenance by the blaze.



"it may be, Sir," say Margaret, with a quiet smile. "I be not in the

secret."



"my old woman have get the rheumatism, so I be come to dine here," say

Mr. Casement.



Margaret say she be sorry Mrs. Casement be suffer, and then there

be a pause. Margaret play with her greyhound, and Mr. Casement

whistle softly, and very much out of tune.



Mr. Haveloc be the first to make his appearance, he come up in a quiet

serious manner to Margaret; apologize for be late, and say, that he

have also to answer for Mr. Grey's delay, since he have detain he in

the library talk of his affair.



"I should not wonder if he have be gamble," say Mr. Casement in a

soliloquy.



Mr. Haveloc never vouchsafe an answer to Mr. Casement's flattering

remark. he draw a chair near Margaret, and begin to converse with she.



"what be he talk about, little woman?" ask Mr. Casement, after they

have exchange a few sentence in rather a low tone.



"nothing, Sir," return Margaret hastily.



"Faith! you be about right there," say Mr. Casement; "_nothing_ be

pretty much the amount of all the young fellow' speech now a'days."



Mr. Haveloc start from his chair, and begin to walk up and down the

room. Mr. Casement follow his movement with a look of quiet

satisfaction. he be never more entirely happy than when he have

exasperate any one. as soon as tea be over, Mr. Grey say that he have

a letter to write, which he could not put off, and that Mr. Casement

must excuse he for half an hour.



"some of your business, I suppose, Master Claude;" say that amiable

gentleman nod his head in the direction of the library.



"I write my own letter of business," say Mr. Haveloc shortly.



"what be come to you all I cann't think," pursue Mr. Casement. "but I'll

worm it out of Master Grey, that's my comfort. and what be you about

little woman? why don't you give we some music?"



"I be work a bag, Sir," say Margaret rise and lay it down "but

I will play if you wish it."



"do," say Mr. Casement, take up the bag and examine it. "mercy, how

smart! who be this for--eh?"



"for Miss Gage," say Margaret with a faultere voice; and as she

speak, she press her hand on her side, and sit down suddenly.



Mr. Haveloc, who be stand at the piano arrange her book, now

hurry up to she.



"I be afraid you be ill," he say, "do not think of play. you be

quite unequal to the exertion. do you find the room too hot?"



"it be hot," say Margaret, who seem on the verge of burst into

tear. "I think, I will go to my uncle, or, perhaps, I shall interrupt

he. I--"



"poor little soul, she have no mother!" say Mr. Casement, whose sagacity

have discern that something unusual occupy the mind of the party;

and whose coarse nature be not so destitute of feeling, but that he see

how distressing must be the situation of a young girl, at any important

crisis of her life, without the guidance of an experienced female

friend.



this remark which Mr. Haveloc fear would entirely destroy her

composure, have a contrary effect. after a struggle of a few moment,

she force back her tear, and rise quietly up.



"I cannot play to you to-night," say she to Mr. Casement with a smile,

"for I have a head-ache, and I be afraid my hand would not be very

steady. perhaps, Mr. Haveloc, you will be so kind as to wish my uncle

good night for I."



she bow her head, and be about to leave the room, but Mr. Haveloc

hasten after she.



"let I beg you not to leave we," he say, "if you take a few turn in

the conservatory where the air be cool you will find yourself well."



he lead she as he speak into the conservatory, which open from the

drawing-room; and Margaret find it easy to say nothing, than to

trust her voice with a reply, suffer he to do as he please. he draw

her hand through his arm, and lead she slowly up and down.



"you must permit I to prescribe for you," say he gently, "for I think

if there be anything that vex you, you will feel less depressed in

company than if you be to go up stair and sit alone in your own room.

for you have no companion--no--"



"no mother;" say Margaret, look up into his face, with an expression

of quiet sorrow that nearly upset all his plan; for have he then say

all that he feel and hope, he might have set out upon his travel the

next morning.



"be these your azalia?" say he, stop before one of the stand,

"they look very gay. do you remember when you ask Mr. Grey for they;

the first evening I come."



"oh! do you recollect that, Mr. Haveloc!" say Margaret.



"I remember every particular of those few minute you choose not to speak

to I."



"oh, Mr. Haveloc, you do not speak to _I_!" say Margaret, smile,

"and, of course, stranger could not have any thing to say to each

other."



"have you read the book upon Etruria?" say Mr. Haveloc.



"yes--long ago."



"and you be interested by it?"



"oh! very much. it seem to I so strange that people should almost have

forget the existence of such a nation, until lately; when these

discovery be make."



"have you see any account of the ruin city in Central America?"



"No; what city? who build they?"



"there seem to be some doubt on that subject; but it be generally

believe that these be the city of the Mexicans which be actually

depopulate by the Spaniards; and which now lie, temple, altar, and

palace, overrun with vegetation, and bury in forest."



"and be they in any state of preservation?"



"almost as they be leave by their owner; building of vast extent and

elaborate workmanship. the work which have lately come out on this

subject, be crowd with drawing, which give a perfect idea of these

remain."



"I should like to see that book;" say Margaret.



"I shall have great pleasure in show it to you. I have just be

read it," say Mr. Haveloc.



"and these Mexicans be then as civilized a people as the Etruscans?"



"more luxurious; but perhaps less artistical. there be a great deal of

elegance in the etruscan decoration."



"that be true. what a number of new thing I have to learn. I do not

know that any trace of those city remain; and I believe there be

a great deal of fiction in the account of the Spaniards."



"so do Robertson. he have be assure that there be no ruin in that

part of the world; and the account of the spanish invader be too

magnificent to be believe without some confirmation."



"and who write this work?"



"an American name Stevens, who have display a great deal of enterprise

and research. a singular occupation for one of that nation, for it be

not a very likely mean of earn dollar."



"oh! there be a little prejudice in that remark, Mr. Haveloc," say

Margaret. "perhaps _all_ Americans do not love money well than

anything in the world."



"I will attend to all the good advice you give I;" say Mr. Haveloc,

smile, "you warn I, in the present instance, not to indulge in

national prejudice."



"ah! you may well stare at find I alone," say Mr. Casement; "the

young one--philander in the green-house yonder."



"oh! I forget Mr. Casement," say Margaret, blushing.



"so do I, utterly," return Mr. Haveloc, as he lead Margaret back to

the drawing-room.



now Margaret's emotion have arise from the idea which suddenly occur

to she, that Miss Gage might withdraw her friendship from she, on

account of her rejection of Hubert Gage. but she find that she have

greatly undervalue the calm and judicious mind of Elizabeth in

attribute to she an injustice, which, however natural, no

dispassionate person could consider reasonable.



she call on Margaret the next day, and the first word she speak be,

to assure she that she be not come to plead her brother's cause; but to

insist that what have pass, should prove no interruption to their

friendship. most gladly do Margaret, with many tear, give she this

promise.



Elizabeth be too considerate to question she upon the cause of her

rejection; but Margaret be glad to talk the matter over with she--to

hope, and to be assure that she have do nothing wrong throughout the

business.



Elizabeth could not charge Margaret with having ever give Hubert any

more encouragement than circumstance have almost demand: but to

Margaret's repeat declaration, that Hubert feel no real attachment to

she--though she smile--she shake her head. she know, that occasionally,

a great deal of strong feeling exist beneath a gay and careless

temperament. but she say, that her father be exert himself to get

Hubert a ship, and as soon as he be afloat again, she hope that

Margaret would be as much at Chirke Weston as before.



this conversation, which Margaret, full of joy and gratitude, repeat

to Mr. Grey, be by he very speedily retail to Mr. Haveloc; which

relieve he of some apprehension, that Margaret's agitation on the

precede evening have cause he, namely, that she have begin to repent

the decision she have give her uncle on the subject of Hubert Gage.



this interview remove from Margaret, the only source of regret, which

remain to she on that subject. her uncle be all kindness, and never

refer to her decision; and to crown her content, Mr. Casement, about

this time follow the example of his "old woman," and be lay up for

several week with an attack of rheumatism.





END of VOL. I.





                                  LONDON:

                print by Schulze and Co., 13, Poland Street.





Transcriber's note: the oe ligature be show as [oe]. a few printer's

error have be amend. countetenance be now countenance, Magaret be

now Margaret, converstion be now conversation, Harrier be now Harriet

and regret be now regret. the punctuation be as it be print in

the original publication.













end of Project Gutenberg's Margaret Capel, v. 1 of 3, by Ellen Wallace







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK MARGARET CAPEL: a NOVEL, VOL. 1 of 3 ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





