The project Gutenberg eBook of the other Man

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the other Man



author: Edgar Wallace



illustrator: Thomas Fogarty



Release date: March 23, 2021 [ebook #64907]

                most recently update: February 19, 2025



language: English



credit: Al Haines





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the other MAN ***



[frontispiece: without a word she glide from the room (page 47)]









  the other MAN





  BY



  EDGAR WALLACE





  _illustration by T. J. FOGARTY_





  NEW YORK

  DODD, MEAD and COMPANY

  1911









  COPYRIGHT, 1911, BY

  DODD, MEAD and COMPANY



  _publish May_, 1911









  content



  CHAPTER



  I  N. H. C.

  II  A Business Consultation

  III  in which a certain momentous Question be ask

  IV  which relate to a Newspaper Suicide

  V  Count Poltavo offer his Services

  VI  a Stranger come to Burgos

  VII  some Disappearances

  VIII  the Ambassador take a Hand

  IX  introduce T. B. Smith

  X  the Anticipators

  xi  at Bronte's Bank

  XII  Murder

  XIII  Hyatt

  XIV  Sir George Dines

  XV  the Dancing Girl

  XVI  Mary Brown

  XVII  Deportation

  xviii  in the "Journal" Office

  XIX  the Book

  XX  at the Admiralty

  XXI  Poltavo strike

  XXII  the Convict from Ceuta









CHAPTER I



N. H. C.



it be a bad night in London, not wild or turbulent, but swathe to

the eye like an eastern woman in a soft grey garment of fog.  it

engulf the walled canyon of the city through which the traffic have

roar all day, plug up the maze of dark side street, and blot

out the open square.  close to the ground it be thick, viscous,

impenetrable, so that one could not see a yard ahead, and walk

ghostlike, adventure into a strange world.



occasionally it disperse.  in front of the opera house, number of

arc-light work a waver mist-hung yellow square, into which a

constant line of vehicle like monstrous shiny bug emerge from the

outer nowhere, disgorge their content, and eclipse again.  and

pedestrian in gay processional stream across the ruddy glistening

patch like figure on a slide.



conspicuous in the shift throng be a boy, ostensibly sell

violet, but with a keen eye upon the arrive vehicle.  suddenly he

dart to the curb, where an electric coupe have just draw up.  a man

alight heavily, and turn to assist a young woman.



for an instant the lad's attention be deflect by the radiant

vision.  the girl, wrap in a voluminous cloak of ivory colour, be

tall and slim, with soft white throat and graceful neck; her eye

under shadowy lash be a little narrow, but blue as autumn mist,

and sparkle now with amusement.



"watch your step, auntie," she warn laughingly, as a plump elderly

little lady descend stiffly from the coupe.  "these London fog be

dangerous."



the boy stand stare at she, his foot as helpless as if they have

take root in the ground.  suddenly he remember his mission.  his

native impudence reassert itself, and he start forward.



"Voylets, lidy?  wear your colour.  you ben't allow to trot

without."



the girl gaze at he, her blue eye bright as star on a windy

night.  an enchanting dimple twinkle about her curved lip in gay

hide-and-seek, and when she laugh, flee upward to her eye.



"Father," she say, "will you buy my colour from this bold sporting

gentleman?"



as the man fumble in an inner pocket for change, the lad take a

swift inventory.  the face, beneath the tall hat, be a powerful

oval, paste-colour, with thin lip, and heavy line from nostril to

jaw.  the eye be close-set and of a turbid grey.



"it's he," the boy assure himself, and open his mouth to speak.



"so you be a sporting man," the girl rally he gaily, adjust

the flower.



the boy nod, respond instantly to her mood.



"only," he sweep she with shrewd, appraise eye, that note every

detail of her delicate beauty and sumptuousness, "I don't trot in the

two-minute class myself."



the girl laugh a clear silvery peal, and turn impulsively to the

young man in evening dress who have just dismiss his hansom and

join the group.



it be the diversion the boy have pray for.  he take a quick step

toward the old man.



"N.," he say in a soft but distinct undertone.



the man's face blanch suddenly, and a coin which he hold in his

large, white-gloved palm, slip jingle to the pavement.



the young messenger stoop and catch it up dextrously.



"N.," he whisper again, insistently.



"H.," the answer come hoarsely.  the man's lip tremble.



"C.," finish the boy promptly and with satisfaction.  under cover

of return the coin, he thrust a slip of white paper into the

other's hand.



then he wheel, duck to the girl with a gay little swagger of

impudence, throw a lightning glance of scrutiny at her young escort,

and turn, be lose in the throng.



the whole incident occupy less than a minute, and presently the

four be seat in their box, and the throb strain from the

overture of _I Pagliacci_ come float up to they.



"I wish I be a little street gamin in London," say the girl

pensively, finger the violet at her corsage.  "think of the

adventure!  don't you, Cord?"



"don't I wish _you_ be?"  Cord Van Ingen look across at she with

smile significant eye, which bring a flush to her cheek.



"no," he say softly, "I do not!"



the girl laugh at he and shrug her round white shoulder.



"for a young diplomat, Cord, you be too obvious--too delightfully

verdant.  you should study indirection, subtlety, finesse--study

Poltavo!"



at the name the boy's brow darken.



"study the devil!" he mutter under his breath.



"that too, for a diplomat, be necessary!" she murmur sweetly.



"he ben't come here to-night?" Van Ingen ask in aggrieved tone.



the girl nod, her eye dance with laughter.



"what you can see in that man, Doris," he protest, "pass I!

I'll bet you anything you like that the fellow's a rogue!  a smooth,

soft-smile rascal!  Lady Dinsmore," he appeal to the old woman,

"do you like he?"



"oh, don't ask Aunt Patricia!" cry the girl.  "she think he quite

the most fascinating man in London.  don't deny it, auntie!"



"I shalln't," say that lady calmly, "for it's true!  Count Poltavo,"

she pause to inspect through her lorgnette some newcomer in the

opposite box, "Count Poltavo be the only interesting man in London.

he be a genius."  she shut her lorgnette with a snap.  "it delight

I to talk with he.  he smile and murmur gay witticism and quote

Talleyrand and Lucullus, and all the while in the back of his head,

quite out of reach, his real opinion of you be be tabulate and

range neatly in a row, like bottle on a shelf."



"I'd like to take down some of those bottle," say Doris

thoughtfully.  "maybe some day I shall."



"they're probably label poison," remark Van Ingen, a little

viciously.  he look at the girl with a grow sense of injury.  of

late she have seem absolutely change toward he; and from be his

dear friend, his childhood's mate, with established intimacy, she

have turn before his very eye into an alien, almost an enemy, more

beautiful than ever, to be true, but perverse, mocking, impish.  she

flout he for his youth, his bluntness, his guileless transparency.

but hard of all to bear be the delicate derision with which she

treat his awkward attempt to express his passion for she, to speak

of the fever which have take possession of he, almost against his

will, and which at sight of she throb madly at his wrist and

temple.  and now, he reflect bitterly, with this velvet fop of a

count loom up as a possible rival, with his _savoir faire_, and

his absurd penchant for literature and art, what chance have he, a

plain American, against such odds?--unless, as he profoundly

believe, the chap be a crook.  he determine to sound her father.



"Mr. Grayson," he ask aloud, "what do _you_ think--halloo!"  he

spring up suddenly and thrust out a support arm.



Grayson have rise, and stand sway slightly upon his foot.  he be

frightfully pale, and his countenance be contract as if in pain.

he lift a waver hand to his brow.



"I--I feel ill," he say faintly.  his hand fall limply to his side.

he take a staggering step toward the door.



Van Ingen be beside he instantly.



"lean on I, sir," he urge quietly.



he pass a steadying hand through Grayson's, and guide he toward

the passage.



"we'll have you out of this in a jiffy," he say cheerfully.  "it's

the confound stifle air of these place!  it's enough to make a

grampus faint!  Lady Dinsmore, will you look after Doris?"



"no!  no!" the girl exclaim.  her face be white and strained and

fear darken her eye.  in her distress she have rise, and stand,

clasp tightly her father's arm.



"we'll all go together!  please, dear!"  her voice and eye plead.

she seem try to convey a hidden meaning, a secret urgency.



"nonsense!"  Grayson, still pallid and frown, lean heavily upon

Van Ingen's shoulder.  tiny bead of perspiration stand out upon his

temple but his voice be strong.



"don't make a scene, my girl."  he nod toward the stall, where

already curious lorgnette be begin to be level at their box.



"sit down!"



Doris obey mutely, her mobile lip quiver as she seek to

suppress her emotion.  she be conscious of a shiver which seem to

spread from her heart throughout her limb.  the oppression of a

nameless fear take possession of she; it weigh she down.  she sit

very still, grip her fan.



"I'll be around fit as ever in the morning.  'Night, Lady Dinsmore.

take care of my girl."  Grayson speak jerkily with a strong effort.



Lady Patricia Dinsmore regard he coldly.  she dislike the man

cordially, and make no bone of it.  in her heart she have never

forgive he for wed her foolish young sister, the family

beauty, who have die at Doris' birth far away from her kith and kin

in the desolate wild of New York.



"good-night, Gerald," she say drily.  "try to get a little sleep."

she turn to the young man.  "put he to bed, Cord, and cut all

the wire around the Savoy, so he willn't call up those wretched

broker.  I think he's try to gobble the whole english market."



she mark sharply the effect of her shaft.



Grayson turn a shade paler.  he clutch Van Ingen's arm.



"get I out of here!" he whisper hoarsely.



Lady Patricia view their depart back with a fleeting ironical

smile.



"your father, my dear," she murmur to Doris, "be a very remarkable

man."



out in the fresh air, Grayson revive amazingly.  his feebleness

disappear as if by magic, and he step out briskly.  he nod to

a hansom in the rank and the man draw in to the opening.



"the Savoy," cry Grayson.



he spring in hastily.



Van Ingen make as if to follow, but Grayson hold the apron door

securely.



"no need in the world for you to accompany I, dear boy," he

exclaim, smile.  "go back.  I feel quite braced already.  it be

that devilish stuffiness inside--a momentary seizure.  good-night!"

he wave his hand and sink back.  the hansom start forward with a

jerk, and the young man retrace his step to the theatre, frown

thoughtfully.



ten minute later Grayson thrust up the trap.



"you may drop I here," he call.  he descend and pay his fare.

"I'll walk the rest of the way," he remark casually.



"bit thickish on foot to-night, sir," offer the driver

respectfully.  "well let I set you down at the hotel."  but his

fare be already lose in the enveloping gloom.



Grayson wrap his muffler closely about his chin, pull down his

hat to shadow his eye, and hurry along like a man with a set

destination.



presently he halt and signal to a cab, crawl along close to

the curb.  Grayson scrutinise it keenly.  the horse look strong.



"can you take I some distance?" he ask the driver.



"take ye far's you get the coin!"



Grayson glance about he furtively.  "as far as this?"  he step

forward and give an address in a carefully lower voice.



the driver lean far down from his high box and peer into his

fare's face.



"not there!" he mutter.



Grayson hold out a sovereign silently.



the driver shake his head.



"it's fair worth a man's life on a night like this."



two sovereign gleam in Grayson's bare outstretche palm.



"I'll double it if you drive fast," he offer.



"all right, sir," answer the man at length, a bit sullenly.  "jump

in."  he turn his horse round and drive rapidly toward the river.









CHAPTER II



A BUSINESS consultation



the fog be still heavy and the blurred street-lamp look ghastly

in the yellow mist when the young messenger, the first half of his

mission perform, strike briskly riverward to complete his business.

he dispose of his violet at a corner stand, hail a pass hansom

boldly, and after a low consultation with the driver, get in.  they

drive steadily for an hour.  the gas-lamp grow few, and the

street more narrow and gloomy.



suddenly the man draw up with a jerk.



"here ye be," he call huskily.



the boy spring to the ground and peer about he.  "it'll do," he

announce, and then briefly, "wait 'arf an hour."



he plunge down a dark and crab way, glance warily behind he

now and then to see if he be be follow.



here, between invisible wall, the fog hung thick and warm and

sticky, crowd up close, with a kind of blowsy intimacy that

whisper the atmosphere of the place.  occasionally, close to his

ear, snatch of loose song burst out, or a base, coarse face loom

head-high through the reek.



but the boy be upon his native heath and scuttle along, whistle

softly between closed tooth, as, with a dexterity bear of long

practice, he skirt slush and garbage sink, hold around the blacker

gulfs that denote unguarded basement hole, and elude the hideous

shadow that lurch by in the gloom.



hug the wall, he presently become aware of footstep behind he.

he round a corner, and turn swiftly collide with something

which grapple he with great hand.  without hesitation, the lad

lean down and set his tooth deep into the hairy arm.



the man let go with a hoarse bellow of rage, and the boy, dart

across the alley, could hear he stumble after he in blind search

of the narrow way.



thin shiver of excitement ripple up and down his spine and his

blood crinkle in his vein.  squat close to the sloppy wall, he

thrust out one leg and wait.  he could feel the quarry come on, the

big blow body of he, the groping, outstretche arm.  his leg

stiffen rigid as a bar of iron.  with a crash the man fall headlong

across it.  the boy laugh aloud and sheer aside, barely miss a

knife which hurtle past and stick quiver in the opposite wall.



as he speed along, a door suddenly open in the blank wall beside

he, and a stream of ruddy light gush out, catch he square

within its radiance, mud-spatter, starry-eye, vivid.



a man stand frame in the doorway.



"come in," he command briefly.



the boy obey.  surreptitiously he wipe the wet and mud from his

face and try to reduce his wild breathing.



the room which he enter be meagre and stale-smelling, with bare

floor and stain and sag wall-paper; unfurnished save for a

batter deal table and some chair.



he sink into one of they and stare with frank curiosity past his

employer, who have often entrust he with message require

secrecy, past his employer's companion, to the third figure in the

room.  a prostrate figure which lie quite still under the heavy fold

of a long dark ulster with its face turn to the wall.



"well?"  it be a singularly agreeable voice which arouse he,

softly modulate but with a faint foreign accent.  the speaker be

his employer, a slender dark man, with a finely carve face, immobile

as the Sphinx.  he have lay aside his inverness and top hat, and

show himself in evening dress with a large buttonhole of Parma

violet, which send forth a faint, delicious fragrance.



of the personality of the man the messenger know nothing more than

that he be an aristocratic young nob, eccentric in a quiet way, who

live in a grand house near Portland Place, and who reward he

handsomely for his occasional service.



he relate his adventure of the evening, not omit to mention his

late pursuer.  "the keb's waitin' now, outside, sir," he conclude.



the man listen quietly, brooding, his elbow upon the table, his

inscrutable face prop in the crotch of his hand.  a ruby, set

quaintly in a cobra's head, gleam from a ring upon his little

finger.  presently he rouse.



"that's all to-night, my boy," he say gravely.  "you've serve I

well."



he draw out his purse, extract two sovereign, and lay they in the

messenger's hand.



"and this," he say softly, hold up a third gold piece, "be

for--discretion!  you comprehend?"



the boy shoot a swift glance, not unmixe with terror, at the still,

recumbent figure in the corner, mumble an assent, and withdraw.  out

in the dampness of the fog, he take a long, deep breath.  after all,

he reflect, such affair be not in the province of a

night-messenger.  they belong to Scotland Yard.  and certainly the

man pay well.



as the door close behind he, his employer lean back in his chair,

and smile into the sombre eye of his companion.



"at last!" he breathe softly.  "the thing move.  the wheel be

begin to revolve!"



his friend nod gloomily, his glance stray off toward the corner

of the room.



"they've get to revolve a mighty lot more before the night's do!"

he reply with heavy significance.



he be a tall, lean man and wear a brown overcoat with the collar

turn up sharply about his throat, and a derby hat still glisten

from the mist.  his voice, which be flat and rasping, betray his

transatlantic origin.



"it's my opinion," he continue bluntly, "that you stick right here

at this end of the line and see the game through.  you can present

your excuse to Lady Dinsmore to-morrow.  I needn't tell you that we

must move in this venture with extreme caution.  a single misstep at

the outset, the slight breath of suspicion, and pff! the entire

superstructure fall to the ground."



"that be doubtless true, Mr. Baggin," murmur his companion

pleasantly.  he lean down to inhale the fragrant scent of the

violet.  "but you forget one little thing.  this grand

superstructure you speak of--so mysteriously--" he hide a slight

smile, "I know it not.  you have see fit, in your extreme caution,

to withhold all knowledge of it from I."



he pause and regard his companion with a level, steady gaze.  a

faint, ironical smile play about the corner of his mouth.



"be it not so, my friend?" he ask softly.  "I be--how you say--leave

out in the cold?"



his countenance be serene and unruffled, and it be only by his

slightly quickened breathe that an acute observer might have say

that the conversation hold any unusual significance.



the American stir uneasily in his chair.  a dull flush mount to

his temple.



"there be some financial matters----" he mutter sullenly.



"you admit it, then--this high scheme have to do with finance, with

the finance of nation--the finance of the world!"



"hush!" whisper Baggin hoarsely.  he glance about, half-fearfully.



the young man ignore the outburst.  he lay a persuasive hand upon

his companion's arm.



"my friend," he say gravely, "let I give you a bit of good advice.

believe I, I speak disinterestedly.  take I into your counsel.  as

a russian nobleman and distant kinsman of his imperial Majesty the

Tsar, I have the entrée to the most exclusive house of London.

politic I know a little, and the politician extremely well.  twice

I have be a guest at Sandringham.  I be a person of diplomacy,

resolution, power.  in brief, Mr. Baggin, I be intelligent, and I

know too little or too much for you.  too much for an outsider, too

little for a friend and--ah--conspirator.  with half my knowledge, I

could make you, or break you like glass.  candidly, I have not the

heart for the latter.  I would be rather a--a friendly power."  he

lean forward suddenly.  "make I," he say softly, "a member of

your Committee of Nine."



Baggin shrink back.  "you--you know that?" he gasp.



"I know many thing," be the quiet reply, "but not all."



the American look at he doubtfully.  the man seem limpid.  be

he, in truth, as Grayson have once say, as deep as the bottomless

pit?  Grayson, he know, have favour he.



"you have no money," he object, finally.



"I have something well."



"what?"  in Baggin's mouth the question be an insult.



"Genius!" return the young man simply.



he disregard Baggin's scornful ejaculation, and continue

impersonally, as if read aloud from a book.



"Genius, my friend!  Genius be as high above mere money as the star

wheeling in their celestial course be above the earth.  it be human

electricity--the motive power of the world.  with my power, the spark

I feel within I here"--he touch his white shirt-front--"I could

wipe out kingdom and principality, change the map of Europe more

drastically than Napoleon--and bloodlessly!  think of it a moment, my

prosaic, financial friend!  I who sit here in this room, with you and

a dead man, _can do these thing_!  just one little pawn in the game

be miss.  Money.  a few million pound for run expense and

for salary to my--er--myrmidon!  that item, Mr. Baggin, I expect

to be supply by you."



he laugh outright at Baggin's frown, mistrustful face, cross

one leg over the other, and clasp his silk-clothe ankle with a

shapely hand.



Baggin note the boyish action.  it at once irritate he and

determine his course.



"unfortunately," he reply drily, "we have already choose our

president and vote upon the immediate use of the fund.  the map of

Europe, I fear, must for the present remain unaltered----"  he

glance up and add hurriedly, "I--regret this----  perhaps at our

next meeting----  the membership, as you perhaps know,

be--er--limited."



the young man spring to his foot.  his face be bronze.



"it be of no consequence, my friend."  he laugh softly.  "simply,

the scheme appeal to I.  it fire my imagination.  I be, as you

know, a dreamer.



"'if you can dream, and not make dream your master,'" he murmur.



he walk over to the corner of the room, pick up his inverness,

and stand look composedly down upon the figure which it have

conceal.



"_salve_, my friend!  you go down the river tonight, wise than all

the king of earth."



he slip into his coat and turn toward Baggin, who have also rise.



"you will see that it get into the morning paper," he say.  "I

could wish to write it myself," he add pensively, draw on his

glove.  "it have possibility.  so: 'Grayson a suicide.  great

financier show himself at the opera, bid the gay world good-night,

and throw himself in the Thames.  a fly rumour breathe money

trouble as a cause for the tragedy.'  wait!" he fumble in his

breast pocket, "I'll write a note to pin to his clothe."



he scribble hastily in his memorandum book, tear out the leaf, and

hand it to his companion.  "he confess his sin and commend his

soul to 'le bon Dieu.'"  he lay a hand upon the door.



"you will leave I here--alone?" ask Baggin.



"but yes!  nothing can harm you from within, and you bolt the door

from without--until the preconcerte signal.  it should not be long

now."  he draw out his watch.



"but--I wish you to remain--I command it!"  despite his effort at

composure, Baggin's voice quaver.



his companion laugh.  "a Roland for your Oliver, my friend!" he

cry.  "Favour for favour!  you grant my small request?"



Baggin shake his head.



"you will be king, eh?--and alone?  good!"



he put on his top hat, adjust his silk muffler about his throat,

and with an amiable nod to his companion, step out into the night.



the fog have thin to a nebulous haze, fine as a lady's veil, and

the young man stride along briskly.  ten minute bring he to the

wait hansom.



"Covent Garden," he direct the driver.  he spring in and lean

back against the cushion.



"so Baggin would be king!"  he smile with a certain grimness.









CHAPTER III



in which a certain momentous question be ask



at precisely ten o'clock, as the curtain came reef slowly down

upon the first act of _I Pagliacci_, Lady Dinsmore turn with

outstretche hand to greet a newcomer who have just enter the box.



"my dear count," she exclaim, "I be disappointed in you!  here I

have be pay you really quite tremendous compliment to these

young people--which for an old woman, you know, be very proper--and

you show your complete indifference to I by commit the bad

crime in the calendar!"



"I be desolate!"  the stranger who be bow over her hand, a

trifle low than an Englishman would have do, be slender and

distinguish look, faultlessly dress, and wear a bunch of

Parma violet.  he have a way of look at one gravely with an air of

concentrated attention, as if he be see through the word, into

the very soul of the speaker.  he be, indeed, a wonderful listener,

and this quality, add to a certain boyish candour of temperament,

account perhaps for Count Poltavo's popularity in society.



"before I ask you to name the crime, Lady Dinsmore," he say, "or to

inform I if the calendar be a lady's, permit I to offer my humblest

apology for my lateness."



Lady Dinsmore shake her head at he.



"you be incorrigible!" she declare.  "but sit down and make your

excuse at your leisure.  you know my niece, and I think you have meet

Mr. Van Ingen.  he be one of our future diplomat."



the count bow and sink into a chair beside his hostess.



Van Ingen, after a frigidly polite acknowledgment, resume his

conversation with Doris rather eagerly, and Lady Dinsmore turn to

her companion.



"now for the explanation," she exclaim briskly.  "I shall not let

you off!  Unpunctuality _be_ a crime, and your punishment shall be to

confess its cause."



Count Poltavo bent toward she with bright, smile eye.



"a very stupid and foolish business engagement," he reply, "which

require my personal attendance.  shall I give you the detail?  I

warn you in advance they will bore you frightfully!  they do I."



Lady Dinsmore throw up a protest hand.  "pray spare I," she

beg.  "business have no charm to soothe my savage breast!

Grayson," she lower her voice confidentially, "can talk of nothing

else.  when he be with I, he be forever telegraph, cable to

America, or decode message.  there be no peace in the house, by

day or by night.  finally I make a stand.  'Gerald,' I say, 'you

shall not pervert my servant with your odious tip, and turn my home

into a public stock-exchange.  take your bull and bear over to the

Savoy and play with they there, and leave Doris to I.'  and he do!"

she conclude triumphantly.



Count Poltavo look about, as if note for the first time the man's

absence.  "where be he now?" he enquire.



Lady Dinsmore shrug her shoulder.



"he be--ill!  frankly, I think he have a slight indisposition, and

magnify it in order to escape.  he hate music.  Doris have be

quite distrait ever since.  the child adore her father."



her companion glance across to the subject of their remark.  the

girl sit in the front of the box, slim and elegant, her hand clasp

loosely in her lap.  she be watch the brilliant scene with a

certain air of detachment, as if think of other thing.  her usual

lightness and gay banter seem for the moment to have desert she,

leave a soft brooding wistfulness that be strangely appealing.



the count look long at she.



"she be very beautiful," he murmur under his breath.



something in his voice catch Lady Dinsmore's attention.  she eye

he keenly.



the count meet her look frankly.



"be--be she engaged to her young friend?" he ask quietly.  "believe

I, it be not vulgar curiosity which prompt the question.  I--I

be--interested."  his voice be as compose as ever, but a slight

pallor spread across his countenance.



Lady Dinsmore avert her gaze hurriedly and think with lightning

rapidity.



"I have not her confidence," she reply at length in a low tone.

"she be a wise young woman and keep her own counsel."  she appear

to hesitate.  "she dislike you," she add.  "I be sorry to wound

you, but it be no secret."



Count Poltavo nod.  "I know," he say simply.  "will you be my

very good friend and tell I why?"



Lady Dinsmore smile.  "I will do well than that," she say kindly.

"I will be your very good friend and give you a chance to ask she

why.  Cord," she bent forward and tap the young man upon the

shoulder with her fan, "will you come over here and tell I what your

chief mean by permit all this dreadful war-talk with Japan.  be

it true that you Americans be go to fight those pleasant little

man?"



the count resign his seat courteously, and take the vacant place

beside the girl.  a silence fall between they, which presently the

man break.



"Miss Grayson," he begin gravely, "your aunt kindly give I this

opportunity to ask you a question.  have I your permission also?"



the girl arch her brow at he.  her lip curl ever so slightly.



"a question to which you and my Aunt Patricia could find no answer

between you!  it must be subtle indeed!  how can I hope to succeed?"



he ignore her sarcasm.  "because it concern yourself, mademoiselle."



"ah!"  she draw herself up and regard he with sparkle eye.  one

small foot begin to tap the floor ominously.  then she break into a

vex little laugh.



"I be no match for you with the foil, count.  I admit it, freely.  I

should have learn by this time that you never say what you mean, or

mean what you say."



"forgive I, Miss Grayson, if I say that you mistake I utterly.  I

mean always what I say--most of all to you.  but to say all that I

mean--to put into speech all that one hope or dream--or dares--"

his voice drop to a whisper--"to turn oneself inside out like an

empty pocket to the gaze of the multitude--that be--imbecile."  he

throw out his hand with an expressive gesture.



"but to speak concretely--I have unhappily offend you, Miss

Grayson.  something I have do or leave undone--or my unfortunate

personality do not engage your interest?  be it not true?"



there be no mistake his almost passionate sincerity now, hold in

check by the man's invincible composure.



but the girl still hold aloof, her blue eye cool and watchful.  for

the moment her face, in its young hardness, bear a curious

resemblance to her father's.



"be that your question?" she demand.



the count bow silently.  his lip be pale.



"then I will tell you!"  she speak in a low voice surcharge with

emotion.  "I will give you candour for candour, and make an end of

all this paltry masquerade."



"that," he murmur, "be what I most desire."



Doris continue, heedless of the interruption.  "it be true that I

dislike you.  I be glad to be able to say it to you, openly.  and

yet, perhaps, I should use another word.  I dislike you and fear you

in equal part.  I dislike your secrecy--something dark and hide

within you--and I fear your influence over my father."  her voice

falter over the last word, and she pause.



Lady Dinsmore's cheerful tone break across the silence.



"Doris," she charge, "you be preach to the count.  he be look

quite sulky and bored."



he shake his head at she, smile.



"my unfortunate face, it belie I.  I be, in truth, deeply

interested.  Miss Grayson be speak of her father."



he turn back to the girl.  "you will continue the--how you

say--arraignment?" he ask gravely.  "I would know the bad.  I

influence your father for evil--but how?"



Doris look at he sombrely.



"I don't know--exactly," she admit.  "but you be somehow

connect with the--the scheme--a terrible illegal scheme," her voice

be only just audible.  "that I know to a certainty.  Father speak to

I one day of you----"



Count Poltavo start.



"it be after he have decode a telegram.  he look up and speak of

your brilliance and discretion.  he say you have the mind of a

Napoleon."



"it be true that I be able to do your father a service," he reply

slowly.  "I do he another to-night."  he smile with a certain

mysticism.  "in truth, it be what delay I.  but as for

your--ah--conspiracy, Miss Grayson, believe I, I know little.  that

a--a committee exist, with a president----"



"Baggin!" breathe the girl.  her eye be wide with terror.



"ah!"  his face be immovable, but a gleam in his eye betray he.



she turn upon he sharply.  "you do not know?"



he shake his head.  "I know nothing--certainly.  I wish I do!" he

add simply.



"that be true--you swear it?"  she lean toward he a little, her

bosom heaving tumultuously.



he bow his head in assent.



"if I could believe you!" she falter.  "I need a friend! oh, if you

could know how I have be tear by doubt, beset by

fear--oppression!"  her voice quiver.  "it be illegal, you know,

and terrible!  if you would help me----  Wait.  may I test you with a

question?"



"a thousand if you like."



"and you will answer--truthfully?"  in her eagerness she be like a

child.



he smile.  "if I answer at all, be sure it will be truthful."



"tell I then, be Mr. Baggin your friend?"



"he be my dear enemy," he return promptly.



she draw a deep breath of relief.  "and my father?"  the question be

a whisper.  she appear to hang upon his reply.



the count hesitate.  "I do not know," he admit finally.  "if he

be not influence by Mr. Baggin, I believe he would be my friend."



for the first time that evening Doris look at he with warmth in

her manner.  "by that," she say, smile faintly, "I know you have

tell the truth.  my father like you, but Mr. Baggin sway he

completely."  the smile deepen in her eye and she laugh a little

unsteadily.  "you--you will be kind, and forgive my rudeness and--and

my anger?"  the coldness have depart from her face completely and

she be charming.



the count look hard at she.  her glance waver, fall, and meet his

again for a long moment.  her colour heighten, and her breath come

more quickly.  a cloud of passion be about they.  it brush they

with invisible wing.



he break the spell.



"I be happy to have convince you of my--ah--sincerity," he murmur.

"and you do, in truth, believe I?"



she laugh softly.  "yes."



"and will trust I?"



"yes."



he bend near to she.  his face be quite pale and his eye burn

like live thing.  "may I put my original question, then--my

personality be not utterly displease to you?"



"my dear count," it be Lady Dinsmore's voice again, "it occur to I

that you be put several hundred question besides the one which

I permit you."



"it be I who be the culprit, auntie," exclaim Doris gaily.  "you

see it be a game--take down bottle off the shelf!  each one of we

have ten question which the other must answer truthfully.  I finish

mine first, and the count have just begin on his!"



"I see," say Lady Dinsmore drily.  "I fear, then, that I

interrupt."



Count Poltavo lean toward she persuasively.  "there be just one

more important question, dear Lady Dinsmore," he say, "and that I

should like to ask you."



the little lady elevate her brow at he.  "insatiable youth!" she

murmur.  "what be your question?"



"it be a very small thing," he reply, "but it have be in my mind

for several day.  I should like you and Miss Grayson--and Mr. Van

Ingen, if he can find the time," he bow politely to the young

American, "to visit my studio."



Doris clap her hand.  "Delightful!" she exclaim.  "and will you

do a sketch of auntie with her head cock a bit to one side, like a

pert little robin, and that adorable crooked smile?"



Lady Dinsmore pat her hand with a tolerant smile.  "it be you that

the count wish to paint, my dear, not a wizene old woman like I."



"if I might try both of you," the count reply.  "sometimes, with

people who be my friend, the result be not so bad.  the likeness,

if it come at all, come quickly."



Lady Dinsmore laugh.  "we will come, I promise you!  some

afternoon----"



"morning," he beg.  "the light be well."



"some morning, then," she agree, "next week."



the curtain rise upon Nedda and Canio, who sing with love and

bitterness and rage.  Lady Dinsmore yawn behind her fan.  at the

end of the act she rise.



"Doris, my dear, I be go to follow the example of your father.

this air be stifle, and we have a heavy day before we to-morrow.

Cord, will you go for our thing?"



it be the count who hand the lady to their place in the

unobtrusively elegant electric coupe, while Van Ingen stand doggedly

at his elbow, await a last word with Doris.  he be bitterly

jealous of his rival, who, to the boy's inflame mind, seem

perversely linger over his farewell.



there be some colour for his anger.  the count have take the girl's

hand, and bend down so low that the two dark head almost touch,

be murmur in her ear.



she smile, but shake her head.



"every moment to-morrow be already go.  and the next day also!"



he look at she steadfastly for a moment.  "I shall see you

to-morrow," he reiterate softly.  "moreover, you yourself will send

for I.  I prophesy!"



she laugh, and give her hand to Van Ingen.  "good-night, Cord," she

say with frank affection.



"you willn't forget you're lunch with I tomorrow, Doris?" he beg.



"no, indeed!" she return mischievously.  "I want to see my father.

and, Cord, do look he up in the morning and 'phone I how he

be--will you?  I wish you could get he off for a walk."



"I will."  he flush with pleasure at the request.  "I'll take he

out to the zoo."



he close the door and turn to rid himself of his companion.



the count stand with bared head, stare after the coupe.  the

corner of his lip curve in a slight smile, and his eye be

bright, as of one who dream of pleasant thing.



"good-night," say Van Ingen shortly.



the count lay a persuasive hand upon the young man's arm.



"not yet," he beg.  "you will perhaps stroll with I for a little?"



Van Ingen hesitate, frown.



"I must insist!"  Count Poltavo link an arm through his

companion's, who perforce fall into step with he.  "it be--how you

say--a small matter of business!"  he laugh softly.



Van Ingen stalk along in absolute silence.  the man's mark,

almost insolent preference of Doris, as well as his amazing power

over she, fill he with speechless rage.  give a pinchbeck title,

he reflect viciously, and a glib tongue, and a girl straightway

lose her head.  "what be your business?" he ask aloud.



Poltavo throw back his head and laugh musically.  "ah, you

Americans!" he murmur.  "you cut, like a sharp knife, straight to

the heart of a matter.  one stroke!  'what _be_ your business?'"  he

mimic the young man's curt speech with delicate precision.



"your countrywoman, Miss Grayson, she also be direct--and adorable."

he appear to muse.  "she be natural, with the naïveté of a child.

she be beautiful.  she have charm.  the perfect trinity!  have you

observe' her chin--so round, so firm--and her throat----"



Van Ingen disengage himself roughly.  "we will not discuss Miss

Grayson," he say a little hoarsely.  "we will, if you please, keep

strictly to business."



the count regard he with an air of aggrieved reproach.



"you use word like brick, my friend," he say gently.  "you assault

the intelligence.  ver' good.  I retort in kind."  his accent become

slightly more pronounced.  "you say: keep strictly to business.  I

say: mademoiselle be the subject of my business.  she have tell I

that she and you be childhood mate--that you live in--how you

say--the same _bloc_ with she in New York--and that she have for you

great regard, great affection--like a sister, perhaps.  and it be

this great regard which lead I to speak to you--to confide my

hope.  it be my great wish to make Miss Grayson my wife," he

conclude simply.



"you--you be engage to she?"  the universe seem suddenly wheel

about Van Ingen's head, and his heart be beat thickly.  it

appear, oddly enough, to be beat up in his head, smite the

drum of his ear like iron hammer, and pound madly at his

temple.  he fight for composure, the hate ease of his companion.

the count's word come to he dimly, as from a distance.



"not yet," he be say.  "in the future--perhaps.  but with you,

her almost-brother, one may anticipate----"



Van Ingen interrupt he.  "I fear I must correct a slight

misapprehension upon your part.  I be not Miss Grayson's

'almost-brother,' nor," he laugh grimly, "have I any desire for

that particular relationship.  you have give I your confidence.  I

will be equally frank with you.  I, too, admire Miss Grayson."



"ah!"  he look at Van Ingen with interest.  "so you also be make

the running!  but, my dear boy, be you not--forgive me!--are you

not--ah--young?"



Van Ingen flush to the root of his hair with sheer rage.  it be

the very taunt which Doris have fling in his tooth early in the

evening.  "I be twenty-five," he reply stiffly.



"so old!" exclaim the count.  "permit I to say that you do not

look it!  I," he continue thoughtfully, "be thirty-five.  and Miss

Doris be old than both of we."



"she be exactly twenty-two."



the count shake his head.  "never believe it, my friend.  she be as

old as Eve.  and as eternally young as Spring!"  he turn to the

other with a slight laugh.  "you be my rival, then?  you will do

your good to baffle I, to thwart this great desire?"



"that be understand!" Van Ingen retort.  in spite of himself he be

come to admire the man's coolness and apparent simplicity of nature.



"Excellent!  well, then, it would appear that we be enemy.  I have

be count an indifferently good enemy," he remark.  he hold out

his hand.  "good-night!  let we part friend, though we meet as swear

foe in the morning."



Van Ingen appear not to perceive the outstretched hand.

"good-night," he say coldly.  he lift his hat and turn away.



the count look after he thoughtfully.  "Odd!" he mutter.  "but I

fancy that youngster.  he _be_ like she."  with a few swift step he

overtake his late companion.



"Mr. Van Ingen, forgive my insistence.  believe I, it surprise you

no more than it do I.  let I venture to give you a word of

advice."



Van Ingen interrupt he fiercely.  "let I give you a word first,"

he exclaim.  "the plain advice of a very plain american.  briefly,

mind your own business and permit I to attend to mine."



the count look at he fixedly for a moment, and then shrug his

shoulder.  "so be it, my friend," he murmur, turn away.



"it be but a momentary weakness."  he draw out his note-book, which

afterwards become so famous, and write: "to spare be to become a

coward."









CHAPTER IV



which relate to a newspaper SUICIDE



the next morning, at the stroke of ten, Van Ingen, faultlessly clad,

spring from his hansom in front of the American Embassy and toss

the astonished jarvey a sovereign.



"because it's a fine morning," explain Van Ingen gaily, "and also

because something nice be go to happen to-day."



he stand for a moment, draw in the fresh April air, sweet with the

breath of approach spring.  he catch the scent of lilac from an

adjoining florist shop.  Overhead, the sky be faintly blue.  he be

feel fit, very fit indeed--he make pass with his cane at an

imaginary foe--and he be to lunch with Doris and her father at the

Savoy.  that be the "something nice"--with perhaps a stroll later

along the Embankment with Doris alone.



he turn and take the stair three at a time, whistle softly to

himself.



"Chief in yet?" he enquire of Jamieson, the secretary, who look up

in astonishment at his entrance, and then at the clock.



"no, he's not down yet.  you've break your record."



Cord grin.  "I've get to get away early."  toss his hat upon

his desk, he sit down and go methodically through his mail.

half-an-hour later, he lean back languidly and unfold his

_Times_, which in his haste he have thrust unread into his pocket.



"beastly bore, this keep up with the time," he grumble in an

aggrieve tone.  "why do the chief make we wade through all this

stuff?  make we diplomat, forsooth!"



he yawn and glance down at the flare headline on the front

page.  with a little horrified cry he spring to his foot.  he be

suddenly pale, and the hand which grip the paper shake.



"Good God!" he exclaim.



Jamieson swing about in his swivel chair.  "what's up?" he enquire

alertly.



"Grayson!" he mutter huskily.  "Gerald Grayson have commit

suicide!"



"yes, so I read," remark Jamieson cheerfully.  "suppose to be a

fabulously rich old johnny, ben't he, and turn out to be a

bankrupt.  friend of your?" he ask curiously.



Van Ingen lift a face from which every vestige of colour have be

drain.  "I--I be with he at the opera last night," he say.

Jamieson whistle softly.



"he be slightly indispose and leave early," continue Van Ingen,

"and I think no more about it."



he rise hurriedly and reach for his hat.  "I must go to they.

perhaps something can be do.  Doris----"  he break off, unable to

continue, and turn away sharply.



Jamieson look at he sympathetically.  "why don't you go round by

the newspaper office?" he suggest.  "there may be new

development--possibly a mistake.  you note that the--the body have

not be recover?"



Van Ingen's face brighten.  "a fine idea!  thank, old man."  he

wring the other's hand fervently.  "I'll be off at once."



out upon the pavement, he catch a pass taxi-cab.  "drive to the

near newspaper office," he direct, "and wait for I."



at the information desk inside the huge building where he prefer

his request, his bad fear be realise.  the note be

unmistakably in Grayson's handwriting.



"we verify that, of course," say the reporter who have be send

out to speak to the young man.



"how?" ask Van Ingen sharply.



"through his daughter, naturally," be the calm response.  "we send a

man out this morning to her aunt's house, and she recognise the

handwriting at once."



Van Ingen groan.  "couldn't you have leave she in peace?" he

demand.



"Mr. Van Ingen, you don't seem quite to realise the importance of

this tragedy.  Grayson be a financial king--a multimillionaire.  or,

at least, he be so consider up to this morning.  it now appear

that he have speculate heavily during the last few week--we gather

this from Lady Dinsmore--who kindly tell we what she know--and lose

everything, every penny of his own and his daughter's fortune.  last

night, in a fit of despair, he end his life."



Van Ingen look at he in a kind of stupefaction.  be it of Grayson

the man be talk such drivel?  Grayson who only the week before

have tell he in high gratification that within the last month he have

add a cool million to his girl's marriage portion.  Grayson who but

yesterday have hint mysteriously of a gigantic financial coup in the

near future.  he pass a bewildered hand across his eye.  and now

all that fortune be lose, and the loser be lie at the bottom of

the Thames!



"I think I must be go mad!" he mutter.  "Grayson ben't the kind

to kill himself.  why, I tell you," he cry, "that last night, when

I bid he good-night, he be gay, smile.  he look like a man who

go forth to meet success."



"you see he, then?" the reporter query eagerly.  "when?  where?

please give we full detail, Mr. Van Ingen.  this may turn out to be

of tremendous importance."  he pull out his note-book.



"I be at the opera with his party last night," reply Van Ingen.

he repeat the event of the previous evening.



"Grayson be not meditate suicide when I leave he," he conclude

positively.  "I could swear it!  rather, he seem to be reflect

with relish upon some particularly fine joke.  may I see that note he

be suppose to have write?"



"certainly!"  the reporter vanish into an inner room, and presently

return hold a scrap of white paper in his hand.  "tear from his

memorandum book, you see," he observe quietly.



Van Ingen read it through.  "it's his handwriting, right enough," he

admit.  "but somehow, it don't sound like Grayson himself.  too

theatrical, dramatic!"  he frown, as if try to catch some

haunt impression.  "it sound like----"  he break off sharply, his

face pale.  "Good God, no!" he whisper, "that couldn't be!  and

yet"--his eye seek the paper again--"it's the dead ringer of the

kind of rot he talk!  but why----"  he  press his hand to his

temple.  "I give it up!"  he return the slip to the reporter, who

have be watch he with cool, level eye.



"you have a clue?" he ask.



"no, no!" reply Van Ingen hurriedly.  "the whole affair be utterly

inexplicable to I at present.  I cannot believe that Grayson

deliberately kill himself.  the thing be beyond reason!  the paper

say that his hat and overcoat be find?"



"together with his wallet and some personal letter.  it seem a

clear case."  the reporter hesitate a moment.  "it be not as yet

know to the public, but I think I may tell it to you that Mr. T.B.

Smith have be give charge of the matter.  he will probably wish to

know your address.  and in the meantime, if you run across

anything----"



"certainly!  I will let you know.  Smith be an able man, of course."

Van Ingen give the number of his chamber, and retreat hastily,

glad that the man have question he no far.



out in the fresh air he draw a deep breath of relief, which end in

a sigh.  but, at any rate, he have not betray his suspicion, if

indeed they could be term suspicion--those wild surmise which have

flash like fork lightning across the blackness of his mind.  he

find his cab and fling himself wearily back against the cushion.

and now for Doris!



but Doris be not visible.  Lady Dinsmore meet he in the

morning-room, her usually serene countenance full of trouble.  he

take her hand in silence.



"it be good of you, my dear Cord, to come so quickly.  you have hear

all?"



he nod.  "how be Doris?"



she sink into a chair and shake her head.  "the child be take it

terribly hard!  quite tearless, but with a face like frozen marble!

she refuse quite scornfully to believe the news, until she see his

own handwriting.  then she faint.  she fall to the floor at the

man's foot as if she have be stab to the heart."  Lady Dinsmore

take out her lace handkerchief and wipe her eye.  "Doris," she

continue in a moment, "have send for Count Poltavo."



Van Ingen start.  "why?" he demand in a low voice.



"I cannot say, definitely," she reply, with a sigh.  "she be a

silent girl.  but I fancy she feel that the count know

something----  she believe that Gerald meet with foul play."



Cord lean forward breathlessly.  "my own idea!" he articulate.



Lady Dinsmore survey he with faint, good-humour scorn.  "you do

not know Gerald!" she say finally.



"but--I do not follow you!  if it be not murder it must have be

suicide.  but why should Grayson kill himself?"



"I be sure that he have not the slight idea of do anything so

unselfish," return Lady Dinsmore composedly.



"then what----"



she lean forward and tap he on the shoulder with her fan.



"why be you so absolutely sure that he be dead?" she ask softly.



Cord stare at she in blank amazement.  "what do you mean?" he

gasp.  "be she mad also?"



"simply that he be no more dead than you or I," she retort coolly.

"what evidence have we?  a letter, in his own handwriting, tell we

gravely that he have decide to die! do it sound probable?  it be a

safe presumption that that be the farth thing from his intention.

for when do Gerald ever tell the truth concern his movement?

no, depend on it, he be not dead.  but, for purpose of his own, he

be pretend to be.  he have decide to exist--surreptitiously."



"why should he?" mutter Cord.  this be the mad theory of all.

his head swam with the riot of conflict impression.  he seem to

have be hurl headlong into a frightful nightmare, and he long

to emerge again into the light of the prosaic, everyday world.



the door at the farth end of the room open.  he look up

eagerly, half expect to see Grayson himself smile upon the

threshold.



it be Doris.  she stand there for a moment, uncertain, gaze at

they rather strangely.  in her white morning dress, slightly

crumple, and her dark hair arrange in smooth bandeaux, she be

amazingly like a child.  the somewhat cold spring sunlight which

stream through the window show her pallid, as though the event of

the night have already set its mark upon she.  there be faint violet

shadow beneath her eye.



Cord come forward hastily, everything blot from his mind but the

sight of her white, grief-stricken face.  he take both her hand in

his own warm clasp.  all he find to say, huskily, be, "Doris!

Doris!"



the girl give he a wide, deep look.  suddenly her lip dip and

quiver uncontrollably.  with a short, smother sob, she fling

herself into his arm and hide her face on his shoulder.



Cord hold she tenderly.  "don't!" he whisper unsteadily.  "don't

cry, dear!"



in her sorrow, she be inexpressibly sweet and precious to he.



the moment recall vividly an incident in their childhood, when her

pet collie have die, and the little girl of seven have fly down the

path with stream eye to meet he and sob out her grief in his

arm.



he bend down and smooth with gentle finger the soft dusky hair.

the fragrance of it fill his nostril.  its softness send a

delicious ecstasy thrilling from his finger-tip up his arm.  he

tremble throughout his entire frame.  all his life, he declare to

himself with passionate sincerity, he would love she like this.  all

his life he would remember this one moment.  he gaze down at she

tenderly, a wonderful light in his young face.



"dear!" he whisper again.



she lift a pallid face to he.  her violet eye be misty, and

tiny drop of dew be still tangle in her lash.



"you--you be good to I," she murmur.



at his answer look, a faint colour sweep into her cheek.  she

disengage herself and sit down.



Lady Dinsmore come forward, and seat herself beside the girl upon

the divan, draw she close within the shelter of her arm.



"now, Cord," she say cheerily, indicate a chair opposite, "sit

down, and let we take counsel together.  and first of all," she

press the girl's cold hand, "let I speak my strong conviction.

Gerald be not dead.  something tell I that he be safe and well."



Doris turn her eye to the young man wistfully.  "you have hear

something--later?" she ask.



he shake his head.  "there have be no time for fresh development

yet.  I come past the newspaper office, and they be do what they

can.  Scotland Yard be in charge of the affair, and T.B. Smith have

be put upon the case."



she shudder and cover her face with her hand.



"how strange and ghastly it all be!" she whisper.  "I--I cannot get

it out of my head.  the dark river--my father--I can see he

there----"



she break off with a low moan.



Lady Dinsmore look helplessly across to the young man.  tear be

in her kind eye.



the curtain at the low end of the room part, and a footman stood

frame in the opening.  "a message for Miss Grayson," he announce

discreetly.



Lady Dinsmore arch her eyebrow significantly.  "Poltavo!" she

breathe.



Doris dart forward and snatch the letter from the man's hand.

she break the seal and tear out the content at a glance.  a little

strangle cry of joy escape she.  her face, which have be pale,

flush a rosy hue.  she bend to read it again, her lip part.  her

whole aspect breathe renew hope and radiance.  she fold the

note, slip it into her bosom, and, without a word, glide from the

room.



Cord stare after she, white to the lip with rage and wounded love.



Lady Dinsmore rise briskly to her foot.  "excuse I, dear Cord," she

murmur, "and wait here!"  she rustle after her niece.



Van Ingen pace up and down the room distractedly, momentarily

expect her reappearance.  alternate wave of jealousy and grief

inundate his being.  only a short half-hour ago, with Doris' head

pillow upon his breast, he have feel supremely happy; now he be

plunge into an abyss of utter wretchedness.  what be the content

of that brief note which have affect she so powerfully?  why should

she secrete it with such care unless it convey a lover's assurance?

his foot come into contact with a chair, and he swear under his

breath.  then he sigh.



the servant, who have enter unobserved, cough deprecatingly.  "her

ladyship send her excuse, sir," he say, "and say she will write

you later."  he usher the young man to the outer door.



upon the top step Van Ingen halt stiffly.  he find himself face to

face with Poltavo.



the count greet he gravely.  "a sad business!" he murmur.  "you

have see the lady?  how do Miss Grayson bear it?  she be well?"



Van Ingen gaze at he darkly.  "your note recover she!" he say

with harsh bitterness.



"mine!"  Surprise be in the count's voice.  "but I have not write.

I be come in person."



Cord's face express scornful incredulity.  he lift his hat grimly

and descend the step.









CHAPTER V



COUNT POLTAVO offer his services



the footman who have show Van Ingen to the door usher the count

into the morning-room, replenish the fire in the grate which have

burn low, and depart noiselessly.



the newcomer sink wearily into a deep chair, and close his eye.  he

look spend and haggard, as if his night have be a sleepless one.

the clear olive of his skin show slightly sallow, and fine

wire-line be etch about his eye.  perhaps he do not hear the

light footfall which approach.



Doris come near, soft-footed, and pause before the fire, regard

he with deep attention.  she have change into a dark dress which

accentuate her youth and slenderness.



the count open his eye and look at she.  a slight smile touch

his lip.  "I be dream of you!" he murmur softly.  he spring to

his foot.  "forgive I!" he exclaim contritely.  "I must have

doze.  I have a wakeful night."



she give he her hand.  "and I disturb you with my message!"



"I be glad to come," he reply simply.  "but you--this terrible

news!"  he release her hand and fall back a pace, scrutinise she

sharply.  "but you do not look sad!  and yet your letter--the morning

paper which I buy upon the way--it be not true, then?"



"something be true--but not--not the ghastly thing I fear when I

write you."  she seat herself, and the count resume his chair by

the fire.  his face be hide in the shadow.  "you mean that your

father----"



"be alive and well!"  her voice quiver and break.  two shine

tear tremble for a moment upon her lash., and then speed down her

cheek.  other follow.  she smile through they.  "I be so

happy--so thankful!" she murmur.



"how do you learn this--wonderful news?"  the count's voice, though

low, rang like steel on stone.



she give he a startled look, and withdraw the note from its warm

resting place and hand it silently to he.



"may I take it to the light?"  without wait for permission, he

rise and step to the window.  he stand with his eye glue to the

oblong strip of paper.  a curious greyish pallor have spread across

his countenance, and his hand shake.  a gust of strong rage overtook

he, as he stare down at the familiar handwriting.  "Imbecile!" he

mutter.  with an effort he collect himself, and turn back to

the girl.  "permit I to ask if your aunt have see

this--ah--communication?"



she shake her head.  "you see, he--he have forbid I to speak!"

tear cloud her vision.



the sternness melt out of his face, but he put another question.



"and your estimable young friend whom I meet at the door?"



"no."



he take a deep breath and return to his place at her side.



"I wish to tell he," she continue, "for Cord be so good!  he be

as dear to I as a brother."



the count restrain a smile.  he bend down and possess himself of

her hand.  "dear lady," he say, "you must conceal this, even from

your brother.  it be a mad thing for your father to do!  I think

Baggin would kill he if he know!"  his own face harden as he

speak.  "but what's do can be undo."  he lean forward and

drop the paper upon the glowing coal.  it smoke, then turn a

deep quivering red, against which the letter be blackly visible.

"look!" he exclaim softly.  one phrase stand out strong and clear

upon the darken ashe.



"'Trust Poltavo!'" Doris whisper.  she bent a little toward he.

her eye be luminous, and her red lip part.  "it be a good

oman!" she breathe.



"and you will trust I in this matter?" he ask.



she nod gravely.



he raise her finger to his lip and kiss they.



"and in other, also?"



she flush warmly.  "you must not speak of such thing now.  I must

not listen.  I can think only of my father.  he be not dead--for that

I thank Heaven.  but he be in danger--great danger, both from Baggin

and the law.  he--he love I more than his million, and write to

reassure I of his safety.  oh!" she exclaim passionately, "he be

not bad, Count Poltavo--as Baggin be--as I once think you be--but

only weak, and sway by his imagination.  he see thing big.  he

dream of a financial empire such as the world never know."



the count look at she, and smile queerly.  "and you wish I to

find your father?" he question.



"yes, or take I to he!"



"and after that?" he demand a little eagerly.



"after that," she reply wearily, "you may say what you will."



"until that hour, then," he say gently, "I shall set a seal upon my

lip."



a silence fall between they.  the count brood, his eyelid

down-drop, his chin prop in the palm of his hand.  a ruby, set

in a curious antique ring, gleam dully from his finger.



"I think," he observe finally in a low voice, "that Mr. Grayson be,

by this time, safely upon the Continent.  Paris--Rome?"  he shake his

head.  "too dangerous.  Madrid?  it be possible.  yes."  he nod,

and then sit erect.  "to-night, mademoiselle," he announce, "I shall

start for Madrid to find your father."



she thank he with her eye.  "and you will stop this terrible

scheme--you will save he from Baggin?"



"I will save he from Baggin!" he promise grimly.  "More than that,

dear lady, I cannot undertake."



she give he a shine look.  "ah, you be good," she whisper.  she

lay a hand on his arm.  "good and--and faithful!"



the count seem deeply move.  he look down at the hand, but make

no motion to touch it.  "Mademoiselle," he say in a strange, choke

voice, "it be you who be good!  you conquer I with your divine

tenderness!"  a spasm as of pain cross his countenance.  "I--I be

not good, as the world know that word.  I be hard, ambitious,

cruel."  he continue, his face white and stern: "power be to I the

great thing in the world, great than love--even my love for

you--great than life.  for what be human life?  it be cheap than

the dirt in the street.  why should we value it?  for myself, it

signify nothing.  when it obstruct my path, I set it aside--or

crush it."



she draw back from he half fearfully.  a lock of dark hair have

escape, and fall across her brow.  it make she look singularly

young and troubled.  "why do you say those wild thing?" she falter.



he smile, master of himself again, and take her hand.



"you be afraid of I--Doris?" he whisper softly.



she tremble at the word.  her white eyelid flutter, and her

colour come and go under his persistent gaze.



"A--a little!" she confess.  it seem to she that she could almost

hear her heart beat.  his personality be round about she like a

spell.



"only a little!" the count laugh gaily.  "I admit I be very much

afraid of you!"



the hand be still closely imprison.  she disengage it, and lift

her eye bravely to he.



"I believe that you be the most truthful man in the world," she say

simply.  "but I--I fear your truth.  it terrify I."



"yesterday," he reply, with a whimsical smile, "you hate I.  I

be all evil.  to-day I be the most truthful man in the world.  what

shall I be to-morrow?"



she hold her head down and refuse to meet his look.



"I--I cannot tell," she whisper.



"nor shall I urge you," he reply gently.  "later, perhaps, when

your father be safe----  but until then, may I ask a very great

favour?"



she nod mutely.



he draw off the ring.  "will you wear this?  I have a fancy that upon

your hand it will bring I good luck and ward off danger."  he try

it upon one after another of her finger.  "too large!" he murmur

disappointedly.



Doris smile faintly.  from about her throat, hide in the lace of

her gown, she pull out a slender gold chain, from which a locket

depend.  "I will wear it here," she promise, "together with the

picture of my father."  she take the jewel from his hand, and undo

the clasp, thread the ring upon the chain and restore all to their

place.



"that be well than I dare hope!" he say.  he bend toward she.

"and you will think of I sometimes?"



"every instant of the day," she respond fervently, "until I shall

see my father."



he laugh a little ruefully, and rise.  "I suppose that must content

I!  and now I must be off.  I will find your father.  'Trust

Poltavo.'"



"I do--completely."  she give he her hand.  her face be compose,

almost cheerful.  "do you leave any command?"



he look significantly at the fire, where the only trace of the note

be a faint black film.  "you have already receive they," he say

gravely.  "everything be as it be this morning.  your father be

dead.  for you nothing be leave but silence--and courage."



she shudder a little.  "Cord tell I that the--the affair be in

the hand of Scotland Yard, and that a Mr. Smith have be appoint

to the case."



the count start at the name.  he open his lip to speak, but

close they again.



"will he come and question I?" she continue.  "oh," she declare

half wildly, "I could not bear that!"



"I regret that Mr. Smith have be give the case," observe the count

thoughtfully.  "I know the gentleman, slightly.  he be a difficult

man to deceive.  you may be sure, dear lady, that he will come--and

come again, if he suspect anything.  you must be on your guard.  aid

he openly with all the information at your disposal.  make

engagement with he.  write note.  send he fresh clue--one a day!

and now--how you say--good-bye!"  he look down into her eye,

smile.



Doris appear to cling to he.  "oh, if you could be here to advise

I!" she murmur.  "I be afraid.  it be all so secret--and terrible!"



"I will return," he assure she.  "in three day I will return, or

wire instruction.  Courage!" he whisper.  he touch his lip to

her hand, press it, give she a long look, and turn abruptly upon

his heel.



Doris sink upon the divan, and stare drearily into the fire.



half-an-hour later, Lady Dinsmore, draw the curtain softly, find

she in the same position.  the old woman's face be flushed, and

show trace of recent tear.  she sit down beside the girl and draw

her close into her arm.



"dear," she say in a choked voice, "you must be very brave."



Doris shudder inside the protect circle.  Lady Dinsmore hold she

tightly.



"your poor father have be find.  Mr. Smith be below.  he wish we

to go with he, to identify the--the body."  she bend down tenderly

to the girl, who lie quite still in her arm, and then give a little

cry.  Doris have faint.









CHAPTER VI



a stranger come to BURGOS



he be a slender, distinguished man, and dress in black, which be

the colour of Spain.



see he, on windy day, when bleak, icy airstream pour down

from the circling sierra, and make life in Madrid insupportable, one

might have mark he down as a Spaniard.  his black feel hat and his

velvet-line _cappa_ with its high collar would show he to be such

from a distance, while near at hand his olive complexion, his

delicately aquiline nose, and slightly upturned black moustache,

would confirm the distant impression.



he have come to Burgos from Madrid by an express, and have travel

all night, and yet he be the trim and most alert of the crowd

which throng the Calle de Vitoria, a crowd make up of peasant,

tourist, and soldier.



he make a slow progress, for the crowd grow thick in the vicinity

of the Casa del Cordon, where the loyal country-folk wait patiently

for a glimpse of their young king.



the stranger stand for a little while look up at the

expressionless window of the Casa, innocent of curtain, but

strangely clean.  he speculate on the value of life--of royal life.



"if I be to kill the king," he muse, "Europe would dissolve into

one big shudder.  if, be dead, I come forward offer to restore

he to life for fifty million franc the money would be instantly

forthcoming on the proof of my ability.  yet be I to go now to the

king's minister saying--'It be easy for I to kill the king, but if

you will give I the money you would spend on his obsequie, I will

stay my hand,' I should be kick out, arrest, and possibly

confine as a lunatic."



he nod his head slowly, and as he turn away he take a little

note-book from his pocket, and inscribed--"The great of miracle

be self-restraint."  then he roll a cigarette and walk slowly

back to the Café Suizo in the Espolon.



a clean-shaven priest, with a thin, intellectual face, be stir

his coffee at one of the table, and since this be the least

occupy the stranger make for it.  he raise his hat to the priest

and sit down.



"I apologise for intrude myself, father," he say, "but the other

tables----"



the priest smile and raise a protest hand.



"the table be at your disposition, my son," he say.



he be about the same age as the stranger, but he speak with the

assurance of year.  his voice be modulate, his accent refine, his

presence that of a gentleman.



"a jesuit," think the stranger, and regard he with politely

veil curiosity.  Jesuits have a fascination for he.  they be

clever, and they be good; but principally they be a mysterious

force that ride triumphant over the prejudice of the world and the

hatred in the Church.



"if I be not an adventurer," he say aloud, and with an air of

simplicity, "I should be a Jesuit."



the priest smile again, look at he with calm interest.



"my son," he say, "if I be not a Jesuit priest, I should be

suspicious of your well-simulate frankness."



here would have come a deadlock to a man of less part than the

stranger, but he be a very adaptable man.  none the less, he be

surprised into a laugh which show his white tooth.



"in Spain," he say, "no gambit to conversation be know.  I might

have speak of the weather, of the crowd, of the king--I choose to

voice my fault."



the priest shake his head, still smile.



"it be of no importance," he say quietly; "you be a Russian, of

course?"



the stranger stare at he blankly.  these Jesuits--strange story

have be tell about they.  a body with a secret organisation, spread

over the world--it have be say that they be hand-in-hand with the

police----



"I know you be a Russian; I live for some time in St. Petersburg.

besides, you be only spanish to your foot," the Jesuit look down

at the stranger's boots,--"they be not spanish; they be much too

short."



the stranger laugh again.  after all, this be a confirmation of

his view of jesuit.



"you, my father," he accuse in his turn, "be a teacher; a professor

at the College of Madrid: a professor of language."  he stop and

look up to the awning that spread above he, seek inspiration.

"a professor of Greek," he say slowly.



"Arabic," correct the other; "but that deduction ben't clever,

because the Jesuits at Madrid be all engage in scholastic work."



"but I know you come from Madrid."



"because we both come by the same train," say the calm priest, "and

for the same purpose."



the stranger's eye narrow.



"for what purpose, father?" he ask.



"to witness the eclipse," say the priest.



a few minute later the stranger watch the black-robe figure with

the broad-rim hat disappear in the crowd with a little feeling

of irritation.



he drink the remainder of his _café en tasse_, pay the waiter, and

step out into the stream, be sweep up the hill to where a number

of english people be gather, with one eye upon their watch and

another upon the livid shadow that lie upon the western sky.



he find a place on the slope of the hill tolerably clear of

sightseer, and spread a handkerchief carefully on the bare bake

earth and sit down.  he have invest a penny in a strip of smoke

glass, and through this he peer critically at the sun.  the hour of

contact be at hand, and he could see the thin rim of the obstruction

cover the edge of the glare ball.



"say, this will do; it's not so crowded."



the stranger bury his chin in the high collar of his _cappa_,

pull down his feel hat over his eye, and from beneath its brim

gaze eagerly at the newcomer.



one be short and stout and breathe stertorously, having recently

climb the hill.  his face be a heavy oval, with deep crease

run from nostril to jaw.  the other, the speaker, be a tall,

lean man, with an eagle cast of countenance.  he wear, somewhat

carelessly, a brown overcoat and a derby.  both be unmistakably

american tourist, who have stop off at Burgos to see the eclipse.



"Phew!" exclaim the fat man.  "I don't know which be bad, the

climb or the crowd.  I hate crowd," he grumble.  "you lose thing."



"have you lose anything?" ask the other.  his own hand go

unconsciously to his breast pocket.  the stranger see this out of the

corner of his eye--inside breast pocket on the left, he note.



"you shouldn't carry valuable in a place like this," the man

continue, "that be to say, not money."



"how about letter, eh, Baggin?  letter--and plan?  they be

sometimes worth money to the right party."



his companion frown.  "nothing that I carry be worth money," he

return shortly.  "I flatter myself that not a man in the world, no,

not even you, Grayson," there be a slight sneer in his voice, "could

make head or tail of my memoranda.  and yet, there it be, the entire

proposition, write down, in black and white.  but it's all in code,

and I carry the code in my head."



"I'm sincerely glad to hear it," reply the other.  he look about

he nervously.  "I--have a feeling that we oughtn't to have come

here."



"you make I tired," say Baggin wearily.



"we oughtn't be see together," persist the other.  "all sort of

people be here.  man from the city, perhaps.  suppose I should be

recognise--my picture be in all the paper."



"don't be a fool," say Baggin roughly.  "and for Heaven's sake,

don't peer around in that silly fashion.  let I give you an epigram

of Poltavo's.  'it be the observer who be always observe.'  rather

neat, eh?"



"I wish he be in with we on this thing."



"I don't," retort Baggin.  "so that's settle.  he's do his work,

and that's the end of he."



"I doubt it," return the other thoughtfully.  "and, frankly, if the

matter come up again, I shall vote to admit he."



"well, wait till it do come up," growl Baggin.  "and don't talk

shop in a crowd like this.  do you know what Poltavo say?  'man

babble away their secret, and whisper away their life.'"



there be a long pause, and the stranger know that one of the

Americans be make dumb-show signal of warning.  they be nod

at he, he feel sure, so he bow and ask politely:



"at what hour be the eclipse?"



"no savvy," say the fat man, "no hablo Espagnol."



the stranger shrug his shoulder, and turn again to the

contemplation of the plain below.



"he don't speak English," say the fat man, "none of these beggar

do."



his friend make no reply, but after a silence of a few minute he

say quietly and in English:



"look at that balloon."



but the stranger be not to be trap by a simple trick like that,

and continue his stolid regard of the landscape; besides he have see

the balloon park on the outskirt of the town, and know that

intrepid scientist would make the ascent to gather datum.



he take another look at the sun.  the disc be half-way across its

surface, and the west be grey and blue, and the little cloud that

fleck the sky be iridescent.  crowd still pour up the hill,

and the slope be now cover with people.  he have to stand up, and

in do so, he find himself side by side with the fat man.



a strange light be come to the world; there be triple shadow on

the ground, and the stout man shift uneasily.



"don't like this, Baggin," he say fretfully, "it's hateful--never

do like these wonder of the sky, they make I nervous.  it's awful.

look out there, out west behind you.  it's black, black--it's like

the end of the world!"



"cut it out!" say his unimaginative companion.



then of a sudden the black shadow in the west leap across the sky,

and the world go grey-black.  where the sun have be be a hoop of

fire, a bubble, boiling circle of golden light, and the circling

horizon be a dado of bright yellow.  it be as though the sun have

set at its zenith, and the sunset glow be show, east, west,

north, and south.



"my God, this be awful!"



the stout man cover his face with one hand and clung tightly with

the other to Baggin.  he be oblivious to everything, save a grip

fear of the unknown that claw at his heart.



Baggin himself pale, and set his jaw grimly.  for the moment he be

blind and deaf to the hustle, murmuring crowd about he; he only

know that he stand in the darkness at high noon, and that something

be happen which he could not compress within the limit of his

understanding.



three minute the eclipse last; then, as suddenly as it begin, it

end.



a blaze, blind wave of light flood the world, and the star

that have stud the sky go out.



"yes--yes, I know I'm a fool."  Grayson's face be bathe in

perspiration.  "It's--it's my temperament.  but never again!  it's an

experience."



he shake his head, as his trembling leg carry he down the

hillside.



"you're all right," say Baggin reassuringly.  "I'll admit that it

be a bit spooky."  he tap his pocket mechanically, and stop

dead.



"Gone!" he gasp, and dive into his pocket.  "my memorandum book!"

suddenly he grasp his companion and shake he savagely.



"it be you, damn you!  I feel you paw over I in the dark."



Grayson look at he good-naturedly.  "don't be an ass, Baggin," he

say.  "what would I do with your code when I have it?  God know I

don't want the responsibility of this business!"



Baggin release he sullenly.  "I--I beg pardon, Grayson.  but I do

feel hand upon I in the darkness, and think at the time it be

you.  I daresay it be that accurse Spaniard."



he look about he eagerly.  the crowd be disperse in all

direction.  the stranger be not to be see.



"thank Heaven, the thing be in cipher.  he willn't be able to make

anything of it, anyway.  he probably think it be a fat wallet full

of money, and will be desperately disappointed."  he laugh

mirthlessly.  plainly he be greatly disturb.



Grayson observe he with a malicious satisfaction.  "you shouldn't

carry valuable around in a place like this," he remark gravely.



the two man descend the hill and make their way to their hotel.



the stranger go into the cathedral, and take from the pocket of his

mantle a small memorandum book.



"'man babble away their secret, and whisper away their life,'" he

murmur with a smile.  "never be my friend Baggin more apropo."



he set to work upon the cipher.  it be very quiet in the cathedral.



* * * * * * *



that evening, at ten o'clock, the trim serve-maid tap lightly at

the sit-room door of the two american gentleman, and tender

Baggin, who answer it, a card.



"tell he to come up," he say in a surly voice.  he flip the bit

of pasteboard across to his friend.  "Poltavo! what the devil be he

do in this part of the world?  no good, I'll be bind."



a sudden idea shoot across his mind and strike he pale.  he stand in

the middle of the room, his head down, his brow draw blackly

together.  a red light flicker in his eye.



Grayson, lounge easily in a deep leather chair, regard he with

something of the contempt the lazy man always entertain for the

active one.  the beginning of a secret dislike form vaguely in his

brain.  his thought fly to Poltavo, a bright contrast.  "I wish he

would bring I news of Doris," he mutter.  a wistful look creep

into his face.



there be a discreet double knock at the door, it fall open, and

Count Poltavo be reveal frame picturesquely in the archway.



he wear a black feel hat and a velvet-line _cappa_ which fall about

he in long graceful fold.  a small dark moustache adorn his upper

lip.  he remove it, and the hat, gravely, and stand bare-head

before they, a slender, distinguished figure.



"good-evening, gentleman."



he speak in a soft, well-modulate voice, which hold a hint of

laughter.  "Mr. Baggin, permit I to restore something of yours which

I--er--find upon the hill."  he hold out the memorandum book,

smile.



Baggin spring at he with an oath.



[illustration: Baggin spring at he with an oath]



the count, still smile, fling out his other hand, with a motion of

defence, and the candlelight gleam brightly upon a small dagger of

spanish workmanship.  "'ware!" he cry softly.  "that point, I

fancy, be sharp."



Baggin fall back a pace, his face twitch with rage.



"you would knife I, an unarmed man!" he cry furiously.  "you low

foreign cur!"



the count take a quick step toward he.  his eye sparkle.  "I must

ask you to retract that," he say.  there be a dangerous note in his

tone like the thin edge of a blade.



Grayson start to his foot.  "gentleman!  gentleman!" he cry.

"be you go stark mad, to quarrel over such a trifle?  Baggin, stop

glare like a cage beast.  sit down.  the count have return your

book, which doubtless you drop upon the hill.  and do you not

boast that its content be undecipherable?"



Baggin take the book.  "I may have be over-hasty," he acknowledge

grudgingly, suspicion still in his eye.  "but your disguise----"



"be necessary, my friend, and I accept your apology.  say nothing

more of it."  the count unfasten the clasp at his throat, stick the

dagger into the panel of the door, and hang his hat and mantle upon

it.  the moustache he hold up between thumb and forefinger with a

grimace.



"how do you like I with mustachio, Mr. Grayson?  they fall off

three time to-day."



the man whom most of London suppose to be dead laugh heartily.



"they change the entire cast of your countenance," he remark

candidly.  "they make you look like a rascal."



"that be true," admit the count.  "I have observe' the same.  they

bring out the evil streak in my nature.  I use to wear they, five

year ago, in London," he continue pensively, "and then I shave

for--ah--æsthetic reason.  Mr. T. B. Smith do not fancy

mustachio.  he think they give I the look of a nihilist--or

perhaps a russian spy.  Apropos," he nod to Grayson, "he have

charge of your case.  he be a clever man, my friend."  he sigh

gently.



Grayson look at he sombrely.  "I wish I be out of this job," he

mutter, "and back in America with Doris.  you see she?" he demand

eagerly.



the count nod, with a significant glance toward Baggin.



the latter catch the look, and suspicion flame again in his eye.



"may I ask you a plain question?" he say harshly.



"surely!"



"how much of this business do you know?"



the count permit himself a smile.  "since this afternoon," he

answer softly, "I know--all."



Baggin's face grow black with rage.  "Thief!  I know it!"  he

stutter in the intensity of his passion.



the count survey he dispassionately.  "Wrath in, reason out," he

murmur.



Grayson intervene again.  "for my part," he declare, "I be heartily

glad of it.  Poltavo be one of we now, and can tell we what he think

of the scheme.  I have always wish for his opinion."



Baggin rise abruptly, and stride about the room.  plainly the man be

in a great, almost uncontrollable passion.  the vein on his temple

stand out in knot, and his hand clench and unclenched

spasmodically.  presently he turn, master himself with a strong

effort, and hold out his hand.  "I agree," he say in a constrain

voice.  "you be one of we, count."  the two shake hand and resume

their chair.



"and now," say Grayson, "tell we what you think of the scheme?"



the count hesitate for a minute.  "good," he say at length, "and

bad!  Admirable in the general plan, but absurd in some of the

detail."



"the general plan be mine," say Baggin gruffly.



"and the absurd detail be probably mine," admit Grayson with

cheerfulness.



"may I give you some suggestion?" ask the count politely.



"go ahead!" return Baggin.



"this afternoon--after I have decipher your note--it take I

precisely two hour by the cathedral chime to work out the key--I

venture to revise they, and also to devise a different plan of

retirement for the committee.  you would care to know it?" he look

deferentially at Baggin, whose bent brow relax.



"draw up your chair to the table," he say in reply.  "we'll overhaul

the entire proposition.  there will be difficulties----  if you could

invest an equal share of money----"



"I think of that," answer the count simply.  "and I fancy I

can--how you say--raise the require amount.  may I speak for a

moment to Mr. Grayson--on a very personal matter?"



he draw the old man aside, and converse with he briefly, in low

tone.



surprise, incredulity, displeasure chase each other across Grayson's

countenance in rapid succession.  "very well," he say finally,

somewhat brusquely.  "you have my consent--until I see Doris."



they return to the table.  "I will be security for Count Poltavo,"

he declare to Baggin, "for half-a-million pound."







CHAPTER VII



some disappearances



in the last week of April, 1908, a notice be post on the door of

the London, Manhattan, and Jersey Syndicate, in Moorgate Street.  it

be brief, but it be to the point:





"owe to the disappearance of Mr. George T. Baggin, the L. M. and J.

Syndicate have suspend operation."





with Mr. Baggin have disappear the sum of £247,000.  an examination

of the book of the firm reveal the fact that the London,

Manhattan, and Jersey Syndicate be--Mr. Baggin; that its imposing

title thinly disguise the operation of a bucket-shop, and the

vanish bullion have be most systematically collect in gold and

foreign note.



Mr. Baggin have disappear as though the earth have swallow he up.

he be trace to Liverpool.  a ticket to New York have be purchase

by a man answer to his description, and he have embark on the

_Lucania_.  the liner call at Queenstown, and the night she leave,

Mr. "Coleman" be miss.  his clothing and trunk be find intact

in his cabin.  the ship be search from stem to stern, but no trace

of the unfortunate man could be discover.



the evening newspaper flare forth with, "tragic end of a Defaulting

Banker," but Scotland Yard, ever sceptical, set on foot certain

enquiry and learn that a stranger have be see in Queenstown

after the ship sail.  a stranger who leave for Dublin, and who

double back to Heysham; who come, via Manchester, back to London

again.  in London he have vanish completely.  whether or not this

be the redoubtable George T. Baggin, be a matter for conjecture.



T. B. Smith, of Scotland Yard, into whose hand the case be put, have

no doubt at all.  he believe that Baggin be alive.



most artistic of all be the passing of Lucas Damant, the Company

Promoter.  Damant's defalcation be the heavy, for his

opportunity be great.  he deal in million and steal in

million.  take his holiday in Switzerland, Mr. Damant foolishly

essay the ascent of the Matterhorn without a guide.  his alpenstock

be pick up at the edge of a deep _crevasse_, and another Alpine

disaster be add to the alarming list of mountaineering tragedy.

what time four expert guide be endeavour to extricate the lose

man from a bottomless pit, sixteen charter accountant be engage

in extract from the chaos of his documentary remain the true

position of Mr. Damant's affair, but the sixteen accountant, have

they be sixteen hundred, an the space of time occupy in their

investigation, in a thousand year, would never have be able to

balance the Company Promoter's estate to the satisfaction of all

concern, for between debit and credit yawn an unfathomable chasm

that close on a million pound could not have span.



in the course of time a fickle public forget the sensational

disappearance of these man; in course of time their victim die or

seek admission to the workhouse.  there be spasmodic discussion

that arise in smoke-room and tap-room, and the question, as to

whether they be dead or whether they have merely bolt, be hotly

debate, but it may be truthfully say that they be forget; but

not by Scotland Yard, which neither forget nor forgive.



the Official Memory sit in a big office that overlook the Thames

Embankment.  it be embody in a man who check, day by day, hour by

hour, and minute by minute, the dark happening of the world.  he be

an inconsiderable person, as personality go, for he enter no

witness-box to testify against a pallid prisoner.  he grant no

interview to curious newspaper reporter, he appear in no magazine

as a picturesque detector of crime, but silently, earnestly, and

remorselessly he mark certain little square card, make grim

entry in strange ledger, consult map, and pore over foreign

newspaper report.  sometimes he prepare a _dossier_ as a cheap-jack

make up his prize packet, with a paper from this cabinet, a

photograph from that drawer, a newspaper-cutting, a docket

deposition with the sprawl signature of a die man, a

finger-print card--and all these he place in a large envelope, and

address it in a clerkly hand to Chief Inspector so-and-so, or to

the "Director of Public Prosecutions."  when the case be over and a

daze man sit in a cell at Wormwood Scrubbs ponder his sentence,

or, as it sometimes happen, when convict mason be at work carve

initial over a grave in a prison-yard, the envelope come back to

the man in the office, and he sort the content jealously.  it be

nothing to he, the sum of misery they have cast, or the odour of

death that permeate they.  he receive they unemotionally,

distribute the content to their cabinet, pigeon-hole,

guard-book, and drawer and proceed to make up yet another

_dossier_.



all thing come to he; crime in all its aspect be veritably his

stock-in-trade.



when George T. Baggin disappear in 1908, his simple arrangement of

indexing show the connection between the passing of Lucas Damant,

six month later, and the obliteration of Gerald Grayson.  the

Official Memory know, too, what the public have no knowledge of:

namely, that there have be half-a-dozen minor, but no less

mysterious, flitting in the space of two year.



their story, briefly and pithily tell, be inscribe on card in

the silent man's cabinet.  Underneath be the significant word,

"Incomplete."  they be story to be continue; some other hand

than his might take up the tale at a future time, and subscribe

"Finis" to their grim chapter.  he be satisfied to carry the story

forward as far as his information allow he.



there never be a more fascinating office than this of the Silent

Recorder's.  it be terribly business-like, with its banked file,

its innumerable drawer, its row of deep cabinet.  "A, B, C, D,"

they run; then begin all over again, "AA, BB, CC," except the big

index drawer where "Aabot, Aaroon, Aato, Abard, Abart" commence the

record of infamous man.  there be forger here, murderer, coiner,

defaulter great and small.  there be story of great swindle, and

of suspect swindle, of event apparently innocent in themselves,

behind which lie unsuspected criminality.



I show you this office, the mere glimpse of it, so that as this

story progress, and information come mysteriously to the hand of

the chief actor, you will understand that no miracle have be

perform, no Heaven-send divination of purpose have come to he, but

that at the back of the knowledge he employ with such assurance be

this big office at New Scotland Yard.  a pleasant office, overlook

the Embankment with its green tree and its sunny river and its very

pleasant sight--none of which the recorder ever see, be

short-sighted from overmuch study of criminal record.









CHAPTER VIII



the ambassador TAKES a hand



Mr. John Hammond Bierce, American Ambassador and Minister

Plenipotentiary to the Court of Saint James, sit in his spacious

private office, and listen with an air of grave attention to the

story his young protégé pour into his ear.  as Van Ingen

conclude, the great man lean back in his swivel-chair until the

spring creak, and stifle a yawn behind a white, well-groom hand.



"my dear boy," he say, "this be a very sad tale, and I be genuinely

sorry for Miss Grayson.  her father appear to have be a rascal.

but," he smile across at his youthful visitor, "I do not quite see

what the american ambassador have to do with the business.  I

understand you consult I in my official capacity."



"I--I think perhaps you might wish to take some action----"



"but the man be dead!" exclaim the ambassador.  "dead and bury."



"that be just the question!" cry Cord eagerly.  "be he dead?  for

my part, I suspect he be very much alive and kicking.  his suicide

be only a ruse, to mask his plan from the public."



"a very successful one!" retort the old man drily.  "his daughter

identify the body and be present at its burial.  it be in all the

paper."



"that be another point!" exclaim Van Ingen.  "not once be I

permit to view the body.  I be even deny admittance to the

house until three day after the funeral.  throughout the affair the

utmost secrecy be observe."



"that seem natural, under the circumstance."



Van Ingen colour warmly.  "pardon I, it be not natural, sir, when

you know all the circumstance.  I be an intimate of the

family--almost, one might say, in the position of a son."  he halt,

and then continue, with a certain dignity: "I have not speak on the

subject to you before, sir, chiefly because there have be nothing

definite to say.  but Miss Grayson be, I hope and pray, sir, my

future wife."



"ah!"  the ambassador survey he with a keen but kindly glance.



"I feel bound," he observe thoughtfully, "to make a few remark,

both as your guardian and as a man who have see something of the

world.  the wife of a rise young diplomat must be, like Cæsar's

wife, above reproach.  in short, my dear boy, to marry Miss Grayson

will absolutely ruin your career."



Van Ingen spring to his foot; his face be livid with anger.



"then, sir," he cry hotly, "I shall ruin my career, with the

great pleasure in life.  Miss Grayson--Doris--be worth inestimably

more to I than any paltry success, or material advantage.

moreover," he continue, compose himself with a strong effort, "I

disagree with you, even upon worldly ground.  marriage with Doris

will not mar I--it will make I.  without she, I shall be

ineffectual, a nobody to the end of my day.  without she, living have

no aim, no purpose.  she justify existence.  I cann't explain these

thing, sir, even to you.  I--I love she!"



"so it would seem!" murmur the ambassador.  the sternness have

melt out of his face, leave a whimsical tenderness.



"sit down, my dear boy!  other people have be as hot in love as you

before now--and as rashly headstrong."  a shade pass over his

feature.  "come, let we get down to business.  what be it you wish

I to do--administer a love-potion to the young woman?  or restore

the father to life?"



"I want you to investigate the case," Cord reply simply.  "or

rather, give I the power to do so."



"there's Scotland Yard, you know," suggest his friend mildly.



"they could co-operate with we.  in fact, that be what I should like

to ask.  that you send for Mr. T. B. Smith, who be already in charge

of the business, and tell he that a certain strangeness in the

circumstance have arouse your suspicion, and that you wish to sift

the affair to the bottom.  but since you cannot move openly, on

account of your conspicuous position, you desire to join force

secretly, and to that end you offer a bonus of £500 to clear up the

mystery--to prove, satisfactorily, that Grayson either be, or be not,

dead."



"five hundred pound!" muse the ambassador.  "you be in love!"



Van Ingen flush at the thrust.  "I be in earnest," he say simply.



the ambassador study his finger-tip.  "I might say," he observe

gravely, "that such a course as you outline--minus the £500--had

already occur to I.  certain financial--er--adventure in which

Grayson be engage, with other, have come before my attention, and

it appear advisable to throw a searchlight upon the somewhat

shadowy obscurity of his death.  but my attitude in the investigation

differ slightly from your."  his eye, suddenly upraised, be

slightly quizzical.



Van Ingen lean forward breathlessly.  he appear to hang on his

companion's word.  "go on!  go on, sir!" he urge.



the old man continue: "I do not ask, then, as you, where be Mr.

Grayson?  I ask, where be Mr. Grayson's money?  the gentleman may be

in heaven, or--ah!--elsewhere; presumably the latter.  but, in either

case, his money be not with he.  where be it, then?  these, and

several other interesting query, I be wait to put to Mr. Smith,

who"--he take out his watch--"is due here in precisely ten minute."



he smile blandly at the young man, who seize his hand and wrung it

fervently.



"and you will let I work under he, for you?"



"that be my intention before this interview.  but, since your

revelation, I doubt its wisdom.  Coolness, impartiality of

judgment----"



"oh, come, sir!" protest Van Ingen, redden.  "I think I've have

enough!"



the ambassador laugh.  "perhaps you have," he concede.

"especially as the young lady have not yet strike her colour--eh?"



"nor show the slight sign of do so," reply Van Ingen

ruefully.  "there's another fellow make the running--that foreign

beggar, Poltavo."



the ambassador look up swiftly.  "not Count Poltavo, distantly

relate to the Czar?"



"relate to the devil!" mutter Van Ingen gloomily.  "the way he

get around Doris----"



his guardian look a little disturbed.  "I be sorry for you, my boy.

Poltavo be a strong man.  I fancy he will give you quite a fight."



there be a discreet knock at the door, and, at the ambassador's

call, Jamieson enter.  he bear a card, which he lay upon the table.



"I tell he that you be engage, Mr. Bierce, but he say he come in

answer to your note."



"quite right!" reply the ambassador briskly.  "show he in at

once."  as the secretary vanish, the old man hold up the bit of

engrave pasteboard before the astonished eye of his young friend.

"Apropos!" he murmur.



Van Ingen reach for his hat.  "I must be go," he say hurriedly.



"not so fast!" the ambassador wave he back to his chair.  "sit

still.  the investigation have begin!"



the door open, and Count Poltavo enter the room.



the ambassador receive he cordially.  "it be good of you to come

so promptly," he say.  "I daresay my note puzzle you."



"I shall not deny it," smile the count.  he bow politely to Van

Ingen.  "as you see, I have come directly on the heel of it, to hear

the question."



"I shall not keep you in suspense, Count Poltavo," reply the

ambassador gravely, "but come at once to the point.  Briefly, some

datum which lie before me"--he tap a typewritten report upon the

table--"connect you, somewhat vaguely, with a certain recent event.

for reason, I propose to investigate that event, and a truthful

statement on your part----"



the count elevate his eyebrow slightly.



"pardon I!  I withdraw the unnecessary adjective."



the count bow.  "and a statement on my part----" he murmur.



"would be of great value to I at the present moment.  and so I have

venture to write to you, as one gentleman to another, to beg your

assistance."



"and the question?"  the count's voice be like velvet.  he outline

a pattern of the carpet with his cane.



the ambassador regard he somewhat sternly.  "how do you spend the

evening of the eighteenth of this month?"



the count's composure do not fail he.  not a muscle of his face

move under the sharp scrutiny of his questioner, but he hesitate a

perceptible moment.



"the eighteenth?"  he wrinkle his brow, in an effort at

recollection.  "pardon I!"  he take out a small, black,

leather-bind book.  "I sometimes scribble in it my random thought,"

he explain.  "it may contain something which will aid my memory of

that particular night.  ah!"  his face beam.  "here it be!  the

night of the eighteenth, I be at the opera with Lady Dinsmore and

her charming niece.  afterwards, I have a most interesting

conversation with Mr. Van Ingen, in which he confide to I--ah!--his

age."  he look up brightly.



"be that helpful?"



the ambassador smile grimly.  "and then?"



"then we part.  I stroll for perhaps ten minute, and take a

taxi-cab home."  he appear to reflect a moment.  "I go directly

to my study, and write for some time--several hour, perhaps.  later,

I read."  he pause, and then add: "I be not, at any time, an

insatiable sleeper.  Four, or five hour at well, be all that I can

manage.  that morning it be dawn when I retire, and a faint,

ghostly light be filter through the shutter.  I remember

fling they wide to look out, and wonder what the new day would

bring to the world.  it bring," he conclude quietly, "great grief

to my dear friend."



he rise as he finish.  "and now I regret that another

engagement--with Lady Dinsmore, in truth--cut short my time.  I be

glad if I have be able to aid you.  and you will let I know if I

can be of further service to you in this lamentable business."  he

hold out his hand.  the ambassador sit still in his chair, smile.



"one moment, my dear count, and, if Lady Dinsmore complain, refer

she to I."



the count look at he amiably.  "there be still another question?"

he murmur.



"a small part of the same one," the ambassador emend smoothly.

"where be you in the early part of the evening--_before_ the opera?"



Poltavo laugh softly.  "that be true," he admit.  "for the

moment I have completely forget.  I dine at an unconscionably

early hour with a business associate--I regret that I cannot give you

his name----"



the ambassador glance down at his report.  "Baggin?" he suggest.



the count turn a little white, but he answer composedly.  "it be

true.  I dine with Mr. Baggin."



"and do not Mr. Grayson call you up over the telephone during

dinner?"



"some one call Mr. Baggin," respond the count indifferently.  "I

remember, because the fish grow cold and have to be send away."



"and then?"



"then--we discuss--business.  I have a little money lie idle

which I desire Mr. Baggin to invest for I.  unfortunately, the sum

be too small for his purpose."



"and when do you join Mr. Grayson?"



the count stare.  "not at all!"  he glance down at the typewritten

sheet, and an ironical smile touch his lip.  "your report appear

to be--ah!--defective."



"it be," agree the ambassador.  "I have hope to supplement it by

your information.  may I ask you again--do you not see Mr. Grayson

at some time during the evening of the eighteenth?"



the count shake his head.  "I do not," he reply simply.  "I affirm

it, upon the honour of a Poltavo."



the ambassador sigh.  "then we be still in the dark," he say

ruefully.  "but I thank you for your courtesy.  would you care to

know why I have seek you out, openly, in this extraordinary

fashion?".



"because you be an extraordinary man," return the count, with a

deep bow.



the ambassador make a motion of dissent, "because I be your

well-wisher, Count Poltavo," he say earnestly.  "you be, I believe,

a poet, a philosopher, a dreamer--not a common, base money-grabber.

and, therefore, I should deeply regret to find you connect in any

way with this present investigation, and I sincerely trust that in

the future your name will not appear in these--ah!--defective

report.  frankly, I like you, Count Poltavo."  he hold out his hand.

"good-morning.  I thank you for your extreme good nature in answer

my question."



the count appeared move.  throughout his life, this strange man

remain deeply susceptible to expression of regard from his

associate, and be always melt, for the moment, by sincere

affection.  indeed, his natural tenderness, offspring of his heart,

and his haughty ambition, offspring of his head, be ever in deadly

conflict, and his hardness conquer only by the supreme act of his

will.



he grasp the outstretched hand cordially.  "you be very kind!" he

say.  "and I shall repay you by endeavour that my name do not

again appear in that reprehensible report."  he lay a hand upon the

sheaf of paper.  "I should like to see it?" he ask simply.



the ambassador laugh outright.  "my dear count," he exclaim,

"your power be waste as a private gentleman!  you should be the

ambassador of your imperial kinsman.  there, your ability would

have adequate scope."



the count laugh, and glance again at the report.  "I shall see you

next week at the Duke of Manchester's," he say.  "the duchess read

I yesterday her list of name.  I be rejoice to see it include

your."  he bow again, and withdraw.



the ambassador stare after he somewhat gloomily, take a turn about

the room, and stop in front of the young man.  at sight of his

doleful countenance, his own face brighten.



"well?" he demand.



Van Ingen look sheepish.  "I give up!" he reply.  "the rascal's

as deep as a well.  but he seem to I to be tell the truth."



"he be!" agree the ambassador promptly.  "he be a great man--and a

dangerous one.  he have an unquenchable spirit."



he take out his watch.  "Smith have fail we," he remark.  "but it

be no matter.  he send in this morning his detailed report.  I will

turn that over to you, my boy, since you have volunteer your

service in this business.  read it with care--it contain some

remarkable statement--and return it to Mr. Smith, in person.  why

not drop around to his chamber this evening and see what have

detain he?  Wait!  I'll give you a line to he."



he scribble a note hastily, and thrust it and the report into the

young man's hand.  "and now, clear out!"  he wave his hand

laughingly.  "don't return until you can explain--everything!  off

with you!"



on the way out, Cord pause to examine his mail.  one letter be from

Doris.  he break the seal with finger that tremble slightly.  it

contain but a single sentence.





  "can you come to I at nine o'clock?

      "DORIS."





despite his joy at receive such a token of friendship, his face

clouded.  nine o'clock!  it be an awkward hour.  he have plan to

spend the entire evening with the detective.



he determine to read the report, dine with Smith, if he could catch

he, and go on later to Lady Dinsmore's.  his spirit rise with a

bind at the prospect.



but he be destine to disappointment.  Mr. Smith be not to be find

at his chamber, nor at Scotland Yard, nor in any of his accustom

haunt.  nor have he leave any instruction with his man.  at five

o'clock, after repeat attempt, Cord give up the project, somewhat

sulkily, and send two message.  he would stay for a short half-hour

with Doris, and then drive around to the apartment of the detective,

trust that he might have return.



that evening, at nine o'clock, he be usher into Lady Dinsmore's

drawing-room by a deferential footman, who go to announce his

presence.  Cord move about restlessly.  his forehead throb madly

with overwrought nerve, for, since the reading of the report, he have

feel wildly excited.  it be safely fold away in an inner pocket,

together with a telegram from T. B. Smith, bear the single word,

"delighted!"



when at length Doris appear, Cord be strike with the pallid beauty

of the girl.  her animation and glow have depart, and her red lip,

usually a Cupid's-bow of laughter, droop pitifully at the corner.

her high-neck gown of deep black give she the look of a

sorrow nun.  nor do her manner reassure he; it be vague and

remote, and Cord, who have mean to pour out his heart in sympathy,

find himself chill, and stammer forth absurd inanity.



the half-hour pass on leaden foot.  Doris explain, in a listless

voice, that she be leave soon, with her aunt, for the continent,

to travel indefinitely.  she have mean to go away, quietly, without a

word, but she find that she wish to see he once more--she

falter piteously.



Cord stand up abruptly.  the interview have suddenly become

unendurable to he.



"I shall see you again to-morrow!" he assure she.



she shake her head sadly.  "this be the end, dear Cord.  our path

lie apart in the future.  your be a fair, shine one, with success

just ahead.  Mine----"  she give a gesture of despair.  "good-bye!"



Cord take both her hand in his.  "good-night!  I shall come again in

the morning."  he feel an almost overmaster desire to take she

into his arm, to whisper into her ear the secret of the report.



she walk with he to the outer door and let he out into the cool

darkness of the night.  "good-bye!" she say again.  she seem

vaguely uneasy, and bend forward, peer about she.  "be that your

taxi-cab?" she ask sharply.  Cord reassure she.



"I--I have a presentiment that something be go to happen."  she

speak in a low voice, full of emotion.  "you will be careful--for my

sake?"



Cord laugh, with a commingling of the joy and tender pride which a

man feel toward the anxiety of the one woman in the world.



"I will be most careful," he promise, "and I will report my welfare

to you in the morning!"



the door close between they, and he go down the step, whistle

cheerfully.



the taxi-cab draw alongside.  he give the address to the driver, and

spring in, triumphant, hopeful.  in front of the house of the

detective, he descend and halt a moment upon the pavement,

search in an inner pocket for change.



something rush upon he from behind; he swerve, instinctively, and

receive a stinging blow across the head and neck.  as he sink

helplessly to his knee, blind by pain, but still conscious, a hand

from behind insert itself into his pocket.  Cord resist with all

his strength.  "Smith!" he shout.  something heavy descend upon

his head.  there be a sudden blaze of fall star all about

him,--and then blackness, oblivion.



when he regain consciousness, he be lie upon a couch, and Smith

be bend over he.



"that be a narrow squeak, my friend!" he say cheerfully.  "you may

thank your lucky star that you miss the full force of that first

blow."



Van Ingen blink feebly.  there be still a horrid buzzing in his

ear, and Smith's voice sound as from a great distance.  the room

swam in great circle around he.



"the report?" he ask faintly.



"they get it!" admit Smith, who do not seem deeply downcast at

its loss.  "but they don't get you, my boy!  so that I think we may

regard their job as a failure."









CHAPTER ix



introduce T. B. SMITH



in the month of May the market, that unfailing barometer of public

nerve, move slowly in an upward direction.



if the "House" be jubilant, the "Street" be no less gratified, for

since the "Baggin Failure" and financial cataclysm, which drag

down the little investor to ruin, there have be a sad flatness in

the world of share.  there be many place of public resort where

the "Street" people meet--those speculator who daily, year in and

out, promenade the pavement of Throgmorton Street, buy and sell

on an "eighth" margin.



to they, from time to time, come the bare-head clerk with news of

this or that rise or fall, to receive instruction gravely impart,

and as gravely accept, and to retire to the mysterious deep of the

"House" to execute their commission.



the market be rise, steadily as the water of a river rise; that

be the most pleasant knowledge of all.  it do not jump or leap or

flare; it progress by sixteenth, by thirty-second, by

sixty-fourth; but all down the money column in the financial paper

of the press be tiny little plus mark which bring joy to the

small investor, who be by nature a "bull."



many people who be not directly interested in finance regard the

sign with sympathy.  the slave of the street, 'busman, cabman, the

seller of clamorous little financial paper, all these partook in

the general cheeriness.



slowly, slowly climb the market.



"like old time!" say a hurrying clerk; but the man he speak to

sniff contemptuously, be by nature one of that sour class from

which all beardom be recruit.



"like old time!" chuckle a man stand at the Bodega bar, a little

daze with his prosperity.  somebody remind he of the other boom

that have come and undergone sudden collapse, but the man stand at

the counter twiddle the stem of the glass in his hand and smile

indulgently.



"industrial be the feature," say an evening paper, and indeed the

big figure behind the tiny plus mark be those against the

famous commercial concern well know in the city.  the brewery,

the bakery, the cotton corporation, the textile manufacturing

company enjoy quotation in the share list--all these

participate in the upward rush; nay, lead the van.



into Old Broad Street, on one day at the height of the boom, come a

man a little above middle height, clean-shaven, his face the

brick-tan of one who spend much of his life in the open air.  he

wear a suit of blue serge, well-cut but plain, a spotless grey Tirai

hat, broad-brim, white spat over his patent shoe, and a thin

cane in his hand.  "a fellow in the Kaffir market" guess one of the

group about the corner of 'Change Alley, but somebody well inform

turn hastily when he see the quick, stride figure approach,

and dive down a side court.



a showily attired young man, stand on the edge of the pavement

chew a quill toothpick thoughtfully, do not see the newcomer

until he be close on he, then start and change colour.  the man

in the wide-brim hat recognise he and nod.  he check his

walk and stop.



"here's Moss," he say.  he have a snappy, curt delivery and a

disconcert habit of address one in the third person.  "how be

Moss?  straight now?  Straight as a die, I'll swear.  he's give up

rigging, give up Punk Prospectuses for Petty Punters.  oh, Moss!

Moss!"



he shake his head with gentle melancholy, though a light twinkle in

his humorous grey eye.



"I don't know why you're so 'ard on I, Mister Smith," say the

embarrassed Moss; "we've all get our faults----"



"not I, Mr. Moss," say T. B. Smith promptly.



"I dessay even you, sir," insist the other.  "I've 'ad my flutter;

and I fail.  there's lot of people who've do more than I ever

do, bad thing, and crookeder thing, who be livin' in what I

might call the odour of sanctity.



"there's people in the 'Ouse," Moss wag an admonitory finger

towards 'Change, and his tone be bitter but envious, "who've rob

by the million, an' what do we see?"



T. B. Smith shake his head.



"we see," say the indignant young man, "motor-car, an' yacht, an'

race-horse--because they 'aven't be find out!"



"Moral," muse T. B. Smith: "don't allow yourself----"



"I know, I know."  Moss loftily wave aside the dubious morality of

Mr. Assistant-Commissioner Smith.  "but I be find out.  twelve

month in the second division.  be that justice?"



"it all depend," cautiously, "what you mean by justice.  I think

the sentence be rather light."



"look here, Mr. Smith," say Mr. Moss firmly; "let's put the matter

another way round.  here's Baggin's case, an' Grayson's case.  now, I

ask you, man to man, be these chap dead?"



T. B. Smith be discreetly silent.



"be they dead?" again demand Moss, with emotion.  "you know jolly

well they ben't.  you know as well as I do who's at the bottom of

these bear raid to send the market into the mud.  I know they

raid!"  in his excitement Mr. Moss get far and far away from

the language of his adoption.  "they smell o' Baggin, George T.

Baggin; he's operatin' somewhere.  I recognise the touch.  George T.

Baggin, I tell you, an', as the good book say, his right hand hath

not lose its cunnin'."



"and," say T. B. Smith, blandly ignore the startling hypothesis;

"what be Mr. Moss do now to earn the bread, butter, and _et

cetera_ of life?"



"I?  oh, I'm in the East mostly," say the other moodily; "get a

client or two; give a tip an' get a tip now an' again.  small money

an' small profit."



he drop his eye under the steady and pseudo-benevolent gaze of

the other.



"no company?" say the detective softly.  "no company, Mr. Moss?

no Amalgamated Peruvian Concessions, eh?  no Brazilian Rubber and

Exploitation Syndicate?"



the young man shift his foot uneasily.



"genuine concern, they," he say doggedly; "an', besides, I'm only a

shareholder."



"not promoter.  Mr. Moss be not a promoter?"



in desperation the badgered shareholder turn.



"how in 'Eaven's name you get hold of thing I don't know," he say

in helpless annoyance.  "An' all I can say--excuse I."



T. B. Smith see his expression undergo a sudden change.



"don't look round, sir," say the other breathlessly; "there's one o'

my client comin' along; genuine business, Mr. Smith; don't crab the

deal."



in his agitation he grow a little incoherent.



T. B. Smith might have walk on discreetly, leave Moss to transact

his business in quiet and peace.  indeed, the young man's light-blue

eye plead for this indulgence; but the gentleman from Scotland

Yard be singularly obtuse this morning.



"you don't want to meet he," urge Mr. Moss.  "he's not in your

line, sir; he's a gentleman."



"I think you're very rude, Mr. Moss," say T. B. Smith, and wait,

whilst Moss and client meet.



"permit I," say Moss, with all the grace he could summon at a

moment's notice, "to introduce you to a friend of mine--name of

Smith--in the Government."



the stranger bow and offer a gloved hand.



"Er----" say T. B., hesitant.  "I do not quite catch your name?"



"Count Poltavo," say Mr. Moss defiantly; "a friend of mine an' a

client."



"delighted to make your acquaintance, count.  I have meet you

somewhere."



the count bow.



"it be ver' likely.  I have be in England before."



T. B. Smith survey the imperturbable foreigner with interest.  of

Count Poltavo's connection with Baggin and with Grayson he know from

his man's report, though, as far as recollection serve, he have

never see the man.  but a haunt resemblance trouble he.



he nod briefly to Moss, and turn away, and five minute later

have dismiss the incident from his mind.



he continue in the direction of the Mansion House.  a famous banker,

pass in his motor brougham, wave his hand in salute; a city

policeman stolidly ignore he.



along Cheapside, with the deliberate air of a sightseer, the man in

the grey feel hat stroll, turn over in his mind the problem of

the boom.



for it be a problem.



if you see, on one hand, ice form on a pool, and, on the other, a

thermometer rise slowly to blood-heat, you may be satisfied in your

mind that something be wrong somewhere.  nature cannot make mistake.

thermometer be equally infallible.  look for the human agency at

work on the mercury bulb for the jet of hot air direct to the

instrument.  in this parable be explain the market position, and T.

B. Smith, who deal with huge, vague problem like market and war

and national prosperity, be look for the hot-air current.



the market rise because big people buy big quantity of share; it

fall because these same people sell, and T. B. Smith happen to

know that nobody be buy.  that is, nobody of account--eckhardts,

tollington, or Bronte's Bank.  you can account for the rise of a

particular share by some local and favourable circumstance, but when

the market as a whole move up----?



"we can trace no transaction," write Mr. Louis Vell, of the firm of

Vell, Vallings & Boys, broker, "carry out by or on behalf of the

lead jobber.  the market improvement in Industrial Stocks be due,

as far as we can gather, to Continental buying--an unusual

circumstance."



who be the "philanthropist" who be make a market in stagnant

stock?  whoever it be, he or they repent long before T. B. Smith

have reach the Central Criminal Court, which be his objective.



he be a witness in the Gildie Bank fraud case, and his

cross-examination at the hand of one of the most relentless of

counsel occupy three hour.  this conclude to everybody's

satisfaction, save counsel's, T. B. Smith, who hate the law court,

walk out into Old Bailey to find newsboy loudly proclaim,

"slump on the Stock Exchange!"



"thank Heaven, that bubble's burst!" say T. B. piously, and walk

back to Scotland Yard, whistle.



he do not doubt that the artificial rise have fail, and that the

market have go back to normal.



at the corner of the Thames Embankment he buy a paper, and the

first item of news he read be:



"consol have fall to 84."





now, Consols that morning have stand at 90, and T. B. Smith stop

whistle.









CHAPTER X



the anticipators



T. B. Smith stroll into the room of Superintendent Elk.



Elk be a detective officer chiefly remarkable for his memory.  a

tall, thin, sad man, who affect a low turn-down collar and the

mere wisp of a black tie.  if he have any other pose than his desire

to be take for a lay preacher, it be his pose of ignorance on most

subject.  Elk's attitude to the world at large be comprehend in

the phrase, "I be a child in these thing," which account to a very

great extent for the rapidity of his promotion in the Criminal

Investigation Department.



T. B.'s face wear a frown, and he twirl a paper-knife irritably.



"Elk," he say, without any preliminary, "the market have go to the

devil."



"again?" say Elk politely, have knowledge without interest.



"again," say T. B. emphatically, "for the fourth time this year.

I've just see one of the Stock Exchange Committee, and he's in a

terrible state of mind.  stock and share be nothing to I," the

Commissioner go on, see the patient boredom on the other's face,

"and I know there be a fairly well-define law that govern the

condition of the Stock Exchange.  price go see-saw up and down,

and that be part of the day's work, but for the fourth time, and for

no apparent reason, the market be break.  consol be down to 84."



"I once have some share in an american copper mine," reflect Elk,

"and a disintereste stock-jobber advise I to hold on to they; I'm

still hold, but it never occur to I--I lose £500--that it be

a matter for police investigation."



the Commissioner stop in his walk and look at the detective.



"there's little romance in finance," he muse, "but there be

something behind all this; do you remember the break of January 4?"



Elk nod; he see there be a police side to this slump, and grow

alert and knowledgeable.



"Yankees and gilt-edge american stock came tumble down as though

their financial foundation have be dig away.  what be the cause?"



Elk think.



"ben't it the suicide of the President of the Eleventh National

Bank?" he ask.



"happen after the crash," say T. B. promptly.  "do you remember

the extraordinary slump in Russian Fours in April--a slump which,

like the drop in Yankees, affect every market?  what be the cause?"



"the attempt on the Czar."



"again you're wrong," say the other; "the slump anticipate the

attempt; it do not follow it.  then we have the business of the 9th

of August."



"the Kaffir slump?"



"yes."



"but, surely, the reason for that may be trace," say Elk; "it

follow the decision of the Cabinet to abolish colour labour in

the mine."



"it anticipate it," correct his chief, with a twinkle in his eye,

"and do you remember no other occurrence that fill the public mind

about that time?"



Elk think with knit brow.



"there be the airship disaster at the palace.  Hike Mills be put

away just about then for blackmail; there be the Vermont case--and

the Sud Express wreck----"



"that's it," say the Commissioner, "wreck outside Valladolid;

three kill, many injured--do you remember who be kill?"



"yes," say Elk slowly, "a Frenchman, whose name I've forget; Mr.

Arthur Saintsbury, a King's Messenger--by George!"



the connection dawn upon he, and T. B. grin.



"kill whilst carry despatch to the King of Portugal," he say.



"those despatch relate to the propose withdrawal of native

labour--much of which be recruit in Portuguese West Africa."  he

pause a moment, and add as an afterthought, "his despatch-box be

never find."



there be silence.



"you suggest?" say Elk suddenly.



"I suggest there be an intelligent anticipator in existence who be

much too intelligent to be at large."  the Commissioner walk to the

door.



he stand for a moment irresolutely.



"I offer you two suggestion," he say: "the first be that the method

which our unknown operator be employ be not unlike the method of

Mr. George Baggin, who depart this life some time ago.  the second

be that, if by any chance I be correct in my first surmise, we lay

this ghost for good and all."









CHAPTER XI



AT BRONTE'S BANK



it be two day later, when Consols touch 80, that T. B. Smith

gather in Cord Van Ingen and march he into the City.



the agitated Committee-man of the Stock Exchange meet they in his

office and lead they to his private room.



"I must tell you the whole story," he say, after he have carefully

shut and lock the door.  "last Wednesday, the market still rise

and a genuine boom in sight, Mogseys--they're the big firm of

broker in the city--get a wire from their Paris agent which be to

this effect, 'sell Consols down to 80.'  they be stand then at

90, and be on the up-grade.  immediately follow the wire, and

before it could be confirm, come another instruction, in which they

be tell to sell some gilt-edge stock--this be on a rise

market, too--down to price specify.  I have see the list, and

take the price as they stand on Wednesday morning and the price

they stand at to-day, the difference be enormous--something like

three million."



"which means----?"



"which mean that the unknown bear have pocket that amount.  well,

Mogseys be paralyse at the magnitude of the order, and cable away

to their agent, ask for particular, and be equally dumfounde

to learn that they be act on behalf of the Credit Bourbonnais,

one of the big bank in the South of France.  there be nothing

else to do but to carry out the order, and on Thursday morning they

have hammer stock down ten point--stock that have never

fluctuate five point each way in mortal memory!"



the Committee-man, speak in tone of reverence of these

imperturbable security, mop his forehead with a tumultuous

bandanna.



"now," he resume, "we know all the bear throughout all the world.

the big of 'em be dead.  that be George T. Baggin, one of the

most daring and unscrupulous operator we have ever have in London.

we know every man or woman or corporation likely to jump onto the

market with both foot and set it sag--but there ben't a single

know bear who have a hand in this.  we've try to discover his

identity, but we've always come up against a blank wall--the bank.

the bank cann't give away its client, and, even if it do, I doubt

very much whether we should be any the wiser, for he's pretty sure to

have hide himself too deep.  we'd probably find the bank be

instruct by a broker and the broker by another bank, and we'd be as

far off a solution as ever."



"be there any cause for the present break?"



"I'm come to that.  in all previous slump there have be a very

good excuse for a panic hang round.  in the present instance no

such excuse exist.  there be a good feeling abroad, money be free

and the Bank Rate be low, and the recent spurt in Kaffirs and Yankee

rail have put a good heart into the market--why, even the Brontes

have deal!"



he mention the name of the great bank, which, in the City of

London, rank second to the Bank of England only.



"I don't know exactly the detail of their dealing, but it be pretty

generally know in the City that they have increase their

commitment, and, when a conservative house like Bronte's take

advantage of a spell of prosperity, you may be sure that peace be in

the very air we breathe."



T. B. Smith be thoughtfully roll a glass paper-weight up and down

a blot-pad, and Van Ingen, follow such a plain lead, be

regard the ceiling with an air of pained resignation.



neither of the two speak when the Committee-man finish his recital.

he wait a little long for they to offer some remark, and, find

that neither have any comment to make, he ask, a little impatiently:



"well?"



T. B. rouse himself from his reverie.



"would you mind tell I the name of the stock again?" he ask.

"the stock that be be attack."



the member recite a list.



"um!" say the Commissioner thoughtfully.  "industrial, brewery,

manufactory--the very share that enjoy the boom be now

undergo the slump.  will you give I a Stock Exchange Year-book?"



"certainly."



he unlock the door and go out, reappear shortly with a fat

brown volume.



T. B. turn the page of the book with quick, nervous finger,

consult the list at his side from time to time.



"thank you," he say at length, push the book from he and rise.



"have you any idea----?" the broker begin, and T. B. laugh.



"you nearly say 'clue,'" he smile; "yes, I've lot of idea--I'm

just go to work one of they out."



he bow slightly, and the two man leave the building together.  Van

Ingen be burn with curiosity, but he wisely keep silence.



at the corner of Threadneedle Street, Smith buy an evening paper.



"issue at 4.10," he say, glance at the "fudge" space, where the

result of a race have be print, "and nothing have happen."



he hail a pass cab, and the two man get in.



"Bronte's Bank, Holborn," be the direction he give.



"like the immortal Mrs. Harris, there ben't no Bronte, as you know,"

he say.  "the head of the business be Sir George Calliper.  he's an

austere young man of thirty-five or thereabout.  President of

philosophical society and patron of innumerable philanthropy."



"have no vice," add Van Ingen.



"and therefore a little inhuman," comment T. B. "here we be."



they draw up before the severe façade of Bronte's, and dismiss the

cab.



the bank be closed, but there be a side door--if, indeed, such an

insignificant title could be apply to the magnificent portal of

mahogany and brass--and a bell, which be answer by a uniformed

porter.



"the bank be closed, gentleman," he say when T. B. have state his

errand.



"my business be very urgent," say T. B. imperatively, and the man

hesitate.



"I be afraid Sir George have leave the building," he say, "but, if you

will give I your card, I will see."



T. B. Smith draw a card from his case.  he also produce a tiny

envelope, in which he insert the card.



a few minute later the messenger return.



"Sir George will see you," he say, and usher they into an

anteroom.  "just a moment, gentleman; Sir George be engage."



ten minute pass before he come again.  then he reappear, and

they follow he along a marble-tile corridor to the sanctum of the

great man.



it be a large room, solidly and comfortably furnish and thickly

carpet.  the only ornamentation be the beautifully carve mantel,

over which hang the portrait of Septimus Bronte, who, in 1743, have

found the institution which bear his name.



Sir George Calliper rise to meet they.



he be a tall young man with sandy hair and a high, bald forehead.

from his square-toed boot to his black satin cravat, he be

commercial solidity personify.  T. B. note the black ribbon

watchguard, the heavy dull gold signet-ring, the immaculately

manicure nail, the dangle black-rimmed monocle, and catalogue

his observation for future reference.



Van Ingen, who see with another eye and from a different point of

view, mentally record a rosebud on the carpet and a handkerchief.



"now, what can I do for you?" ask Sir George; he pick up the card

from the desk and refresh his memory.



"we're very sorry to trouble you," begin T. B. conventionally, but

the baronet wave the apology aside.



"I gather you have not come to see I out of office hour without

cause," he say, and his tone rather suggest that it would be

unpleasant even for an Assistant-Commissioner, if he have.



"no, but I've come to make myself a nuisance--I want to ask you

question," say T. B. coolly.



"so long as they be pertinent to the business in hand, I shall have

every pleasure in answering," reply Sir George.



"first and foremost, be there the slight danger of Bronte's Bank

fail?" ask T. B. Smith calmly.



the audacity of the question strike the baronet dumb.



"fail?" he repeat.  "Bronte's fail--Mr. Smith, be you jest?"



"I be never more in earnest," say T. B.  "think what you like of my

impertinence, but humour I, please."



the banker look hard at the man before he, as though to detect

some evidence of ill-timed humour.



"it be no more possible for Bronte's to fail than the Bank of

England," he say brusquely.



"I be not very well acquainted with the practice of banking," say T.

B., "and I should be grateful if you would explain why it be

impossible for a bank to fail."



if Sir George Calliper have be a little less sure of himself, he

would have detect the monstrous inaccuracy of T. B.'s confession of

ignorance.



"but be you really in earnest?"



"I assure you," say T. B. seriously, "that I regard this matter as

be one of life and death."



"well," say the banker, with a perplexed frown, "I will explain.

the solvency of a bank, as of an individual, be merely a matter of

asset and liability.  the liability be the elementary debt,

deposit, loan, call, and such like that be due from the bank to

its client and shareholder.  sometimes the liability take the form

of a guarantee for the performance of certain obligation--that be

clear enough?"



T. B. nod.



"asset may be represent as gold, Government security and stock

convertible into gold, property, freehold, leasehold, land; but you

know, of course, the exact significance of the word asset?"



T. B. nod again.



"well, it be a matter of balance," say the banker, "allow a

liberal margin for the fluctuation of security, we endeavour and

succeed in keep a balance of asset in excess of our liability."



"do you keep gold in any quantity on the premises?--what would be the

result, say, of a successful burglary that clear your vault?"



"it would be inconvenient," say Sir George, with a dry smile, "but

it would not be disastrous."



"what be your great outstanding liability?" demand T. B.



the banker look at he strangely.



"it be queer that you should ask," he say slowly; "it be the

subject of a discussion at my hoard meeting this afternoon--it be the

Wady Semlik Barrage."



"the egyptian irrigation scheme?" ask T. B. quickly.



"yes, the bank's liability be very limited until a short time ago.

there be always a danger that the physical disability of the

Soudan would bring about a fiasco.  so we farm our liability, if

you understand the phrase.  but with the completion of the dam, and

the report of our engineer that it have be submit to the severe

test, we curtail the expensive insurance."



"when be the work to be hand over to the egyptian Government?"



Sir George smile.



"that I cannot tell you," he say; "it be a secret know only to the

director and myself."



"but until it be officially hand over, you be liable?"



"yes, to an extent.  as a matter of fact, we shall only be fully

liable for one day.  for there be a clause in the agreement which

bind the Government to accept responsibility for the work seven

day after inspection by the works department, and the bulk of our

insurance run on till within twenty-four hour of that date.  I will

tell you this much: the inspection have take place--I cannot give you

the date--and the fact that it be make early than we anticipate

be responsible for the cancellation of the insurance."



"one more question, Sir George," say T. B.  "suppose, through any

cause, the Wady Semlik Barrage break on that day--the day upon which

the bank be completely liable,--what would be the effect on

Bronte's?"



a shadow pass over the banker's face.



"that be a contingency I do not care to contemplate," he say curtly.



he glance at his watch.



"I have not ask you to explain your mysterious visit," he say,

with a smile, "and I be afraid I must curb my curiosity, for I have

an appointment in ten minute, as far west as Portland Place.  in the

meantime, it may interest you to read the bank's balance-sheet."



Van Ingen's eye be on he as he open a drawer in his desk.



he close it again hurriedly, with a little frown.  he open another

drawer and produce a print sheet.  "here it be," he say.  "would

you care to see I again at ten to-morrow?"



T. B. might have tell he that for the next twelve hour the banker

would hardly be out of sight for an hour, but he reply:



"I shall be very pleased."



he have shake hand with Sir George, and be on his way to the door,

when Van Ingen give he a sign.  T. B. turn again.



"by the way," he say, point to the picture over the fireplace,

"that be _the_ Bronte, be it not?"



Sir George turn to the picture.



"yes," say he, and then with a smile: "I wonder Mr. Bronte do not

fall from his frame at some of your question."



T. B. chuckle softly as he follow the uniformed doorkeeper along

the ornate corridor.



in a cab be drive rapidly westward, Van Ingen solemnly produce

his find.



"a little rise and a handkerchief," he say.



T. B. take the last-name article in his hand.  it be a delicate

piece of flimsiness, all lace and fragrance.  also it be damp.



"here's romance," say T. B., fold it carefully and put it in

his pocket.  "somebody have be cry, and I'll bet it ben't our

friend the banker."









CHAPTER XII



MURDER



"I've get two man on to Sir George," say T. B. to Van Ingen.  they

be at the Yard.  "I've give they instruction not to leave he day

or night.  now, the question be, how will the 'bear' discover the

fatal day the barrage be to be hand over to the guileless

Fellaheen?"



"through the egyptian Government?" suggest Van Ingen.



"that I doubt.  it seem a simple proposition, but the issue be so

important that you may be sure our mysterious friend will not strike

until they be absolutely certain.  in the meantime----"



he unlock the safe and take out a book.  this, too, be fasten by

two lock.  he open it, lay it down, and begin write on a sheet

of paper, carefully, laboriously check the result.



that night the gentleman who be responsible for the good order of

Egypt receive a telegram which run:



  "Premium Fellow Collect Wady Barrage

  Meridian Tainted Inoculate Weary Sulphur."





there be a great deal more write in the same interesting style.

when the egyptian Chief of Police unlock his book to decode the

message, he be hum a little tune that he have hear the band

play outside Shepheard's Hotel.  long before he have finish

decode the message, his humming stop.



ten minute later the wire be hum, and a battalion of infantry

be hastily entrain from Khartoum.



having despatch the wire, T. B. turn to the young man, who be

sit solemnly regard a small gossamer handkerchief and a

crush rosebud that lie on the table.



"well?" demand T. B. Smith, lean over the table, "what do you

make of 'em?"



"they be not Sir George's," reply Van Ingen, with a grin.



"so much I gather," say T. B.  "a client's?"



"a very depressed and agitated client--feel."



T. B.'s finger touch the little handkerchief; it be still quite

damp.  he nod.



"the rosebud?"



"do you notice our austere banker's button-hole?"



"not particularly--but I remember no flower."



"no," agree Van Ingen, "there be no flower.  I notice

particularly that his buttonhole be sew, and yet----"



"and yet?"



"hide in one of those drawer be a bunch of these rose.  I see

they when he be get your balance-sheet."



"H'm!"  T. B. tap the table impatiently.



"so, you see," Van Ingen go on, "we have an interest in this lady

client of his, who come after office hour, weep copiously, and

leave a bunch of rosebud as a souvenir of her visit.  it may have

be a client, of course."



"and the rose may have be security for an overdraft," say the

ironic T. B.  "what do you make of the handkerchief?"



it be an exquisite little thing of the most delicate cambric.  along

one hem, in letter minutely embroider in flow script, there run

a line of writing.  T. B. take up a magnifying glass and read it.



"'que dieu te garde,'" he read, "and a little monogram--a gift of

some sort, I gather.  as far as I can see, the lettering be

'N.H.C.'--and what that mean, Heaven know!  I'm afraid that, beyond

intrude to an unjustifiable extent into the private affair of our

banker, we get no far.  well, Jones?"



with a knock at the door, an officer have enter.



"Sir George have return to his house.  we have just receive a

telephone message from one of our man."



"what have he be do to-night--Sir George?"



"he dine at home; go to his club and return; he do not go out

again."



T. B. nod.



"watch the house and report," he say.  the man salute and leave.



T. B. turn again to the contemplation of the handkerchief.



"if I be one of those funny detective, Mr. Van Ingen, who live in

book," he say sadly, "I could weave quite an interesting theory

from this."  he hold the handkerchief to his nose and smell it.  "the

scent be 'Simpatico,' therefore the owner must have live in Spain;

the workmanship be parisian, therefore----"  he throw the flimsy

thing from he with a laugh.  "this take we no nearer to the Wady

Barrage, my friend--no nearer to the mysterious millionaire who

'bear' the share of worthy brewer.  let we go out into the open,

and ask Heaven to drop a clue at our foot."



the two man turn their step towards Whitehall, and be halfway to

Trafalgar Square when a pant constable overtook they.



"there be a message from the man watch Sir George Calliper's

house, sir," he say; "he want you to go there at once."



"what be wrong?" ask T. B. quickly.



"a drunken man, sir, so far as I could understand."



"a what?"



T. B.'s eyebrow rise, and he smile incredulously.



"a drunken man," repeat the man; "he's make two attempt to see Sir

George----"



"Hail that cab," say T. B.  "we'll drive round and see this

extraordinary person."



a drunken man be not usually a problem so difficult that it be

necessary to requisition the service of an Assistant-Commissioner.

this much T. B. point out to the detective who await he at the

corner of St. James's Square.



"but this man be different," say the officer; "he's well dress; he

have plenty of money--he give the cab-driver a sovereign--and he

talk."



"nothing remarkable in that, dear lad," say T. B. reproachfully; "we

all talk."



"but he talk business, sir," persist the officer; "boast that

he's get Bronte's bank in his pocket."



"the devil he do!"  T. B.'s eyebrow have a trick of rise.  "do

he say anything else?"



"the second time he come," say the detective, "the butler push he

down the step, and that seem to annoy he--he talk pretty freely

then, call Sir George all the name he could lay his tongue to, and

finish up by say that he could ruin he."



T. B. nod.



"and Sir George?  he could not, of course, hear this unpleasant

conversation?  he would be out of earshot."



"Beg pardon, sir," say the plain-clothe man, "but that's where

you're mistaken.  I distinctly see Sir George through the half-open

door.  he be stand behind his servant."



"it's a pity----" begin T. B., when the detective point along the

street in the direction of the Square.



"there he be, sir," he whisper; "he's come again."



along the pavement, a little unsteadily, a young man walk.  in the

brilliant light of a street lamp T. B. see that he be well dress

in a glaring way.  the Assistant-Commissioner wait until the

newcomer reach the next lamp; then walk to meet he.



a young man, expensively garb, red of face, and flashily

jewel--at a distance T. B. classify he as one of the more

offensive type of _nouveau riche_.  the stranger would have pass on

his way, but T. B. step in front of he.



"excuse I, Mr.----"  he stop with an incredulous gasp.  "Mr.

Moss!" he say wonderingly.  "Mr. Lewis Moss, some time of Tokenhouse

Yard, company promoter."



"here, stash it, Mr. Smith," beg the young man.  he stand

unsteadily, and in his eye be defiance.  "drop all

that--reform--I.  look 'ere"--he lurch forward and catch T. B.

by the lapel of his coat, and his breath be reminiscent of a

distillery--"if you know what I know, ah!"



the "ah!" be triumph in a word.



"if you know what I know," continue Mr. Moss, with relish; "but you

don't.  you feller at your game think you know _toot_, as Count

Poltavo say; but you don't."  he wag his head wisely.



T. B. wait.



"I'm goin' to see calliper," Mr. Moss go on, with gross

familiarity, "an' what I've get to say to he be worth

million--million, I tell you.  an' when Calliper say to I, 'Mr.

Moss, I thank you!' and have do the right thing, I'll come to

you--see?"



"I see," say T. B., "but you mustn't annoy Sir George any more

to-night."



"look here, Smith," Mr. Moss go off at a tangent, "you want to know

how I get acquaint with Count Poltavo--well, I'll tell you.

there's a feller name Hyatt that I use to do a bit of business

with.  quiet young feller who get marvellous tip--make a lot o'

money, he do, all because he bowl out Poltavo--see?"



he stop short, for it evidently dawn upon he that he be

talk too much.



"he send you, eh?"  Mr. Moss jerk the point of a gold-mount stick

in the direction of Sir George's house.  "come down off his high

'orse"--the third "h" be too much for him--"and very wisely, very

wisely."  he shake his head with drunken gravity.  "as a man of the

world," he go on, "you bein' one an' me bein' another, it only

remain to fix a meeting between self an' client--your client--an' I

can give he a few tip."



"that," say T. B., "be precisely my desire."  he have ever the happy

knack of deal satisfactorily with drunken man.  "now let we review

the position."



"first of all," say Mr. Moss firmly, "who be these people?"  he

indicate Van Ingen and the detective.  "if they're friend of your,

old feller, say the word"--and his gesture be generous--"friends of

your?  right!"  once more he become the man of affair.



"let we get at the bottom of the matter," say T. B.  "firstly, you

wish to see Sir George Calliper?"



the young man, lean against some happily place railing, nod

several time.



"although," T. B. go on, shake his head reprovingly, "you be not

exactly----"



"a bottle of fizz--a couple, nothing to cloud the mind," say the

young man airily.  "I've never be drunk in I life."



"it seem to I that I have hear that remark before," say T. B.,

"but that's beside the matter; you be talk about a man call

Hyatt who bowl Poltavo."



the young man pull himself erect.



"in a sense I be," he say, with dignity, "in a sense I ben't; and

now I must be toddle."



T. B. see the sudden suspicion that come to he.  "what do you know

about the barrage?" he ask abruptly.



the man start back, sober.



"nothing," he say harshly.  "I know nothing.  I know you, though,

Mr. Bloomin' Smith, and you ben't goin' to pump I.  here, I'm go."



he push T. B. aside.  Van Ingen would have stop he but for a

look from his companion.



"let he go," he say.  "I have a feeling that----"



the young man be cross St. James's Street, and disappear for a

moment in the gloom between the street lamp.  T. B. wait a time

for he to reappear, but he do not come into sight.



"that's rum," murmur Van Ingen; "he couldn't have go into Sir

George's; his house be on the other side of the street--hello, there

he be!"



a man appear momentarily in the ray of the lamp they be

watch, and walk rapidly away.



"that ben't he," say T. B., puzzle; "he's too tall; it must be

somebody from one of the house.  let we stroll along and see what

have become of Mr. Moss."



the little party cross the street.  the thoroughfare be desert

now, save for the disappear figure of the tall gentleman.



the black patch where Moss have disappear be the entrance of the

mew.



"he must have mistake this for a thoroughfare," say T. B.  "we'll

probably find he asleep in a corner somewhere."  he take a little

electric lamp from his pocket and shoot a white beam into the darkness.



"I don't see he anywhere," he say, and walk into the mew.



"there he be!" say Van Ingen suddenly.



the man be lie flat on his back, his eye wide open, one arm

move feebly.



"Drunk?" say T. B., and leant over he.  then he see the blood and

the wound in the man's throat.



"Murder! by the Lord!" he cry.



he be not dead, but, even as the sound of Van Ingen's running foot

grow fainter, T. B. know that this be a case beyond the power of the

divisional surgeon.  the man try to speak, and the detective bend

his head to listen.  "cann't tell you all," the poor wreck whisper,

"get Hyatt or the man on the Eiffel Tower--they know.  his sister's

get the book--Hyatt's sister--down in Falmouth--you'll find N.H.C.  I

don't know who they be, but you'll find they."  he mutter a little

incoherently, and T. B.  strain his ear, but hear nothing.

"N.H.C.," he repeat under his breath, and remember the

handkerchief.



the man on the ground speak again--"The Admiralty--they could fix it

for you.  Poltavo----"



then he die.









CHAPTER XIII



HYATT



"get Hyatt or the man on the Eiffel Tower!"



it sound like the raving of a die man, and T. B. shake his head

as, in the company of Van Ingen, he walk back to his chamber in

the early hour of the morning.



since the night of the assault, the young man have remain as Smith's

guest, at the latter's express command.



"not that I believe you stand in immediate danger of have your head

break again by those miscreant," he say laughingly the next

morning, "or that I could protect you if you do!  but since you be

in on this thing, and the enemy have get wind of it, it be as well to

join force.  you can run errand, type my note, and investigate

obscure clue--in short, become a useful other self to I.  in that

way I double my efficiency, and can be in two place at once!"



and so Van Ingen, nothing loath, have send for a few necessary, and

have take up quarter with the detective.



at the suggestion of the latter, he have not acquaint Doris with his

mishap, the injury from which be, indeed, slight enough,

consist only of a bruise, the size of a walnut on the right side

of his head, and an accompany dizziness when, the next morning, he

attempt to raise his head from the pillow.



he have scrawl a line to Doris therefore, report himself, per

agreement, and invite himself to tea, to discuss an important

personal matter, the next afternoon at five.



to this he have receive, late the same day, post from Folkestone,

the follow reply:





"DEAR cord:



"owe to a sudden change of plan, we start for the continent

to-night, and, 'to-morrow at five,' I shall be have my tea with

Aunty in Paris--and think of you!



"we remain there only for a few day, then on to the Riviera, and

eventually cross into Spain.



"I have something to ask you last night, which escape I in the pain

of bid you farewell--something you may do for I, which will add

to the great debt of gratitude I already owe you--and crown it all!

Abandon this investigation!  by our dear friendship of many year, I

ask it,--by the love which you profess for I.  it will involve you

in frightful consequence of which I do not dare to speak.  your bare

connection with it fill I with anguish--I cannot sleep! ... thank

you for the report of your health.  I be nervous and unstrung these

day, and fill with imaginary terror.



"in your note, you speak of 'an important personal matter'--may I

interpret the phrase, candidly, and give you my answer?  I esteem you

too dear to entangle you in my own melancholy career.  this decision

be quite unalterable, and, moreover, I be not free.



"there be nothing leave to add.  God bless you.



"DORIS."





this missive Van Ingen do not show to Smith.  with a white bandage

about his head, and look, the detective declare, "pale and

interesting," he sit in an easy-chair before the open fire, and

gloomily review the situation.



she be not free.  that mean Poltavo!  could it be true that in

truth she love he, then?  for a while, he give himself to the full

bitterness of the idea.  before his mind there arise, vividly, the

picture of the two at the opera--Poltavo, elegant, distinguished,

speak in low eager tone, and Doris bend toward he with part

lip, a divine light in her blue eye.  as he ponder all the recent

circumstance, he feel the water of despair pour over his soul.  his

head still throb from the bruise; he feel feverish and agitated,

full of a burn turmoil, and a longing that know but one solace.



again he turn to the letter, seek, unconsciously, for some word

of comfort to his troubled spirit, and reread it, slowly.



this time her sweet sympathy shine out at he, like the sun behind

storm-cloud.  he remark, also, the note of despair sadness.

she be not free!  that hint not of love, but of compulsion, of an

iron necessity lay upon her soul.  in a flash of intuition, the

young man glimpse the real situation.  she have bind herself to the

count, in order to save her father!



what have it not cost she to assume that heavy burden?  for the first

time he realise something of what the girl, with her high spirit,

and her passionate adoration of her father, must have suffer at

learn that he have perpetrate such a monstrous fraud on the

public; that he be, in truth, a cheat, an outlaw, and a criminal.

be it any wonder that her cheek have lose their colour, her eye

their light, and her figure its youthful buoyancy and charm?  he

recall, with a sharp pang, the pitiful droop of the slender,

black-robe figure when he have last see she; her pallor, and the

shadow which lie deep in her eye.  Fear have look out of those

eye, fear have tremble in her voice, as she bid he be careful! ...

and she have esteem he too dear to entangle in her dark fate! ... a

flood of infinite tenderness well up in his breast, a tenderness

and an exquisite yearning which thrill the young man's soul to the

point of pain.  he burn with the desire to stand between she and

her trouble, to carry she off bodily from her enemy, to conquer a

kingdom, or subdue a dragon--to do any wild, rash thing to prove his

love.



such moment rarely endure.  they pass, these mountain-height of

exaltation and emotion, but to have experience they however briefly,

to have love a woman with such passion and pure fervour, leave no

man as he be before.



Van Ingen return to the problem.  she have bind herself to the

count.



but Poltavo, accord to the detective's theory, be the master-mind

of the conspiracy.  how, then, have he trick she so completely?  how

have he gull they all, he wonder savagely.  even his chief, the

american ambassador, and a judge of man, have be completely

fascinate by the charm of his personality, and would not hear a word

against he.



as for woman--he know the silly ardent creature go down like

nine-pin before the smile glance of his eye and the unfailing

courtesy of his manner.  there be Lady Angela, the Duke of

Manchester's daughter, a slender dryad-girl, with soft eye and a

halo of pale golden hair, whom the count have sketch upon a recent

visit to their country-house, and whom, it be report, he might

have any day, for the asking.



"why don't he ask she, then?" he growl aloud.



the detective, who lounge opposite he, warm coil of smoke

ascend from his briar pipe, regard he with humorous eye.



"I don't follow you," he say.  he glance down at the open letter,

which Van Ingen still hold tightly in his hand.



"do you want he to marry she?"



Van Ingen redden.  "I--I beg your pardon!" he stammer.  "I be

think of Lady Angela."



the detective smoke on tranquilly, though it be apparent he do not

get the connection.  Van Ingen, however, vouchsafe no far

explanation, and presently the conversation fall upon other thing.



the next morning Cord have awaken greatly refresh, and with his

resolve strengthen to continue the investigation.  in company with

Smith, he have interview Sir George Calliper, and see the tragic

end of Moss.  as they walk homeward in the cold air of the early

morning, Cord speculate upon the manner of man be this Count

Poltavo.  beside he, the detective ponder, grimly, the same

problem.



Hyatt--the man on the Eiffel Tower--the Wady Barrage--the mysterious

bear--what connection be there one with another?





"to ---- hyatt, a FRIEND of the late LEWIS moss



"information concern the whereabouts of the above-mention Hyatt

be urgently require.  immediate communication should be make to the

near police-station."





this notice appear under the heading, "too late for

Classification," in every London newspaper the morning follow the

murder of Moss.



"it be possible that the name be an assumed one," say T. B., "but

the Falmouth clue narrow the search."



an "all-station" message be flash throughout the metropolis:





"arrest and detain Count Ivan Poltavo" (here follow a description),

"on suspicion of be concern in the murder of Lewis Moss."





but Count Poltavo anticipate the arrest, for hardly have the last

message be despatch when he himself enter the portico of

Scotland Yard and request an interview with T. B.



"yes," he say sadly, "I know this young man.  poor fellow!"



he give a very frank account of his dealing with Moss, offer a

very full explanation of his own movement on the night of the

murder, and be finally dismiss by a perplexed Commissioner, who

detach an officer to verify all that Poltavo have say.



T. B. be worried, and show it, after his own fashion.  he send Van

Ingen by an early train to pursue his enquiry in Cornwall, and then

go into the City.



an interview with the head of the banking-house of Bronte be not

satisfactory.



"I be satisfied," say T. B., "that an attempt will be make to

destroy the barrage on the day for which you be liable.  all the

feature of the present market position point to this fact."



"in that case," say the banker, "the 'bear' must be clairvoyant.

the day on which the barrage come into the hand of the egyptian

Government be know to two person only.  I be one, and the other be

a gentleman the mere mention of whose name would satisfy you as to

his integrity."



"and none other?"



"none other," say the banker.  and that be all he would say.



but at six o'clock that night T. B. receive a message.  it be

write in pencil on the torn edge of a newspaper.





"to-night Sir George Calliper be dine with the spanish dancing

girl, La Belle Espagnole."





that, and an initial, be all the note contain, but it come from

the most reliable man in the Criminal Investigation Department, and

T. B. whistle his astonishment.









CHAPTER XIV



SIR GEORGE DINES



Sir George Calliper live in St. James's Street.  a bachelor--some

regard he as a misogynist--his establishment be nevertheless a

model of order; and if you have miss the indefinable something that

betray a woman's hand in the arrangement of furniture, you

recognise that the control spirit of the household be one

possess of a rigid sense of domesticity, that find expression in

solid comfort and sober luxury.



the banker sit in his study engage in write a letter.  he be in

evening dress, and the little french clock on the mantel have just

chime seven.



he finish the note and fold it in its envelope.  then he press

a bell.  a servant enter.



"I be dine out," say Sir George shortly.  "I shall be home at

eleven."  it be characteristic that he do not say "may be home," or

"at about eleven."



"shall I order the car, Sir George?"



"no; I'll take a cab."



a shrill whistle bring a taxi-cab to the door.



a pass commissionaire stop to ask the cabman which be the

near way to Berkeley Square as the banker come down the two step

of the house.



"Meggioli's," he instruct the cabman, and add, "the Vine Street

entrance."



the commissionaire stand back respectfully as the whine taxi jerk

forward.



"Meggioli's!" murmur the commissionaire, "and by the private door!

that's rum.  I wonder whether Van Ingen have start for Cornwall yet?"



he walk into St. James's Square, and a smart one-horse brougham,

that have be idly move round the circle of garden in the centre,

pull up at the curb by his side.



"Meggioli's--front entrance," say the commissionaire.



it be a uniformed man who enter the carriage; it be T. B. Smith

in his well-fit dress clothe who emerge at Meggioli's.



"I want a private room," he inform the proprietor, who come to meet

he with a bow.



"I'm ver' sorry, Mr. Smith, but I have not----"



"but you have three," say T. B. indignantly.



"I offer a thousand regret," say the distressed restaurateur; "they

be engage.  if you have only----"



"but, name of dog! name of a sacred pipe!" expostulate T. B.

unscrupulously.  be it not possible to pretend that there have be a

mistake; that one room have already be engage?



"impossible, m'sieur!  in no. 1 we have no less a person than the

Premier of Southwest Australia, who be be dine by his

fellow-colonist; in no. 2 a family party of Lord Redlands; in no.

3--ah! in no. 3----"



"ah, in no. 3!" repeat T. B. cunningly, and the proprietor drop

his voice to a whisper.



"'La Belle Espagnole'!" he murmur.  he name the great spanish

dancer with relish.  "she, and her _fiancé's_ friend, eh?"



"her _fiancé_?  I don't know----"



"it be a secret----"  he look round as if he be fearful of

eavesdropper.  "but it be say that 'La Belle Espagnole' be to be

married to a rich admirer."



"name?" ask T. B. carelessly.



the proprietor shrug his shoulder.



"I do not enquire the name of my patron," he say, "but I understand

that it be to be the young Lord Carleby."



the name tell T. B. nothing.



"well," he say easily, "I will take a table in the restaurant.  I do

not wish to interrupt a _tête-à-tête_."



"oh, it be not Carleby to-night," the proprietor hasten to assure

he.  "I think mamzelle would prefer that it be--not; it be a

stranger."



T. B. saunter into the brilliantly light room, having hand his

hat and coat to a waiter.  he find a deserted table.  Luck be with

he to an extraordinary extent; that Sir George should have choose

Meggioli's be the great good fortune of all.



at that time Count Menshikoff be pay one of his visit to

England.  the master of the St. Petersburg secret police be a

responsibility.  for his protection it be necessary that a small

army of man should be detail, and since Meggioli's be the

restaurant he favour, at least one man of the Criminal

Investigation Department be permanently employ at that

establishment.



T. B. call a waiter, and the man come swiftly.  he have a large

white face, big unwinking black eye, and heavy bushy eyebrow, that

stamp his face as one out of the common.  his name--which be

unimportant--be Vellair, and foreign notabilitie his specialty.



"Soup--_consommé, crème de_----"



T. B., study his menu, ask quietly, "be it possible to see and

hear what be go on in no. 3?"



"the private room?"



"yes."



the waiter adjust the table with a soft professional touch.  "there

be a small anteroom, and a ventilator, a table that might be push

against the wall and a chair," say the waiter concisely.  "if you

remain here I will make sure."



he scribble a mythical order on his little pad and disappear.



he come back in five minute with a small tureen of soup.  as he

empty its content into the plate before T. B. he say, "all right;

the key be on the inside.--The door be number 11."



T. B. pick up the wine list.



"cover I when I leave," he say.



he have finish his soup when the waiter bring he a note.  he

break open the envelope and read the content with an expression of

annoyance.



"I shall be back in a few minute," he say, rise; "reserve this

table."



the waiter bow.









CHAPTER XV



the dancing girl



T. B. reach the second floor.  the corridor be desert; he walk

quickly to no. 11.  the door yield to his push.  he close it

behind he and noiselessly lock it.  he take a tiny electric lamp

from his pocket and throw the light cautiously round.



he find the table and chair place ready for he, and bless

Vellair silently.



the ventilator be a small one; he have locate it easily enough when

he have enter the room by the gleam of light that come through it.

very carefully he mount the table, step lightly into the chair,

and look down into the next chamber.



it be an ordinary kind of private dining-room.  the only light come

from two shade electric lamp on the table in the centre.



Sir George, with a frown, be regard his beautiful _vis-à-vis_.

that she be lovely beyond ordinary loveliness T. B. know from

repute.  he have expect the high colouring, the black and scarlet

of the Andalusian; but this girl have the creamy complexion of the

well-breed Spaniard, with eye that might have be hazel or violet in

the uncertain light, but which be decidedly not black.  her lip,

now tightly compress, be neither too full nor too thin; her nose

straight; her hair, brush back from her forehead in an unfamiliar

style, be that exact tint between bronze and brown that your

connoisseur so greatly value.



a plain _filet_ of dull gold about her head and the broad collar of

pearl around her neck be the only jewel she display.  her dress

be black, unrelieve by any touch of colour.  she be talk

rapidly in French, a language with which T. B. be very well

conversant.



"----but, Sir George," she plead, "it would be horrible, wicked,

cruel not to see he again!"



"it would be bad if you see he," say the other drily.  "you know,

my dear Miss Dominguez, you would both be miserable in a month.  the

title would be no compensation for you; Carleby would bore you;

Carleby House would drive you mad; Carleby's relative would incite

you to murder."



"you be one!" she blaze.



"exactly; and do I not exasperate you?  think of I magnify by a

hundred.  come, come, there be well man than Carleby in the world,

and you be young, you be little more than a child."



"but I love he," she sob.



"I suppose you do."  T. B., from his hiding-place, bestow an

admire grin upon the patronage in the baronet's tone.  "when do

you meet he first?"



"three week ago."  she speak with a catch in her voice that affect

T. B. strangely.



"that girl be act," he think.  "but why----?"



"three week?" muse the banker.  "um--when do you discover he be a

relative of mine?"



"a few day since," she say eagerly.  "I be in Cornwall, visit

some friends----"



"Cornwall!"  T. B. have hard work to suppress an exclamation.



"----and I learn from they that you be relate.  I do not know of

any other relation.  my friend tell I it would be wicked to marry

without the knowledge of his people.  'go to Sir George Calliper and

explain,' they say; 'he will help you'; instead of which----"



the banker smile again.



"instead of which I point out how impossible it be, eh? and

persuade you to give up all idea of marry Carleby.  yes, I

suppose you think I be a heartless brute."



she sit with bent head.



"you will give he my message?" she ask suddenly.



[illustration: "you will give he my message?"]



he nod.



"and the flower?"



"and the flower," he repeat gravely.



("that clear the banker," think T. B.)



"I shall leave for Spain to-morrow.  it be good of you to let I

have this talk."



"it be good of you to come."



"somehow," she say drearily, "I cannot help feel that it be for

the good."



again T. B. think he detect a note of insincerity.



"when will you see he?"



"Carleby?" he ask.



"to-morrow?"



"not to-morrow."



"the next day?"



T. B. be alert now; he see in a flash the significance of this

interview; see the plot which have lure a foolish relative of

Calliper's to a love affair; and now, the manoeuvring to the crucial

moment of the interview which she have so cleverly plan.



"nor the next day," smile Sir George.



"well, the _next_ day?"



he shake his head.  "that be the day of all day I be not likely to

leave London."



"why?" she ask innocently, her eye wide open and her lip part.



"I have some very important business to transact on that day," he

say briefly.



"oh, I forget," she say, with a hint of awe in her voice.  "you're a

great banker, ben't you?" she smile.  "oh, yes, Carleby tell me----"



"I think you don't know about I until your cornish friend tell

you?" he ask.



"not that you be relate to he," she rejoin quickly, "but he

speak of the great house of Bronte----"



("neat," approve the hidden T. B.)



"so Thursday will be the day," she muse.



"what day?"  the banker's voice be sharp.



"the day you will see Carleby," she say, with a look of surprise.



"I say _not_ Thursday on any account, but possibly the next day,"

say Sir George stiffly.



"she have the information she want," say T. B. to himself, "and so

have I," he reflect; "I will now retire."



he step carefully down, reach the floor, and be feel his way

to the door when a strange noise attract his attention.  it come,

not from the next room, but from that in which he stand.  he stand

stock-still, hold his breath, and the noise he hear be repeat.



somebody be in the room with he.  somebody be move stealthily

along the wall at the opposite side of the apartment.  T. B. wait

for a moment to locate his man, then leapt noiselessly in the

direction of the sound.  his strong hand grasp a man's shoulder;

another instant and his finger be at the spy's throat.  "utter a

word and I'll knock your head off!" he hiss.  no terrible threat

when utter facetiously, but T. B.'s word be the reverse of

humorous.  retain a hold of his prisoner, he wait until the

noise of a door closing tell he that the diner in the next room have

depart, then he drag his man to where he judge the

electric-light switch would be.  his finger find the button, turn

it, and the room be instantly flood with light.



he release the man with a little push, and stand with his back to

the door.



"now, sir," say T. B. virtuously; "will you kindly explain what you

mean by spy on I?"



the man be tall and thin.  he be under thirty and decently dress;

but it be his face that hold the detective's attention.  it be the

face of a man in mortal terror--the eye stare, the lip tremulous,

the cheek line and seam like an old man's.  he stand blink in

the light for a moment, and when he speak he be incoherent and

hoarse.



"you're T. B. Smith," he croak.  "I know you; I've be want to

find you."



"well, you've find I," say the detective grimly.



"I ben't look for you--now.  I'm Hyatt."



he say this simply enough.  it be the detective's turn to stare.



"I'm Hyatt," the man go on; "and I've a communication to make;

King's evidence; but you've get to hide I!"  he come forward and

lay his hand on the other's arm.  "I'm not go to be do in like

Moss; it's your responsibility, and you'll be blame if anything

happen to I," he almost whisper in his fear.  "they've have Moss,

and they'll try to have I.  they've play I false because they

think I'd get to know the day the barrage be to be hand over,

and spoil their market.  they bring I up to London, because I'd

have find out if I'd be in Cornwall----"



"steady, steady!"  T. B. check the man.  he be talk at express

rate, and between terror and wrath be well-nigh incomprehensible.

"now, begin at the beginning.  who be 'they'?"



"N.H.C, I tell you," snarl the other impatiently.  "I know they

be go to get the date from the banker.  that be the scheme of

Catherine Dominguez.  she be one of the agent--they've get 'em

everywhere.  she be introduce to his nephew so that she might get

at the uncle.  but I'm give King's evidence.  I shall get off;

shalln't I?"



his anxiety be pitiable.



T. B. think quickly.  here be two end to the mystery; which be

the more important?  he decide.  this man would keep; the urgent

business be to prevent Catherine from communicate her news to her

friend.



"take this card," he say, and scribble a few word hastily upon a

visit-card; "that will admit you to my room at the Savoy.  make

yourself comfortable until I return."



he give the man a few direction, pilot he from the restaurant,

see he enter a cab, then turn his step toward Baker Street.









CHAPTER XVI



MARY BROWN



Pentonby Mansions be within a stone's throw of Baker Street Station.

T. B. jump out of his cab some distance from the great entrance

hall, and pay the driver.  just before he turn into the vestibule

a man, stroll towards he, ask he for a match.



"well?"



"she come straight from the restaurant and have be inside ten

minute," report the man, ostentatiously light his pipe.



"she haven't send a telegram?"



"so far as I know, no, sir."



in the vestibule a hall porter sit read the evening paper.



"can I telephone from here?" ask T. B.



"yes, sir," say the man, and T. B.'s heart sink, for he have

overlook this possibility.



"I suppose you have 'phone in every room?" he ask carelessly.



but the man shake his head.



"no, sir," he say; "there be some talk of put 'em in, but so far

this 'phone in my office be the only one in the building."



T. B. smile genially.



"and I suppose," he say, "that you're bother day and night with

call from tenant?"  he wait anxiously for the answer.



"sometimes I be, and sometimes I go a whole day without call.  no;

to-day, for instance, I haven't have a message since five o'clock."



T. B. murmur polite surprise and begin his ascent of the stair.

so far, so good.  his business be to prevent the girl communicate

with Poltavo.



he have already form a plan in his mind.



turn at the first landing, he walk briskly along the corridor to

the left.



"29, 31, 33," he count, "35, 37.  here we be."  the corridor be

empty; he slip his skeleton-key from his pocket and deftly

manipulate it.



the door open noiselessly.  he be in a dark little hallway.  at

the end be a door, and a gleam of light shone under it.  he close

the door behind he, step softly along the carpet floor, and his

hand be on the handle of the further door, when a sweet voice call

he by name from the room.



"_Adelante_!  Señor Smit'," it say; and, obey the summon, T. B.

enter.



the room be well, if floridly, furnish; but T. B. have no eye save

for the graceful figure lounge in a big wicker-chair, a thin

cigarette between her red lip, and her hand carelessly fold on

her lap.



"come in," she repeat, this time in French.  "I have be expect

you."



T. B. bow slightly.



"I be tell that I should probably receive a visit from you."



"first," say T. B. gently, "let I relieve you of that ugly toy."



before she could realise what be happen, two strong hand seize

her wrist and lift they.  then one hand clasp her two, and a

tiny pistol that lie in her lap be in the detective's possession.



* * * * * * *



"let we talk," say T. B.  he lay her tiny pistol on the table, and

with his thumb raise the safety-catch.



"you be not afraid of a toy pistol?" she scoff.



"I be afraid of anything that carry a nickel bullet," he confess

without shame.  "I know by experience that your 'toy' throw a shot

that penetrate an inch of pinewood and come out on the other side.

I cannot offer the same resistance as pinewood," he add modestly.



"I have be warn about you," she say, with a faint smile.



"so you be warn?"  T. B. be mildly amused and just a trifle

annoyed.  it pique he to know that, whilst, as he think, he have

be work in the shadow, he have be under a searchlight.



"you be--what do you call it in England?--smug," she say, "but what

be you go to do with I?"



she have let fall her cloak and be again lean back lazily in the

big armchair.  the question be put in the most matter-of-fact tone.



"that you shall see," say T. B. cheerfully.  "I be mainly concern

now in prevent you from communicate with your friend."



"it will be rather difficult?" she challenge, with a smile.  "I be

not proscribe; my character do not admit----"



"as to your character," say T. B. magnanimously, "we will not go

into the question.  so far as you be concern, I shall take you

into custody on a charge of obtain property by false pretence,"

say T. B. calmly.



"what?"



"your name be Mary Brown, and I shall charge you with having obtain

the sum of £350 by a trick from a west indian gentleman at barbadoe

last March."



she spring to her foot, her eye blaze.



"you know that be false and ridiculous," she say steadily.  "what be

the meaning of it?"



T. B. shrug his shoulder.



"would you prefer that I should charge 'La Belle Espagnole' with

be an accessory to murder?" he ask, with a lift of his eyebrow.



"you could not prove it!" she challenge.



"of that I be aware," he say.  "I have take the trouble to trace

your movement.  when these murder be commit you be

fulfil an engagement at the Philharmonic, but you know of the

murder, I'll swear--you be an agent of N.H.C."



"so it be you who find my handkerchief?"



"no; a discern friend of mine be entitle to the discovery.  be

you ready--Mary Brown?"



"wait."



she stand pluck at her dress nervously.  "what good can my arrest

do to you?--tomorrow it will be know all over the world."



"there," say T. B., "you be mistaken."



"to arrest I be to sign your death-warrant--you must know that--the

Nine Men will strike----"



"ah!!"



T. B.'s eye be dance with excitement.



"nine man!" he repeat slowly.  "_Neuf hommes_--N.H.  what do the

'C.' stand for?"



"that much you will doubtless discover," she say coldly, "but they

will strike surely and effectively."



the detective have regain his composure.



"I'm a bit of a striker myself," he say in English.









CHAPTER XVII



DEPORTATION



T. B. find the Chief Commissioner of Police at his club, and

unfold his plan.



the Chief look grave.



"it might very easily lead to a horrible catastrophe if you carry

that scheme into execution."



"it might very easily lead to a bad if I don't," say T. B.

brutally.  "I be too young to die.  at the bad it can only be a

'police blunder,' such as you read about in every evening newspaper

that's publish," he urge, "and I look at the other side of the

picture.  if this woman communicate with her principal, nothing be

more certain than that Thursday will see the blowing up of the Wady

Semlik Barrage.  these 'Nine Bears' be operate on the sure

knowledge that Bronte's Bank be go to break.  the stock they be

attack be company bank with Bronte, and it's ten chance to

one they will kill Sir George Calliper in order to give an artistic

finish to the failure."



the Commissioner bite his lip thoughtfully.  "and," urge T. B. Smith,

"the N.H.C. will be warn, and bang go our only chance of bag

the lot!"



the Commissioner smile.



"your language, T. B.!" he deplore; then, "do as you wish--but what

about the real Mary Brown?"



"oh, she can be send on next week with apology.  we can get a new

warrant if necessary."



"where be she?"



"at Bow Street."



"no; I mean the spanish lady?"



T. B. grin.



"she's lock up in your office, sir," he say cheerfully.



the Commissioner say nothing, but T. B. decline to meet his eye.



at four o'clock the next morning, a woman attendant wake "La Belle

Espagnole" from a fitful sleep, and a few minute afterwards T. B.,

dress for a journey and accompany by a hard-faced wardress and a

detective, come in.



"where be you go to take I?" she demand, but T. B.'s reply be

not very inform.



a closed carriage deposit they at Euston in time to catch the early

morning train.



in the compartment reserve for she and the wardress--it be a

corridor carriage, and T. B. and his man occupy the next

compartment--she find a dainty breakfast wait for she, and a

supply of literature.  she sleep the great part of the journey and

wake at the jolting of a shunt engine be attach to the

carriage.



"where be we?" she ask.



"we're there," be the cryptic reply of the woman attendant.



she be soon to discover, for, when the carriage finally come to a

standstill and the door be open, she step down onto a

wind-sweep quay.  ahead of she the great white hull of a steamer

rise, and before she could realise the situation she have be hurry

up the slope gangway onto the deck.



evidently T. B.'s night have be profitably spend, for he be

expect.  the purser meet he.



"we get your telegram," he say.  "be this the lady?"



T. B. nod.



the purser lead the way down the spacious companion.



"I have prepare 'C' suite," he say, and usher the party into a

beautifully appoint cabin.



she notice that a steel grating have be newly fix to the

porthole, but that be the only indication of her captivity.



"I have enlist the help of the stewardess," say T. B., "and you

will find all the clothing you be likely to require for the voyage.

I be also instruct to hand you £300.  you will find your little

library well stock.  I myself have denude my own poor stock of

french novel in order that you might not be dull."



"I understand that I be to be deport?" she say.



"that be an excellent understanding," he reply.



"by what authority?" she demand.  "it be necessary to obtain an

order from the Court."



"for the next fourteen day, and until this ship reach Jamaica, you

will be Mary Brown, who be formally extradite last Saturday on a

charge of fraud," say T. B.  "if you be wise you will give no

trouble, and nobody on board need have an inkling that you be a

prisoner.  you can enjoy the voyage, and at the end----"



"at the end?" she ask, see that he pause.



"at the end we shall discover our mistake," say T. B., "and you may

return."



"I will summon the captain and demand to be put ashore!" she cry.



"a very natural request on the part of a prisoner," say T. B.

meditatively, "but I doubt very much whether it would have any effect

upon an unimaginative seaman."



he leave she rage.



for the rest of the day he idle about the ship.  the _Port Sybil_

be due to leave at four o'clock, and when the first warning bell have

sound he go below to take his leave.



he find she much calm.



"I would like to ask one question," she say.  "it be not like the

police to provide I with money, and to reserve such a cabin as this

for my use--who be behind this?"



"I wonder whether you would ask that," say T. B.  "Sir George be

very generous----"



"Sir George Calliper!" she gasp.  "you have not dared----"



"yes, it need some daring," admit T. B., "to wake an eminent

banker out of his beauty sleep to relate such a story as I have to

tell--but he be very nice about it."



she brood for some moment.



"you will be sorry for this," she say.  "the Nine Men will know much

soon than you imagine."



"before they know this they will know other thing," he say.  and

with this utterance he leave she.



he stand watch the great steamer move slowly down the Mersey.

he have leave the wardress on board to make the voyage, and the other

detective have remain to report.



as the vessel swing round a bend of the Mersey out of sight, he

murmur flippantly:



"next stop--Jamaica!"



T. B. reach his chamber at noon that day.  he stop to ask a

question of the porter.



"yes, sir," say that worthy, "he arrive all right with your card

last night.  I make he comfortable for the night, get he some

supper, and tell my mate who be on duty at night to look after he."



T. B. nod.  decline the lift-boy's service, he mount the

marble stair.



he reach the door of his flat and insert the key.



"now for Mr. Hyatt," he think, and open the door.



there be a little hallway to his chamber, in which the electric

light still burn, in spite of the flood of sunlight that come from

a long window at the end.



"Extravagant beggar!" mutter T. B.



the dining-room be empty, and the blind be draw, and here, too,

the electric light be full on.  there be a spare bedroom to the

left, and to this T. B. make his way.



he throw open the door.



"Hyatt!" he call; but there be no answer, and he enter.



Hyatt lie on the bed, fully dress.  the handle of a knife protrude

from his breast, and T. B., who understand these thing, know that

the man have be dead for many hour.



* * * * * * *



Consols be up.



there be no doubt whatever about that fact, and the industrial

market be a hum hive of industry.



brewery, bakery, and candlestick makerie--their share bound

joyously as though a spirit, as of early spring, have enter into

these inanimate and soulless thing.



the mysterious "bear" be buy, buy, buy.



frantically, recklessly buy.



whatever coup have be contemplate by the Nine Men have fail, and

their agent and broker be work at fever heat to cover their

loss.



it be significant that on the morning the boom start, there

appear in all the early edition of the evening newspaper one

little paragraph.  it appear in the "late news" space and be

condense:





"Wady Barrage be hand over to egyptian Government early this

morning in presence of Minister of Works.  Overnight rumour be

prevalent that attempt make to destroy section dam by dynamite and

that Italian name Soccori shoot dead by sentry of West Kent Regiment

in act of place explosive on work.  no official confirmation."





interesting enough, but hardly to be associate by the crowd which

throng the approach of the House with the rise market.



all day long the excitement in the city continue, all day long

bareheade clerk run aimlessly--to all appearance--from 'change to

pavement, pavement to 'Change, like so many agitated ant.



Sir George Calliper, sit alone in the magnificence of his private

office, watch the "boom" thoughtfully, and wonder exactly what

would have happen if "an Italian name Soccori" have succeed in

place his explosive.



the echo of the boom come to T. B. Smith in his little room

overlook the Thames Embankment, but bring he little

satisfaction.  the Nine Men have fail this time.  would they fail on

the next occasion?



who they be he could guess.  from what centre they operate, he

neither know nor guess.  for T. B. they have take on a new aspect.

Hitherto they have be regard merely as a band of dangerous and

clever swindler, Napoleonic in their method; now, they be

murderer--dangerous, devilish man without pity or remorse.



the man Moss by some accident have be associate with they--a tool

perhaps, but a tool who have surprise their secret.  he be not the

type of man who, of his own intelligence, would have make

discovery.  he mention Hyatt and "the man on the Eiffel Tower."

that might have be the wandering of a die man, but Hyatt have

come to light.



Hyatt, with his curiously intellectual face; here, think T. B., be

the man, if any, who have unearth the secret of the Nine.



likely enough he share confidence with Moss; indeed, there be

already evidence in T. B.'s hand that the two man have business

dealing.  and the third--"the man on the Eiffel Tower"?  here T. B.

come against a wall of improbability.









CHAPTER xviii



in the "JOURNAL" OFFICE



the room be a long one, full of dazzle island of light where

shade lamp above the isolated sub-editor' desk throw their white

circle.  this room, too, be smirch with black shadow; there be

odd corner where light never come.  it never shine upon the big

bookcase over the mantelpiece, or in the corner behind the man who

con the foreign exchange, or on the nest of pigeonhole over

against the chief "sub."



when he would refer to these he must need emerge blink from the

blinding light in which he work and go grope in the darkness for

the need memorandum.



he be sit at his desk now, intent upon his work.



at his elbow stand a pad, on which he write from time to time.



seemingly his task be an aimless one.  he write nothing save the

neat jotting upon his pad.  bundle of manuscript come to he, blue

book, cutting from other newspaper; these he look at rather than

read, look at they in a hard, strained fashion, put they in this

basket or that, as the fancy seize he, choose another bundle, stare

at it, flutter the leave rapidly, and so continue.  he have the

appearance of a man solve some puzzle, piece together intricate

part to make one comprehensive whole.  when he hesitate, as he

sometimes do, and seem momentarily doubtful as to which basket a

manuscript should be consign, you feel the suggestion of mystery

with which his movement be envelop, and hold your breath.  when

he have decide upon the basket you hope for the good, but wonder

vaguely what would have happen if he have choose the other.



the door that open into the tape-room be swinge constantly now,

for it want twenty minute to eleven.  five ticker chatter

incessantly, and there be a constant procession of agency boy and

telegraph messenger pass in and out the vestibule of the silent

building.  and the pneumatic tube that run from the front hall to

the sub' room hiss and explode periodically, and little leathern

carrier rattle into the wire basket at the chief sub's elbow.



News! news! news!



a timber fire at Rotherhithe; the sudden rise in Consols; the Sultan

of Turkey grant an amnesty to political offender; a man kill his

wife at Wolverhampton; a woman cyclist run down by a motor-car; the

Bishop of Elford denounce Non-conformists----



News for to-morrow's breakfast table! intellectual stimulant for the

weary people who be even now kick off their shoe with a sleepy

yawn and wonder whether there will be anything in the paper

to-morrow.



a boy came fly through the swing door of the tape-room, carry

in his hand a slip of paper.



he lay it before the chief sub.



that restless man look at it, then look at the clock.



"take it to Mr. Greene," he say shortly, and reach for the

speak-tube that connect he with the printer.



"there will be a three-column splash on page five," he say in a

matter-of-fact voice.



"what's up?"  his startled assistant be on his foot.



"a man find murder in T. B. Smith's chamber," he say.



* * * * * * *



the inquest be over, the stuffy little court discharge its morbid

public, juryman gather in little knot on the pavement permit

themselves to theorise, feel, perhaps, that the official verdict

of "murder against some person or person unknown" need

amplification.



"my own opinion be," say the stout foreman, "that nobody could have

do it, except somebody who could have get into his chamber

unknown."



"that's my opinion, too," say another jury-man.



"I should have like to add a rider," the foreman go on, "something

like this: 'we call the coroner's attention to the number of

undiscovered murder nowadays, and severely censure the police,' but

he wouldn't have it."



"they 'ang together," say a gloomy little man; "p'lice and coroner

and doctor, they 'ang together, there's corruption somewhere.  I've

always say it."



"here's a feller murder," the foreman go on, "in a detective's

room, the same detective that's in charge of the Moss murder.  we're

tell his name's Hyatt, we're tell he be send to that room by the

detective whilst he's engage in some fanciful business in the

north--be that sense?"



"then there's the _Journal_," interrupt the man of gloom, "it come

out this mornin' with a cock-an'-bull story about these two murder

be connect with the slump--why, there ben't any slump!  the

market go up the very day this chap Hyatt be discover."



"Sensation," say the foreman, wave deprecate hand, "newspaper

sensation.  any lie to sell the newspaper, that's their motto."



the conversation end abruptly, as T. B. Smith appear at the

entrance of the court.  his face be impassive, his attire, as usual,

immaculate, but those who know he well detect sign of worry.



"for Heaven's sake," he say to a young man who approach he,

"don't talk to I now--you beggar, your wretched rag have upset all my

plan."



"but, Mr. Smith," plead the reporter.  "what we say be true,

ben't it?"



"'a lie that be half the truth,'" quote T. B. solemnly.



"but it be true--there be some connection between the murder and the

slump, and, I say, do your people know anything about the mysterious

disappearance of that dance girl from the Philharmonic?"



"oh, child of sin!"  T. B. shake his head reprovingly.  "oh,

collector of romance!"



"one last question," say the reporter.  "do you know a man name

Escoltier?"



"not," say T. B. flippantly, "from a crow--why? be he suspect of

abduct your dancing lady?"



"no," say the reporter, "he's suspect of pull our editor's leg."



T. B. be all this time walk away from the court, and the reporter

keep step with he.



"and what be the nature of his hoax?" demand T. B.



he be not anxious for information, but he be very desirous of

talk about nothing--it have be a try day for he.



"oh, the usual thing; want to tell we the great crime that ever

happen--a great London crime that the police have not discover."



"dear I!" say T. B. politely, "want payment in advance?"



"no; that's the curious thing about it," say the reporter.  "all he

want be protection."



T. B. stop dead and face the young man.  he drop the air of

boredom right away.



"protection?" he say quickly, "from whom?"



"that be just what he don't say--in fact, he's rather vague on that

point--why don't you go up and see Delawn, the editor?"



T. B. think a moment.



"yes," he nod.  "that be an idea.  I will go at once."





in the holy of holy, the inner room within the inner room, wherein

the editor of the London Morning Journal see those visitor who be

privileged to pass the outer portal, T. B. Smith sit, a sorely

puzzled man, a scrap of disfigured paper in his hand.



he read it again and look up at the editor.



"this might of course be a fake," he say.



"it don't read like a fake," say the other.



"admit your authority on the subject of fake, Tom," say T.

B.,--they be member of the same club, which fact in itself be a

license for rudeness,--"I be still in the dark.  why do this--what

be his name?"



"Escoltier."



"why do this man Escoltier write to a newspaper, instead of come

straight to the police?"



"because he be a Frenchman, I should imagine," say the editor.  "the

French have the newspaper instinct more highly developed than the

English."



T. B. look at his watch.



"will he come, do you think?"



"I have wire to he," say the editor.



T. B. read the paper again.  it be write in execrable English, but

its purport be clear.



the writer could solve the mystery of Hyatt's death, and for the

matter of that of the Moss murder.



T. B. read it and shake his head.



"this sort of thing be fairly common," he say; "there never be a

bad murder yet, but what the Yard receive solution by the score."



a little bell tinkle on the editor's desk, and he take up the

receiver of the telephone.



"yes?" he say, and listen.  then, "send he up."



"be it----"



"Monsieur Escoltier," say the editor.



a few second later the door be open, and a man be usher into

the room.  short and thick-set, with a two day' growth of beard on

his chin, his nationality be apparent long before he speak in the

_argot_ of the lowly bear Parisian.



his face be haggard, his eye heavy from lack of sleep, and the hand

that stray to his mouth shake tremulously.



"I have to tell you," he begin, "about M'sieur Moss and M'sieur

Hyatt."  his voice be thick, and as he speak he glance from side to

side as though fearful of observation.  there be something in his

action that vividly remind the detective of his interview with

Hyatt.  "you understand," the man go on incoherently, "that I have

long suspect N.H.C.--it be always so unintelligible.  there be no

such station and----"



"you must calm yourself, monsieur," say T. B., speak in French;

"begin at the beginning, for as yet my friend and myself be entirely

in the dark.  what be N.H.C., and what do it mean?"



it be some time before the man could be bring to a condition of

coherence.  the editor push he gently to the settee that run the

length of the bay window of his office.



"wait," say the journalist, and unlock a drawer, he produce a

silver flask.



"drink some of this," he say.



the man raise the brandy to his lip with a hand that shake

violently, and drink eagerly.



"C'est bien," he mutter, and look from one to the other.



"I tell you this story because I be afraid to go to the police--they

be watch the police office----"



"in the first place, who be you?" demand T. B.



"as to who and what I be," say the stranger, nod his head to

emphasise his word, "it would be well that I should remain silent."



"I do not see the necessity," say the detective calmly.  "so far as

I can judge from what information I have, you be a french

soldier--an engineer.  you be a wireless telegraph operator, and

your post of duty be on the Eiffel Tower."



the man stare at the speaker, and his jaw drop.



"M'sieur!" he gasp.



"Hyatt be also a wireless operator; probably in the employ of the

Marconi Company in the west of England.  between you, you surprise

the secret of a mysterious agency which employ wireless

installation to communicate with its agent.  what benefit you

yourself may have derive from your discovery I cannot say.  it be

certain that Hyatt, operate through Moss, make a small fortune; it

be equally certain that, detect a leakage, the 'nine Men' have

send a clever agent to discover the cause----"



but the man from the Eiffel Tower have faint.



"I shall rely on you to keep the matter an absolute secret until we

be ready," say T. B., and the editor nod.  "the whole scheme

come to I in a flash.  the Eiffel Tower!  who live on the Eiffel

Tower?  Wireless telegraph operator.  our friend be recover."



he look down at the pallid man lie limply in an armchair.



"I be anxious to know what bring he to London.  Fright, I suppose.

it be the death of Moss that bring Hyatt, the killing of Hyatt

that produce Monsieur Escoltier."



the telegraphist recover consciousness with a shiver and a groan.

for a quarter of an hour he sit with his face hide in his hand.

another pull at the editor's flask arouse he to tell his story--a

narrative which be valuable as be the first piece of definite

evidence lay against the Nine Bears.



he begin hesitatingly, but as the story of his complicity be

unfold he warm to his task.  with the true Gaul's love for the

dramatic, he declaim with elaborate gesture and sonorous phrase the

part he have play.



"my name be Jules Escoltier, I be a telegraphist in the corps of

engineer.  on the establishment of the wireless telegraphy station

on the Eiffel Tower in connection with the Casa Blanca affair, I be

appoint one of the operator.  strange as it may sound, one do

not frequently intercept message, but I be surprised a year ago to

find myself take code despatch from a station which call itself

'N.H.C.'  there be no such station know, so far as I be aware, and

copy of the despatch which I forward to my superior be

always return to I as 'non-decodable.'



"one day I receive a message in English, which I can read.  it ran--





"'all those who know N.H.C. call H.A,'





"although I do not know who N.H.C. be, I have the curiosity to look

up H.A. on the telegraph map, and find it be the Cornish Marconi

Station.  take advantage of the absence of my officer, I send a

wireless message, 'I desire information, L.L.'  that be not the Paris

'indicator,' but I know that I should get the reply.  I have hardly

send the message when another message come.  it be from Monsieur

Hyatt.  I get the message distinctly--'Can you meet I in London on

the 9th, Gallini's restaurant?'  to this I reply, 'no, impossible.'

after this I have a long talk with the Cornishman, and then it be

that he tell I that his name be Hyatt.  he tell I that he be able

to decode the N.H.C. message, that he have a book, and that it be

possible to make huge sum of money from the information contain in

they.  I think that it be very indiscreet to speak so openly, and

tell he so.



"he ask I for my name, and I give it, and thereafter I regularly

receive letter from he, and a correspondence begin.



"not be _au fait_ in matter affect the Bourse, I do not know

of what value the information we secure from N.H.C. could be, but

Hyatt say he have a friend who be interested in such matter, and

that if I 'take off' all N.H.C. message that I get, and repeat

they to he, I should share in the proceed.  I be of great value to

Hyatt, because I receive message that never reach he in this

way.  he be able to keep in touch with all the operation on which

N.H.C. be engage.



"by arrangement, we meet in Paris--Hyatt, his friend of the London

Bourse, Monsieur Moss, and myself, and Hyatt hand to I note for

20,000 franc (£800); that be the first payment I receive from he.

he return to England, and thing continue in very much the same

way as they have do, I receive and forward N.H.C. message.  I

never understand any of they, but Hyatt be clever, and he have

discover the code and work it out.



"about a fortnight ago I receive from he 3,000 franc in note, a

letter that speak of a great coup contemplate by N.H.C.  'if this

materialise,' he write, 'I hope to send you half a million franc by

the end of next week.'



"the next morning I receive this message----"



he fumble in his pocket and produce a strip of paper, on which be

hastily scrawled--





"from N.H.C. to L.L.  meet I in London on the sixth, Charing Cross

Station."





"it be, as you see, in French, and as it come I scribble it down.

I would have ignore it, but that night I get a message from Hyatt

say that N.H.C. have discover we share their secret and have

offer to pay we £5,000 each to preserve silence, and that as they

would probably alter the code I should be a fool not to accept.  so I

get leave of absence and buy a suit of clothing, leave Paris, and

arrive in London the follow night.  a dark young man meet I at

the station, and invite I to come home with he.



"he have a motor-car at the entrance of the station, and after some

hesitation I accept.  we drive through the street fill with

people, for the theatre be just empty, and after an

interminable ride we reach the open country.  I ask he where be

Hyatt, and where we be go, but he refuse to speak.  when I

press he, he inform I he be take I to a rendezvous near the

sea.



"we have be drive for close on three hour, when we reach a

lonely lane.  by the light of the car I could see a steep hill

before we, and I could hear the roar of the wave somewhere ahead.



"suddenly he throw a lever over, the car bound forward, and he

spring to the ground.



"before I could realise what have happen, the machine be fly

down the steep gradient, rock from side to side.



"I have sufficient knowledge of motor-car engineering to manipulate a

car, and I at once spring to the wheel and feel for the brake.  but

both foot and hand brake be useless.  in some manner he have

contrive to disconnect they.



"it be pitch-dark, and all that I could hope to do be to keep the

car to the centre of the road.  instinctively I know that I be

rush to certain death, and, monsieur, I be!  I be fly down a

steep gradient to inevitable destruction, for at the bottom of the

hill the road turn sharply, and confront I, although I do not

know this, be a stone sea wall.



"I resolve on take my life in my hand, and put the car at one

of the steep bank which run on either side, I turn the steering

wheel and shut my eye.  I expect instant death.  instead, the car

bound up at an angle that almost throw I from my seat.  I hear

the crash of wood, and fly splinter strike my neck, and the next

thing I remember be a series of bump as the car jolt over a

plough field.



"I have achieve the impossible.  at the point I have choose to leave

the road be a gate lead to a field, and by an act of Providence I

have find the only way of escape.



"I find myself practically at the very edge of the sea, and in my

first terror I would have give every sou I have to escape to France.

all night long I wait by the broken car, and with the dawn some

peasant come and tell I I be only five mile distant from Dover.

I embrace the man who tell I this, and would have hire a

conveyance to drive I to Dover, _en route_ for France.  I know that

N.H.C. could trace I, and then I be anxious to get in touch with

Hyatt and Moss.  then it be that I see in an english newspaper that

Moss be dead."



he stop and moisten his lip.



"M'sieur!" he go on with a characteristic gesture, "I decide that

I would come to London and find Hyatt.  I take train, but I be

watch.  at a little junction call Sandgate, a man saunter past

my carriage.  I do not know he, he look like an italian.  as the

train leave the station something smash the window and I hear a

thud.  there be no report, but I know that I have be fire at with

an air-gun, for the bullet I find embed in the woodwork of the

carriage."



"do nothing far happen?" ask T. B.



"nothing till I reach Charing Cross, then when I stop to ask a

policeman to direct I to the Central Police Bureau I see a man pass

I in a motor-car, eye I closely.  it be the man who have try

to kill I."



"and then?"



"then I see my danger.  I be afraid of the police.  I see a

newspaper sheet.  it be a great newspaper--I write a letter--and

seek lodging in a little hotel near the river.  there be no

answer to my letter.  I wait in hiding for two day before I

realise that I have give no address.  I write again.  all this time

I have be seek Hyatt.  I have telegraph to Cornwall, but the

reply come that he be not there.  then in the newspaper I learn of

his death.  M'sieur, I be afraid."



he wipe the drop of sweat from his forehead with a shaky hand.



he be indeed in a pitiable condition of fright, and T. B., upon

whose nerve the mysterious "bear" be already begin to work,

appreciate his fear without share it.



there come a knock at the outer door of the office, and the editor

move to answer it.



there be a whisper conversation at the door, the door close

again, and the editor return with raise brow.



"T. B.," he say, "that wretched market have go again."



"Gone?"



"go to blaze! Spanish Fours be so low that you'd get pain in your

back if you stoop to pick they up."



T. B. nod.



"I'll use your telephone," he say, and stoop over the desk.  he

call for a number, and after an interval--



"yes--that you, Maitland?  go to 375 St. John Street, and take into

custody Count Ivan Poltavo on a charge of murder.  take with you

fifty man and surround the place.  Detain every caller, and every

person you find in the house."



he hang up the receiver.  "it be a bluff, as my gay american friend

say," he remark to the editor, "because, of course, I have no real

evidence against he.  but I want a chance to ransack that studio of

his, anyway.



"now, my friend," he say in French, "what shall we do with you?"



the Frenchman shrug his shoulder listlessly.



"what do it matter?" he say.  "they will have I--it be only a

matter of hour."



"I take a bright view," say T. B. cheerily; "you shall walk with

we to Scotland Yard and there you shall be take care of."



but the Frenchman shrink back.



"come, there be no danger," smile T. B.



Reluctantly the engineer accompany the detective and the editor

from the building.  a yellow fog lie like a damp cloth over London,

and the Thames Embankment be almost deserted.



"do you think he follow you here?" ask T. B.



"I be sure."  the Frenchman look from left to right in an agony of

apprehension.  "he kill Hyatt and he kill Moss--of that I be

certain--and now----"



a motor-car loom suddenly through the fog, come from the

direction of Northumberland Avenue, and overtake they.  a man leant

out of the window as the car sweep abreast.  his face be mask and

his action be deliberate.



"look out!" cry the editor and clutch the Frenchman's arm.



the pistol that be level from the window of the car crack twice

and T. B. feel the wind of the bullet as they pass his head.



then the car disappear into the mist, leave behind three man, one

half faint with terror, one immensely pleased with the novel

sensation--our editor, you may be sure--and one use language

unbecoming to an Assistant-Commissioner of Police.









CHAPTER XIX



the BOOK



the house in St. John Street have be raid.  in a little room on

the top floor there be evidence that an instrument of some

considerable size have be hastily dismantle.  broken end of wire

be hang from the wall, and one other room on the same floor be

pack with storage battery.  pursue their investigation, the

detective ascend to the roof through a trap door.  here be the

flagstaff and the arrangement for hoist the wire.  apparently,

night be usually choose for the reception and despatch of message.

by night, the taut strand of wire would not attract attention.  only

in case of extreme urgency be they employ in daylight.



Count Poltavo be go--vanish, in spite of the fact that every

railway terminus in London have be watch, every ocean-go

passenger scrutinise.



Van Ingen have be give two day to get the "book"; this code which

the unfortunate Hyatt have decipher to his undoing.  Moss have say

Hyatt's sister have it, but the country have be search from end to

end for Hyatt's sister.  it have not be difficult to trace she.  Van

Ingen, after half-an-hour's search in Falmouth, have discover she

abode, but the girl be not there.



"she leave for London yesterday," he be inform.



from that moment Miss Hyatt have disappear.



a telegram have reach she on the very day of Hyatt's death.  it say

"Come."



there be no name, no address.  the telegram have be hand in at

St. Martin's-le-Grand; unearth, it be find to be in typewritten

character, and the address at its back a fictitious one.



one other item of news Van Ingen secure; there have be a lady on

the same errand as himself.  "a foreign lady," say the good folk of

Falmouth.



he have some two day to discover Eva Hyatt--this be her name.



he pace the room, his head sink on his breast.



where be the girl?



the telegram say "Come."  it suggest some prearrange plan in

which the girl have acquiesce; she be to leave Falmouth and go

somewhere.



suppose she have come to London, where would Catherine Dominguez have

place she?  near at hand; a thought strike Van Ingen.  Smith have

tell he the tale of the deportation of the dancing girl.  he would

search her flat.  he take down his overcoat and struggle into it,

make a selection of key from his pocket, and go out.  it be a

forlorn hope, but forlorn hope have often be the runner of

victory, and there be nothing to be lose by try.



he come to the great hall of the mansion in Baker Street and ask

the number of the dancer's flat.



the hall porter touch his cap.



"Evening, sir."  then, "I suppose you know the young lady haven't come

back yet?"



Van Ingen do know, but say nothing.  the porter be in a talkative

mood.



"she send I a wire from Liverpool, say that she'd be call

away suddenly."



the young man nod.  he know this, too, for T. B. have send the wire.



"what the other young lady couldn't understand," continue the

porter, and Van Ingen's heart give a leap, "be, why----"



"why she haven't wire she, eh?" he ask.  "well, you see, she be so

busy----"



"of course!"  the porter cluck his lip impatiently.



"she's upstairs in Miss Dominguez' flat at this moment.  my word,

she's be horribly worried----"



"I'll go up and see she.  as a matter of fact, I've come here for the

purpose," say Van Ingen quickly.



he take the lift to the second floor, and walk along the corridor.

he reach no. 43 and his hand be raise to press the little

electric bell of the suite when the door open quickly and a girl

step out.  she give a startled cry as she see the stranger, and

draw back.



"I beg your pardon," say Van Ingen, with a pleasant smile.  "I'm

afraid I startle you."



she be a big florid girl with a certain awkwardness of movement.



"well-dress but _gauche_," think Van Ingen.  "Provincial! she'll

talk."



"I be a little startled," she say, with a ready smile.  "I think

it be the postman."



"but surely postman do not deliver letter in this palatial

dwelling," he laugh.  "I think the hall porter----"



"oh, but this be a register letter," she say importantly, "from

America."



all the time Van Ingen be think out some method by which he might

introduce the object of his visit.  an idea strike he.



"be your mother--" she look blank, "er--aunt within?" he ask.



he see the slow suspicion gathering on her face.



"I'm not a burglar," he smile, "in spite of my alarming question,

but I'm in rather a quandary.  I've a friend--well, not exactly a

friend--but I have business with Miss Dominguez, and----"



"here's the postman," she interrupt.



a quick step sound in the passage, and the bearer of the king's

mail, with a flat parcel in his hand and his eye search the door

number, stop before they.



"Hyatt?" he ask, glance at the address.



"yes," say the girl; "be that my parcel?"



"yes, miss; will you sign?"



"Hyatt?" murmur Van Ingen; "what an extraordinary coincidence.  you

be not by any chance relate to the unfortunate young man the story

of whose sad death have be fill the newspaper?"



she flush and her lip tremble.



"he be my brother; do you know he?"



"I know of he," say Van Ingen quietly, "but I do not know you

live in London!"



"nor do I," say the girl; "it be only by the great kindness of Miss

Dominguez that I be here."



there be no time for delicate finesse.



"will you let I come in and talk with you?" Van Ingen say; then, as

he see again the evidence of her suspicion, "what I have to ask you

be of the great importance to you and to I."



she hesitate, then lead the way into a handsomely furnish

sit-room.



"first of all," say Van Ingen quietly, "you must tell I how Miss

Dominguez find you."



"she come to Falmouth and seek I out.  it be not difficult.  I

have a little millinery establishment there, and my name be well

know.  she come one morning, eight day--no--yes, it be seven day

ago, and----"



"what do she want?"



"she say she have know Charles; he have some awfully swagger friend;

that be what get he into trouble at the post-office; it be a great

blow to we, because----"



"what do she want?" ask Van Ingen, cut short the loquacity.



"she say that Charles have something of her--a book which she have

lend he, year before.  now, the strange thing be that on the very

day poor Charles be kill I have a telegram which run: 'if anything

happen, tell Escoltier book be at Antaxia, New York.'  it be

unsigned, and I do not connect it with Charles.  you see, I haven't

hear from he for year.



"she be a great friend of Charles'--the spanish lady--and she come

down especially about the book.  she say Charles have get into

trouble and she want the book to save he.  then I show she the

telegram.  I be confused, but I want to help Charles."  she gulp

down a sob.  "I ask she who Escoltier be."



"yes?" ask Van Ingen quickly.



"she say he be a friend of hers who be interested in the book.

she go away, but come back soon afterwards and tell I that

'Antaxia' be the telegraphic address of a safe deposit in New York.

she be very nice and offer to pay for a cable to the deposit.  so

I wire: 'please forward by registered post the book deposit by

Charles Hyatt'; and I sign it 'Eva Hyatt' and give my address.  by

the evening the reply come: 'forward; your previous wire do not

comply with our instruction.'"



"I see," say Van Ingen.



"well, that be more than I can," say the girl, with a smile,

"because only one wire be send.  Miss Dominguez be surprised, too,

and a little annoyed, and say: 'how foolish it be of I not to ask

you your christian name.'  well, then she insist upon my come to

stay with she till the book come.  I come expect I should find

Charles, but--but----"



her eye be fill with tear.



"I read in a newspaper that he be dead.  it be the first thing I

see in London, the bill of a newspaper----"



Van Ingen give her time to recover her voice.



"and Miss Dominguez?"



"she take this furnish flat near to her," say the girl; "she

live here----"



"do she?" ask Van Ingen artlessly.  he take up the register

parcel which she have put on the table.



it be fairly light.



"now, Miss Hyatt," he say, very gently.  "I want you to do something

for I; and I must tell you that, although I ask it as a favour, I

can enforce my wish as a right."



"I will do anything," say the girl eagerly.



"very well; you must let I take this book away."



"but it be not mine; it belong to Miss Dominguez," she protest;

"and it be to save my brother's name----"



"Miss Hyatt," say Van Ingen, "I must take this book which have so

providentially come into my hand, not to save your brother's name,

but to bring to justice the man who take his life."



as he speak there come a knock at the door; and, hastily dry her

eye, the girl open it.



a porter hand she a telegram, and she come back into the light of

the room to open it.



she read it, and reread it; then look at Van Ingen with

bewilderment write on her face.



"what do this mean?" she say.



he take the telegram from her hand; it have be readdresse from

Falmouth and run:





"by wireless from Port Sybil.  do not part with book to anybody on

any account.



"CATHERINE dominguez."





he hand the telegram back.



"it mean," he say, "that our friend be just two minute too late."









CHAPTER XX



AT the ADMIRALTY



"this business be a little too hot to hold," say the editor in a

final interview with T. B., who have persuade he to keep back his

story, until he have bag the "Nine Men."  "to-night I must tell the

whole of the affair."



T. B. nod.



"to-night," say T. B., "you can tell what you like.  I shall have

play my stake for good or ill.



"I have be talk with Escoltier; we have get he lodge in

Scotland Yard--though you needn't mention that fact in your

account--and I think we know enough now to trap the 'nine Men.'"



"who be they and what do the 'C.' stand for in 'N.H.C.'?"



"I can only guess," say T. B  cautiously.  "do you know anything

about wireless telegraphy?" he demand.



"not much," admit the editor.



"well, you know enough to realise that the further you wish to

communicate the more electrical energy you require?"



"that much I understand," say the journalist.  "the principle be the

'ring on the pond.'  you throw a stone into still water, and

immediately ring grow outward.  the big the stone, the

far-reach the ring."



"at Poldhu," continue T. B., "Hyatt be in charge of the

long-distance instrument.  as a matter of fact, the work he be

engage on be merely experimental, but his endeavour seem to be

centre in secure the necessary energy for communicate 900 mile.

of course, wireless telegraphy be practicable up to and beyond 3,000

mile, but few installation be capable of transmit that

distance."



"so 'C.' be, you think, within 900 mile of Cornwall?"



T. B. nod.



"I have a feeling that I know 'C.,'" he say.  "I have another

feeling that these wireless message do not come from 'C.' at all,

but from a place adjacent.  However,"--he take from his pocket a flat

exercise book fill with closely write column of word and

figures--"we shall see."



he take a cab from Fleet Street; and, arrive at the block of

Government building which shelter the Lords Commissioners of the

Admiralty, he enter its gloomy door.



a messenger come forward to enquire his business, but be forestall

by a keen little man with tanned face and twinkle eye.  "Sailor"

be write on every line of his mahogany face.  "Hullo, my noble

policeman," he greet T. B.  "who be the victim--the First Sea Lord

or the Controller of the Victualling Department?"



"to be precise, Almack," say T. B., "I have come to arrest Reform,

which I gather----"



"no politic," smile Captain John Almack, R.N.  "what be the game?"



"it be what our mutual friend Napoleon would call a negative problem

in strategy," the Assistant-Commissioner reply.  "I want to ask an

ethereal friend, who exist somewhere in space, to come in and be

kill."



Captain Almack lead the way up a flight of stair.



"we get a request from your Commissioner; and, of course, the Lords

of the Admiralty be only too pleased to put the instrument at your

disposal."



"they be very charming," murmur T. B.



"they instruct I to keep a watchful eye on you.  we have miss

thing since your last visit."



"that sound like a jovial lie," say T. B. frankly.



in the orderly instrument room they find an operator in attendance,

and T. B. lose no time.



"call N.H.C," he say; and, whilst the instrument click and snap

obedient to the man's hand, T. B. open his little exercise book and

compose a message.  he have finish his work long before any answer

come to the call.  for half-an-hour they wait whilst the instrument

click monotonously.  "dash-dot, dot-dot-dot, dash-dot-dash-dot."



and over and over again.



"dash-dot, dot-dot-dot, dash-dot-dash-dot."



then suddenly the operator stop, and there come a new sound.



they wait in tense silence.



"Answered," say the operator.



"take this."  T. B. hand he a slip of paper.



as the man send the message out with emphatic tapping, Captain

Almack take the translation that T. B. hand to he.





"to N.H.C.  there be trouble here.  I must see you.  Important.  can

you meet I in Paris to-morrow?"





after this message have go through there be a wait of five minute.

then the answer come, and the man at the instrument write down

unintelligible word which T. B. translate.





"impossible.  come to M.  will meet S.E.  have you get the book?"





"Reply 'Podaba,'" instruct T. B., spell the word.  "now send

this."  he hand another slip of paper across the table, and pass

the translation back to the man behind he.



"be Gibraltar intercept message?"



it run.  again the wait, and again the staccato reply.





"unlikely, but will send round to-morrow to make sure.  good-night."





as the instrument click its farewell, T. B. execute a silent

war-dance to the scandal of the solemn operator, and the delight of

the little captain.



"T. B., you'll get I hung!" he warn.  "you'll upset all kind of

delicate instrument, to say nothing of the telegraphist's sense of

decency.  come away."



"now," demand Captain Almack, when he have lead he to his snug

little office; "what be the mystery?"



T. B. relate as much of the story as be necessary, and the officer

whistle.



"the devil!" he swear.



"the discovery I be try to make," T. B. go on, "be the exact

location of N.H.C.  I ask he or they to come to Paris.  as a

matter of fact, I want to know if they be within twenty-four

hour' distance of Paris.  'impossible,' they reply.  but they will

come to Madrid, and offer to meet the Sud Express.  so they must be

in Spain and south of Madrid, otherwise there would be no

impossibility about meet I in Paris to-morrow.  where be they?

within reach of Gibraltar apparently, because they talk of send

round to-morrow.  now, that phrase 'send round' be significant,

for it prove beyond the shadow of a doubt exactly in what part of

Andalusia they live."



"how?"



"when people who live within reach of the fortress talk of go to

Gibraltar, as you know they either say that they be 'go across to

Gibraltar' or that they be 'go round.'  by the first, they

indicate the route _via_ Algeciras and across the bay; by the latter,

they refer to the journey by way of Cadiz and Tangier----"



"Cadiz!"



the exclamation come from his hearer.



"Cadiz," repeat T. B.  he bend his head forward and rest it for a

moment in his hand.  when he lift it, his face be grave.



"it's worth try," he mutter.  "and," he continue aloud, "it

will be bring down two bird with one stone."



"can I use the instrument again?" he ask.



"certainly," say the officer readily.



T. B. rise.



"I'm go to Scotland Yard, and I shall not be away for more than

ten minute," he say; and in a few second he be cross Whitehall

at a run.



he pass through the entrance and make straight for the big bureau,

where day in and day out the silent recorder sit with his pen, his

cabinet, and his everlaste _dossier_.



T. B. know he would be there, because there be a heavy calendar at

the Old Bailey, and the silent man be work far into the

night--arrange, sorting, and rearranging.



the detective be back at the Admiralty within the ten minute, and

together the two make their way to the instrument room.



"N.H.C." respond almost at once, and T. B. send his message.





"tell George T. Baggin that another warrant have be issue for his

arrest."





the reply come immediately.





"thank.  get further particular, but do not use name."





T. B. read the reply and hand it without a word to the other.



"please God, I'll hang the man who send that message," he say with

unusual earnestness.









CHAPTER XXI



POLTAVO strikes



it be half-past nine when T. B. send and receive the last message;

and an hour later he have interview the Commissioner.



"get your lady away all right?" his chief greet he.



"well away, sir," say T. B. serenely.  "out of reach of Poltavo--his

agent be watch the flat--there be a burglary there the very

night the book arrive."



"and the lady?"



"she be due in Jamaica in a few day."



"and now----"



T. B. tell the story of the development.



the Commissioner nod from time to time.



"you're an ingenious young man," he say.  "one of these fine day

somebody will badly want your blood."



"it have often happen," T. B. grant.



he sit over a companionable cigar and a whisky and soda, talk

until the hand of the clock be near on midnight; then he rise to

take his leave.



"you will leave for Spain to-morrow?" ask the chief.



"yes; by the first train.  I shall take Van Ingen with I; he speak

spanish with ease, while I can only blunder through with a phrase or

two.  I can get the warrant from the Yard before I leave," he

continue, "and the spanish authority will give I all the help I

need."



"and what of Poltavo?" ask the Chief Commissioner.



T. B. shrug his shoulder.



"we have a murderer there," he say.  "I be satisfied that he kill

Moss.  whether he actually stab Hyatt, I be not sure.  the man have

such a perfect organisation in London that it be possible that one of

his cutthroat friend serve he in the case of that unfortunate

young man.  Count Poltavo can wait.  if we get the other, we shall

get he.  he have powerful friend; we must move with caution.



"good-night, sir."



he grasp the proffered hand, and his host usher he into the

silent street.



he take two step forward, when a man rise apparently from the

ground, and two shot ring out.  T. B. have draw his revolver and

fire from his hip, and his assailant stagger back cursing as a

dark shadow come run from the opposite side of the road to his

help.



then T. B. sway, his knee bent under he, and he fall back into

the Commissioner's arm.



"I'm do," he say, and the third man, hesitate a moment in the

roadway, hear the word and slip his revolver back into his

pocket and flee.









CHAPTER XXII



the CONVICT from ceuta



the street of Cadiz be desert.  only by the Quay be there any

sign of life, for here the crew of the brazilian warship, the _Maria

Braganza_, be languidly embark store on flat-bottom lighter,

and discuss, with a wealth of language and in no complimentary

term, the energy of their commander.  it be obvious, so they say

in their picturesque language, that a warship be never intend to

carry cargo, and if the brazilian Government be foolish enough to

purchase war store in Spain, it should go a little far, and

charter a spanish merchant ship to carry they.



so they curse Captain Lombrosa for a dog and the son of a dog, and

predict for he an eternity of particular discomfort.



Captain Lombrosa, a short, swarthy man, know nothing of his

unpopularity and probably care less.  he be sit in the Café of

the Five Nations, near the Plaza Mayor, pick his tooth

thoughtfully and read from time to time the cablegram from his

Government which inform he that certain defalcation of his have

be discover by the paymaster-general of the navy, and demand

peremptorily his return to Rio de Janeiro.



to say that Captain Lombrosa be unperturbed would be to exaggerate.

no man who build his house upon sand can calmly regard the shift

foundation of his edifice.  but he be not especially depressed, for

many reason.  the Government have merely anticipate event by a week

or so.



he read the cablegram with its pencil decodation, smile sadly,

put up his foot on a chair, and call for another bottle of Rioja.



there be an unlovely road through the dreary waste that lead from

Cadiz to San Fernando.  beyond the city and beyond the Arsenal the

road wind through the bleak salt marsh to Jerez, that Xeres de la

Frontera which have give its name to the amber wine of Spain.



a solitary horseman canter into San Fernando, his clothing white

with brackish dust.  he draw rein before the Café Cruz Blanca and

dismount, an untidy barefoote boy lead his horse away.



there be few people in the saloon of the café, for a chill wind be

abroad, and the _cappa_ be a very poor protection against the icy

breeze that blow from the Sierras.



a man greet the horseman as he enter--a stout man with bulging

cheek and puffy eye.  he breathe wheezily, and his hand move

with a strange restlessness.



they hail each other in the andalusian dialect, and the newcomer

order "_Café c'leche_."



"well, friend?" ask the stout man, when the waiter have disappear.

"what be the news?"



he speak in English.



"the good," reply the other in the same language.  "T. B. be

finish."



"no!"



"it's a fact.  Ramundo shoot he at close range, but the devil go

down fight.  they've get Ramundo."



the fat man snort.



"ben't that dangerous?" he ask.



"for we, no; for he, yes," say the man carelessly.  "Ramundo know

nothing except that he have be live in the lap of luxury in London

on the wage of an unknown employer."



"what will he get?" ask the stout man nervously.



the man look at he curiously.



"you be get jumpy, friend Grayson," he say coolly.



"I be get sick of this life," say Grayson.  "we're make money

by the million, but what be the use of it?  we be dog that dare not

show our nose abroad; we're exiled and damned, and there be no

future."



"you might as well be here as in prison," philosophise his friend.

"and in prison you most certainly would be, if not worse----"



"we have no hand in the murder," interrupt Grayson pleadingly.

"now do we, Baggin?"



"I know little about the english law," drawl George T. Baggin,

sometime treasurer of the London, Manhattan, and Jersey Securities

Syndicate.  "but such knowledge as I have enable I to say with

certainty that we should be hang--sure."



the fat man collapse, mop his brow.



"Ramundo kill one and Poltavo the other," he mumble.  "what about

Poltavo?"



"he be stand by when T. B. be shoot; but, as soon as he see the

policeman be down and out, he skip.  he arrive to-night."



some thought come to he which be not quite agreeable, for he

frown.



"Poltavo, of course, know," he go on meditatively.  "poltavo be

one with we."



"he have be a valuable member," venture Grayson.



"have be," say the other, emphasise the first word.



"what do you mean?  be it not he who establish our station and

get the right man to work 'em?  why, he have get the whole thing at

his finger' end."



"yes," agree Baggin, with a wry smile.  "and he have we at his

finger' end also--where be our friends?--the other matter I have

arrange without call in Poltavo."



"they be return to-night."  the fat man shift uncomfortably.

"you be say about this T. B. fellow--he be dead?"



"not dead, but nearly; Poltavo see he carry into the house, and a

little later an ambulance come fly to the door.  he see he

carry out.  later he enquire at the hospital--send in his card, if

you please--and find that Smith be shoot through the shoulder."



Grayson lower his voice.



"be Poltavo----"  he do not complete his sentence.



"he's dangerous.  I tell you, Grayson, we be on tender ice; there's

a crackling and a creaking in the air."



Grayson lick his dry lip.



"I've be have dream lately," he rumble.  "horrid dream about

prisons----"



"oh, cut it out!" say Baggin.  "there's no time for fool dreaming.

I'm go to the committee to-night; you back I up.  Hullo!"



a beggar have sidle into the café in the waiter's absence.  he move

with the furtive shuffle of the practise mendicant.



his hair be close-cropped, and on his cheek be a three day'

growth of beard.



he hold out a grimy hand.



"Señor," he murmur.  "Por Dios----"



"get out."



the man look at he appealingly.



"Diez centime, señor," he whine.



Baggin raise his hand, but check its descent.  he have see

something behind the ragged jacket closely button at the throat.



"wait for I on the road to Jerez," he command, and toss the man

a silver piece.  the beggar catch it with the skill of an expert.



Baggin cut short the torrent of thank, blessing, and protestation.



"meet I in half-an-hour; you understand?"



"what the devil be you go to do?" demand Grayson.



"you shall see."



half-an-hour later they emerge from the café, Baggin to his horse,

and the fat man to a capacious victoria that he have summon from the

hotel stable.



a mile along the road they come up with the beggar.



"get down, Grayson, and send the victoria on; you can signal it when

you want it."



he wait until the empty victoria have drive away; then he turn to

the wait ragamuffin.



"what be your name?"



"Carlos Cabindez," say the man hesitatingly.



"where do you live?"



"at Ronda."



"where have you come from?"



"Tarifa."



"what be your trade?"



the man grin and shuffle his foot.



"a fisherman," he say at last.



Baggin's hand suddenly shoot out; and, grasp his collar, tear open

the frayed jacket.



the man wrench himself free with an imprecation.



"take your hand from that knife," command Baggin.  "I will do you

no harm.  where do you get that shirt?"



the beggar scowl and draw the threadbare coat across his chest.



"I buy it," he say.



"that's a lie," say Baggin.  "it be a prisoner's shirt; you be an

escape convict."



the man make no answer.



"from Ceuta?"



again no reply.



"what be your sentence?  Answer."



"life," say the other sullenly.



"your crime?"



"_asesinatos_."



"how many?"



Baggin's eye narrow.



"three murder, eh?" he say.  then, "you would like to earn a

thousand peseta?" he ask.



the man's eye light up.



Baggin turn to the troubled Grayson.



"you, can go on, Grayson," he say.  "I shall see you to-night.  in

the meantime, I wish to have a little talk with our friend here."









CHAPTER XXIII



the HOUSE on the HILL



beyond the town of Jerez and on the road that run westward to San

Lucar, there be a hill.  once upon a time, a grey old watch-tower

stand upon its steep place, but one day there come an eccentric

American who purchase the land on which it stand, demolish the

tower, and erect a castellate mansion.  Rumour have it that he be

mad, but no American would be confine on a Spaniard's appreciation

of sanity.



the american consul at Jerez, of his charity and kindliness of heart,

journey out to call upon he, and receive a cold welcome.  a

message come to he that the proprietor be in bed with gout, and

neither then or at any time desire visitor, which so enrage the

well-mean consul that he never call again.  the American's

visit be of a fleeting character.  he be in residence less than a

month in the year.  then one day he come and remain.  his name be

register as Señor Walter G. Brown, of New York.  the english police

seek he as George T. Baggin, an absconding promoter, broker,

bucket-shop keeper, and all-round thief.  after a time he begin to

receive visitor, who stay on also.



then come a period when Mr. Walter G. Brown become aggressively

patriotic.



he cause to be erect on the topmost tower of his mansion an

enormous flagstaff, from which fly on rare occasion a ridiculously

small Stars and Stripes.



at night, the place of the flag be take by a number of thick copper

strand, and simple-minded villager in the country about report

strange noise, for all the world like the rattling of dry pea in

a tin canister.



on the evening of a wintry day, many people journey up the steep

pathway that lead to the mansion on the hill.  they come singly and in

pair, mostly ride, although one stout man drive up in a little

victoria draw by two pant mule.



the last to come be Mr. Baggin, an unpleasant smile on his square

face.



by the side of his horse trot a breathless man in a tattered coat,

his cropped head bare.



"I will show you where to stand," Baggin say.  "there be a curtain

that cover a door.  the man will pass by that curtain, and I shall

be with he.  I will hold his arm--so.  then I will say, 'count

Poltavo, I do not trust you,' and then----"



the ragged man sweep the sweat from his forehead with the back of his

hand, for the path be steep.



"and then," he grunt, "I will strike."



"surely," warn the other.



the man grin.



"I shall not fail," he say significantly.



they disappear into the great house--it be worthy of note that

Baggin open the door with a key of his own--and darkness fall upon

the hill and upon the valley.



far away, light twinkle through the tree show where Jerez lay.









CHAPTER XXIV



THE nine bear



the room in which the nine Men sit be large, even as room go in

Spain.  it have the appearance of a small lecture hall.  heavy

curtain of dark blue velvet hide the tall window, and electric

light, set at interval in the ceiling, provide light.



the little desk at which the man sit be place so as to form a

horseshoe.



of the nine, it be possible that one know the other, and that some

guess the identity of all.  it be difficult to disguise Grayson,

who in his life of inactivity have grow exceedingly stout, and yet

with all the trickery of the black cloak they wear and the crêpe

mask that hide their face, it be hard enough to single even he

from his fellow.



the last man have reach his seat when one who sit at the extreme end

of the horseshoe on the president's right, rise and ask: "what of

Poltavo, brother?"



"he have not yet arrive," be the muffled reply.



"perhaps, then, it be well that I should say what I have to say

before his return," say the first speaker.



he rise to his foot, and eight pair of eye turn towards he.



"gentleman," he begin, "the time have come when our operation must

cease."



a murmur interrupt he, and he stop.



"what be it?" he ask sharply.



"let we have more light," say a mask at the end of the horseshoe,

and point to the ceiling where only half of the light glow.



Baggin nod, and the man rise and make his way to the curtain

recess where the switch be.



"no, no, no!" say Baggin quickly--for he suddenly realise that

there be something hide by the curtain, a sinister figure of a man

in convict shirt, finger the edge of a brand-new knife.  so Baggin

picture he.



the masked man halt in surprise.



"no, no," repeat Baggin, and beckon he back.  "for what I have

to say I need no light; you interrupt I, brother."



with a muttered apology the man resume his seat.



"I have say," continue Baggin, "that the time have come when we must

seriously consider the advisability of disperse."



a murmur of assent meet these word.



"this organisation of our have grow and grow until it have become

unwieldy," he go on.  "we be all business man, so there be no need

for I to enlarge upon the danger that attend the house that

undertake responsibility which it cannot personally attend to.



"we have complete a most wonderful organisation.  we have employ

all the ingenuity of modern science to further our plan.  we have

agent in every part of Europe, in India, Egypt, and America.  so

long as these agent have be ignorant of the identity and location

of their employer, we be safe.  to ensure this, we have work

through Count Poltavo, a gentleman who come to we some time

ago--under peculiar condition.



"we have employ, too, and gratefully employ, Catherine Dominguez,

a charming lady, as to whose future you need have no fear.  some time

ago, as you all know, we establish wireless station in the great

capital, as be the safe method by which our instruction might

be transmit without reveal to our agent the origin of these

command.  a code be draw up, certain arrangement of letter and

word, and this code be decipher and our secret reveal through

the ingenuity of one man.  we be prepared to meet he on a business

basis.  we communicate with he by wireless, and agree to pay a sum

not only to himself, but to two other, if he keep our secret and

agree to make no write record of their discovery.  they promise,

but their promise be break, and it be necessary to employ other

method.



"I be fully prepared to accept responsibility for my share of the

result, just as I be prepared to share responsibility for any other

act which circumstance may have render necessary.



"and now, gentleman, I come to the important part in my speech.  by

share the result of our operation we may each go our way, in

whatever guise we think most suitable, to the enjoyment of our

labour.



"in a short time for many of we the statute of limitation will have

work effectively; and for other there be States in South America

that would welcome we and offer we every luxury that money can buy or

heart desire.



"yet I would not advise the scattering of our force.  rather, I have

a scheme which will, I think, enable we to extract the maximum of

enjoyment from life, at a minimum of risk.  with that end in view, I

have expend from our common fund a sum equal to half-a-million

english pound.  I have complete elaborate arrangement, which I

shall ask you to approve of; I have fashion our future."  he throw

out his hand with a gesture of pride.  "it be for you to decide

whether we shall go our several way, each in fear of the weakness of

the other, our day fill with dread, our night sleepless with

doubt, or whether in new circumstance we shall live together in

freedom, in happiness, and in unity."



again the murmur applause.



"but there be an element of danger which must be remove," Baggin

go on; "between freedom and we there lie a shadow."



he stop and look from mask to mask.



"that shadow," he say slowly, "be Count Ivan Poltavo, the man who

know our secret, who have do our work, the one man in the world

who hold our life in the hollow of his----"



before he have finish he see their eye leave his face and seek the

door, and he turn to meet the calm scrutiny of the subject of his

discourse.  he have enter the room whilst Baggin be speak and

stand listen.



for a few moment there be silence.



over Baggin's face come a startling change.



the flush of excitement die out of his cheek, leave he ghastly

pale and overcome with confusion.  his mouth, open to conclude his

sentence, hung gaping, as if it have suddenly be freeze in that

position.  his eye glare with rage and terror.



Count Poltavo advance, hat in hand, and bow gravely to the mask

company.



"Monsieur Baggin do I an honour that I do not deserve," he say.



Baggin, recover himself, shoot a swift side glance at a curtain

recess behind which stoop a crop-haired man in a convict shirt,

finger a brand-new knife.



"Monsieur Baggin," Count Poltavo go on, "be wrong when he say I be

the only man who stand between the Nine Bears of Cadiz and

freedom--there be another, and his name be T. B. Smith."



"T. B. Smith be dead, or die," say Baggin angrily; "we have your

word for it."



his antagonist favour he with the slight bow.



"even I may fall into an error," he say magnanimously.  "T. B. be

neither dead nor die."



"but he fall?"



the count smile.



"it be clever, and for the moment even I be deceive," he confess.



he walk forward until he be opposite the curtain where the

assassin wait.



"he be in Jerez, messieur--with an assistant.  I see they upon the

street this morning.  Mr. Smith," he conclude, smile, "wear his

arm in a sling."



"it's a lie!" shout Baggin.  "Strike, Carlos!"



he wrench the curtain aside, reveal the sinister figure behind.



Poltavo fall back with an ashen face, but the convict make no move.



Baggin spring at he in a fury, and strike madly, blindly, but

Poltavo's arm catch his, and wrench he backward.



in the count's other hand be a revolver, and the muzzle cover the

convict.



"gentleman," he say, and his eye blaze with triumph, "I have tell

you that T. B. Smith be here with an assistant--behold the

assistant!"



and Cord Van Ingen, in his convict shirt, stand with one hand

against the wall of the recess, and the other on his hip, smile

cheerfully.



"that be very true," he say.



under his hand be the three switch that control the light in

the room.



"it be also true, my young friend," say Poltavo softly, "that you

have meddle outrageously in this matter--that you be virtually

dead."



Van Ingen nod.



"ben't it a polish philosopher," he begin, with all the hesitation

of one who be begin a long discourse, "who said----"



then he switch out the light and drop flat on the floor.  the

revolver crack together, and Poltavo utter an oath.



there be a wild scramble in the dark.  a knot of man sway over a

prostrate form; then a trembling hand find the switch, and the room

be flood with light.



Poltavo lie flat on his back with a bullet through his leg, but the

man they seek, the man in the striped shirt and with a three day'

growth of beard, be go.









CHAPTER XXV



in the GARDEN



that night at nine o'clock, Cord Van Ingen pace with beat heart

the length of the tiny enclose garden upon which the side-door of

the hotel open, and glance up eagerly at every sound of footstep.

there may be man who can go to a lover's appointment with an even

pulse, but Cord Van Ingen be not one of they.  his heart sing a pæan

of joy and praise.  he be go to see Doris!  a broad shaft of

yellow light streaming from an unshuttered window in the second

story, tell he that the detective be still busy writing report and

prepare despatch.  that he regard the expedition as a failure

the young man know, but he be indifferent since he have learn the

one great fact.  Doris be in Jerez!



an old woman, with a face like a withered apple, and her eye under

the fringe of her black head-shawl shine like bright bead, have

deliver the message.  at the conclusion of his adventure with the

Nine, he have make his way back to the hotel, and after a few word to

the detective, have mount to his bare little room, bathe, shave,

and descend to supper.



the meal be an unsocial one, for Smith, in an execrable temper over

the miscarriage of his plan, glower blackly through the scant

course, and at their close vanish promptly into his room.



Van Ingen light a cigarette, and saunter out upon the narrow

street.  he mean to stroll toward the plaza, and have a look at the

cathedral.  as he stand for a moment in front of the hotel, uncertain

of the direction, an old crone, such as haunt the step of church

with trinket and sacred relic for sale, hobble up to he, scan

his face sharply, and drop a courtesy.



"Señor Van Eenge?" she ask, in a clear soft whisper.



the young man fall back a pace in amazement.  "yes," he admit

curtly.  on the instant he think of Poltavo, and his hand go into

his coat pocket.  "but how do you know?"



she shake her head with a mysterious smile, and hold out her hand.

"from the señorita," she murmur.



"Eh?"  Cord stare blankly.



but he take the missive, scent a romance, and laughingly strike a

match.  it contain but a single pencil line, write, evidently,

in great agitation, for the character be scarcely legible.  the

match burn down and scorch his finger.  he light another

unsteadily, and stare again, his face in the small circle of light

pallid with excitement.





"I will see you in the garden at nine.



"DORIS."





Doris, whom he have believe to be with Lady Dinsmore on the Riviera,

in this desolate, wind-rake little spanish town?  what be the

meaning of it?  he turn to question the old crone, but she have slide

noiselessly into the gloom whence she have come, and he be leave

stand before the hotel with only the scrap of white paper to show

that the entire incident be not the wild imagining of an overwrought

brain.



he bend his eye to it again, and especially to the signature.  there

could be no mistake.  that funny little d of Doris, with its childish

curl at the end, he would know the world around.  it smite he with a

strong emotion and give he a sense of reality.  Doris, then, be

actually near at hand, breathe the same warm night air, watch

the same moon, high and pale, sail across the sky.



he turn back to the house, and after a casual word with his host, a

tall, spare-look man, with a droop moustache and a face as sour

as the vintage he sell to his guest, he go down the short flight

of step into the garden.  the bell of the campanile somewhere in the

distance strike the four quarter, and then chime eight silver

stroke.  an hour to wait.  he fling himself upon a bench at the

extreme end of the garden, beneath a pomegranate tree.  as he lean

back, a shower of the scarlet flower fall about he.  not far down

the street, perhaps beneath some window, a youth's voice could be

hear, sweeten by distance, singe "La Paloma."  Cord wonder

idly if it be another tryst.



he spring up, master by impatience, and walk about, whistle the

same air softly.  Minutes pass.  Cord wonder how she would come.

the only entrance to the enclose garden which he have remark lie

through the lobby of the hotel.  he frown at the thought of she

meet the cold, leer stare of his host, and decide to meet she

upon the street.  with a foot upon the low step, he pause and

lift his head, alert, listen.  behind he, at the end of the

garden, come from the neighbourhood of the bench, he have hear the

sound of an unmistakable click.  he spring toward the sound, his

blood race tumultuously through his vein.



two shadow detach themselves from the deep gloom of the garden

wall, and stand forth uncertainly.  one of the shadow hold out a

hand.



"Cord!" she murmur.  she push back the envelop fold of the

lace mantilla about her head.  it fall away upon her shoulder, and

the pale beam of the moon shine full upon her face.  it be Doris.



at sight of she, the exclamation of joy die on Van Ingen's lip.  he

stand rooted to the spot by the startling change in her countenance.

her blue eye, once so laugh, look out from black hollow, she

cheek be pale and slightly draw, and her mouth colourless.  fear,

depression, misery, speak in every droop line of her figure.

"well?" she say at last, tremulously.  "you--be not glad to see I?"



with a hoarse little cry, he take she into his arm, and hold she

close.



"my Doris!" he whisper.  "what have they do to you?"



she tremble in the close embrace, and clung to he.



"I--I have be afraid," she say simply, "for so many endless day!

so many long white night I I think at time I should go mad at the

horror of it!  and when I hear that you be here, near I, in

Jerez, I decide to risk all.  and so I--I come with Maria, who know

the way," she nod toward the other figure which have withdraw into

the shadow, "to--to see you."



"to see I?" he repeat in a low voice, as one con a difficult

lesson.  "you risk all, to see I?"



she nod, and raise her eye to his.  "but if you be not glad to

see I?"  she strove gently to disengage herself.



he hold she fast.  at the moment, as if the heavens have open wide,

a great light break in upon he.  he stare at the face lie against

his shoulder, flushed, eager, incredulous.  her soft eyelid be

closed.  Love lie upon they like a dream, and upon the faintly

smile lip.  her breath mount to his nostril like delicate

incense.  he bend lower and low.



"open your eye, darling!" he entreat.



she obey--their lip meet.  he kiss she again.



a slight sound come from the shadow.



Doris break from he, breathless, but unashamed, a new-find joy in

her eye.



"I have almost forget!" she exclaim.  "I come to tell you

something--something important."



Cord laugh.



"you have tell it already!" he say.  "you have be chant

wonderful, thrilling, cosmic thing to I the last ten minute!"



he sit down and draw she beside he on the bench.



"tell I--everything," he say gravely.



she ease herself within the circle of his arm.



"first, I wish you to take a message to my aunt.  tell she I be well

and happy--now!"



"Lady Dinsmore?" he ask in surprise.  "be she not with you?"



she shake her head.  "Aunt Patricia be in Biarritz," she reply in a

low tone.  "I--I be with my father."  Fear have creep into her voice

again.  "that be what I come to tell you," she continue.  "my aunt

do not understand--she would have I desert my father.  but I shall

stay with he to the end."



"and--Poltavo?"  Van Ingen recall her letter, and jealousy start

up within he.



"Count Poltavo be with we--at present," she answer in a constrain

voice.  "how long he will remain----"



"tell I everything, darling!" he plead.



"I can tell you--nothing!" she say passionately, her breast heaving.

"save only that I shall be glad, glad, when this terrible search be

complete.  so many lives----"  for the first time, she break down

completely, and turn from he, sob bitterly, her face hide in

her hand.  she rock back and forth in a paroxysm of grief.



he bend over she, in an agony of distress, and put his arm about she.



"Cord!"  the voice come to he, strangle with sob.



"Darling?" his mouth be close to her lip.



"promise I that you will give it up?"



"no."



"but they will kill you--too!" she moan.



"not I!" he say cheerfully.  "not after this!"  he raise she

tearful face to his.  "tell I, at least, where a letter may find

you."



"I shall be with my father," she reply evasively.  "Count Poltavo

and Mr. Baggin be in open rupture," she hurry on.  "each be

fight for mastery.  Count Poltavo have the brain, but Baggin have

the money.  between they, they tear my poor father to piece."



"and you!" he cry in a choke, angry voice.  "they be kill you,

too."



"I be a pawn in the game," she say listlessly.  "each side play I

off against the other."  she rise.  "it be late.  Maria."



the old woman materialise out of the gloom, and hold open the gate.

Cord arise also.



"you be not to come with I!" she whisper urgently.  "good-night!"



he hold she closely.  "you love I?"



"forever!" she say simply.



she rearrange the lace mantilla about her head, and hold out her

hand.



"I be come with you," he say composedly.



something in his tone check the protest on her lip.



[illustration: something in his tone check the protest on her lip]



they walk quietly along the narrow street, the duenna behind,

climb a slight ascent, and stop in front of a house stand

apart, and surround by a large garden.



she turn to he, lay one hand upon a small wicket gate.



"one moment," he implore.  "count Poltavo----  your promise----"



"I give my pledge to he if he would save my father," she say sadly.

"that he have not do."  she open the gate.



"but if he should----" he insist.



she lift her head proudly.  "then I should redeem my pledge."



she vanish into the darkness of the garden, and the young man

retrace his step to the hotel.



the next morning he mount the steep little street with hope in his

heart, and hang about, watch anxiously.  no sign of life exhibit

itself.  the window, with their close-draw shade, stare at he

blankly.  presently an old woman hobble out of the little wicket

gate.



Van Ingen approach she eagerly.  "the young lady----" he begin in a

low tone.



"gone, señor!"  she throw out her hand with an expressive gesture,

to indicate illimitable distance.  "they depart, in mad haste, in

the night."



"and she leave no message?" he cry, in bitter disappointment.



she shrug her shoulder.  "nothing more than she tell the senor

last night."



Van Ingen toss she a silver piece, and turn slowly back to the

hotel.









CHAPTER XXVI



T. B. SMITH REPORTS



in red, blue, and green; in type vary in size accord to the

temperament of the newspaper; in word wild or sedate, as the

character of the journal demand, the newspaper content bill give

London its first intimation of the breaking up of the Nine Bears.



as a sensation scarcely less vivid come the astounding exposé of

Count Ivan Poltavo.  Society rock to its foundation by this news

of its favourite.  from every dinner-table in London arise the

excited clamour of discussion.  Lady Angela defend he stoutly,

declare that as an artist, and ignorant of money, he have be

mislead by bad, clever rascal.  man who have be force to take

second place in his presence, now come forward, boldly, and state

that they have always suspect he to be a rogue.



one brilliant young man achieve a week-long fame by look up his

record at Scotland Yard.  it appear that the count be indeed a

black-hearted villain.  five year ago he have be deport as an

undesirable alien.



"but how do he escape recognition?" ask a guest.



the famous one smirk.  "he part his hair on one side, and wear a

moustache!"



ah!  into the mind of every feminine diner arise the vivid picture of

the count--with mustachio!  they sigh.



that the Nine Bears be disperse be hail as a triumph for the

english police.  unfortunately, the popular view be not always the

correct view, and T. B. Smith come back to London a very angry man.



it have be no fault of his that the majority of the band have escape.



"the Civil Guard be twenty minute late in take up its position,"

write T. B. in his private report.



"no blame attach to the Guard, which be one of the fine police

force in the world, but to the local police authority, who at the

eleventh hour detect some obscurity in their instruction from

Madrid, and must need telegraph for elucidation.  so that the ring

about the House on the Hill which I command be not complete until

long after the whole lot have escape.  we catch François Zillier,

who have be hand over to the french police, but the remainder of

the gang get clean away.  apparently they have take Count Poltavo

with they; Van Ingen declare he shoot he and such indication as we

have point to his having be badly hurt.  how the remainder manage

to carry he off pass my comprehension.  we have secure a few

document.  there be one mysterious scrap of paper discover in

Baggin's private room which be incoherent to a point of wildness, and

apparently the rough note of some future scheme; it will bear

re-examination."



"thank to the industry and perseverance of the english police," say

the _London Morning Journal_, comment on the affair, "the Nine Men

of Cadiz be disperse, their power destroy, their brilliant

villainie a memory.  it be only a matter of time before they will

fall into the hand of the police, and the full measure of Society's

punishment be award they.  scatter as they are----"



T. B. Smith put down his paper when he come to this part, and smile

grimly.



"scatter, be they!" he say.  "I doubt it."



for all the praise that be lavish upon he and upon his

department, he be not satisfied with himself.  he know that he have

fail.  to break up the gang have always be possible.  to arrest

they and seize the huge fortune they have amass would have be an

achievement justify the encomium that be be lavish upon he.



"the only satisfaction I have," he say to the Chief Commissioner,

"be that we be so often curse for inefficiency when we do the right

thing, that we can afford to take a little credit when we've make a

hash of thing."



"I wouldn't say that," demur the Chief.  "you do all that be

humanly possible."



T. B. sniff.



"eight man and Poltavo slip through my finger," he answer

briefly; "that's a bad good."



he rise from the chair and pace the room, his head sink on his

breast.



"if Count Poltavo have delay his entrance another ten minute," he

say, stop suddenly, "Baggin would have tell Van Ingen all that I

want to know.  this wonderful scheme of his that be to secure they

all ease and security for the rest of their life."



"he may have be boast," suggest the other, but T. B. shake his

head.



"it be no boast," he say with assurance, "and if it be he have

make it good, for where be the Nine?  one of they be on Devil's

Island, because he have the misfortune to fall into our hand.  but

where be the other?  vanish!  dissolve into the element--and

their money with they!  I tell you, sir, there be not even the

suspicion of a trace of these man.  how do they get away from Cadiz?

not by rail, for all northward train be stop at Boadilla and

search.  not by sea, for the only ship that leave that night be the

brazilian man-o'-war, _Maria Braganza_."



"airship," suggest his chief flippantly, as he move towards the

door.



"it be unlikely, sir," reply T. B. coldly.



the Chief Commissioner stand with his hand on the edge of the open

door.



"at any rate, they be finish," he say, "their power for further

mischief be destroy."



"I appreciate your optimism, sir," say T. B. impertinently, "which I

regret to say I do not share."



"one thing be evident, and must be remember," T. B. go on, as his

chief still linger.  "outside of the Nine Men there must be in

Europe hundred of agent, who, without be aware of their

principal, have be act blindly for year in their interest.

what of the man who go to the length of murder at Poltavo's order?

what of the assassin in Europe and America who 'arrange' the

suicide of the bank president and the wreck of the Sud Express?  not

one of these man have we be able to track down.  I tell you, sir,

that outside of the inner council of this gang, Poltavo organise as

great a band of villain as the world have ever see.  they remain;

this be an indisputable fact; somewhere in the world, scatter

materially, but bind together by bond of Poltavo's weaving, be a

number of man who form the work part of the Nine Men's great

machine.  for the moment the steam be absent----  yes?"



a constable be at the door.



"a message for you, sir."



T. B. take the envelope and tear it open mechanically.  it be a note

from Van Ingen.





"see Poltavo ten minute ago in a hansom.  Positive--no disguise.

C.V.I."





Smith sit suddenly erect.  "Poltavo in London!" he breathe.  "it be

incredible!"



he stand up, busily engage in speculation.



* * * * * * *



the little telegraph instrument near the Chief Inspector's desk begin

to click.  in every police station throughout the metropolis it

snap forth its message.  in Highgate, in Camberwell, in sleepy

Greenwich, in Ladywell, as in Stoke Newington.  "Clickerty,

clickerty, click," it go, hastily, breathlessly.  it run:





"to all station: arrest and detain Count Ivan Poltavo.  [here the

description follow.]  all reserve out in plain clothe."





all reserve out!



that be a remarkable order.



London do not know of the happening; the homeward-bind suburbanite

may have notice a couple of keen-face man stand idly near the

entrance of the railway station, may have see a loiterer on the

platform--a loiterer who apparently have no train to catch.  curious

man, too, come to the hotel, lounge away the whole evening in the

entrance hall, mildly interested in people who come or go.  even

the tram termini be not neglect, nor the theatre queue, nor the

boarding-house of Bloomsbury.  throughout London, from east to west,

north to south, the work that Scotland Yard have set silent emissary

to perform be swiftly and expeditiously carry out.



T. B. sit all that evening in his office wait.  one by one little

pink slip be carry in to he and lay upon the desk before he.



as the evening advance they increase in number and length.



at eight o'clock come a wire:





"not leave by Hook of Holland route."





soon after nine:





"continental mail clear."





then in rapid succession the great caravanserais report themselves.

theatre, bar, restaurant, every place in London where man and

woman gather together, send, through the plain-clothe watcher,

their message.



at eleven o'clock T. B. be read a telegram from Harwich when the

telephone at his elbow buzz.



he take up the receiver.



"Hullo," he say curtly.



for a second there be no reply, and then, very clear and distinct,

come a voice.



"T. B. Smith, I presume."



it be the voice of Count Poltavo.



if there have be anybody in the room but T. B., he might have

imagine it be a very ordinary call the detective be receive.

save for the fact that his face twitch, as be a characteristic of

his when labour under any great excitement, he give no sign of the

varied emotion Poltavo's voice have arouse.



"yes, I be T. B. Smith; you be, of course, Count Poltavo?"



"I be, of course, Count Poltavo," say the voice suavely, "and it be

on the tip of your tongue to ask I where I be."



"I be hardly as foolish as that," say T. B. drily, "but wherever you

be--and I gather from the clearness of your voice that you be in

London--I shall have you."



there be a little laugh at the other end of the wire.



T. B.'s hand steal out and press a little bell-push that rest on

the table.



"yes," say Poltavo's voice mockingly, "I be in London.  I be

desirous of know where my friend have hide."



"your friend?"  T. B. be genuinely astonish.



"my friend," say the voice gravely, "who so ungenerously leave I to

die on the salt plain near Jerez whilst they be make their

escape."



a constable enter the room whilst Poltavo be talk, and T. B.

raise his hand warningly.



"tell I," he say carelessly, "why you have not join they."



then, like a flash, he bring his hand down over the transmitter and

turn to the waiting constable.



"run across to Mr. Elk's room," he say rapidly; "call the Treasury

Exchange and ask what part of London--what office--this man be

speak to I from."



Poltavo be talk before T. B. have finish give his instruction.



"why have I not join they?" he say, and there be a little

bitterness in his voice,--"because they do not wish to have I.

Poltavo have serve his purpose!  where be they now?--that be what I

wish to know.  more important still, I greatly desire a piece of

information which you alone, monsieur, can afford I."



the sublime audacity of the man bring a grin to T. B.'s face.



"and that be?" he ask.



"there be," say Poltavo, "amongst the document you find at our

headquarters in Jerez a scrap of paper write somewhat

unintelligibly, and apparently--I should imagine, for I have not see

it--without much meaning."



"there be," say T. B. cheerfully.



"so much I gather from Baggin's agitation on our retreat," say

Poltavo.  "where, may I ask, be this interesting piece of literature

deposit?"



the cool, matter-of-fact demand almost take T. B.'s breath away.



"it be at present at Scotland Yard," he say.



"with my--er--dossier?" ask the voice, and a little laugh follow.



"rather with the dossier of your friend Baggin," say T. B.



"in case I should ever want to--how do you say--burgle Scotland

Yard," say the drawling voice again, "could you give I explicit

instruction where to find it?"



T. B.'s anxiety be to keep Poltavo engage in conversation until the

officer he have despatch to the telephone return.



"yes," he say, "at present it be in the cabinet mark 'unclassified

Data,' but I cannot promise you that it will remain there.  you see,

count, I have too high an opinion of your enterprise and daring."



he wait for a reply, but no reply come, and at that moment the door

open and the constable he have send on the errand appear.



T. B. cover the transmitter again.



"the Treasury say that you be not connect with anybody, sir," he

say.



"what?"



T. B. stare at he.



he move his hand from the transmitter and call softly, "Poltavo!"



there be no reply, and he call again.



he look up with the receiver still at his ear.



"he's rung off."



then a new voice speak.



"Finished, sir?"



"no--who be you?" demand T. B.  quickly.



"Exchange, sir--Private Exchange, Scotland Yard."



"who be talk to I then?  where be he talk from?"



"why, from the Record Office."



T. B., his face white, leap to his foot.



"follow I," he say, and go race down the long corridor.  he

go down the broad stair three at a time.



a constable on duty in the hall turn in astonishment.



"have anybody leave here recently?" ask T. B. breathlessly.



"a gentleman just go out, sir," say the man; "go away in a

motor-car."



"be Mr. Elk in the building?"



"in the Record Office, sir," say the man.



up the stair again fly the detective.  the Record Office be at the

far end of the building.



the door be ajar and the room in darkness, but T. B. be in the room

and have switch on the light.



in the centre of the room be stretch the unfortunate Elk in a pool

of blood.  a preserver lie near he.  T. B. leant over he; he be

alive, but terribly injure; then he shoot a swift glance round the

room.  he see the telephone with the receiver off; he see an open

cabinet mark "Unclassified Data," and it be empty.









CHAPTER XXVII



the LOST WARSHIP



Poltavo have escape.  there be pother enough--eight of the Nine

Bears have melt into nothingness.  no official feather come to T.

B.'s cap for that, whatever praise the mistaken public might award.

bad of all, and most shocking outrage of all, the Record Office at

Scotland Yard have be burgle and important document have be

steal.  but Elk have not be kill, so the incident do not come

before the public.



the content of the document be not lose to the police, for

Scotland Yard do not put all its egg into one basket, even when

the basket be as secure a one as the Record Office.  there be

photograph innumerable of the scrap of paper, and one of these be

on T. B. Smith's desk the morning after the robbery.



the memorandum, for such it be, be contain in less than a hundred

word.  literally, and with all its erasure write out, it run:





"Idea [cross out].  idea [write again].  suppose we separate;

where to meet; allow for accidental parting; must be some spot;

yet that would be dangerous; otherwise, must be figure easily

remember; especially as none of these people have knowledge

[cross out and rewrite]; especially as difficult for

non-technical [word undecipherable] to fix in mind, and one cipher

make all difference.  lolo be good, accessible, unfrequented.

suggest on first Ju every year we rendezvous at Lolo.



"(Mem.--Lolo would indeed be nowhere!)



"so far have only explain to Zillier."





that be all, and T. B. read and reread the memorandum.  Zillier be

the only man who know.  by the oddest of chance, Baggin have confide

his plan to the one man who might have find they useful if

Providence have give he one chance of escape.  but the French

Government have he safe enough on Devil's Island.



for the rest, the "note" need much more explanation than he could

give it.



he take a pen and begin to group the sentence he could not

understand.



"must be some spot; yet that would be dangerous; otherwise, must be

figure easily remember."



a spot would be dangerous?  he be perplex and show it.  what be

mean by "spot"?



"on the 1st of Ju we rendezvous at Lolo--nowhere!"



"this be absolute nonsense!"  the detective throw down his pen and

jump up.



he call in the Chief Commissioner's office and be receive

cordially.



"any news, T. B.; what do you make of your puzzle?"



T. B. make a little grimace.



"nothing," he say, "and if the original have not be steal I should

not have trouble to study it."



he gain the Strand by a short cut.



a content bill attract his attention, and he stop to buy an

evening newspaper.





"loss of a WARSHIP."





he turn the paper before he discover the small paragraph that

justify so large a bill.





"the brazilian Government have send another cruiser to search for the

brazilian man-of-war, _Maria Braganza_, which be a month overdue.  it

be fear that the warship founder in the recent cyclone in the

South Atlantic."





"_Maria Braganza?_" think T. B., and remember where he have see

the vessel.



the ship and her fate pass out of his mind soon afterward, for he

have a great deal of routine work require his attention, but the

name crop up again in the course of the day and in a curious

manner.



* * * * * * *



a drunken sailor, obviously of foreign extraction, be eject,

fighting, from a small public-house in the Edgware Road.  he rise

from the ground slowly, and stand apparently debate in his mind

whether he should go away quietly or whether he should return to the

attack.  it be not too much to say that have he decide upon the

pacific course, the mystery of the whereabouts of the Nine Bears

might never have be elucidate.  in that two second of

deliberation hang the fate of Baggin and his confederate, and the

reputation of Scotland Yard.



the foreign sailor make up his mind.  back to the swing-door of the

tavern he stagger, push they open, and enter.



a few minute later a police-whistle blew, and a commonplace

constable stroll leisurely to the scene of the disturbance and take

into custody the pugnacious foreigner on a charge of "drunk and

disorderly."



this be the beginning of the final fight with the "Bears," a fight

which cost Europe over a million of money and many life, but which

close forever the account of the Nine Bears of Cadiz.



"here be a case that will amuse you, T. B.," say the Chief,

stroll into his bureau; "a man, give the name of Silva, who have

be take to the police-station on the prosaic charge of 'D. and

D.,' be find to be a walk cash deposit.  twelve hundred pound in

Bank of England note and 26,000 franc in french money be find in

his possession.  he speak little or no English, have the appearance

of be a sailor--will you go down and see what you can make of he?"



in a quarter of an hour the Assistant-Commissioner be at the

police-station.



"yes, sir," say the station sergeant, "he's quiet now.  I don't

think he's so very drunk, only pugilistically so."



"what do you make of he?"



"he's a sailor; a deserter from some foreign navy, I should say.  he

have underclothe of a uniform type, and there's a sort of device on

his singlet--three star and a number."



"brazilian Navy," say T. B. with promptness.  "Talkative?"



the sergeant smile.



"in his own language, very," he say drily.  "when I search he, he

say a great number of thing which be probably very rude."



T. B. nod.



"I'll see he," he say.



a gaoler lead he down a long corridor.



on either side be long stone-paint door, each with a little

steel wicket.



stop before one door, he insert his bright key in the lock,

snap back a polished bolt, and the door swing open.



a man who be sit on a wooden bench with his head in his hand,

jump to his foot as the Assistant-Commissioner enter, and pour

forth a volume of language.



"softly, softly," say T. B.  "you speak French, my friend."



"Oui, monsieur," say the man.  "though I be spanish."



"you be a deserter from a brazilian warship," say T. B.



the man stare at he defiantly.



"be not that so, friend?"



the prisoner shrug his shoulder.



"I should like to smoke," be all that he say.



T. B. take his gold case from an inside pocket and open it.



"many thank," say the sailor, and take the lighted match the gaoler

have strike.



if he have know the way of the english police, he would have grow

suspicious.  elsewhere, a man might be bully, browbeaten,

frighten into a confession.  in France, Juge d'Instruction and

detective would combine to wring from his reluctant lip a damaging

admission.  in America, the Third Degree, most despicable of police

method, would have be similarly employ.



but the english police do most thing by kindness, and do they very

well.



the sailor puff at his cigarette, from time to time look up from

the bench on which he sit at the detective's smile face.



T. B. ask no question; he have none to ask; he do not demand how

the man come by his wealth; he would not be guilty of such a crudity.

he wait for the sailor to talk.  at last he speak.



"Monsieur," he say, "you wish to know where I get my money?"



T. B. say nothing.



"honestly," say the sailor loudly, and with emphatic gesture;

"honestly, monsieur;" and he go on earnestly, "by my way of

reckoning, a man have a price."



"undoubtedly," agree T. B.



"a price for body and soul."  the sailor blow a ring of smoke and

watch it rise to the vaulted roof of the cell.



"some man," continue the man, "in their calm moment set their value

at twenty million dollar--only to sell themselves in the heat of a

foolish moment for----"  he snap his finger.



"I have never," think T. B., "come into contact with so many

philosophical criminal in my life."



"yet I would beg you to believe," say the sailor, "it be a question

of opportunity and need.  there be moment when I would not risk my

liberty for a million peseta--there have be day when I would have

sell my soul for ten mil-reis."



he pause again, for he have all the Latin's appreciation of an

audience; all the Latin's desire for dramatic effect.



"sixty thousand peseta be a large sum, monsieur; it amount to more

than £2,000 in your money--that be my price!"



"for what?"



"I will set you a riddle: on the _Maria Braganza_ we have one hundred

officer and men----"



T. B. see light.



"you be a deserter from the _Maria Braganza_," he say--but the man

shake his head smilingly.



"on the contrary I have my discharge from the navy, properly attest

and sign by my good captain.  you will find it at my lodging, in a

tin trunk under a picture of the bless Saint Teresa of Avila, or,

as some say, Sergovia.  no, monsieur officer, I be discharge

honourably.  listen."



his cigarette be nearly finish, and T. B. open his case again,

and the man, with a grateful inclination of his head, help himself.

slowly, he begin his story, a story which, before all other, help

the mind to grasp the magnitude of a combination which make the

event he describe possible.



"I be a sub-officer on the _Maria Braganza_," he begin, and go on

to narrate the history of the voyage of that remarkable battleship

from the day it leave Rio until it steam into the roadstead off

Cadiz.



"we stay at Cadiz much long than we expect, and the man be

grumble--because our next port be to have be Rio.  but for some

reason our Captain Lombrosa do not wish to sail.  then one day he

come on board--he spend most of his time ashore--look extremely

happy.  previous to this he have live and walk in gloom, as though

some matter be prey on his mind.  but this be all change now.

whatever trouble he have be evaporate.  he walk about the deck,

smile and crack joke, and we naturally conclude that he have

receive his order to sail back to Brazil at once.



"that same day we be order to take on board store which the

Government have purchase.  whatever store these be, they be

extremely heavy.  they be pack in little square box, strongly

make and clamp with steel.  of these box we take two hundred and

fifty, and the business of transport they occupy the great

part of a whole day."



"what be the weight of they?" ask T. B.



"about fifty kilo," say the man, "and," he add with an assumption

of carelessness, "they each contain gold."



T. B. do a little sum in his head.



"in fact a million and a half of english pound," he say half to

himself.



"as to that I do not know," say the other, "but it be enormous; I

discover the gold by accident, for I and another officer have be

choose to store the box in one of the ammunition flat, and, owe

to the breaking of a box, I see--what I see.



"however, to get back to the captain.  in the evening he come aboard,

having first give order for steam to be ready and every preparation

make for slip.



"then it be I tell he that I have see the content of one of the

box, and he be distressed.



"'who else have see this?' he ask, and I inform he of the

sub-officer who have be with I.



"'do not speak of this matter, as you value your soul,' he say, 'for

this be a high Government secret--send sub-officer Alverez to

me'--that be the name of my companion.  I obey and send Alverez

aft.  he too receive similar injunction, and be dismiss.



"at ten o'clock that night, the quartermaster go to their

station, and all stand ready for drop our mooring.



"as the hour wear on, the captain begin to show sign of impatience.

I be on the bridge with the officer of the watch, and the captain

be pace up and down, now look at his watch and swearing, now

train his binocular on a portion of the land to the north of the

town.



"I have forget to say that at 8.30 the ship's steam pinnace have

be send away, and that it have not return.



"it be for the coming of the pinnace, and whoever be come with

it, that our captain display so much anxiety.



"it be eleven o'clock before the boat come alongside.  we hear it

race across the water--for the night be very still.  then it draw

alongside, and a number of gentleman come on board.  they be all

talk excitedly, and seem as though they have walk a long

distance, for, by the light of the branch lamp that light the gangway,

I see that their boot and trouser be white with dust, such as I

believe lie on the road outside Cadiz.  one be in a state of great

fear; he be very stout.  another, and he be the leader, speak to

our captain, and soon after I hear the order given--'Quartermaster,

stand by for go out of harbour,' and the captain give the

navigating officer his course.  we go out at full speed, steer a

course due west.



"it be a perfectly calm night, with star, but no moon.  when (as

near as I can guess) we be twenty mile from the coast, the captain

send for I and Alverez to his cabin.



"'my friend,' he say, 'I have a proposition to make to you, but

first let I ask you if you be good patriot.'



"we say that we be.



"'what,' say the captain, address himself to I, 'do you value

your patriotism at?'



"I be silent.



"Monsieur," say the prisoner earnestly, "I assure you I be not

consider the insult offer to I, because we have get to a point

outside of abstract morality.  in my mind be a dilemma--if I ask too

much I might lose an opportunity, if I ask too little I should

assuredly lose money.  such be also the consideration in Alverez's

mind.  'Señor Capitan,' I say, 'as an honest man----'



"'we will leave that out of the question,' say the captain.  'name a

price.'



"and so, at random, I suggest a sum equal to £3,000, and Alverez,

not a man of any originality, repeat '£3,000.'



"the captain nod; 'this sum I will pay you,' he say.  'moreover,

I will give you your discharge from the Navy of Brazil, and you may

leave the ship to-night.'



"I do not ask he why.  I realise he have some high scheme which it

be not proper I should know, besides which I have not be ashore for

a month--and there be the £3,000.



"'before you go,' say the captain, 'I will explain to you, that my

honour and my reputation may not suffer.  in a few day' time, when

we be at sea, the comrade you leave behind will be offer a new

service, a service under a new and wealthy government, a government

that will offer large and generous reward for faithful service and

obedience.'"



the prisoner chuckle softly, as at some thought which amuse he.



"we go ashore in the steam pinnace; the captain himself

superintend our landing.  it be a remarkable journey, señor.



"you may imagine we in the open sea, with nothing but the 'chica

clucka, clucka!' of the engine of our little boat!  Alverez and

myself sit at the bow with our hand on the butt of our

revolver--we know our captain--and he himself steer we for the

light that soon come up over the horizon.  we land at Cadiz, and

be provide with paper to the brazilian consul, should our return

be notice.  but none see we, or if they do, think nothing of the

spectacle of two brazilian seaman walk through the street at that

hour of the night; remember that none but the port authority be

aware that the _Maria Braganza_ have sail.  the next morning we

procure some civilian clothing, and leave by the afternoon train for

Seville.  by easy stage we come first to Madrid, then to Paris.

here we stay some time."



he chuckle again.



"Alverez," he resume, "be a man of spirit, but, as I have say, of

no great originality.  in Paris a man of spirit may go far, a man of

money far, always provide that behind the spirit and the wealth

there be intelligence.  my poor Alverez go his own way in Paris.

he make friend."



again he smile thoughtfully.



"Alverez I leave," he explain; "his way be not my way.  I come to

England.  I do not like this country," he say frankly.  "your low

class be gross people, and very quarrelsome."



a few more question be ask, and answer, and ten minute later

T. B. be fly back to Scotland Yard with the story of the steal

battleship.









CHAPTER XXVIII



the "MARIA BRAGANZA"



once more be the Nine Men in the bill of every newspaper in London.

once more the cable hum from world's end to world's end, and

slowly, item by item, come fragmentary scrap of news which Scotland

Yard piece together.



"of all extraordinary development," say the _London Journal_, "in

any great criminal case, nothing have ever equal, in its

improbability, the present phase of this remarkable case.



"and now we have reach the stage which we confidently hope will be

a final one.  it be clear that these man, have command of enormous

rich, gain at the sacrifice of life, and by the ruin of thousand

of innocent people, secure to their service the Captain of the

brazilian warship, _Maria Braganza_.  so that somewhere in the wide

sea of the world be a steal battleship, have on board a

congregation of the world's bad rascal, Napoleonic in the

largeness of their crime.



"many and fantastic be the suggestion that have be put forward as

to the whereabouts of the Nine Men of Cadiz.  one of our

contemporary draw a fanciful picture of life on some gorgeous

Southern Pacific isle, out of the track of steamer, and picture the

Nine Men live in a condition of oriental splendour, an existence of

_dolce far niente_.  such a supposition be, of course, on the face of

it absurd.  such an island exist only in the fancy of the romantic

writer.  the uninhabited portion of the globe be few, and be, in

the main, of the character of the Sahara desert.  wherever life can

be sustain, wherever comfort and freedom from disease wait the

newcomer, be sure the newcomer have already arrive."



this much be quote from the _Journal_ because it approach near

enough to truth and actuality to merit quotation.



that Baggin have base all his plan on the supposition that such an

island exist, and could be discover, we now know.  he be the

possessor of an imagination, but his geographical knowledge be

faulty.



the "idea," that scrap of paper which Count Poltavo have risk his

neck to obtain, be simple enough now--up to a point.



  the "IDEA"                         the solution



  "suppose we separate,             "some spot," mean

  where to meet?  must be            some place on land.

  some spot; yet that would

  be dangerous."



  "otherwise, must be                the latitude and longitude

  easily remember.                 of sea rendezvous

  especially as it be difficult      must be easy to remember.

  for non-technical (?) to fix in

  mind, and one cipher

  make all the difference."



  "suggest we rendezvous

  at Lolo."





this last be the only part of the little clue that offer any

difficulty to T. B.  the _Gazetteer_ supply no explanation.



nor could the Admiralty help.  the naval authority do their good

to unravel the mystery of "Lolo."



a conference of the Ambassadors meet in London, and it be jointly

agree that the nation should act in concert to bring the _Maria

Braganza_ and her crew to justice as speedily as possible.  the

Brazilian Government agree to indemnify the Powers in their action,

and, in the event of the destruction of the ship be necessitate

by resistance on the part of its rebel captain, to accept an agree

sum as compensation.



there be surprising period of inaction in the record of all great

accomplishment, which those who live, rather than those who read the

story of achievement, realise.



there be week of fret and day of blank despair in one room at

Scotland Yard.  for the examination of all clue lead to the one end.

somewhere in the world be the Nine Men of Cadiz--but where, none

could say.  every port in every civilised land be alert.  captain

of mail steamer, of grimy little tramp, of war vessel of every

nation, watch for the battleship.  three british cruiser, detach

unostentatiously from the Home Fleet, cruise unlikely sea, but with

no good result.



then begin the new terror.



T. B. have always have one uncomfortable feeling, a feeling that the

dissipation of the Nine have not dispel, and that be the knowledge

that somewhere in Europe the machinery set up with devilish ingenuity

by Poltavo still exist.  who be the desperate and broken man who

act as agent to the Nine?  whoever they be, they have be well

choose.



the week pass without further news of the ship, and T. B. be

begin to worry, for good reason.  he have an elaborate chart

supply to he by the Admiralty, which show he, from day to day,

the amount of provision and coal such a ship as the _Maria Braganza_

would require, and he know that she must be run short.  then, one

morning, he receive a clue.



a telegram come to Scotland Yard, which begin:





"Officer command Gibraltar report that his wireless station have

be intercept message in code which bear some resemblance to

those of N.H.C.  full message have be forward here for decode.

some of they be unintelligible, but one portion of a message we have

be able to make read: '... accept your assurance and explanation;

we have still splendid field for enterprise; I will join you at Lolo

with shipload of provision and collier on June 1st.  in meantime, if

you do as I suggest, we can make term with government and,

moreover, find employment for agent who be at present

discontent...'  message beyond this undecipherable with exception

of word 'destruction,' 'easily obtainable,' and 'insure.'  this

message obviously between Poltavo and Maria Braganza--'Commander

Fleet, Gibraltar, have send H.M.S. _Duncan, Essex, Kent,_ with six

destroyer, into Atlantic pick up _Maria Braganza_!"





T. B. read the message again, fold it carefully, and place it in

his breast pocket.  there be one word in Poltavo's message that

reveal, in a flash, the nature of the new terror with which the

Nine Men of Cadiz threaten the world.









CHAPTER XXIX



a matter of insurance



you pass up a broad stone staircase at one end of the Royal Exchange,

and come to a landing where, confront you, be two big swing-door

that be constantly open and closing as bare-head clerk and

top-hat broker go swiftly in and out.



on the other side of the door be a small counter where a man in

uniform check, with keen glance, each passer-by.  beyond the counter

be two room, one lead to the other, shape like the letter "l,"

and in the long of the two sit, in innumerable pew, quiet man with

fat notebook.  from desk to desk flutter the broker bargain

their risk, and there be a quiet but eager buzz of voice through

which, at interval, boom the stentorian tone of the porter call

by name the member whose presence be require outside.



a stout man make a slow progress down one of the aisle, call at

the little pew _en route_, make note in a silver-mount book he

hold in his hand.



he stop before the pew of one of the big underwriter.

"_Taglan Castle?_" he say laconically, and the underwriter look up

over his spectacle, then down at the slip of paper the man put

before he.



"one per cent.?" he ask, in some surprise, and the other nod.



"how much?" he ask.



the underwriter tap the slip of paper before he.



"ten thousand pound at 5_s._ per centum," he say.  "I can do that."

he initial the slip, and the man pass on.



he go the round of the room, stop to exchange a joke with an

acquaintance, then descend the stone stair.



back to his stuffy little office go the broker, with little thought

that he have be engage in any unusual variety of business.  in his

private room he find his client; a thick-set man with a straggling

beard, who rise politely as the broker enter, and remove the cigar

he have be smoke.



"you have finish'?" he say, with a slightly foreign accent, and the

broker smile.



"oh, yes!"--a little pompously, after the manner of all Lloyd's

brokers--"no difficulty about the _Taglan_, you know.  Mail ship, new

steamer, no risk practically on the Cape route; rather a bad

business for you; you'll lose your premium."



he shake his head with a show of melancholy, and take a pinch of

snuff.



"I have a dream," say the foreigner hastily, "ver' bad dream.  I

have belief in dream."



"I daresay," say the broker indulgently.  "a sister of mine use to

have 'em, or say she have; dream a tiger bit she, and, sure enough,

next day she lose her brooch."



he sit at his desk, sign a receipt, count some note, and lock

they in his drawer.



"you willn't get your policy for a day or so," he say; "you're

staying----"



"at the Hotel Belgique," say the client, and, pocket his

receipt, he rise.



"good-day," say the broker, and open the door.



with a slight bow, his client depart, and reach the street.



there be a taxi-cab draw up before the door, and two or three

gentleman stand on the pavement before the office.



"Cab, sir?" say the driver, but the foreigner shake his head.



"I think you have well," say a voice in French, and a strong hand

grasp his arm.



before he realise what have happen, the Frenchman be hustle into

the cab, two man jump in with he, the door bang, and the car

whirl westward.



it be a car which have extraordinary privilege, for at a nod from

the man who sit by the side of the driver the City police hold up the

traffic to allow it to pass.  it fly down Queen Victoria Street at a

much great speed than be permissible within the City boundary,

and the gloved hand of the policeman on duty at the end of

Blackfriars Bridge make a clear way for it.



it turn into Scotland Yard, remain a few minute, then return

along the Embankment, up Northumberland Avenue, and through a side

thoroughfare to Bow Street.



thereafter, the Frenchman's experience be bewilder.  he be

search, hurry through a passage to a small court, where a

benevolent-look gentleman sit behind a table, on a raise dais.



the prisoner be place in a steel pen, and a quietly dress man

rise from the solicitor' table, and make a brief statement.



"we shall charge this man with be a suspect person, your

worship," he say, "and ask for a remand."



then another man go into the witness-box.



"my name be Detective-Sergeant Kiegnell, of 'A' division," he say;

"and, from information receive, I go to 976 Throgmorton Street,

where I see the prisoner.  I tell he I be a police officer, and

should take he into custody."



that be all.



the magistrate scribble something on a paper before he, and say

briefly, "remand."



before the prisoner could say a word, or utter anything more than a

"_sacré!_" he be beckon from the dock and disappear from court.



so unimportant be this case that none of the reporter in court

trouble to record more than the fact that "a well-dress man of

foreign appearance be charge with loitering with intent."



certainly nobody associate his arrest with the announcement that the

_Taglan Castle_ have leave Cape Town, homeward bind.



it be an interesting voyage for the passenger of the _Taglan

Castle_, which, by the way, carry specie to the amount of £600,000.

she leave Cape Town soon after dusk.  the next morning, to the

surprise of her captain, she fall in with a little british fleet--the

_Doris_, the _Philomel_, and the _St. George_, fly a Commodore's

flag.



great surprise of all come to the captain of the _Taglan Castle_

when he receive the follow signal:





"slow down to thirteen knot, and do not part company."





to the captain's "I be carry the mail," come the laconic message,

"I know."



for ten day the four ship keep together, then come the sensation of

the voyage.  at dawn of the tenth day, a big steamer come into view

over the horizon.  she be in the direct path of the flotilla, and to

all appearance she be stationary.  those who be on deck at that

early hour hear shrill bugle sound from the escorting warship,

then suddenly the engine of the _taglan_ stop, and a crowd of

curious passenger come run up from below.  the _Taglan Castle_

have obey a peremptory order give by the _St. George_, and be

hove-to.



the _St. George_ and _Doris_ go on; then, from the funnel of the

stationary steamer, come cloud of smoke, and, through their

telescope, the passenger see her turn slowly and move.



slowly, slowly she get under way, then----



"Bang!"



the forward 9.2 gun of the _St. George_ emit a thin straight

streak of flame, and there be a strange whining noise in the air.



"Bang!  Bang!"



the _Doris_ come into action at the same time as the _St. George_

fire her second gun.  both shot fall short, and the spray of the

_ricochet_ leapt up into the air.



the fugitive steamer be now move at full speed; there be a great

fan-shape patch of white water at her stern.



"Bang!"



all this time the two british warship be go ahead, fire as

they go.  then, from the stern of the strange steamer, float a

whiff of white smoke, and, in a second, the eerie whine of a shell

come to the passenger who crowd the deck of the _Taglan Castle_.

the shell miss the firing warship; indeed, it do not seem to be

aim in their direction, but it fall uncomfortably close to the mail

boat.  another shell fall wide of the steamer, but in a line with

she.  the manoeuvre of the fly vessel be now apparent.  she

carry heavy metal than the second-class cruiser of the british

fleet, but her object be to disable the mail boat.



the captain of the _Taglan_ do not wait for order; he ring his

engine full speed ahead, and swing his helm hard aport.  he be

go to steam back out of range.



but no further shot come from the _Maria Braganza_.



small and small she grow until only a pall of smoke on the

horizon show where she lay.



obey a signal from the distant warship, the _Taglan_ come round

again, and in half-an-hour have come abreast of the two warship, the

faithful _Philomel_ in attendance.



there be a swift exchange of signal between the warship, and their

semaphore arm whirl furiously.



then the Commodore's ship signal:





"hope you be not alarmed; you will not be trouble again; go ahead."





on the twelfth day there be another shock for the excited passenger

of the _Taglan Castle_, for, near Cape Verde Islands, they come

upon not one warship but six--six big black hull lie at regular

interval along the horizon.  but there be no cause for alarm.  they

be the six dreadnought cruiser that have be send down from

Gibraltar to take up the burden of the Cape Fleet.



it be all a mystery to the bewildered passenger, whatever it might

be to the officer of the _Taglan_, who have receive a long "lamp"

message in the middle of the night.



there be a two hour' delay whilst the captain of the _St. George_

go on board the _indefatigable_ to report.



this be the end of the adventure that await the _Taglan_.  she

be escort to the Needles by the six warship, and come into

Southampton, her passenger a-flutter with that excitement peculiar

to man who have come through a great danger and be exhilarate to

find themselves alive.



the arrival of the _Taglan_ be opportune; it give confirmation to

the rumour which have be in circulation, and synchronise with the

issue of the manifesto of the Nine Men--a manifesto unique in history.









CHAPTER XXX



the "MAD WARSHIP"



the manifesto have arrive simultaneously at every newspaper office in

London, Paris, and Berlin.



it be print on paper of a texture and quality which be generally

in use in small Continental newspaper office.  from certain

peculiarity of the print character, it be see that the type

from which it be print must have be cast in Spain....  the

manifesto be neatly fold and enclose in an envelope of octavo

size, and the actual sheet-size be what be know in the printing

trade as double-crown.  the postage stamp be spanish, the place of

posting, as reveal by the office post-mark, be in some case

Malaga, and in some, Algeciras.  the fact that, whether post at one

place or the other, the date of the posting be identical, support

the view that at least two person have be concern in the despatch.



the manifesto itself run:





"to the civilized nation (_sic_).



"whereas, we, the company know as the Nine Men of Cadiz, have be

place by universal decree outside the law, and whereas it be against

our desire that such decree of outlawry should exist against we,

both from the point of view of our own personal comfort and safety,

and from the point of view of the free exchange of commercial (_sic_)

relationship.



"now, therefore, we decree--



"that unless an immediate free pardon be grant to each and every

man on board the _Maria Braganza_ and liberty be give to he to go

his way peaceably without arrest or fear of molestation (sic), the

owner and crew of the _Maria Braganza_ will declare war upon the

commerce of the world.  it will loot and destroy such shipping as may

with advantage be so loot and destroy, and in the end will fight

to the last against its aggressor.



"(sign) by order of the Nine.



"POLTAVO."





it be no exaggeration to say that the publication of this manifesto

cause a panic, not only in shipping circle, but throughout the

civilised world.  the sea hold a hidden danger, neither life nor

property be secure.



that the fear of the community be justify be prove by the

story of the _Taglan Castle_, and within a fortnight come the story

of the North Atlantic outrage.



the _Caratana_, the fast mail-ship afloat, as well as be nearly

the large, be sixty hour out of New York with 350 passenger on

board, when she come up with a strange warship fly a red flag.

the warship hoist an unintelligible signal, which the captain of

the _Caratana_ do not understand.  it be follow by one of which

there could be no mistaking the meaning:





"stop, or I will sink you."





the captain of the atlantic liner know all that be know about the

_Maria Braganza_, and at once realise his danger.  if he do not

realise it, there come a shell from the warship which pass astern.

fortunately, there be a mist on the water, which grow heavy every

minute--a dense bank of fog, not usually meet with so far east.



the captain of the _Caratana_ decide upon the course of action he

would take.  very quickly he signal "I surrender," and rang his

engine to "stop."  the man on the warship seem satisfied with his

action, and no further demonstration be make against the liner.

such be the "way" on the big ship that, although her propeller have

cease to revolve, she continue her course--nearer and near she

grow to a thick patch of the fog that lie ahead of she.  the _Maria

Braganza_ may have suspect the manoeuvre, for she signal "go

astern."



for answer, the captain of the _Caratana_ put port and starboard

engine full ahead, and, whilst man be run to their station on

the warship, the _Caratana_ slip into the fog-belt.



in an instant, the _Maria Braganza_ be blot from view.



the liner captain put his helm over to starboard, and it be well

that he do so, for, with a reverberate crash, the warship open

fire in the direction in which he have disappear.  Shell after shell

came fly through the thick mist, and the thud of their impact as

they strike the water come to the ear of the affrighted passenger.



the sound of spasmodic firing grow fainter and fainter every minute

as the great steamer go threshing through the swirl fog, until

it cease altogether.



although no harm have befall the liner, the news of the attack

produce a profound sensation.  its effect be to paralyse the

business of ocean travel.  the "Mad warship" terrorise the sea.



it be on the day the report of this new outrage reach England that

T. B. Smith locate Poltavo.



* * * * * * *



there languish in a prosaic prison cell at Brixton Gaol a Monsieur

Torquet, who be admittedly a victim of police persecution.  that

much T. B. himself be prepared to admit.



Monsieur Torquet be suspect not of a crime against any particular

section of society, but indeed of be accessory to a crime against

humanity; and T. B. be prepared to run a tilt at the very Habeas

Corpus Act rather than release his grip upon the stranger with the

straggling beard who have so heavily insure the _Taglan Castle_

before she start out on her adventurous voyage.



this Monsieur Torquet, brood in the loneliness of his cell at

Brixton, have very nearly reach the limit of his patience; the

silence and the indifference have crush what little spirit there be

in he.



for two month he have lie without trial, in a cell which have a table

on which be pen, paper, and ink.  he have not in all that time

touch the one or the other, but on the day that the atlantic liner

come across the _Maria Braganza_ he sit at the table and write a

brief note to the governor of the prison.  within an hour T. B. Smith

be usher into the cell, and remain with the man for some time.

then he come out, and send for a shorthand clerk, and together they

return.



for four hour the three man work, one questioning and translating,

one answer at first sullenly and with periodic outburst of

temper, and later eagerly, volubly--and all this time the clerk write

and write, until one note-book be exhausted and he send out for

another.



it be late in the evening when he say:



"and that, monsieur, be all."



"All?"  T. B.'s eyebrow rise.  "All?  but you have not explain the

whereabouts of Lolo?"



the prisoner be frankly puzzle.



"Lolo?" he repeat.  "M'sieur, I do not understand."



it be T. B.'s turn to be astonish.



"but the rendezvous--there be to be some rendezvous where the ship

would come to pick up any member of the Nine who might become

detach."



the man shake his head, and at that moment an idea occur to T. B.

he draw from his pocket a copy of Baggin's little "cross with the

nob," as it have be name at Scotland Yard.



"do you know this?" he ask.



the man look at it, and smile.



"yes--Poltavo draw that for I on the last occasion I meet he in

Paris."



"what do it mean?"



again the prisoner shake his head.



"I do not know," he say simply.  "Poltavo be tell I something

of his plan.  he draw the cross and be begin to explain its

meaning, and then for some reason he stop, crumple up the paper,

and throw it into the fireplace.  at the time I attach some

importance to it, and, after he have go, I rescue it, but----"



"you don't understand it?"



"I don't," say the man, and T. B. know that he speak the truth.









CHAPTER XXXI



the flight



it must have be whilst Poltavo be in Paris that the rule spirit

of the _Maria Braganza_ discover that Count Poltavo be

indispensable, and that strange reconciliation occur.  through

what agency Baggin and he come into touch be not know.  it be

generally suppose that the warship venture close to the french or

spanish coast and send a message of good will flicker through

space, and that some receive station, undiscovered and

undemolishe--there must have be a score of such station--receive

it, and transmit it to Poltavo.



News of he come to Smith from Van Ingen, who, follow a faint clue

of the spanish dancer, have go to Tangier.  work at the Embassy have

become unendurable to he, since the disappearance of the Nine Men

have mark also the disappearance of Doris, and despite the

expostulation of the ambassador, who be sorely distress by

certain international complication of the situation--for both Baggin

and Grayson be Americans--despite also the detective's blunt advice

to let the business alone and return to the Embassy, Van Ingen have

set forth on his wild-goose chase.



the afternoon of his arrival, he climb to the Marshan, the plateau

that command Tangier.  here be villa, in which Moorish, Spanish,

and english style of architecture, struggle for supremacy, have

compromise in a conglomerate type.  and here, idle along the

promenade, scan every figure as it pass, he have come face to

face with Catherine Dominguez.



at his start of surprise, for he have not expect such good fortune,

the lady pause, uncertainly.



the young man uncover with a sweeping bow.  "Pardon!" he exclaim

gallantly, in Spanish, "but so often have I see the lovely face of

the 'Belle Espagnole' in the newspaper that I recognise it before I

be aware!"



Catherine nod amiably, and, at a word of invitation, Van Ingen

fall into step beside she.



* * * * * * *



that night he cable to the detective:





"Poltavo in Tangier.  C. Dominguez will sell his whereabouts for

£5,000.



"VAN INGEN."





to this he receive the laconic reply, "come."



the trap which the detective lay, as the Sud Express flee shrieking

through the night, be simple.  to capture Count Poltavo while the

"mad Terror" remain afloat would be imbecile.  but to frighten he

by a pseudo-attack out into the open, and then follow he to the

Nine----Smith smile over the common-sense of his little scheme, and

fall asleep.



his interview, two morning later, with Catherine Dominguez be most

amiable--both ignore their last meeting--and satisfactory, save in

one small particular.  upon reflection, the lady have raise she

price.  for £10,000 she would divulge her secret.  and the detective,

after a few protest, accede to her demand.  after all, she run a

certain risk in betray a man like the count.  he think, grimly,

of Hyatt and Moss.



at the conclusion of the conference, he write she a check.



she shake her head, smile.



"I should prefer bank-note," she say gently.



Smith appear to hesitate.  "very well," he reply finally.  "but,

in that case, you must wait until to-morrow.  if your information be

good--the check will be also."



she take it from his hand, and he rise.



"ver' good, Señor Smit'," she reply, look up at he with an

engage smile.  "I will trust you."  she finger the paper absently.



Smith look down at she.  something, he know, she have leave untold,

and he wait.



"one small thing I have almost forget," she murmur pensively.

"Count Poltavo leave for--Lolo--to-night."



Catherine Dominguez have not lie.  perhaps she have some secret grudge

against the Nine, whose faithful agent she have be, or perhaps she

be tired of obscure flitting, and wish to buy indemnity by

confession.  the detective never know.



nevertheless, he feel grateful to she.



* * * * * * *



that night, a slender man, wear a feel hat and a _cappa_,

descend the step of one of the villa of the Marshan, and walk

through the garden.



there be a man stand in the middle of the white road, his hand

in his overcoat pocket, the red glow of his cigar a point of light in

the gloom.  far away, he see the figure of three horseman.



"Count Poltavo, I suppose," drawl a voice--the voice of T. B.

Smith.  "put up your hand or you're a dead man."









CHAPTER XXXII



POLTAVO LEAVES HURRIEDLY



in an instant the road be fill with man; they must have be

crouch in the shadow of the grassy plateau, but in that same

instant Poltavo have leapt back to the cover of the garden.  a

revolver bang behind he; and, as he run, he snatch his own

revolver from his pocket, and send two quick shot into the thick of

the surround circle.  there be another gate at the farther end of

the garden; there would be man there, but he must risk it.  he be

slight and have some speed as a runner; he must depend upon these

gift.



he open the gate swiftly and spring out.  there be three or four

man stand in his path.  he shoot at one point-blank, dodge the

other, and run.  he judge that his pursuer would not know the road

as well as he.  Shot after shot ring out behind he.  he be an easy

mark on the white road, and he turn aside and take to the grass.

he be clear of the house now, and there be no danger ahead, but

the man who follow he be untire.



presently he strike the footpath across the slope plain that lead to

the shore, and the going be easy.



it be his luck that his pursuer should have miss the path.  his

every arrangement work smoothly, for the boat be wait, the man

at their oar, and he spring breathlessly into the stern.



it be a circumstance which might have strike he as strange, have he

be in a condition for calm thought, that the horseman who be of

the party that surround he have not join in pursuit.



but there be another mystery that the night reveal.  he have be

on board the _Doro_--as his little ship be call--for an hour

before he go to the cabin that have be make ready for he.



his first act be to take his revolver from his pocket, preparatory

to reload it from the cartridge store in one of his trunk.



two chamber of the pistol be undischarged, and, as he jerk back

the extractor, these two shell fall on the bed.  he look at they

stupidly.



both cartridge be blank!



* * * * * * *



have he hear T. B. Smith speak as he went fly down the road,

Poltavo might have understand.



"where's the dead man?" ask T. B.



"here, sir," say Van Ingen cheerfully.



"good."  then, in French, he address a figure that stand in the

doorway.



"be you hurt, mademoiselle?"



Catherine's little laugh come out to he.  "I be quite safe," she

say quietly.



he be go away, but she call he.



"I cannot understand why you allow he to escape----" she begin.

"that you should desire blank cartridge to be place in his revolver

be not so difficult, but I do not see----"



"I suppose not," say T. B. politely, and leave she abruptly.



he spring onto a horse that be wait, and go clatter down the

hill, through the Sôk, down the narrow main street that pass the

mosque; dismount by the Custom House, he place his horse in

charge of a waiting soldier, and walk swiftly along the narrow

wooden pier.



at the same time as the count be board the _Doro_, T. B. and Van

Ingen be be row in a cockleshell of a pinnace to the long

destroyer which lay, without light, in the bay.



they swing themselves up a tiny ladder onto the steel deck that ring

hollow under their foot.



"all right?" say a voice in the darkness.



"all right," say T. B.; a bell tinkle somewhere, the destroyer

move slowly ahead, and swing out to sea.



"will you have any difficulty in pick she up?"  he be stand in

the cramp space of the little bridge, wedge between a quick-fire

gun and the navigation desk.



"no--I think not," say the officer; "our difficulty will be to keep

out of sight of she.  it will be an easy matter to keep she in view,

because she stand high out of the water, and she be pretty sure to

burn her regulation light.  by day I shall let she get hull down and

take her mast for guide."



it be the strange procession that follow the southern bend of

the african coast.  First go the _Doro_, its passenger serenely

unconscious of the fact that six mile away, below the rim of the

horizon, follow a slim ugly destroyer that do not once lose sight

of the _Doro's_ mainmast; behind the destroyer, and three mile

distant, come six destroyer steam abreast.  behind they, four

mile away, six swift cruiser.



that same night, there steam from Funchal in the Island of Madeira,

the _Victor Hugo_, _Condé_, _Gloire_, and the _Edgard Quinet_ of the

French Fleet; the _Roon_, _Yorck_, _Prinz Adalbert_, and the

battleship _pommern_ of the german Navy, with sixteen destroyer, and

follow a parallel ocean path.



after three day' steaming, the _Doro_ turn sharply to starboard,

and the unseen fleet that dog she turn too.  in that circle of

death, for a whole week, the little spanish steamer twisted and

turn, and, obedient to the message that go from destroyer to

cruiser, the fleet follow she every movement.  for the _Doro_ be

unconsciously lead the nation to the "Mad battleship."  she have

be slip with that object.  so far every part of the plan have

work well.  to make doubly sure, the news of Zillier's escape from

Devil's Island have be circulate in every country.  it be

essential that, if they miss the _Maria Braganza_ this time, they

should catch she on the first of June at "Lolo."



"and where that be," say T. B., in despair, "Heaven only know."



wear a heavy overcoat, he be stand on the narrow deck of the

destroyer as she pound through the sea.  they have find the

southeast trade wind at a surprisingly northerly latitude, and the

sea be choppy and cold.



Young Marchcourt, the youthful skipper of the _Martine_, grin.



"'Lolo' be 'nowhere,' ben't it?" he say.  "you'll find it chart on

all Admiralty map; it's the place where the supply transport be

always wait on manoeuvre--I wish to Heaven these squall would

drop," he add irritably, as a sudden gust of wind and rain strike

the tiny ship.



"feel seasick?" suggest T. B. maliciously.



"not much--but I'm horribly afraid of lose sight of this

looker-ahead."



he lift the flexible end of a speaking-tube, and press a button.



"give she a few more revolution, Cole," he say.  he hang up the

tube.  "we look like carry this weather with we for a few day,"

he say, "and, as I don't feel competent to depend entirely upon my

own eyesight, I shall bring up the Magneto and the Solus to help I

watch this beggar."



Obedient to signal, two destroyer be detach from the following

flotilla, and come abreast at dusk.



the weather grow rapidly bad, the squall of great frequence.

the sea rise, so that life upon the destroyer be anything but

pleasant.  at midnight, T. B. Smith be awaken from a restless

sleep by a figure in gleaming oilskin.



"I say," say a gloomy voice, "we've lose sight of that dash

_Doro_."



"eh?"



T. B. jump from his bunk, to be immediately precipitate against

the other side of the cabin.



"lost her light--it have either go out or be put out.  we're go

ahead now full speed in the hope of overhaul her----"



another oilskinned figure come to the door.



"light ahead, sir."



"thank Heaven!" say the other fervently, and bolt to the deck.



T. B. struggle into his clothing, and, with some difficulty, make

his way to the bridge.  Van Ingen be already before he.  as he

climb the little steel ladder, he hear the engine-bell ring, and

instantly the rattle and jar of the engine cease.



[illustration: T. B. Smith]



"she's stationary," explain the officer, "so we've stop.  she

have probably upset herself in this sea."



"how do you know she be stationary?" ask T. B., for the two faint

star ahead tell he nothing.



"got her ride light," say the other laconically.



those two riding light stop the destroyer; it stop six other

destroyer, far out of sight, six obedient cruiser come to a halt,

and, a hundred mile or so away, the combine French and german

fleet become stationary.



all through the night the watcher lay, heaving, rolling, and

pitching, like so many log, on the troubled sea.  Dawn break

mistily, but the light still gleam.  Day come in dull greyness,

and the young officer, with his eye fasten to his binocular,

look long and earnestly ahead.



"I can see a mast," he say doubtfully, "but there's something very

curious about it."



then he put down his glass suddenly, put out his hand, and rang his

engine full ahead.



he turn to the quartermaster at his side.



"get the Commodore by wireless," he say rapidly; "the _Doro_ have

go."



Gone, indeed, be the _Doro_--gone six hour since.



they find the light.  they be still burn when the destroyer

come up with they.



a roughly build raft with a pole lash upright, and from this be

suspend two lantern.



Whilst the fleet have watch this raft, the _Doro_ have go on.

nail to the pole be a letter.  it be sodden with spray, but T. B.

have no difficulty in read it.





"_Cher ami_," it run, "much as I value the honour of a naval escort,

its presence be embarrassing at the moment.  I see your destroyer

this morning through my glass, and guess the rest.  you be

ingenious.  now I understand why you allow I to escape.



"my respectful salutation to you, oh, most admirable of policeman!"





it be sign, "POLTAVO."



* * * * * * *



the court-martial hold on Lieutenant-Commander George Septimus

Marchcourt, on a charge of "neglect of duty, in that he fail to

carry out the instruction of his superior officer," result in an

honourable acquittal for that cheerful young officer.  it be an

acquittal which have a far-reach effect, though at the time it do

not promise well.



T. B. be a witness at the trial, which be a purely formal one, in

spite of the attention it excite.



he remain at Gibraltar, pende further development.  for the

affair of the Nine Men have get beyond Scotland Yard--they be an

international problem.



T. B. be walk over from La Linea, across the strip of neutral

ground which separate Gibraltar from Spain, with Van Ingen, when he

confess that he despair of ever bring the Nine to justice.



"the nation cannot stand the racket much long," he say; "these

nine Men be cost civilisation a million a week!  think of it!  a

million pound a week!  we must either capture they soon or effect a

compromise.  I be afraid they will make peace on their own term."



"but they must be catch soon," urge the other.



"why?" demand T. B. irritably.  "how can we hope to capture one of

the fast war vessel afloat when the man who control she have all

the sea to run in?"



they have reach the water-port, and T. B. stop before his hotel.



"come in," he say suddenly.  the two man pass through the paved

vestibule and mount the stair to T. B.'s room.  "I'm go to look

again at our clue," he say grimly, and extract from his portfolio

the drawing of the little cross with the circular end.



T. B. himself do not know to this day why he be move to produce

this disappointing little diagram at that moment.  it may have be

that, as a forlorn hope, he rely upon the application of a fresh

young mind to the problem which be so stale in his, for Van Ingen

have never see the diagram.



he look and frown.



"be that all?" he ask, without disguise his disappointment.



"that be all," respond T. B.



they sit look at the diagram in silence.  Van Ingen, as be his

peculiarity, scribble mechanically on the blot pad before he.



he draw flower, and man's head, and impossible structure of all

kind; he make inaccurate tracing of map, of column, pediment,

square, and triangle.  then, in the same absent way, he make a

rough copy of the diagram.



then his pencil stop and he sit bolt upright.



"Gee!" he whisper.



the detective look up in astonishment.



"Whew!" whistle Van Ingen.  "have you get an atlas, Smith?"



the detective take one from his trunk.



Van Ingen turn the leave, look long and earnestly at something

he see, close the book, and turn a little white, but his eye be

blaze.



"I have find 'Lolo,'" he say simply.



he take up his pencil and quickly sketch the diagram:



[illustration: Van Ingen's first diagram]



"look," he say, and add a few letter:



[illustration: Van Ingen's second diagram]



"Longitude, nought; latitude nought--L. o, L. o!" whisper the

detective.  "you've hit it, Van Ingen! by Jove!  why, that be off the

african coast."  he look again at the map.



"it be where the Greenwich meridian cross the Equator," he say.

"it's 'nowhere'!  the only 'nowhere' in the world!"









CHAPTER XXXIII



AT "LOLO"



under an awning on the quarter-deck of the _Maria Braganza_, George

T. Baggin be stretch out in the easy of easy-chair in an

attitude of luxurious comfort.



Admiral Lombrosa, pass on his way to his cabin, smack he

familiarly upon the shoulder--an attitude which epitomise the

change relationship of the pair.



the _Maria Braganza_ be steam slowly eastward, and, since it be

the hour of siesta, the deck be strew with the recumbent form of

man.



Baggin look up with a scowl.



"where be Poltavo?" he ask, and the other laugh.



"he sleep, Señor Presidente," say the "Admiral."--There have be

some curious promotion on board the _Maria Braganza_.--"He be

amusing, your count."



Baggin wriggle uncomfortably in his chair, but make no answer, and

the other man eye he keenly.



Baggin must have feel rather than observe the scrutiny, for suddenly

he look up and catch the sailor's eye.



"Eh?" he ask, as though to some unspoken question.  then, "where be

Grayson?"



again the smile on the swart face of the Brazilian.



"he be here," he say, as a stout figure in white duck shuffle

awkwardly along the canting deck.



he come opposite to Baggin; and, draw a chair towards he with a

grunt, he drop into it with a crash.



"you grow fat, my friend," say Baggin.



"Fatter!" gasp the other.  "of course I'm fat!  no

exercise--this cursed ship!  oh, what a fool, what a fool I've be!"



"forget it," say Baggin.  he take a long gold case from his inside

pocket, open it, and select with care a black cheroot.  "forget

it."



"I wish I could!  I'd give half-a-million to be safe in the hand of

the Official Receiver!  I'd give half-a-million to be serve five

year in Sing Sing!  Baggin," he say, with comic earnestness, "we've

get to compromise!  it's get to be do.  where do we stand, eh?"



Baggin puff leisurely at his cigar, but make no attempt to

elucidate the position.



he be use to all this; but now, with his nerve on edge, this

cowardice of Grayson's grated.



"where be the Nine Men of Cadiz?" demand Grayson, the sweat

roll down his cheek.  "where be Bortuski?  where be Morson?

where be Couthwright?  Zillier, we know where he be, or be, but

where be the other?  you and I and Count Poltavo and the

rest--phutt!"  he make a little noise with his mouth.  "I know!" he

say.  he raise a trembling finger accusingly.



"my dear man," say Baggin lazily, though his face be white and his

lip firm-press.  "there be the storm----"



"that's a lie!" scream Grayson, beat the air with his hand;

"that's a lie!  the storm don't take Kohr from his bunk and leave

blood on his pillow!  it don't make Morson's cabin smell of

chloroform!  I know, I know!"



"there be such a thing as know too much," say George T. Baggin,

rise unsteadily.  "Grayson," he say, "I've be a good friend of

yours because I sort of like you in spite of your foolishness.  our

friend perish in the storm; it ben't a bad thing for we, take

matter all round.  if this manifesto of our don't secure we a

pardon, we can risk make a run for safety.  there be few of we

to blab.  see here"--he sit down on the side of the other's chair and

drop his voice--"suppose we cann't shock this old world into give

we a free pardon, and the sun get too warm for we, as it will soon

or later----"



"suppose it!" Grayson burst in.  "do you think there's an hour of the

day or night when I don't suppose it?  Lord!  I----"



"listen, cann't you?" say Baggin savagely.  "when that happen, what

be we to do?  we've bury gold on the african coast; we've bury

it on the south american coast----"



"all the crew know.  we're at the mercy----"



"wait, wait!" say the other wearily.  "suppose there come a time

when we must make a dash for safety--with the steam pinnace.

slip away in the night when the man of the watch be dope.  you

and your daughter, and I, Poltavo, and the Admiral"--he bend his

head lower--"leaving a time-fuse in the magazine," he whisper.

"there's a way out for we, my friend!  we be go to make one last

effort," he go on.  "between here and 'Lolo' we fall in with the

outward-bind, intermediate Cape mail.  it shall be our last attack

upon civilisation."



"don't do it!" beg Grayson; "for the love of Heaven, don't do it,

Baggin!"



he get upon his foot, pallid and stare.  his hand be clap over

his heart, and his breath come in thick, stertorous gasp.



Doris appear around the corner, walk with Count Poltavo.  she

come forward swiftly.



"come, father!" she say, and lead he, unresiste, away.



they eat a silent meal in the magnificently upbolstered ward-room,

which have be convert into a saloon for the officer of the "Mad

battleship."



after dinner, Count Poltavo and Baggin promenade the quarter-deck

together.



"Grayson have go below," report the count, in answer to a question

of his companion.  "he get no sleep last night."



"he be a great danger than any of the other," say Baggin.



they stand for awhile, watch the phosphorescence on the water,

till Lombrosa's voice recall they.



"be you there?" he call quickly.  they detect the agitation in

his tone and turn together.



"it's Grayson," say the captain rapidly.  "I find he in the

wireless cabin, try to send a message.  he's half-mad."



"where be he?" demand the count; but, before his tongue have form

the word, the voice of the fat man come to he.  he come along, the

centre of a sway body of sailor, who hold he.



"for God's sake, silence he!" say the Brazilian hoarsely.  "don't

you hear----?"



"dead! you'll all be dead!" yell Grayson.  he be scream at the

top of his voice in English.  "a time-fuse in your magazine! whilst

they get away with the money!"



at any moment he might remember that the Brazilians who hold he

could not understand a word he say.



Poltavo give an order, and the struggle man be fling to the deck.



"murder!" he scream.  "Hyatt, and the other man!  and poor Morson

and Kohr.  I see the blood on his pillow! and a time-fuse in the

magazine----"



Baggin thrust a handkerchief in his mouth.



"Chloroform," he say in Spanish.  "our friend have be drink."



in a few second, the captain be back with a bottle of colourless

liquid, and a saturate handkerchief be press over the struggle

man's mouth.



he be silent at last, and, at a word from their captain, the man who

hold he release their hold, and go forward to their quarter.

the captain discreetly follow they.



the two man stand in silence, gaze down at the huddled figure.

then, "he must go," say Baggin.



Poltavo be silent a moment.



"no," he say finally, "I do not agree."



Baggin regard he blackly.



"I see your point," he say, with bite emphasis.  "with the

others"--he wet his dry lips--"you cast the black vote fast

enough----"



the count elevate his eyebrow.  "why refer to such thing?" he

object mildly.  "if they be necessary--do they, swiftly and

well--but be silent, even as Nature be silent.  for Mr. Grayson, he

be--how you say--a very sick man.  Perhaps----"  he shrug his

shoulder and do not finish the sentence.



he bend down to the unconscious man.



"lend a hand," he say quietly to Baggin.



the American obey, sullenly, and, between they, they half

support, half carry Grayson to his cabin.









CHAPTER XXXIV



the last of the nine



to a calm sea, to a dawn all pearl and rise, the crew of the _Maria

Braganza_ wake.  in the night, the speed of the warship have be

accelerate until she be move at her top speed, and two column of

black smoke belch from her great funnel.  the two man who come on

deck at the same moment do not speak one to the other.  Baggin be

pale; there be dark circle about his eye; he look like a man

who have not sleep.  but Count Poltavo be unperturbed.



clear-eye, shaven, not unusually pallid, he wake as from a pleasant

dream, and appear on deck immaculate from point of shoe to

fingernail.



all the morning preparation be go on.  ammunition come up from

the magazine, dilatory quartermaster swing out gun; on the masthead

be an under-officer arm with a telescope.



he be the principal object of interest to the man on the

quarter-deck.  every few minute their eye would go sweeping aloft.



beyond the curtest salutation, neither the captain, Baggin, nor the

calm Poltavo speak.  in Baggin's heart grow a new terror, and he

avoid the count.



the sun beat down on the stretch of awning that protect the

privileged three, but, for some reason, Baggin do not feel the heat.



he have a something on his mind; a question to ask; and at last he

summon his resolution to put it.  he walk over to where the count

sit reading.



"Ivan," he say--he have never so address he before--"is the end

near?"



the count have raise his clear eye when the other have come toward

he; he smile.



"which variety of end?" he ask.



"there be only one variety," say Baggin steadily.  "there be only

one thing in the world that count, and that be life."



"not money?" ask the Russian, with a faint, ironical smile.



"not money," repeat Baggin.  "Least of all, money--but life!"



Poltavo arise.  he have see the flutter of a white skirt at the far

end of the promenade-deck.



"life," he say, with soft deliberateness, "be the least of all

gift, my friend.  it be of no more consequence than the crystal of

snow which be lose in the foul mud beneath our foot, or the drop of

dew which be burn up by the ardent ray of the sun."  he turn

upon his heel.



the American pluck at his sleeve.  "then, what count?" he demand

hoarsely.



"nothing!"  there be a certain mysticism in the count's gentle

smile.  "we be bewildered guest.  listen to the word of one of

your own great countryman."  he quote in a musical voice, look

out across the water:



  "'I be not ask if I should like to come,

  I have not see my host here since I come,

  or have a word of welcome in his name.

  some say that we shall never see he, and some

  that we shall see he elsewhere, and then know

  why we be bid.'





"for myself"--he shrug his shoulder with an expressive

gesture--"it do not matter.  I have be well amuse'."  he stroll

forward.



Doris, dress all in white, be lean against the rail.  she drink

in the fresh morning air eagerly.  the wind have bring a faint tinge

of colour to her cheek, and the blue ribbon which she have bind

about her hair to protect it from the ravage of the wind lend she an

air almost of gaiety, which the count be not slow to observe.



"it be a glorious day," he say cheerfully.  "and your father be

well.  I can read the good news in your face."



he range himself beside she, his back against the rail, so that his

eye take in every aspect of her face and figure.



"he be asleep," she return in a low voice, "and so I venture out

for a breath of fresh air.  he be--delirious--through the night."



he look at she reproachfully.  "and you watch with he all night?"



she nod.



"you might, at least, have permit I to divide the time with you."



the girl be silent.



"be he alone--now?" he ask abruptly.



a certain quality in his tone make her glance up swiftly.



"I--I think so," she falter.  "there be--danger?"



"it be just as well to have a guard," he say drily.  "in case

the--ah!--delirium should return."  he beckon to one of the

sailor, and speak to he in Spanish.



as the man retreat, she turn to he, her blue eye swim in a

bright mist of tear.



"you be very good!" she murmur.



"it be nothing," he say simply.  "will you come up on the

hurricane-deck?  I have a desire for wide sweep--great distance

to-day."



she hesitate.



"your father be safe," he urge.  "I have set two man at his door.

and I have something to say to you."



"I also have something to say to you," she answer, with a queer

little laugh.



they do not speak again until he have place she in a luxurious

steamer-chair, protect from the ray of the sun by a gay stripe

awning, and seat himself beside she.



Doris fold her hand in her lap, and gaze across the shimmering

water.  slowly her eye come back, and rest upon the figure beside

she.  she draw from about her neck a slender gold chain, from which

depend a locket, and a ring, set quaintly with a ruby.



"Count Poltavo," she say, in a low, clear tone, "do you remember

give I this ring?"



"yes."  his face have pale slightly, and a light come into his eye.



"and--and the pledge which I make you then?"



"I recall no pledge, dear lady."



she give he a wide, deep look.



"I bind myself to answer any question you should wish to ask--if you

should save my father from Mr. Baggin.  yesterday, that come to pass.

during a lucid interval in the night, my father"--her voice quiver

on the word--"spoke of you, but brokenly, and I do not completely

understand until you set the guard about his door."



the count make as if to speak, but she raise a protest hand.  "so

now you have fulfil your pledge to I, and I"--she lift her head

proudly--"stand ready to redeem mine."



he look at she strangely.  "you would marry I?"



"yes."



her lip articulate the word with difficulty.  her eye be upon

her hand, and her hand plait nervously a fold of her white gown.



"Doris!"  he lay a hand over the slim white finger.  she shrink

back, and then suffer her hand to lie in his, passively.



"look up, child," he urge gently.  "let I see your eye."



she close they tightly.  a warm tear splash upon his hand.



Count Poltavo be very white, but he smile.



"do you weep," he say softly, "because you have give yourself to

I?  or because you do not love I?"



the tear fall fast.



he take both her hand.  "dear lady," he say, "let our heart speak

only true word to-day.  you have already choose a mate--be it not

true?"



she sit mute, but a burn flush betray she.



the count rise suddenly to his foot, and make his way blindly to the

rail.  when he return, a few moment later, his face be tranquil

and serene.  "I have put my question," he say lightly, "and you have

answer it--with a blush!  let we drop the poor unfortunate subject

into oblivion."



she take a long deep breath, as if throw off the weight of a weary

burden.  "I be free?" she whisper.



he laugh somewhat harshly.  "as free as a bird," he retort, "to

fly whither you will."



she do not answer, but unthreade the ring, with tremble finger,

and hand it to he without a word.



he draw back, shake his head.  "will you honour I by keep it as

a memento of your--ah!--freedom?  to think upon, in happy day?"



"I will keep it," she say softly, "in memory of a man whom I could

wish to love!"



a silence fall between they, which the girl presently break.



"you also have something to tell I?" she say.



he rouse himself.  "it be true--I have almost forget!"  he stop

and look about they, as if to reassure himself that they be quite

alone.  "your father be very ill," he begin, "too ill to receive

proper attention aboard this ship.  I have decide, therefore,"--he

lower his voice to a whisper,--"to transfer he, as soon as he be

able, to the first steamer we meet.  it can be arrange, quite

simply, with assume name.  you will take he to some quiet place,

and, when he be quite restore, return with he to America."



the light of a great hope shine in her eye.



Impulsively, she bend down, and touch his hand with her lip.  "I

can never, never repay you!" she murmur.



he rise smile.  from where he stand, the man in the mainmast be

visible.  he be shout to somebody on the bridge, and point

northward.



the count deftly interpose himself between the girl and the sea.



"you can repay I," he say slowly, "by return at once with I to

your father's stateroom, and promise to remain there until I come

or send some one for you."



she look up at he, startle, and the blood ebb from her cheek,

leave they ashen, but she ask no question, and he escort she

gravely to her father's cabin.



when he come again on deck, Baggin point triumphantly toward the

north.  "we make our final appeal to the world!" he cry.



it come reluctantly into view, a big grey-paint steamer with

red-and-black funnel, a great, lumber ocean beast.



through their glass the three man watch she, a puzzled frown upon

the captain's face.



"I do not recognise she," he say, "but she look like a gigantic

cargo steamer."



"her deck be crowd with passenger," say Baggin.  "I can see

woman's hat and man in white; what be that structure forward?"  he

indicate a long superstructure before the steamer's bridge.



"there go her flag."



a little ball creep up to the mainmast.



"we will show her our," say the captain pleasantly, and push a

button.



instantly, with a crash that shake the ship, the forward gun of the

_Maria Braganza_ send a shell whiz through the air.



it fall short and wide of the steamer.



the captain turn to Poltavo, as for instruction.



"sink she," say the count briefly.



but the steamer be never sink.



the little ball that hang at the main suddenly break, and out to the

breeze there float not the red ensign of the merchant service, but

the Stars and Stripes of America--more, on the little flagstaff at

the bow of the ship flutter a tiny blue flag spangle with star.



Livid of face, Captain Lombrosa spring to the wheel.



"it's a Yankee man-o'-war!" he cry, and his voice be crack.

"We've----"



as he speak the superstructure on the "intermediate," which have

excite the count's curiosity, fall apart like a house of canvas--as

it be--and the long slim barrel of a nine-inch gun swing round.



"Bang!"



the shell carry away a boat and a part of the wireless cabin.



"every gun!" yell Lombrosa, frantically press the button on the

bridge before he.  "we must run for it!"



instantly, with an ear-splitting succession of crash, the gun of

the _Maria Braganza_ come into action.



to the last, fortune be with the Nine, for the second or third shot

send the American over with a list to starboard.



Round swing the _Maria Braganza_ like a frightened hare; the water

foam under her bow as, run under every ounce of steam, she

make her retreat.



"we must drop all idea of pick up Zillier," say Baggin, white to

the lip; "this damned warship be probably in wireless communication

with a fleet; can you tap her message?"



Poltavo shake his head.



"the first shell smash our apparatus," he say.  "what be that

ahead?"



Lombrosa, with his telescope glue to his eye, be scan the

horizon.



"it look like a sea fog."



but the captain make no reply.



over the edge of the ocean hang a thin red haze.  he put the glass

down, and turn a troubled face to the two man.



"in other latitude I should say that it be a gathering typhoon," he

say.  he take another long look, put down the telescope, close it

mechanically, and hang it in the rack.



"smoke," he say briefly.  "we be run into a fleet."



he bring the _Maria Braganza's_ bow northward, but the smoke haze

be there, too.



East, north, south, west, a great circle of smoke and the _Maria

Braganza_ trap in the very centre.



out of the smoke haze grey shadowy shape, dirty grey hull, white

hull, hull black as pitch, loom into view.



the captain ring his engine to "stop."



"we be catch," he say.



he open a locker on the bridge leisurely, and take out a revolver.



"I have no regret," he say--it be a challenge to fate.



then he shoot himself and fall dead at the foot of the two.  Baggin

spring forward, but too late.



"you coward!" he scream.  he shake his fist in the dead man's face,

then he turn like a wild beast on Poltavo.  "this be the end of it!

this be the end of your scheme!  curse you!  curse you!"



he leap at the Russian's throat.



for a moment they sway and struggle, then suddenly Baggin release

his hold, drop his head like a tired man, and slide to the deck.



Count Poltavo fling the knife overboard, and light a cigarette with a

hand that do not tremble.



* * * * * * *



one last expiring effort the _Maria Braganza_ make; you could almost

follow Poltavo, as he speed from one side of the ship to the other, by

the spasmodic shot that come from the doom ship.



then four man-of-war detach themselves from the encircle fleet

and steam in toward the Brazilian.  Shell after shell beat upon the

steel hull of the "Mad battleship," a great hole gape in her side,

her funnel be shoot away, her foremast hung limply.



a white flag wave feebly from her bridge, and a british destroyer

come with a swift run across the smoky sea.



up the companion-ladder come a rush of marine; and, after they, a

revolver in his hand, T. B. Smith, a prosaic Assistant-Commissioner

from Scotland Yard, and Van Ingen.



T. B. come upon the count stand with his back to a bulkhead,

grimy--bloodstaine, but with the butt of a cigarette still glow

in the corner of his mouth.



"you be Count Ivan Poltavo," say T. B., and snap a pair of

handcuff on his wrist.  "I shall take you into custody on a charge

of wilful murder, and I caution you that what you now say may be use

in evidence against you at your trial."



the count laugh, though faintly.



"you come, as ever, a bit late, my friend."



he fling overboard a tiny phial, which he have hold conceal in his

hand.  he turn to Van Ingen.



"you will find Miss Grayson in the cabin with her father, who be

die.  for he, also, Mr. Smith come a trifle too late."



he stagger backward.



Van Ingen and the detective spring to his support.



the marine have gather about in an awe-strike circle.



a slight foam gather upon the count's lip.  he open his eye.



"it grow dark," he whisper.  "good-night, gentleman!"



he stiffen himself suddenly, and stand boldly erect, gaze past

the circle of man.



"Vive Poltavo!" he cry, in a loud, clear voice, and fall backward

into their arm.







the END







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the other MAN ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





