The project Gutenberg eBook of a vagrant wife

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a vagrant wife



author: Florence Warden



Release date: October 30, 2022 [ebook #69261]

                most recently update: October 19, 2024



language: English



original publication: United States: International Book Company, 1885



credit: MWS, Krista Zaleski and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive/American Libraries.)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a vagrant wife ***



  a vagrant wife



  BY



  FLORENCE WARDEN



  AUTHOR of “DELDEE,” “scheherazade,” “a witch of the hills,” ETC.



  NEW YORK

  INTERNATIONAL BOOK COMPANY

  310-318 sixth AVENUE









a vagrant wife.



BY FLORENCE WARDEN.









CHAPTER I.





the country town of Beckham be astir. it be a cloudy, changeful May

afternoon, and the white-cap country lass who be alight from

all sort of strange vehicle at the churchyard gate have to hold up

their clean cotton frock with what untutored grace they might, as they

trod the wear, wet flagstone that lead up to the church door. three

or four hundred lad and lass of Beckham and the neighborhood be

collect at the sound of the church-bell for the bishop to lay his

hand on their empty head and confirm they in the faith in which they

be baptize.



the big bare building fill quickly, the vicar on Sunday never

gather such a congregation. the candidate fill the two middle

aisle, the girl occupy the whole of one and the front bench of

the other, the boy the rest. the latter look shame-face, the former

self-conscious but content.



long before the bishop’s appearance the church be full in every part,

for it be a pretty sight even to those who have no personal interest in

any of the candidate.



when from time to time the sun burst through the swift-fly cloud

and shine through the long window full upon the young face crown

with the demure little white cap, woman whisper to each other softly

that it look like heaven. there be thought not unworthy of this

simile in some of the young mind, especially in those of the girl;

other, while try to fix their thought--as they have be tell to

do--upon the Catechism, could not help wish they could renounce

the pomp and vanity in white cashmere with pretty frill of lace

at throat and wrist, like Miss Mainwaring of Garstone Vicarage, who

look so like a picture of some fair-haired saint, as she sit with her

starry blue eye fix steadily on the communion table in front of

she, that it be impossible to guess that she be think more of her

new ivory-bind church-service than of the ceremony she be about to

go through. she and the girl by her side attract more attention than

any other. there be a few of their class present, but of type as

commonplace and face as vacuous as those of the village-girl.



Betty Mainwaring be sixteen. her fresh young face be sweet and

silly, charming by the look of modest purity which pass so easily

under the tulle cap and veil for the expression of pious devotion;

but in truth Betty’s very innocence, and the fact that she have pass

her whole life in an atmosphere of the simple, strictest religion,

have make it impossible for she to concentrate much earnest thought

upon this important step in the christian life. she have read through

the devotional work prescribe for she as attentively as she could,

and have accept all the formula and dogma of the Church with the

unshrinke faith of the most complete ignorance of their meaning. she

have be teach that confirmation be one of the most serious event of

life, and she believe it and let the fact rest, while her innocent

thought wander to a consideration of the back of the row of girl

in front of she, and to the reflection how strange it seem to be

confirm with one’s own governess.



for the girl beside she, with the passionate dark eye and set,

serious face, only eighteen herself, and already carry on her young

shoulder the responsibility of direct the mind of girl of her

own age, be Miss Lane, who teach “advanced” English, french, german,

italian, music, and singe to the two grow-up Misses Mainwaring,

and the early stage of the same to their two young sister and

their seven-year-old brother. to her life be a serious hard-work

affair enough, and her tardy confirmation an event of quite desperate

importance, involve much doubt and anxious self-examining. she have

even think of ask the vicar, her pupil’ father, for a private

interview, of lay bare the bewildered state of her mind, and of

ask he whether he think her fit for confirmation. the paper on

the subject which he have give she to read have prove but dry bone

to the eager, earnest girl; but she have a strong conviction that

confession would procure little more. the Reverend John Mainwaring’s

religion be not of the hysterical, but of the independent sort; and

the girl feel that all he could do would be to throw she back on prayer

and her own conscience for an answer to her doubt. what be certain

be that he would unhesitatingly have pronounce the conscientious

little worker, strive hard to live up to an ideal standard of

excellence in her dull profession, as fitter for confirmation than

almost any member of his flock.



so she sit by her pupil’s side, with downcast eye and mind fix on

the service she be about to hear, curiously conscious at the same

time--be keenly alive to outward thing and not without a young

girl’s vanity--of the interest her pretty, modest appearance be

exciting.



but, just before the entrance of the bishop, three person come in

to whom all eye turn at once, and there be almost a murmur of

admiration even in the hush of the sacred building at sight of the

girl who, at the foot of the middle aisle, stop for her mother and

brother to take off the long white mantle which be wrap round she,

and then follow the Reverend John mainware up the aisle to the seat

he have keep for she in the pew with his own daughter and the governess,

Annie Lane.



Lilian Braithwaite come of a handsome race. tall, with a well-mold

figure, gray eye, brown hair, and complexion rich enough in its

tint to promise something more lovely still when a season or two in

town should have tone down its coloring, she give promise of beauty

distinguish enough to hold its own amongst the fair woman she

might meet. the plain white cashmere which look so simple on Betty

Mainwaring have quite a different effect upon her handsome figure, and

the tulle headdress, half cap, half veil, which she wear in common with

the other candidate of her own class, have as much of the veil and as

little of the cap about it as possible. already, at seventeen, she

walk through the crowd of admire face with a bearing which show

more of the dignity of an acknowledge beauty than of the modesty of a

young girl. she smile at the young governess good-humoredly enough,

however, and would even have enter into a whisper conversation,

with scornfully critical remark upon the rest of the candidate,

if Miss Lane have not receive her overture shyly and with all the

primness of her profession. Miss Braithwaite, who be not easily

repulse, give a little amused shrug of the shoulder, and say, in a

loud whisper:



“be you afraid the vicar be look at you?”



and then she meet his rather uneasy glance in her own direction with a

bland smile.



it have be rather a difficult matter for he to bring himself to

believe that Miss Braithwaite be in all respect fit for confirmation;

but, as no scruple have ever enter her own head, and as, moreover, she

be technically prepare for the rite, be able to repeat the Lord’s

Prayer, the Ten Commandments, and the Catechism with perfect fluency,

he have no choice but to bring she to the bishop with the rest of the

candidate.



when the service be over, and she rejoin her mother and brother,

a young man with a rather handsome face, but deform and rest

on crutch, come up to she and stand silently by while her brother

wrap she again in the long, white mantle she have come in.



“you here, Stephen! how do you come? the doctor say you be not to

go out until your cough be well,” say Miss Braithwaite, in a voice

scarcely as low as it ought to have be.



“I want to see you--all in white like a bride, make all the other

girl look ugly and clumsy,” whisper the cripple, with his face

flush; “so I get Thompson to get the pony-carriage ready, and

follow you as fast as I could.”



Stephen Lawler’s contempt for the appearance of the rest of the

candidate be not share by his cousin, Harry Braithwaite, who turn

to watch one of the girl admiringly, and whisper:



“I say, Lilian, how awfully fetch little ‘Miss Prim’ look in that

get-up!” “Little Miss Prim” be Annie Lane, the governess.



“yes, she be a pretty girl,” answer his sister, who be handsome

enough to be able to afford to acknowledge beauty in other.



meanwhile the crowd be surge toward the door, and Harry Braithwaite

keep his mother and sister as near the Vicarage party as he could. at

the church door they discover that a heavy shower of rain be come

down, and Mrs. Mainwaring be lament piteously that her husband, who

have come on the box of the brougham beside the coachman, would lose

his voice entirely if he be to return in the same way through the

rain. Harry Braithwaite whisper a few word into his mother’s ear,

and, raise his hat, step forward and place a seat in their own

carriage at the disposal of the vicar’s wife, in his mother’s name.



“if Miss Lane will come with we, there will be lot of room in the

brougham for you and your two daughter and the vicar too,” say he.



and before Mrs. Mainwaring could say more than “oh, thank you, but,” he

have sever Miss Lane from her pupil and be escort she under an

umbrella to the big Braithwaite barouche.



Mrs. Mainwaring look uneasy; her two daughter, Joan and Betty,

look displeased.



“I be sure papa will not approve of that arrangement, mamma,” say

Joan, the eld of the family, who have come to see her sister

confirm.



“well, what could I do, Joan? he mean to be good-natured; and it would

not do for the wife of the vicar of the parish to show any prejudice.

of course I should not have allow you or Betty to go, but with Miss

Lane it be different; she can take care of herself.”



“I should think so!” say Joan, sharply.



and then the vicar come up, and his wife hurry he into the brougham,

say there be plenty of room; and it be not until they be on the

point of state that she confess, in answer to his inquiry, that

Miss Lane be go home in the Braithwaites’ carriage.



“that be Master Harry’s doing, I suppose?” say the vicar, with a very

grave face.



“it be all do so quickly, it be impossible for I to stop he,”

say his wife, deprecatingly. “you know you would not have minded if it

have be anybody else’s carriage; and, if they be rather a wild set,

we cannot reform they by hold aloof from they. and it be not as if I

have let one of the girl go,” say she, hurriedly, lower her voice.



“but you have let ‘one of the girl’ go. Miss Lane be only a few month

old than Joan,” he answer, more gravely than ever.



and she, be a wise woman, drop the conversation, to take it up

again when they two should be alone together.



this little incident and the discussion it have cause disturb the

peace of all the occupant of the carriage. the vicar be annoyed that

a member of his household should be throw into such very uncongenial

and perhaps dangerous society on the very day of her confirmation.

his wife be uneasy on account of his annoyance. Joan and Betty be

somewhat agitated, too; but they give no vent to their feeling except

in a little soft-toned wrangle about the amount of space each be

authorize to take on the rather small front seat of the brougham. when

the Braithwaite carriage pass they they become suddenly silent, both

gaze eagerly out until it have pass out of sight. they have time to

see the portly Lady Braithwaite and her handsome daughter lean back

comfortably on one seat, while Miss Lane and Harry Braithwaite sit

opposite; he be talk to she, and do not notice the brougham.



when the vicarage be reach, a group of child rush to the hall

door to criticise their eld sister in her white gown, and the miss

governess.



“haven’t Miss Lane come back yet?” ask Mrs. Mainwaring, rather

anxiously. “their carriage pass we a long time ago,” she add, when

the child have shake their head in surprise.



“she will stay at the Grange to tea, of course, mamma,” say Joan,

acidly.



and again Mrs. Mainwaring, with a glance at her husband, drop the

subject.



the Grange be a sort of an ogre’s castle to the simple lady, and not

quite without reason. there be in most quiet country neighborhood

a house with this sort of reputation, where there live a wicked

man who do not come regularly to church, and who go to bed and

get up again at unorthodox hour, and whose guest do the same and

bad thing besides; where there be a tribe of servant who find it

difficult to obtain place in the neighborhood on leave; and where,

above all, there be a family of healthy, high-spirit, ill-discipline

child, rough girl and rougher boy, who grow up with a bad name,

which become steadily bad as the wild lad grow into manhood,

and the girl, without any one’s say that there be any “harm in

they,” acquire the stigma of be “fast.” the Grange be more worthy

of its bad reputation than most home of the same type. Sir George

Braithwaite, the present owner, have in his youth on several occasion

narrowly escape appear in the London police court; he have sober

down somewhat on come into the baronetcy; but in four wild son,

whose doing be the scandal of the neighborhood, he see the folly

of his own youth repeat and develop.



when, two year before, the Reverend John Mainwaring become Vicar

of Garstone, the inmate of the Grange have make advance to the

new-comer, have pet the pretty Betty and invite the eld boy to

fish and shoot during the holiday. but the vicar and his wife soon

take alarm, and, while strive to maintain an appearance of perfect

good-will, discourage the intimacy between the young member of the

family, until the proud Braithwaites, see at last through the

civil excuse and regret, draw back suddenly and hold themselves as

far aloof as Mrs. Mainwaring could wish. the intimacy thus abruptly

check have never be renew, and, although the member of the two

family greet each other without apparent ill-will when by chance

they meet, there be no cordiality on either side--the Grange laugh at

the vicarage as “slow,” the vicarage shudder at the Grange as “fast.”



the interest the latter take in the prim little vicarage girl and

their brother have die out long since, while, on the other hand, the

“wild Braithwaites” have an ever-increase secret attraction for the

clergyman’s family. Joan and Betty be more constrained than usual

when accident bring they face to face with any of the handsome

Braithwaite boy, and they both in their heart sit in judgment upon

their parent, and think that a policy of conciliation would be a

much more christian way of treat the scapegrace. and each of these

demure and somewhat stiff maiden begin, as she leave the schoolroom, to

think she see sign of redeem grace in one of the Grange lad, and

to feel that she would like to have a hand in his reform.



so that, when Miss Lane--who, however prim and staid her manner might

be, be undeniably a very pretty girl--be carry off before their

eye by one of their wicked neighbor, and take to the interesting

Grange, feeling which their simple-minded mother never dream of

mingle with the indignation Joan express. Betty be silent, but

incline to be tearful.



the Mainwarings be a somewhat stolid race, and meal at which no

stranger be present be very solemn feast indeed. on this occasion

tea-time be pass in dead silence--even Marian and Bertram, the two

young, scarcely dare kick each other under the table. when they all

rise, a tear be roll down Betty’s fair cheek. her mother caress

her anxiously, fear that the excitement of the solemn vow she have

make that day have prove too much for she. Betty give way.



“oh, how that Miss Lane must be enjoy herself at the Grange!” she

cry bitterly.









CHAPTER II.





meanwhile the Braithwaite carriage have reach the Grange, and, Miss

Lane’s timid remonstrance having be overcome, it have be arrange

that she be to stay to dine there, and a boy be send to the vicarage

with a message to that effect. Harry, who have go to Beckham on

horseback, and have send his horse home and return in the carriage to

be near the pretty governess, be suffer from a certain sense of

disappointment. Miss Lane prove even pretty on close inspection

than she have give promise at a distance of be. as he sit beside she

in the carriage, he think to himself that there be a beauty in the

rich yet delicate tint of a brunette complexion which no lily fairness

could vie with, and that the sweep of long, dark eyelash over a

girl’s cheek be the lovely thing in the world. but he see too

much of those eyelash and not enough of the eye they shade--only

a swift, shy look as she answer any question of his, and then they

fall again or turn to his sister, who chatter on fast about the

ceremony they have just pass through, and the people who have be in

the church.



Harry himself be less talkative than usual; he could not think of

anything to say worthy the attention of this beautiful, brave girl

with the soft voice and steady, brown eye. he become impatient at

last, snub his sister for be a magpie, and tell she gruffly to

“shut up,” when she make an angry reply. he be glad when they reach

the Grange and the lady go up-stair; then he stroll into the

stable-yard and meet his eld brother George.



“who be that in the carriage?”



“only little Miss Lane, the Mainwarings’ governess.”



“eh? oh, that be why you come home with the family-party! what be she

like?”



“like? oh, like--a governess! Stiff, prim--won’t talk, or cann’t talk.

awful mistake for she to have such a pretty face; it’s throw away on a

girl like that.”



“perhaps she’ll talk by and by. I think life at the Vicarage don’t

encourage liveliness much. where be she now?”



“up-stair with mamma and Lil. I say, she’s my discovery; I bring she

here, and I willn’t have you monopolize she. I’ve see you stare at

she in church, and wrinkle up your ugly face with annoyance because

she wouldn’t look at you; but----”



“my dear boy, you shall have undisturbe possession of your prize,

as far as I be concern. I don’t look for my goddess in the

Sunday-school. I admire your wisdom, though, all the same. she can do

you no possible harm, and will give you some excellent advice as a

reward for your attention.”



“hope she’ll give you a snub as a reward for your!” say Harry, with a

heartiness which go beyond brotherly pleasantry.



both face be darken into frown when the dinner-bell rang. when

they enter the dining-room, as they do together a few minute

later, they find little Miss Lane completely engross by their

young brother, a great overgrown lad of fifteen or sixteen, whose

usual shyness with woman have be overcome in a quarter of an hour’s

_tête-à-tête_ with the governess in the drawing-room. he have place she

in the seat between his own and his father’s; but, before he have have

time to sit down, George drop quietly into the chair he be hold.



“that’s my place,” say he roughly.



“mine for to-night, dear William,” answer his eld brother coolly,

bend his handsome face close to that of the girl by his side. “this

be a pleasure I have long wish for, Miss Lane,” he say, in the

tender tone of the experienced flirt.



she look at he shyly, laugh and blush.



“it be very unkind of you to laugh. don’t you believe I?”



“not quite, I think.”



“somebody have be poison your mind against I already, I see,” he

say, with mock fierceness. “you would not pay any attention to what

the juvenile William might say. it must have be Harry. it be Harry,

be it not?”



“which be ‘Harry’?”



“Harry be the grumpy-look one over there--the one who come back in

the carriage with you. he would give the world at this moment to pitch

I out of the window.”



“why?”



“never mind why. it be his nasty temper.”



“he wouldn’t find it so easy, I should think.”



“no. we should be always pitch each other out of the window if we

be not so well match; as it be, when any of we be excited beyond

endurance, we pitch the child out.”



“the child?”



“yes--that great gawky boy who think he be go to have all

your conversation to himself by put you between himself and my

father. he haven’t come to his full strength yet. we can still do great

execution upon he if we take he unawares.”



the talk continue chiefly on his side until the general conversation

turn upon racing, and he hasten, with an eager interest which no

woman could excite in he, to join in the argument that be go

forward. when he again glance at the girl by his side, she be look

puzzled and rather prim.



“our talk about horse and bet shock you, I see,” he laugh. “you

think it very wicked.”



“no, indeed, I don’t. but I be not use to it. it be so new to I, at

least, since I have be a governess.”



“since you have be a governess? well, that cann’t be very long. and

do you hear talk like our before?”



“not--quite like your; but I have hear gentleman talk about race

and theater, and--thing like that, at home, before my father die.”



“be that long ago?”



“No”--rather tremulously.



“be you happy at the vicarage?”



“oh, yes, they be very kind to I!”



“so that now any conversation that be not serious surprise and

distress you?”



“oh, no; I like it!”



“you like our profane conversation? then why be you look so prim

just now? when I turn to you, you look so solemn and severe, that

the first word that occur to I froze on my lip. I haven’t a word

to say.”



“that be because I cann’t talk about horse.”



the little governess pluck up spirit enough to fire this shot under

cover of the rise of the lady, and George Braithwaite follow the

small retreating figure with his eye with more interest than he have

yet feel in she. in the talk with his father and brother which now

go on unrestrainedly upon their favorite topic, Harry find occasion

to disagree with his eld brother upon every point. George bore

this with a good-humor he seldom show except when he wish to be

irritate. the young be already almost at boiling-point when they

leave the dining-room, where it have be unanimously decide that Miss

Lane be very pretty, but have no spirit, no “go,” and that the vicarage

have crush all the youth out of everything about she but her face.



George and Harry leave the dining-room, the former by the door, the

latter by the french window; and they enter the drawing-room at the

same moment. their mother and sister be at the piano look for a

missing song, but the demure little figure in white be not in the

room. George merely ask if either of they have see his cigar-case;

but Harry burst out:



“where’s Miss Lane?”



“oh, the child have take she off somewhere to play with he!” say

Lilian. “you all seem very much excited about the governess,” she add

rather contemptuously.



but Harry leave the room. Miss Lane be prim, certainly, and have nothing

to say for herself; but she be very pretty, and, moreover, he feel

bind to show George that he be not to have it all his own way, as he

have seem at dinner to think he be do.



he search the billiard-room, the morning-room, open the window,

and look out on to the lawn. at last he think he hear the sound

of laughter up-stair, and, mount the staircase in a few bound,

he be lead by the excited cry of “the child!”--“Take care!”--“Well

done!”--“Caught, by Jove!”--and by girlish laughter and the scuffling

of foot toward the picture-gallery. on the inner side of the door by

which he enter it hang a heavy curtain; he pull it aside just far

enough to peep through into the long half-light gallery.



there stand the grave, sedate, prematurely old governess of half an

hour before pant with laughter and exertion in the pause after a

game of shuttlecock. there be no mistaking the fact; for she still

hold the battledoor in one hand while she rally William on his

clumsiness.



“if you try to catch it so, you must miss it, and perhaps lose your

balance, besides exhibit yourself in an extremely ungraceful

attitude;” and she throw out her arm in laugh imitation of he in

the act of save himself from a fall. “now try again. be you ready?”



“yes, I should think so! you sha’n’t laugh at I this time!”



the game begin again. the shuttlecock be toss from the one to the

other amid cry and more laughter, both combatant be nimble, quick

of eye and hand, and as much excited as if their very life depend

on the keeping up of the flimsy thing of leather and feather. Harry’s

own breath come and go as fast as theirs as he watch, not the game,

but the graceful, active little player in white, whose movement in the

_abandon_ of the game have a fascination such as no famous dancer he have

ever see have exercise upon he; and when, as, once more pausing, the

shuttlecock fall to the ground, she stand pant under the soft light

of a chinese lantern, her cheek flush, her dark eye sparkle, her

beautiful brown hair shine as her head move, and her lip part

with smile, the blood mount to his face, and he watch she, with

all the passionate admiration of his twenty year in his heart and in

his eye. he dared not move; he would not for the world have break the

charm by let she know that the game have a spectator.



a minute later the shuttlecock be fly again. opposite to the door

where Harry be stand hide be another door; and, as, with her

eye fix upon the toy in the air above her head, Miss Lane trip

backward against the curtain, her foot catch in its fold, she

stumble, and might have fall, have not an arm from behind the curtain

catch and save she. it be George’s. he have take up his position

just as his brother have take his a few minute later, at the opposite

door.



Quick as think, Miss Lane have shrink at the touch of the unexpected

hand into the shell of demure propriety she generally wear.



she show not even surprise, only a little shame and confusion.



“thank you. I be much oblige to you,” say she, modestly, without

raise her eye, extricate herself gently from the oblige arm.

“I--I catch the curtain with my foot.”



“be you sure you have not twist your ankle?” ask George, bend

down over she with great solicitude.



“quite, thank you.”



George bow his handsome head still low, and murmur mischievously.



“now I see why I couldn’t amuse you at dinner. it be because I cann’t

talk about shuttlecock!”



she color, but make no answer, except by a mischievous smile as she

raise her eye to his face. Harry come out from behind his curtain.



“will you come and have a game at billiard, Miss Lane? I’ll teach you.”



“I can play a little; but I musn’t now, thank you. I must go back to

the vicarage.”



“how anxious you be to get away from we!” say George.



“oh, indeed, it be not that! I haven’t be so happy for, oh, I don’t

know how long, as I have be here to-day!”



“then why be you in such a hurry to get away?”



“I be not in a hurry; it be because I must go,” say she, the almost

child-like gayety quite go out of her voice, which remain sweet,

but low and grave; “besides, I--I ought not to have enjoy myself so

much. I have forget.”



“forgotten what?” say George, kindly.



“to-day--my confirmation. it be wrong, very wrong of I! such an

example for my pupil Betty, too!”



George could not help smile.



“I don’t think your bad example would do much harm to Betty, Miss Lane.

I dare say she wish she have a chance of spend her evening in the

same way.”



“I be afraid she do,” say the governess, simply.



then, hear the voice of Lady Braithwaite and her daughter outside,

she go out to meet they, follow by “the child,” and leave the two

eld brother face to face.



“charming little creature! that dash of the prig leave she a delicious

spice of novelty,” say George, light a cigar, and seem not to

notice his brother’s frown.



“I think ‘you don’t choose your goddess out of the Sunday-school’?

I think I ‘be to have undisturbe enjoyment of my discovery, as far

as you be concern’?”



“and so you might have have, if you have have the wit to forestall I. the

pleasure of her society be absolutely force upon I, for I could not

leave a defenseless woman to be bored to death all through dinner by

William and Sir George.”



“where be you go?” ask the other, sharply, for George have his

hand upon the door.



“to the stable, if you have no objection.”



“you be not go to see Miss Lane home?” shout Harry.



“by Jove, I never think of it! but it would be a good action to save

the poor little woman from a _tête-à-tête_ with such a cub.”



in his delight at torment his fiery-temper brother, George have

go a little too far. as he lounge against the doorway, a sudden blow

have send he reel back into the gallery, the door be slam, and

his brother be at the other end of the corridor before he could say a

word. Harry meet his sister in the corridor.



“where’s Miss Lane?”



“why? what do you want with Miss Lane?”



“never mind. where be she?”



but his sister be in a teasing mood. she have more than George’s

cruelty in her disposition, and, be a girl, she could give it free

rein. she delight in watch the excited working of Harry’s face as

she evade his question.



“my dear boy, I be not Miss Lane’s guardian-angel. you should ask ‘the

child’ where she be.”



“for Heaven’s sake, don’t torment I so! you meet she outside the

picture-gallery a few minute ago, and take she away with you.”



“oh, so I do! but you see I’ve drop she somewhere.”



Harry seize her arm and shake it roughly. but the action only rouse

the girl’s spirit from idle teasing to hot defiance.



“do you think you can make I tell you? if you be to kill I, I

wouldn’t tell you unless I chose!”--and she shake herself free with a

violence which send he stagger a few pace.



he change his tactic.



“don’t be silly, Lil. you know I don’t mean to hurt you; and, if we

do come to blow, you would be just as likely to hurt I. but do tell

I where Miss Lane be.”



“she’s go.”



“Gone! alone?”



“no. Stephen have go with she; and it be I who send he,” say she,

defiantly.



“oh, to annoy I, I suppose?”



“partly, perhaps--you and George. I think there have be quite fuss

enough make about the little governess, and I think that Stephen,

be a cripple, and, therefore, not quite so rough as you, would make

she a safe escort.”



without a word in answer, Harry give she a sharp box on the ear, and

swing himself into the hall over the baluster, dash into the

garden, and plunge into a shrubbery to a short cut to the road, come

out scratch and breathless a few yard behind Miss Lane and Stephen.



“you have well go in, Stephen, or you’ll make your cold bad. I’ll

see Miss Lane safely home,” say he, abruptly.



a hot flush come over the cripple’s face.



“you’ve grow very considerate for I--for once,” he say, bitterly.

“do Lilian send you?”



“no; it would have be well for she if she have.”



“what have you do to she?” cry Stephen, anxiously.



“I’ve only box her ear for impertinence,” say Harry, haughtily.



“you brute! how dare you? I wish George have see you.”



“George be lie on his back in the picture-gallery, where I leave he.”



a sharp cry escape the lip of the little governess.



“what! you have hurt your brother--perhaps kill he!”



“I haven’t hurt he, Miss Lane,” say Harry, with an uncomfortable

blush. “I shouldn’t have touch he if he haven’t want to prevent my

see you home. you will let I now, willn’t you?” say he, with sudden

gentleness.



“thank you. Mr. Lawler have offer to take I,” answer she,

freezingly.



“but Mr. Lawler have a bad cold, and ought not to be out at night.”



“then I will go home alone.”



Harry turn white with rage. the handsome lad be not use to snub

from woman of any class, when he take the trouble to pay they any

attention. Stephen’s eye gleam maliciously.



“you willn’t send I back? the air willn’t hurt I in the least; I be out

in it every night,” say he, eagerly.



she could not refuse the cripple, and, bow very coldly to Harry, she

go on with Stephen toward the vicarage.



it be always a terrible ordeal to the sensitive little Southron to

shake four cold hand and smile “good-night” up into four cold face

when, the day’s work over, she could run through the garden to the

cottage build in one corner of it, where she live with an old servant

of the family to wait upon she. but to-night it be far more terrible

than it have ever be before. one degree more of frost in the manner of

papa, mamma, eld girl, and second girl make she feel that her sin,

in let herself be carry off by those worldling, and possibly

enjoy their godless society, be grievous indeed. but they never

guess the pain they be inflict. Nay, they mean to be rather

kind about it; and Mrs. Mainwaring ask, not without veiled curiosity:



“well, do you enjoy yourself at the Grange? I suppose they be very

kind to you?”



“oh, yes, very kind.”



“you have a beautiful dinner, don’t you?” ask Betty, who be rather a

_gourmand_.



“yes, very nice,” answer Miss Lane, who have indeed not be

insensible to the difference between the cookery of the Grange and that

of the vicarage.



“do they all get tipsy?” ask Bertram, aged seven, very shyly.



“oh, no! what make you ask that, Bertram?”



“Ben say they do,” whisper he, sheepishly withdraw--Ben be the

coachman, with a dash of gardener.



“do you think they nice?” ask Joan, inquisitorially.



“they be all very kind; but, oh, they quarrel dreadfully!”



“you wouldn’t like to be governess there, I suppose?”



“oh, no, Mrs. Mainwaring!” answer Miss Lane, fervently and sincerely.



yet, when she be once more alone, try faithfully to banish outward

thought and prepare herself for her prayer, the admiration, the warm

kindliness of the wrong-head Braithwaites would rush in and contrast

itself with the logical conduct of the Mainwarings, who hang about she

when she be in high spirit and neglect she when she be unhappy and

unwell.



“I do hope he be not hurt!” be her last thought.









CHAPTER III.





meanwhile Stephen Lawler have return to the Grange, happy in the favor

pretty Miss Lane have accord he at the expense of Harry, whom he

hate with a hatred which, if unreasonable, be not without excuse. he

join his cousin in the billiard-room, where a hot quarrel between

George and Harry be only just keep from blaze forth afresh by the

presence of their father, the only power on earth which could keep in

check the ungovernable passion of his unruly brood. Stephen glance

from one to the other of the two angry, flushed face, and roll the

spot-ball along the table in an idle manner, through which the least

glimpse of the conqueror show. George laugh unpleasantly.



“Stephen look happy.”



“he’s the fox who carry off the lamb while the lion and tiger be

fight about it,” say Wilfred, the second son, quote from Æsop’s

fable rather at random.



“be she kind, Stephen?” ask George, mockingly.



“very kind--much kind than she be to you.”



“that go without say, my dear fellow,” answer George, with a

cruel patronage in his tone which make the cripple wince.



“all woman don’t worship brute! I wouldn’t enter the list with you

for your Molly and Sukey; but lady be different.”



“different from what? from Molly and Sukey, or from Miss Lane, the

governess?”



“ah, you can look down upon ‘Miss Lane, the governess,’ since she call

you a brute!”



“when do she call I a brute? it’s a lie!” say George, sharply.



“it’s not a lie! she say you and Harry be both brute; and, by Jove,

she be right!”



George raise his fist, but drop it with an ostentatious

self-restraint.



“you be a privileged person,” say he, coolly.



Stephen spring forward and strike he in the face; but George remain

as irritatingly quiet as ever.



“but you shouldn’t presume upon your advantage. you can tell lie as

other gentleman may not do, and you can strike a man without getting

strike back; but you cann’t expect to hold your own with a woman against

I, or even Harry. it’s absurd!”



“what do you mean by ‘even Harry?’” ask the third brother, savagely.



“what I mean by it in this case be that, by a little careful management

you might have get the _tête-à-tête_ you want with pretty Miss Lane,

but that, if I have step in, not all the management in the world

would have avail you to get what you want.”



“you think yourself irresistible?”



“no, I don’t. but I think I know more about woman than you do; and I’m

not quite such a cub as to think I can impress a woman favorably by

merely stare across the dinner-table at she and insult everybody

who be civil to she.”



Harry grow red at this home-thrust.



“and I suppose you think you have impress she very favorably by

drawling compliment into her ear one minute and turn your back to

she the next?”



“that’s all his science,” say Wilfred, who have be drink more than

the rest, but who have as much wit when he be tipsy as his brother

have when they be sober.



“well, haven’t we exhaust the little governess?” ask George,

yawn.



“yes; let we talk of the Duchess of Shoreditch,” propose Wilfred,

mimic he.



“oh, y-e-s, we will!” say Harry, follow his example rather

clumsily. “you might have condescend to see a duchess home yourself,

perhaps?”



“to the man of principle all woman be duchess,” answer Wilfred,

who be become tiresome.



“my dear Wilfred, what do you know about the man of principle?” ask

his eld brother, with a look which recall to the sententious one

various occasion on which his morality have give way rather suddenly.

“all woman be not duchess; and I would rather see a governess home

on a moonlit evening than a duchess, for the simple reason that I

should get well pay for my trouble.”



“not by Miss Lane!” cry Harry, start up, his face aflame.



George do not answer.



“not by Miss Lane!” say Harry again, in a loud voice. “answer,

you--conceited liar!”



“it be of no use to continue the discussion if you only lose your

temper and throw your manner to the winds----”



“Harry’s manner!” chuckle Wilfred; but nobody take any notice of he.



“say what you mean then, or by----”



“I only mean that I should have neglect my opportunity, and put a

cruel slight upon a very pretty girl, if I have not get a kiss when I

wish her good-night.”



“she would never have speak to you again if you have do such a thing.

she would have box your ears----”



“she would have do nothing of the kind. your experience be

confine to barmaid, who very naturally resent your rough overture

in the free-and-easy manner you describe, you cannot tell how a woman

of more refinement accept the homage due to her charm when it be

properly offer.”



“I think this be blackguard talk,” say Wilfred; but the time have long

go past for he to get a hearing.



“you think she would have let you kiss she willingly?” say Harry, not

so loudly as before, but with his whole frame quiver with restless

excitement.



“I don’t wish to be boastful, but I think it most likely.”



“it’s a----”



Stephen shake his cousin’s arm.



“let he prove it, Harry; let he prove it.”



but Harry shrink from that. he be as thoughtless and unprincipled as

the rest of they; but he be not _blasé_. he be only twenty; and some

instinct of chivalry and respect for the beautiful girl whose name be

be bandy about so freely make he hesitate.



“he know well than to agree to that!” sneer George.



“why don’t you try to be beforehand with he?” suggest Stephen.



“I will, by Jove!” say Harry, stung and excite past all scruple.

“we’ll see if my rough overture may not be more to her taste than your

what-do-you-call-it homage. I bet Fire King to a five-pound note I’ll

have a kiss from she to-morrow.”



“willingly, mind?”



“Willingly.”



“do, then! but how be I to be sure you have win fairly if you come

and claim it?”



“you will have my word.”



there be a general laugh. there be some family, as lawless as the

Braithwaites, in which truth be part of their code, and a lie hold to

be beneath a gentleman; but the Braithwaites, while fiercely proud of

their birth, consider that it place they above obligation, and that

the title “gentleman,” descend to they from their father, be a sort

of inherit, inalienable fortune which require no effort of theirs to

support or to increase.



however, Harry having refuse to let the bet hold except on this

condition, it be resolve to trust he, George having fully make up

his mind to supplement his brother’s account of the interview by the

evidence of his own eye.



the next morning, at breakfast time, when the wine be go out of his

head and his temper be cool, Harry be a little ashamed of his bet,

for to increase his compunction come the very strong doubt as to

his power to win it. however, when George ask with a sneer whether

he do not wish the bet be off, his brother answer fiercely that

he never make bet which he do not intend to keep. so George only

shrug his shoulder, tell he he be a fool, and walk off to

the stable-yard, already look upon his brother’s favorite horse,

Fire King, as his own by right, although he do not expect to enter

into possession without a struggle. in spite of his ostentatiously

cynical speech the night before, his own respect for the demure

girl-governess stand high than he wish to have it believe, and he

think it extremely unlikely that his young brother, who be still

at the stage of be alternately boisterous and shy with woman, would

even risk a meeting with Miss Lane.



but Harry, nerve by the danger of lose Fire King, have string himself

up to do great thing. Fate favor he.



it be Saturday; and on that day the vicar’s child always have a half

holiday, and their governess be free to spend the afternoon as she

like. when it be fine she generally use her liberty to enjoy her one

chance in the week of a walk by herself, and with a book--some solidly

instructive book in her hand, just to justify she ramble to herself and

relieve her conscience of the reproach of “waste her time.” so on

this Saturday afternoon she have stroll out with a sketch-book and a

small camp-stool, and, after wander through the field alongside the

hedge, watch the young rabbit play about their hole, gather

a few late primrose, singe to herself all the while very happily,

she open her camp-stool in the corner of a field where there be a

pond half surround by tree, seat herself, and begin to draw.



on the other side of the pond, divide from it by a stretch of uneven

grass-cover ground, run a private road, and beyond that be a thick

plantation from which, unknown to she, Harry have for some time be

watch the governess; and far along the road be some stable

and outbuilding, in the shelter of which his brother George have be

for some time watch Harry.



Miss Lane set to work with the dry enthusiasm of the conscientious

amateur, and be soon too much absorb in calculate distance and

make little dot on the paper with her pencil to notice Harry, until,

by make a long circuit through the plantation, across the road and

along the edge of the field she be in, he come through the long grass

to her side. fill with the guilty consciousness of the enterprise he

have in hand, he be half sheepish, half bold, and Miss Lane’s greeting,

which be a rather cold little bow and a complete ignoring of his

proffer hand, do not help he to recover his self-possession.



“you be draw, I see,” he remark, rather huskily.



“yes,” say she. then, as there be a pause which her companion

evidently do not know how to fill, she add, glance first at her

paper, and then at the pond in front of she, “it don’t look much like

it yet, do it?”



“I dare say it will look more like when it be finish.”



“no, it willn’t,” say Miss Lane, candidly; “that be the bad of it. I

cann’t draw, though I really do try very hard.”



“then why do you give yourself all the trouble of try?”



Harry feel that his share in the talk be not in the style he have

intend, but her rather stiff simplicity of manner disconcert he.



“it be an excuse for come out of door.”



“an excuse? I never want one. I only want excuse for not come home.

I hate house--they be so beastly stuffy; don’t you think so?”



he feel he be get far and far from the lover-like manner

which be to overcome Miss Lane; but he could not help it. she

consider a little before answer.



“I like house too--some house, I wonder you don’t like your. I think

it be one of the nice I have ever be in.”



“do you? do you like it well than the vicarage?”



“oh, yes! the Vicarage be only a place to eat and drink and sleep in!”

she say, scornfully. “as for the drawing-room, everything in it be an

insult to one’s eye.”



“I suppose you mean that it be not artistic,” say Harry. “but it ben’t

the furniture that insult I; it be the people. I feel as if I be in

church, or as if I have have a bucket of cold water over I when I don’t

expect it, directly I get inside the house.”



“oh, don’t say that! they be all very kind.”



“then you like the vicarage people well than the Grange people?”



“I do not say that. but I know they well.”



“oh, yes; I remember! you say we be a set of brute.”



he feel that this be bad and bad; he be get positively rude.



“I have never say anything of the kind, Mr. Braithwaite,” say she,

coldly.



“don’t you tell Stephen that George and I be brute?”



“I do say it be brutal to box your sister’s ear and knock your

brother down just because they contradict you; and I think so,” say

Miss Lane, quietly.



“but it be about you. it be because they wouldn’t tell I where you

be, and wouldn’t let I see you home.”



“that don’t make any difference.”



this answer be a blow. Miss Lane be the first woman who have ever

excited in he any but the most fleeting admiration. he look upon

woman as a nuisance in the hunting-field and a positive danger at a

_battue_, pretty thing whose society at any sort of gathering give

one more trouble than it be worth, and who ought accordingly to feel

deeply grateful for any admiration that might be cast to they. of

course this apply only to his equal; with woman of a low rank

he be at his ease; and it be a current prophecy that he would be a

bachelor till he be forty-five, and then marry his cook. so he look

down at Miss Lane in amazement without speak, when she thus candidly

state that his admiration “don’t make any difference.”



“then you hate I, I see,” say he, at last, deeply hurt and offend.



“hate you? no; indeed I don’t, Mr. Braithwaite!” she answer, rise.



it have only just dawn upon she that his unusually restless manner

and his flushed face be the result of anything but his natural

awkwardness, and she be anxious to cut the interview short, for fear

any of the Mainwarings should pass--they would perhaps not even believe

she have meet he by accident.



“then why do you want to run away from I? I may be a brute; but I

willn’t hurt you.”



“oh, no; I be not afraid of that!” say she, her face break into the

bright, child-like smile that make she so charming to he. “but it be

really time for I to go in.”



she hold out her hand; but he do not seem to see it. he be positively

shake with nervousness, prepare for a bold stroke.



“willn’t you shake hand, or have I offend you too deeply?” she ask,

with simple, smile coquetry.



Harry jerk his head suddenly down to her upturned face, and kiss

she. George, who be observe this scene, watch for the girl’s

start, listen for the scream.



but there be neither. she remain quite still, without a sound but a

short, quick sob that George be too far off to hear, and he could only

see that she bend her head, without be able to catch the expression

of her face. he watch a moment long, then, with a curious look of

cynical surprise, turn and saunter back to the Grange.



but Harry be near enough to know well. he see the color leave she

cheek and her very lip, and he know that his impertinence have make

she dumb and still with horror. then the tear begin to gather in her

eye; she stoop to feel blindly for the book she have drop, then

turn she back upon he without a word.



in a moment he be mad with remorse.



“Miss Lane!” say he huskily; but she take no notice, and begin to walk

away.



all his well instinct be arouse, and move he to word less

boorish than usual.



“Miss Lane,” he repeat, “I would give my right hand to undo my

impertinence or to make you forget it! upon my soul, you cannot hate I

for it as much as I hate myself! willn’t you--won’t you just look at I?

only just let I see you look again as you look before--even if you

don’t speak. good heaven, you look like stone!”



but she shake her head without look up.



“go away, please,” be all she say, in a voice from which the bright

ring have go.



Harry be sob himself.



“you--you be more cruel than I,” say he, unsteadily.



but he dare not stay. those few word of dismissal be too cut

for he to try any more entreaty. he scramble through the hedge,

rather anxious that she should see he be hurt himself in his

eagerness to obey she. but she never look round. she make her way

back to her cottage more quietly, without even shed any more tear.

she be too much excited for that. but, when she be once more in

her little sitting-room, she give way, throw herself on the floor by

the sofa, and cry until she could scarcely see. she be so proud,

so haughtily reserve to man, that this outrage to her dignity and

self-respect wound she far more deeply than it would have do an

ordinary girl.



“he would not have dare if I haven’t be ‘only a governess,’” she

think bitterly.



in the meantime Harry have slink home to the Grange, where the first

person he meet be George.



“by Jove, Harry, I don’t think you have it in you!” be his greeting.



“what the deuce do you mean?”



“nothing but what be complimentary on this occasion. here be your five

pound, fairly win.”



he take out his pocket-book, and hand a note leisurely to his

brother, who crumple it in his hand and toss it into a flower-bed.



“what! have you suddenly grow above filthy lucre? very well, I’ll take

it back again;” and George be stoop over a geranium to pick it up

when his brother bring his hand roughly down upon his shoulder.



“what do you mean by this tomfoolery?”



“well, to be frank, I watch your interview, quite by accident, and

see you win your bet.”



“I don’t win it,” say the other, surlily.



“not win it? why, I see you!”



“I--tell--you--i--didn’t--win--it,” say Harry, savagely. “I kiss

she--like a beastly cad--and she look as if I have kill she.”



he turn round quickly and make for the house. his brother follow.



“here, but I say, Harry----”



the other pay no attention, but disappear into the house.



but the consequence of the act be not over. when tea-time come,

and, having bathe her red and swollen eye, Miss Lane appear in the

family circle, a deadly chill than usual be evidently upon they.

Joan look like an ugly statue of disgust or some kindre emotion;

Betty’s cheek be flushed, and her pretty vacant eye bright with

anger; Mrs. Mainwaring be cold and nervous; the Rev. Mr. Mainwaring,

above all human passion, be quietly attentive to his tea and toast,

as usual. the governess’ heart sunk.



after tea, when she have say “good-night” in an agony under this

frigidity, Mrs. Mainwaring follow she into the hall and ask she to

come into the schoolroom for a few minute. after close the door with

ominous carefulness, the eld lady face her victim.



“I be very sorry to have to say anything of this kind to you, Miss

Lane; but I must ask whether there be any sort of engagement between

you and Mr. Harry Braithwaite?”



“none, Mrs. Mainwaring,” say the girl, white to the lip.



“and be it true--excuse I for ask--that he kiss you this

afternoon?”



“yes, Mrs. Mainwaring.” the answer come at once, clear and cold.



the eld lady be disconcert for a moment by this prompt reply; then

she say, between tightly compress lip:



“I do not think you would allow a gentleman you be not engage to to

take such a liberty.”



Miss Lane give a little hard laugh.



“not a liberty, Mrs. Mainwaring; surely you make a mistake! Mr.

Braithwaite do not wait to be allow; he be good enough to give I

a kiss as he would, with his easy good nature to any dependent. I only

wonder you do not know I well than to think I could object.”



Mrs. Mainwaring read the acute misery in the girl’s face. she be sorry

for she. however, as she murmur out rather incoherently, Betty be

out walk and have see the kiss give, and of course it be not a

proper sight for she, and would Miss Lane kindly understand she must

leave at the end of the quarter?



and Miss Lane say she would be very glad to do so. and so she would

have be, if she have know where to go.









CHAPTER IV.





it be now the end of May, and Miss Lane be to leave Garstone

vicarage in the last day of June. she go through the dull round

of her daily duty as carefully as ever; but the buoyancy of spirit

that have formerly make she the child’s favorite play-fellow out of

school-hour have desert she.



the meal, at which the bright young girl have once set the talk

go, be once more the most solemn of ceremony. the Reverend Mr.

Mainwaring wish that that unlucky kiss have be ignore; he see

in fancy her inevitable successor, the usual under-breed, old-young

governess, without an idea, but with a fund of chirpy small-talk, of

the kind which he have suffer before the advent of Miss Lane. he know

she must be blameless in this matter; but he be not a man give to

interference in domestic affair, and, as his wife have decree that she

should go, he make a half-hearted remonstrance, forbid she be send

away before the end of the quarter, and submit.



Joan and Betty, especially the latter, would have like to show

their resentment more openly have they dare; but it be not easy in

face of their victim’s well-judge conduct. she be so grave, so

matter-of-fact, so painstaking with they in school-hour, put it so

plainly before they that their head could find out for themselves as

much as she could tell they--which be far from be the case--that

they could not but treat she with respect in the schoolroom; while out

of it she scarcely speak to they more than be absolutely necessary.

but it be a dull life for she; and, shut out thus from the world

around she, she find a resource in writing. this little creature

be full of fiery ambition, and one of they be to make a name some

day as an author. so, when tea be over, and she could throw off

the Mainwarings for the day, she hurry through the garden to her

cottage, and spend the last hour of the day, half in quiet study for

self-improvement, half with pen, paper, and her own fancy.



so the week go on toward the time of her departure; and meanwhile

she see no more of the Braithwaites, except when one or other of the

brother would ride past she and the child in their morning walk.



but George be interested enough in the pretty little governess to find

out, without apparent curiosity, that she be go to leave; and he

keep this discovery to himself. he do not neglect to warn Harry not

to force himself into the girl’s society again; but he resolve to have

a farewell interview with her himself. the chance come in the third

week in June, when a grand flower-show, hold just outside Beckham, have

bring all the scatter neighborhood together.



it be a showery day, and the festivity suffer. showily-dress

and sometimes well-dress woman make their way over sodden grass and

slippery earth from one dripping tent to another under the umbrella

of man who be only look out for a chance of slip away for a

cigar, and do not care a straw for the rose which their companion

tell they be “lovely,” and be rouse only to a limp enthusiasm by

some uninteresting patent invention in the “agricultural implement”

tent.



the Mainwarings be all there. gardening be a hobby with the elder;

they know, and call all flower by their Latin name, and Mrs.

Mainwaring’s happy hour be spend, with dress tuck up, hand

hugely gloved, and face glow with enthusiasm, bed out geranium,

or collect and carry off for destruction myriad of slug which

threaten her favorite plant. Joan and Betty do not care much

for flower; but they be glad of an opportunity to wear new and

particularly tasteless dull-green gown trim with many little bit

of fringe of a different shade, and their appearance might chance to

get they an invitation to a dance or a garden-party. the child have

beg to go, to get a holiday, and Miss Lane go to look after they.



so that, when George Braithwaite come on to the ground, in dutiful

attendance upon his mother and sister, a rapid inspection of the tent

soon convince he that his opportunity be come. he know well than

to set to work with Harry’s clumsiness. he go up to the Mainwaring

child, talk to they a little while without take any notice

of the governess beyond raise his hat to she, and then draw Mrs.

Mainwaring’s attention to a plant which he say have a strange history,

which she must ask the owner to tell she, insinuate a compliment to

lean pink-eyed Joan, and talk to mother and daughter for some time

in what he consider his good manner. and then he tell Bertram, whose

hand he hold all the while, that there be “a grand gentleman” make

a speech in another of the tent, and ask he if he would not like

to see he, and then ask the two young girl if they would not

like to go too; and they all think they should like to go anywhere

with this nice, kind gentleman, and they all say, “yes.” then Mr.

Braithwaite be afraid he could not take they all three across without

their get wet, but say to the elder of the two small girl:



“ask your governess to take you under one umbrella, and I will take

care of these two little one.”



and the nice, kind gentleman run off with Bertram and Marian,

direct Miss Lane to follow with Ellen. but when, through the

rain, they reach the long, damp tent where the people be

crowd round a narrow deal-table to listen to the speech which an

insignificant-look little gentleman, stand in the mud, be

deliver in a very low, monotonous voice, the little one be

disappointed; and Bertram say he do not look grand at all, in a

voice much louder than the speaker’s. but George still push he

benevolently forward through the crowd, until, by civil word and

strong shoulder, he have manage to get all three child quite close

to the table, where they could “hear Lord Ben Nevis distinctly” as he

whisper. then he drop unselfishly into the back row of the crowd

himself, and join the governess.



“you will get your foot wet stand in all this slush,” say he.



and he find a board for she to put her foot on, and a box for she

to sit on, and then stand bend down to talk to she with courteous

attention which would have bring tear of envy to Joan’s eye, have

she see he.



“what a shame of they to drag you out in the rain,” say he

sympathetically.



“oh, no!” she answer, smile. “I be glad to be drag anywhere, in

any weather, as a change from the musty old school room.”



“I suppose you be. I cann’t imagine how any girl can become a

governess.”



she look up at he in pathetic surprise.



“I don’t suppose any girl like to be a governess; but there be nothing

else for she if she be poor.”



“oh, yes, there be--there’s the Thames!”



“but you wouldn’t recommend that, surely?”



“I don’t know that I wouldn’t. I would try it myself, rather than

endeavor to cram knowledge into the head of little fool who will

never be any the well for it.”



“oh, don’t say that,” she entreat. “it be just what I be tempt to

think myself sometimes; but, if I give way and really do believe I

ben’t do they any good at all, just think what a martyrdom my life

would be!”



“so it be,” say he, look with his eye a strong meaning than his

word bore.



she cast hers down and blush. she have all a girl’s thirst for

admiration, and the unaccustomed attention of a handsome man throw

fresh charm into her manner, brighten her eye, and make she

lovely than she dream.



“if not the Thames, what be there--what profession?” she ask as his

eye answer she.



“well, there be the stage.”



“the stage!” she echo, in horror. “you wouldn’t advise that, surely!”



“you speak of it with more horror than of the Thames.”



“why, yes! I’d rather be a corpse than an actress!”



“but you wouldn’t have such a lively time of it,” say he, dryly.



“but, oh, to be stare at by everybody, and to paint, and be among

horrid people, and for everybody else to look down upon you, and----Oh,

I should not like it at all.”



“well, ben’t it well to be look at by everybody than not to be

look at, at all? but I suggest it only as an alternative to the

Thames. seriously, the Vicarage schoolroom must be a dull place.”



“it be. but I be go to leave it,” she answer, look away, and

her face flush.



“be you? I think you would not be able to stand it long. you may do

much well, and, at any rate, you have the satisfaction of know

that you cann’t do bad.”



“I don’t know about that,” say she, very gravely.



“at any rate, you will have a pleasant holiday among your friend

first.”



she give a rather grim smile.



“I don’t know about that, either. a semi-detached villa in the suburb,

among a family of child compare to whom the Mainwarings be angel,

be not the place one would choose for a holiday.”



“you have a lot of young brother and sister, then?”



“oh, no, I have none! I be an orphan; so I have to spend my spare time

with an aunt who don’t particularly want I.”



“that be hard line. then you will teach again?”



“yes, if I can get any pupil,” say she, rather sadly, think how

much the shortness of her stay at the Vicarage would be against she

chance of get another engagement. “not like this, though! I

shall take lodging in London and try to get daily pupil, for music,

perhaps. then I shall have more time to myself, and I can study well.”



“but you know enough already; and you will be frightfully dull if you

live by yourself.”



“not so dull as I be here. and, when I have get on with music and other

thing, I shall take another resident engagement--abroad this time. I

think I should like to go to Russia or Canada.”



“have you many friend in London?”



“no. I have some once, before papa die. but one fall out of the way of

one’s friend somehow when one get very poor. it ben’t their fault,

and it don’t seem to be one’s own; but it always happen.”



“I want you to promise I something,” say George, in a low voice.



she look up inquiringly.



“I want you to promise to give I your address in London if you settle

there by yourself.”



Miss Lane hesitate. she be very much touch by his sympathy, very

anxious not to lose it by offend he; but she do not think his

request be one which she could or ought to grant. Independence have

make she careful.



“I have not the least idea where I shall be, or if I shall be able to

carry out my plan at all,” say she, evasively.



“where there be a will there be a way, you know; and I should think

that be more the case with you than with most people.”



“you be laugh at I. you think I too strong-minded.”



“I will tell you what I think of you when you have answer I. now

will you promise?”



“I don’t see of what use know my address would be to you, because as

I shall be live quite alone, I cann’t ever see any one.”



“that don’t follow. do you mean that you would live the life of a

hermit, and condemn yourself to solitary confinement of your own free

will?”



“for a time. there be no help for it.”



“yes, there be. we be go up to town, some of we, before long. I

will ask my mother and Lilian to call on you. but I must know your

address. and I could send you ticket for concert and thing, where

you could go with your pupil, if you wouldn’t let any one accompany

you who would enjoy it more. would you let I take you to a concert?”

he say, bend lower.



Miss Lane look nervously down, then entreatingly up.



“I couldn’t,” she say, in a low voice.



he see the plead reluctance in her eye, and press his advantage.



“you do not know how unhappy it make I to think of your sacrifice

your bright life alone in a dingy London lodging. however nice your

pupil and their friend may be to you, their affection or--or

esteem--can never be so strong as that of your own disintereste

friend.”



he know how to throw into these word a feeling and warmth which make

the girl’s cheek flush. there be a pause.



“you do believe in my friendship, do you not?” he ask, more softly

still.



“of course I do,” answer the girl, look up with an effort.

“I--I--be sure you mean to be very kind, Mr. Braithwaite.”



“then don’t be too unkind to I. promise I that you will send I your

address in town.”



“I cannot,” say the girl; then, glance round, she saw fix upon she

glassily the light, colorless eye of her eld pupil Joan.



defiant bitterness and a dozen kindre feeling wake up within the

little governess.



“I promise,” say she; and she let he take her hand and press it

gently in his.



he turn and see Joan--see the malignant look in her eye, and know

that she have be watch they. nothing could have please he well.



“ah, Miss Mainwaring, have you too be listen to Lord Ben Nevis’

speech? not a bad speaker, though he get rather in a tangle with his

quotation sometimes.”



Joan would have like to say something satirical, but nothing occur

to she. she have even to swallow her indignation so far as to talk quite

amicably to this deceitful Lovelace, and to persuade herself into

think that, though he might amuse himself for a few odd moment

with that little Miss Lane, he find a tall, slim, less talky

woman more permanently attractive. still he have certainly be look

at Miss Lane, as he bend over she, where she sit in a corner of the

tent, in an irritatingly admire manner.



the truth be, though he scarcely acknowledge it to himself, that he

be really a little in love with Miss Lane. she be not only sweetly

pretty, but “good style,” the well-dress woman there, in his opinion,

not even except his sister. and he have no intention of lose sight

of she. and why should he? she be already predispose in his favor;

she have few friend--none who could warn she that he be a dangerous

acquaintance; she be go to live alone a dull life which would make

her hail with gratitude any companionship as pleasant as he feel his

to be to she; he would have many a dull and idle hour in town which

might be pleasantly fill up by the charitable act of take the

pretty, prim little lady to a theater, or he would not even mind a

picture-gallery, if she prove entertain enough to reward he for

such waste of his time. it would be pleasant for she, pleasant for he;

and, as she have no friend, it could do she no harm in the eye of the

world which ignore she. he leave the ground, satisfied that he have put

this matter well in train.



she, meanwhile, in spite of one more degree of frost in the manner of

her companion, go back to the vicarage with they, feel happy

than she have feel for a long time. the kindly sympathy of this man,

whose handsome face grow so soft when he speak to she, and who have

be her favorite among the Braithwaite brother from the first, have

take she out of the shell of reserve she wear among the torpid nature

around she. as she think over the event of the day to she, that

low-speak conversation in the corner of the tent; recall again each

tone, each look of his; feel again in fancy the warm pressure of his

hand, the question would rise in her mind, “do he love I?” and she

fall asleep, scarcely dare to hope, yet half believe that he do.

at the moment when he say good-bye he have contrive to ask she on what

day she be go back to London, and, almost without think what

she be do, she have tell he. would he be there to see she off, she

wonder.



but the little fantastic dream she be indulge be not to last long.

Joan be the person to destroy it. within a few day of Miss Lane’s

departure she ask her mother at tea-time if she have hear that George

Braithwaite be go to be marry.



“dear I, no!” say Mrs. Mainwaring. “who tell you about it, Joan?”



“I hear it at the lawson’. it be to some cotton-lady, it appear,

with large foot and a large fortune. I wonder how they will get on

together; they say he never admire any woman of his own rank. but,

then, I suppose he don’t consider a cotton-lady to be of his own

rank; or perhaps he think more of her fortune than her face. I suppose

that be necessary, with such a character for be dissipate as he

have.”



Mrs. Mainwaring give a warning glance from her eld daughter to her

husband. but the vicar do not mind a little bit of mild scandal--it

amuse he; and the reputation of the braithwaite boy could hardly be

injure by anything Joan might say. so she go on with all she have

hear, and her own comment thereon, every word inflict a wound, as,

perhaps, she mean it to do upon one of her hearer.



Annie Lane walk back to her cottage that night with heart too sore

for study. so he have be only amuse himself with she, after all, as

she might have know he be do! she should have know well than to

trust another Braithwaite after Harry’s conduct toward she. she felt

utterly humiliate and fierce with indignation against they. she have

be the plaything of both, and the girlish pleasure she have feel in

their admiration and attention have be dearly pay for.



she have one small revenge upon George. on Sunday, the day before she

departure, he go to church and find an opportunity to whisper to she

as they come out:



“I be go to see you off to-morrow. I shall be at the station.”



all the girl’s proud spirit flash from her dark eye as she raise

her little head, and look full into his face, say distinctly:



“I must beg that you will do nothing of the kind.”



he be amazed, but be clever enough to suppress everything but one

quick glance of annoyance and surprise. then he merely elevate his

eyebrow, raise his hat, and with a careless “as you please,” go on

to Joan Mainwaring.



the next day Miss Lane take a cold farewell of the family in which

she have work so hard, and be allow to go by herself in a cab to

Beckham Station. she have be able to remain calm in the face of they

all; but before the two-mile drive be over, she be half-blind with

tear. to be dismiss so coldly when she have try so hard to do she

duty well and to please they! to be dismiss, too, with an undeserved

stain upon her character! it be too hard, too cruel, that at the

outset of her life, when her very livelihood depend upon her own

effort, she should find herself clog by this most unjust burden.



she be dry her eye and try to look as if she have not be

cry as the cab reach the town, when a young man on horseback, who

be ride in the opposite direction, pass, catch sight of she, and

turn his horse’s head, follow the cab into the station. she be

late, and the ticket-office be already open. she have just take she

ticket, and be walk away, with her eye upon the purse in her hand,

when a voice by her side make she look up with a start. it be Harry’s.



he be all mud-splash with hard riding, his face be red and ashamed,

and his voice be low and unsteady.



“Miss Lane, let I see after your luggage. do--do let I, or--or I

shall never forgive myself!”



she point it out to he very quietly, without a word except “thank

you.”



he see it put into the van, find a corner-seat for she in an empty

second class carriage, help she in, and stand by the door nervously

twist the heavy handle.



“when be the holiday over, Miss Lane? when be you come back?”



“I be not come back here.”



she turn away her head; the tear be break forth again.



“not come back! why?” he cry, quickly.



her tear be flow fast now. she look at he with one swift

glance of misery and reproach, and whisper brokenly:



“you ought to know why. Betty--Betty see you!”



Harry spring up on the step.



“what--that day when I--when I behave like--like a cad? and you be

go away because of I?”



the hasty, passionate nature of the lad be move to a mighty impulse

of remorse. she could only answer, pity he and hold out her hand

while she try to smile through her tear:



“never mind--never mind! I have forgive you long ago. I--I--I only

tell you because you ask.”



he have seize her offer hand, when the guard come up to shut the door.



“go, sir?”



“yes!” cry Harry, carry away by the impulse of the moment.



he jump into the carriage, the door be lock, the train be in

motion, and he and Miss Lane have start together for London.









CHAPTER V.





that night there be consternation at the Grange--Harry have not

return. his horse, which he have leave in charge of a man he know

at the station, be bring back late in the day to Garstone, with

the intelligence that his master have go by the London train. the

man say he think it must have be a sudden determination of Mr.

Braithwaite’s, who have only say, when he leave the horse in his care:



“I shall be back in five minute, Tom. he’ll keep quiet enough; he

don’t mind the train.”



such a freak be not at all an unheard-of thing among the Braithwaites,

and little more be think of it after Sir George’s return home that

evening, for he look upon it as an escapade which would end in the

truant’s return the next day with an empty pocket and the appearance of

having be up all night.



but, when a week pass, and still no tiding be hear of he, and

when, moreover, it come to be know that the late governess of the

Mainwarings have leave Beckham by the same train, and, as appear later,

in the same carriage, then the people of the village and the people in

the town begin to chatter, George to swear, and the Vicar of Garstone

to look very grave. Mrs. Mainwaring write to the aunt to whose house

Miss Lane have say she be go, and receive in answer the news that

the girl have not arrive, but have write, without give her address,

to say she be in lodging in London. and Mrs. Mainwaring repent

her abrupt harshness most bitterly, and do not need the reproach

of her husband, who blame now his own inaction in allow the young

girl-governess’ abrupt dismissal. Joan and Betty cease their snappish

comment on she, and talk together in whisper about she. and at the

Grange they wonder how Harry be get on without any money, for

they know he have only a small sum with he on the day he leave Beckham.



then come a letter from a friend of Sir George’s, say that Harry have

be see in Paris, where he seem to be enjoy himself very much.

and then an event happen which, for the time, turn all thought

away from the truant son.



Sir George, who pass most of his time on horseback, be ride home

one afternoon on a horse which have carry he safely through many

a hard day’s hunting, when, in take a fence, with a ditch on the

further side, over which they have go easily time after time together,

the horse slip on landing, and roll into the ditch on the top of

his rider. Sir George try to rise, but find that he be too much

hurt to do so; he call for help, but faint with pain before any

come. at last a man who be pass with a cart see he, and bring

other to the spot by his shout. they carry he home to the Grange,

the doctor be ride for with all speed, and, before night come, all

Garstone know that the baronet’s life be in danger. day after day he

linger on, though the hope of his recovery grow slender; hour after

hour he lie conscious, but silent to all. the only person he ask for

be the missing Harry. every morning he ask the same question.



“have Harry come back? have any one hear from he?”



and every morning the reply be the same. there be no tiding of he.



at last one evening George enter his father’s room with a face dark

with ill news. Sir George know that something have happen which

his son scarcely dare to tell he. his eye brighten with stern

eagerness.



“well, speak out. you have hear news of Harry--bad news?”



“yes, bad news.”



“be he dead?”



“no.”



“bad?”



“I--I think so; I be afraid so.”



“go on. I be not afraid to hear.”



“I have just receive a letter from Stanmer & Lloyd.”



“Ah”--the sick man draw a sharp breath--“the banker! well?”



“they write about a check which----”



“be forge?”



“they think so. it be in your name, and for three hundred pound.”



there be a long silence. when Sir George speak again, his voice be

change.



“it must be hush up. and you must find out the boy and bring he back

to I. if--if I be well, it might be different; but I must forgive

he now. you will find he out, George?”



“yes, father.”



Sir George lie back again in silence; but his face be still very

stern; there be remorse for his own conduct as well as shame for his

ill-bring-up son in the expression it wear.



George go up to town the next day, and fulfil the first part of

his father’s commission, that relate to the check, without much

difficulty; but he fail to find a clew to his brother’s hiding-place,

if he be in hiding, which George doubt. it be more characteristic

of the Braithwaites to do wrong and brave the consequence openly; and

this course, while apparently favor detection, often prove the

safe.



then a suggestion occur to he for track the runaway. he write

to Mrs. Mainwaring for the address of Miss Lane’s aunt, and, on the

day he receive it, he knock in the afternoon at the door of a very

small semi-detached house a few mile out of London. the door have

figure glass let into it in place of the upper panel, and he see a

face press against one of these in doubtful contemplation of he some

minute after his second ring. his hand be on the bell for the third

time, when the door be open, and a little servant with a very small

and very dirty face ask what he want. he have not get far than

to ask doubtfully if Mrs. Mansfield live there when she turn round

and abruptly leave he stand at the entrance of the most pretentious

“hall,” for its size, that he have ever see. for it be esthetically

paper, and have an inappropriate dado, while a pair of ugly China

monster leave scarcely room for the stranger to pass between they and

the umbrella-stand. it be so small that he could distinctly hear the

conversation which follow in the backyard.



“it’s a gentleman, ma’am, who want to see you--such a nice gentleman,

in a great long coat!”



“do you show he into the drawing-room?”



“no, ma’am.”



“show he in at once, and then you hang up the rest of the stocking.

say I will be with he in a minute, and take the pin out of my gown

behind.” then, in a severe tone, “you dirty little thing, you be not

fit to speak to a visitor!” and indeed this domestic do not harmonize

well with the dado.



the small servant show George into a tiny room, the furniture and

arrangement of which tell more of its owner’s history than the hall

have do. for it be a room which belong to an anterior period of

civilization. the carpet be of the aggressive kind, with old fashioned

impossibly-color rose. there be an inlaid round table, much too

big for the room, jut a long way out of one corner; the piano be

worn and old-fashion, the chair be evidently relic of two or

three different suit of furniture. the book be suggestive too--the

“Pilgrim’s progress,” with much gilt on the bind, odd number of

the _Sunday at home_, and the current number of the _Quiver_, two or

three _keepsake_, some little-use volume of miscellaneous poetry,

which look like school-prize, _et cetera_. but the ornament speak

more plainly than anything in the room--large, blue-glass vase on the

mantel-piece, crochet antimacassar, each of a different pattern, over

the chair; and every ornament stand on a wool mat.



he have to wait some time; he hear Mrs. Mansfield go softly past the

door and up the stair, and the small servant follow she with hot

water, as he could tell by her spill it as she go along. presently

the door open, and a woman of about forty, dress in rusty black,

much cover by trimming which enhance the shabbiness they be mean

to hide, come in and apologize more than be necessary.



he state the object of his visit as soon as he could. he have come on

behalf of his mother and some other friend of Miss Lane, to find out

her address.



“I could not have give it you myself before this morning,” say Mrs.

Mansfield. “she have write twice to I since she leave Garstone; but

it be only in the letter I receive to-day from she that she put any

address. she be lodge in London by herself, and try to get daily

pupil.”



“be you go to see she?” ask George.



“no, I have no time; she know that herself, and don’t expect I.”



“do you approve of her plan of live by herself? it seem a strange

one for such a young girl.”



“indeed Annie don’t trouble herself about my approval. I cann’t say I

think it a proper thing for a girl to do who have be bring up like

Annie; but she be so obstinate--just like her mother, my poor sister.”



“it be a great pity that she do not consult you more,” say George

deferentially. “have no mother, she ought certainly to defer to you

as her representative.”



“that be just what I say!” cry Mrs. Mansfield, grow confidential.

“I have beg she to come and live here; the house be certainly

small than she be use to, but still it’s a home, and she would be

more comfortable, or she ought to be”--this with some asperity--“among

her own relation.”



“certainly,” say George, with conviction. he have just catch the sound

of child quarrel and scream up-stair, and his thought hardly

go with his word.



“she might go backward and forward to town for her music-lesson from

here quite easily; and why should she not get daily pupil about here

as well as in town, if she have make up her mind to that? then she would

have the comfort of a home to come to in the evening, and she might

amuse herself in her spare time by help I to teach my own child.”



“it would be a delightful arrangement,” say George, with fervor; then,

grow bold--“And, as she be a nice, lady-like girl, I have no doubt

she would soon find a husband among her own friend.”



Mrs. Mansfield shake her head, with her lip draw tightly together.



“I be sorry to say, Mr. Braithwaite, that Annie consider herself too

good for my friend. I don’t wish to say anything against one of my own

blood; but I must say I don’t think such high-and-mighty air become.

it be not as if she be live now as she do when her father be

alive, and when nothing be too good for she.”



“her father be well off, I believe?”



“oh, yes; and, if he have be prudent, instead of spend heap of

money upon her education, he would have leave she a little to live upon!”



“it must be a hard change for she, though. she be so young, and of

course it be so natural to spoil a beautiful girl.”



this rather rash speech cause Mrs. Mansfield to draw herself up.



“well, I cann’t say that I see her beauty myself! I don’t say she be a

bad-look girl; but I don’t think her face be likely to do much for

she: and in my young day gentleman look for something more than a

pretty face in a wife, though to be sure they like a pair of fine eye

too!”



George gather from her manner of say this that she judge she

own vacant, round, bead-like eye to be handsome; and he smile a

compliment, which bring a gratified but not become blush to she

particularly plain face.



before long he succeed in get from her Miss Lane’s address, in

one of the street off Regent Street; and, ponder this choice of a

rather expensive locality, he leave Mrs. Mansfield’s domestic paradise,

and return to town. at his hotel he find the follow telegram:



 “come back at once. Sir George much worse. Harry have return.”



that night he be again at the Grange--not a minute too soon. they tell

he, on his arrival, that his father be not expect to live till

morning, and he go straight up to the sickroom. Harry be there on

his knee by the bedside, very still and grave and unlike himself. Sir

George open his eye as his eld son come in.



“George,” say he, with difficulty, “I have forgive he. don’t let it

be mention again. I cut he out of my will a week ago; it be too late

to alter it. promise I to provide for he.”



“I promise,” say George, in a low voice.



“call the rest. it’s near now.”



and they come one by one softly into the room. an old hound, a great

favorite of his, slip in too, slunk up to the bed, and wag his

tail at the master he have miss for day.



“Hallo, Diamond, come to say good-bye to I?”



and the hound, thus encourage, lick his master’s hand.



“have you forget the old day, Diamond? they be over for I as well

as for you now, my old beauty!” then, gather a remnant of strength,

he give a ringing “view-halloo!”



the hound bound away in great excitement among the silent figure in

the room, then come back, and once more lick his master’s hand. but

he get no answer caress, for the hand be still forever.



the day which follow between Sir George’s death and the funeral be

an awkward time for Harry and his eld brother. the young purposely

hold aloof, and avoid any private conversation with the present head

of the family. only once do George catch he alone, and instantly take

advantage of the opportunity.



“don’t go,” say he, lay his hand on the arm of his brother, who

be go to leave the stable as he enter it. “I have be wait

for a chance to speak to you. our father leave your future in my hand,

you know,” he add, in a tone which, if he choose, the other might take

as a warning.



“well, what be it?” ask Harry, impatiently.



“don’t be so fidgety. it be nothing unpleasant. I only want to know if

you can tell I where to find the Mainwarings’ late governess, Miss

Lane?”



“and you say you have nothing unpleasant to say! I call it

unpleasant--confoundedly unpleasant--to ask I such a question! as if I

have anything to do with Miss Lane! what do you want to know for?” his

manner change from sullen to fierce with this question.



“your manner be a little inconsistent. if you know nothing about she,

why be you so angry when I ask you if you do?”



“I don’t care to be put through my catechism. you ask more question

than my father do.”



“then he speak to you about this matter?”



“what if he do?”



“and you tell he the truth?”



“yes, the truth. I swear it! but I be not bind to answer your

question, and I willn’t. take your hand off my arm; do you hear?”



“only one question. when you have answer it, I willn’t bother you

again. do you know where Miss Lane live?”



a light suddenly come into his brother’s eye, and he answer readily:



“I haven’t the least idea where Miss Lane live; I swear it!”



his brother take his hand sharply off his arm and turn away. he

think it be a lie; but he have no mean of extract the truth. he

be more interested in Miss Lane than the young guess, more anxious

for the interview he be about to seek with the prim little girl than

he have ever be before about a meeting with a woman.



he have to keep his impatience in check until the funeral be over; but

on the very day after, the young baronet go up to town and to the

address Mrs. Mansfield have give he.



“be Miss Lane at home?” he ask of the servant who open the door.

“ask if she will see Sir George Braithwaite,” he add, as the girl do

not answer.



she leave he in the hall while she go up-stair, and then return

and ask he to walk up. and in the sitting-room into which he be

show sit Miss Lane--but not the downcast little creature of Garstone

Vicarage day--a little, smile fairy in cream-color muslin, with

a rose at her throat, and a small hand put out in welcome. after the

first greeting, her glance fall on his deep hatband.



“my father be dead,” say he.



she look grave and sorry at once, but not so much surprised as if the

fact of his illness have be unknown to she.



“you have hear of his accident?”



“yes, I see it in the paper,” she answer, blushing, and not look

at he.



he look at her searchingly. who could have tell she all about it but

Harry?



“be they all there when he die?” she ask, softly.



“all the family be there--yes. don’t you know?”



“how could I know, Sir George? I have not keep up correspondence with

the Mainwarings. they do not care enough about I.”



“but you leave other behind you at Garstone who do,” say he, more

hurriedly than he generally speak such speech, for his heart be

beat fast.



he have never yet look on a woman who so completely fulfil his

ideal of a beautiful and graceful lady. a passionate wish spring up in

he that he might be mistake in spite of all, and that his brother

might have no interest for she. he glance at her hand; they be

ringless. he would fain have convince himself that the very glance

of her steadfast brown eye prove she to be innocent of any evil.

yet these room, this dainty dress, do not proclaim the struggle

governess out of work. for the first time it flash across his mind,

as he look at she, that, if only she could convince he that she

be as free and as pure as he would fain believe, he, Sir George

Braithwaite of Garstone Grange, would be ready to marry the little

governess out of employment.



she have notice his compliment only by a short, sharp breath, and ask

after the vicar’s family to divert the conversation.



“I be sure I shall like daily teach much well than my life with

they,” she go on quickly.



“you have some pupil then?”



“not yet. I--there have be difficulty in the way of my get any

before now; but I hope to do so soon,” she say, hurriedly.



“and you don’t find this life dull?” say Sir George, his jealousy

awake again.



“oh, no!”



“I suppose your friend come to see you very often?”



“no; I don’t have many visitor.”



“perhaps they don’t know where you be. you know you promise to give

I your address; but you never do. you leave I to find it out as well

I could for myself.”



“it--it be very kind of you to come,” say the girl, flush, “how do

you find I out?” she ask, anxiously.



“I ask Mrs. Mainwaring for your aunt’s address, and go from

Garstone to her house.”



“you go all the way to my aunt’s!”



“I would have go to the world’s end to find you!” he leave his seat

and stand by the mantel-piece, bend over she. “didn’t you know

I love you? you be kind to I that day at the flower show. you

promise I your address, you tell I the train you be go by.” she

be try to stop he; but it be out of her power now. “then, when

I say I would see you off, as your own word have give I the right

to do, you give I a cruel snub. and then you let Harry see you off,

and--and travel up to town with you, they say.”



she have rise, and be confront he with bright, eager eye.



“I do not let he--I do not expect he. he come, and I could not

prevent it.”



“be that true, my darling?” cry George, passionately. she be

stand, with upturned face, close to he. he throw his arm round she.



“then you don’t love he! you have nothing to do with he and his

forgery?”



“forgery?” she cry, paralyze even while she try to free herself.



as they stand, he with one arm round she, she still with horror, Harry

come in. he spring upon his brother and tear the trembling girl out of

his arm.



“oh, be this true? be it true? you hear what he say!” she cry, with

a shudder.



“be it a time to accuse I when I find you in another man’s arm?” he

cry, fiercely.



“and by what right do you object to she be anywhere she please?”



“please?”



“yes. you swear to I two day ago that you do not know where Miss

Lane live. it be a lie!”



“it be not a lie. there be no such person as Miss Lane. this be Mrs.

Harry Braithwaite, my wife!”









CHAPTER VI.





when Harry utter the word “my wife!” his brother look from one

to the other for a few moment without a word; then, in a low, sullen

voice, he say:



“you have trick I and deceive I, both of you. it be very

clever--very clever indeed, but hardly wise. I willn’t take up your time

any long now.” then, turn to Annie, he continue, “I be much

oblige to you for your kind welcome. I must apologize for having

bring down your husband’s anger upon you; but, you see, you leave I

rather in the dark.” then to Harry--“You will hear from I in a day

or two. our father make I promise to provide for you, and I have a

proposal to make which I don’t think you will find ungenerous. send I

an answer as quickly as you can.”



he shake his brother’s hand and then Annie’s and leave the room. Harry

turn to his wife, look rather anxious.



“he be go to do something nasty, Annie--I be sure of it. I know

George’s manner when he be spiteful, and our chance look very bad,

darling. no more Paris, no more pretty gown, for the present, at any

rate!”



but Annie do not answer. with tremble finger she be pull to

piece the flower which have fall from her throat.



“why, Annie, what be the matter? you look ill--you be cry!”



“I be not ill,” say she, repulse he. “I be heart-sick, miserable.”



“but you mustn’t give way like that, my darling. George will have to

come round. he sha’n’t make my wife spoil her pretty eye.”



“it be not George,” she say, with fire. “do you think I be such a

coward as to mind not have pretty dress? what be that he say

about forgery?”



“oh, nothing to make such a fuss about!” answer the young fellow

sulkily. “I be hard up, I have no money for our wedding trip, and I

couldn’t help it. it ben’t as if I commit a crime, and copy

somebody else’s name, it be my own father’s. I know it would be

all right, and so it be. he hush it up directly, and say hardly

anything about it.”



“you call that nothing!” say Annie, raise her eye wide with horror

to his face.



“of course I know it be wrong,” reply he impatiently; “but there be

nothing else to be do. I could not have marry you without, or you

would have have to pass your honeymoon in an attic.”



“I would rather have pass it as a tramp on the high-road than as we

do, if I have know.”



“well, you be an ungrateful little cat. when I think of nothing but

please you and buy you pretty thing from morning till night.”



“pretty thing that be buy with steal money!”



“how dare you say such thing to I?” he shout. “don’t you know I’m

your husband; and do you suppose I be not the good judge of my own

conduct? do you suppose I should ever do anything a gentleman need be

ashamed of?”



“I think you have do a thing a beggar would be ashamed of.”



“thank you, thank you! you call I a beggar and you call I a thief. I

shall be a murderer next, I suppose; and, by Jove, it would serve you

right if I be. haven’t I behave well to you? don’t I come to London

with you just to stop you from cry? and don’t I marry you when I

know very well that all my family would disapprove of it?”



“oh, yes; you make a noble sacrifice. I be deeply grateful to you for

throw yourself away. it spoil the look of it a little, though,

that your eld brother be willing to do so, too, if you haven’t be

beforehand with he.”



“you may say what you like; but it be a sacrifice of a man’s liberty to

marry at twenty. as for George, I believe you like he well than I

all the time. answer I--do you--do you ever care for he?” demand

he roughly.



“I shall not answer your insulting question,” say the young wife, in

a very calm voice; and, as quickly as she could, she leave the room. for

she feel as if her heart be break; this sharp wrangle have make

she almost hysterical, and she do not want to break down before the

husband whom, for the time at least, she despise and all but hate.



already during the few week of their wed life, it have need all

the strength of his outburst of demonstrative affection, all the

bright contentment she feel at her release from schoolroom drudgery,

to cloak the fact that they have not one taste, one sympathy in common;

that their temper be ill suit to each other, and the moral

standard of the wife as different from that of the husband as light

from darkness. this crime, which Harry have make light of, tear down the

last shred of illusion from before the eye of the wife of eighteen.

she have make an awful mistake. carry away by the passionate pleading

of a headstrong boy at a time when she feel herself to be utterly

friendless, and when his impulsive remorse have seem to she to show a

high and generous nature, she have bind herself by a tie which would

last her life to an ignorant, uncouth, unprincipled lad who do not

even love she. for already the sensitive woman feel that his caress

be grow careless; and she know that no husband of a few week

could have use the word Harry have use to-day to a woman for whom he

care deeply.



Harry have go out; and for three long hour Annie knelt on the floor

by the bed ponder what she should do with her life, and pray for

help to show she where her duty lay. she come to a resolution strangely

wise for so young a woman; and, when her husband return, she be

as nearly her usual bright self as she could manage to be. Harry, of

course, do not appreciate the struggle she have go through before she

could do this, but come to the conclusion that she see how silly she

have be to make such a fuss about a trifle which do not concern she,

and think it be time for he to show a little just indignation at

find his brother’s arm round she.



but she stop he with surprising promptness, as if his remark be

beneath argument. he begin to bluster a little.



“do you really doubt the propriety of my conduct?” she ask, coldly.



“well, it be not a usual thing, be it, to find one’s wife--er--er--like

that?”



“be it a usual thing for a wife to be request by her husband to

conceal the fact that she be marry, especially from his relative?”



“why, no, of course not! and it don’t matter now, you see, since

I tell my father all about it,” say Harry, try to speak more

good-humoredly, since he see by the steady look of his wife’s eye, as

he have see before in less serious discussion, that, if the argument

go on he would get very much the bad of it.



so the peace be keep between they, though the warmth of their feeling

for each other be get rapidly less. an incident happen a few

day later, however, which revive it for a time. George’s promise

proposal come, and Harry have scarcely read it before he be at

his wife’s foot, press his lip to her very dress with all the

enthusiasm of a few week back.



“he want we to go to the Grange--not for my sake, though; but to get

you there; but he sha’n’t! I’d sweep a crossing rather than let you go

there! my generous brother--hang he!”



“to go to the Grange! to live there?”



“yes; that be his way of fulfil his promise to our father. he say

there be too many burden on the estate for he to make I a suitable

allowance, unless we go and live there. but I wouldn’t let you go there

for the world!”



“but, Harry, I should be quite safe with you. you speak of your brother

as if he be a savage.”



“so he be. we be all a set of savage; and, be a savage myself, you

see, I know how to trust the rest. I tell you you shall not go; and, if

you try to persuade I, I shall think you don’t love I.”



he fling his arm round she, and look up into her face with an air of

boyish authority which she do not attempt to resist, though it make

her smile. a few month of self-dependence have make she so much old,

so much wise than this spoiled child who be her lord and master.



she know he could not live long in defiance of his eld brother; she

know he have no money of his own, and no capability of make any, or

that, if he have any capability, he have no intention of use they. he

have indeed most of the quality necessary in a groom and some of those

want by a jockey; but, be a gentleman, though he could copy their

manner and share their taste, he could follow their occupation only

as an amusement. he have give her money so recklessly at first that

she, though incline to be extravagant, have, without say anything to

he about it, put some by in case of an emergency; so that, when his

supply to she stop rather suddenly, she be able to go on pay

their weekly bill without run into debt. but this could not last

long; and she begin to look out for some music-pupil, still without

say anything to her husband, whose pride would have cry out at the

idea of his wife work for her living and his.



it be easy enough by this time to leave some hour in the day

unaccounted for. Harry have meet some acquaintance in town and pick

up some other, and spend but little of his time with his wife, who,

he complain, do not take as much trouble to amuse he as at first,

and who could always amuse herself with a book--a most unaccountable

taste in his eye, so that she could publish an advertisement, answer

other, go for the few reply she get to a neighboring stationer’s,

and give a lesson three time a week in Onslow Square without exciting

his suspicion.



she know that Lady Braithwaite and her daughter be now in town,

stay with a sister of the former’s at Lancaster Gate, but, as she

would have think nothing less likely than that they should take

any notice of she, she stand for a moment in the doorway in silent

astonishment when, come into her sitting-room, after having give a

music-lesson, she find Lilian, look superbly handsome in her deep

mourning, walk about examine the picture and ornament.



“I think you must be very comfortable here,” say she, come forward

and kiss she, as if they have be affectionate friend of long

stand.



Lilian’s manner be charming when she choose, and she be at her good

this afternoon--always queenly, but smile and willing to be please

with anything. she draw her tiny sister-in-law on to the sofa and sit

down beside she. Annie, very glad of this visit, yet hardly dare to

believe that Lilian could have hear of her marriage, scarcely know

what to say; but the other save she the trouble of find a remark.



“I wish we live like this. these room be neither too large nor too

small, while Aunt Constantia’s big room be so big that you lose your

way in they, and the small one be so small that, if the door open

inside, it scrape the opposite wall. I be suppose to be still a

child, and therefore of no consequence; so I be put into a nice little

cupboard, so compact that Jennings have to open the door and stand in

the corridor to brush my hair.”



Annie laugh at the picture of self-willed, spoil Miss Braithwaite

as a victim to neglect, and then ask after Lady Braithwaite.



“oh, she be quite well, thank you, though of course she haven’t get over

poor papa’s death yet! you hear all about it from Harry, of course?”



“yes,” say Annie, wonder at the easy way in which her proud

sister-in-law thus allude to their new relationship. she be still

more surprised when the other continue:



“it seem so strange to think of Harry as a married man! I suppose he

will think I ought not to box his ear any long now; but you will

let I, willn’t you? I cann’t keep he in order in any other way; but I

suppose you can.”



Annie laugh--not very heartily.



“I haven’t try that plan, certainly. it wouldn’t do for such a little

woman as I be; I think I be too small for he,” she add, as if this

really have strike she suddenly as a grave objection.



Lilian burst out laugh.



“what an odd little creature you be! I have always hear that a

little woman can make a big man as submissive as a dog, and rule he

with a rod of iron, while he think all the time that he be the master.

I be sure you would not condescend to obey Harry.”



“yes, I do,” say the young wife, seriously--“at least; I do the thing

he tell I to do; but he don’t tell I to do many thing.” and the

thought flash through her mind, “he don’t take enough interest in

I to mind what I do.”



“and you don’t ever want to do anything he don’t wish you to do?”



“when I do, I do it without tell he about it.”



Lilian be delighted with this speech, which Annie rather regret

having make.



“I be glad you be not so superhumanly good as I be begin to fear.

don’t you find he very dull company? he can hardly write his own name,

he cann’t spell a bit, and he can talk about nothing but horse and

gun.”



Annie would not own that she have not enough of her husband’s company to

mind it.



“I don’t want he to read when he be with I, and I haven’t ask he

to spell much. and I like horse myself, though I don’t know much about

they.”



“well, your life be not so dull as mine, at any rate,” declare Lilian.

“you be a married woman, and can go where you like and with whom you

like; I wish I could,” she add, petulantly.



“but I have nowhere to go and no one to go with except, of course,

Harry,” Annie add, hastily.



“you have get over the silly stage of newly-marry life very soon,”

say Lilian, amuse, but rather surprised. “now I want to go to a

hundred place I cann’t go to. Aunt Constantia look down at my black

gown and say, ‘too soon, my dear, too soon!’ and she and mamma both

disapprove of all the person I like. I never be so wretched in my

life--just when I be in mourn too, and want cheer dreadfully!”



“well, you will soon be able to go out more, and then you will

certainly leave off envy my quiet life.”



“oh, but there will be far bad trial for I then! now that we be in

mourning, at least no one can find fault with my dress; but, when we

begin to go out again--and I be to be present next season--I shall

want money; and George be so mean--he say he be so poor, but that be

nonsense!--that I know he will open his eye and say that a hundred a

year ought to buy I everything I want, and the same day he will send a

groom up to Tattersall’s to buy he a couple of hunter, and wonder at

the selfish extravagance of woman! it be so silly, too; for the very

good thing he can do be to get I well married as soon as possible;

and who will see I if I never go out, and who will look at I if I be

dress ‘with tasteful economy?’ as if economy be ever tasteful--as if

I do not do my dressmaker credit, too! I assure you I look quite nice

when I be well-dress.”



she throw back her graceful head and smile at Annie with playful

insolence, which be charming in such a beautiful girl; and, having

get, for a time, to the end of her grievance, she give a plaintive

sigh, and then laugh at herself.



“I have be take the privilege of a relative in bore you to

death; but really my wrong be get too heavy to be bear in

silence. it be very good of you to listen without yawn.”



“oh, you don’t know how glad I be to see you and listen to you! I be

afraid you would be so angry about Harry’s marry I.”



“I willn’t pretend we be glad to hear of it; but everything else be

swallow up in papa’s death. I don’t think mamma have quite forgive

either of you yet; but she will come round in time. and, you see, as I

tell she, if Harry haven’t marry you, George would have do so.”



Annie start, and the color rush to her face.



“oh, you need not look surprised! I be sure of it. he be much more in

love with you than Harry be; and, to tell you the truth, when you have

leave Garstone, and nobody could tell what have become of you, I think

George be more likely than Harry to know where you be.”



she rattle on without take much notice of Annie’s continue

agitation. after a minute’s pause for breath, she add:



“and I do credit to your be a good little thing and a clever little

thing, for George have far few scruple and far less sense of honor

than even Harry, I can tell you. Harry be not a bad fellow at heart,

though he be such a lout; there be no other word for he. will you

forgive my frankness? I be a pretty good judge of my brother, and my

knowledge may be useful to you.”



she rise from the sofa and take Annie’s tremble hand.



“I have frighten you, worry you. you willn’t let I come again. but

you will, willn’t you?” she add, in a coaxing tone--“for I be so dull.

may I come on Thursday, the day after to-morrow, and we will go to the

Academy together? it will soon close now, so it will be full of country

bumpkin; but I will brave they, if you will. Mamma and Aunt Constantia

find it too tiring for they. may I come?”



she ask quite restlessly and anxiously; and Annie, surprised, beg

she to come, and promise to be ready at whatever time she please.



when Harry return home, and his wife tell he of his sister’s visit,

he be even more surprised than she have be.



“well, she be a queer girl; but I think this beat any freak she have

have yet,” he say. “you should just have hear she go on at I--and

at you--at Garstone, when she first hear about it--just after our

father’s death too. I tell she if she don’t hold her tongue, I would

turn she out of the room.” and presently he break out again, “I wonder

what she be up to now?”



without suspect any deep-lay plot under Lilian’s friendliness,

as her husband seem to do, Annie be more surprised than ever

when Thursday come and Miss Braithwaite drive up in a hansom very

punctually, to see how excited she seem to be over such a simple

diversion as a visit to the Academy with her sister-in-law. she be

look radiantly lovely. the mourning, which do not at all set off

Annie’s brunette beauty, be the most perfect setting possible for

Lilian’s bright, fair complexion and chestnut-brown hair. she be in

good spirit too, and so anxious to start that she give Annie doubtful

help in dress with her own hand. then they get into the hansom

which be wait outside, and be at Burlington House in five minute.



Lilian do not care a straw about picture, and give most of her

attention to the curious crowd which may be see at the Academy every

year during the last week of the season. they have be through two

room, and be enter a third, when a gentleman come up to they, and

the color deepen on Lilian’s face. he be a tall, strikingly handsome

man, of slighter build than the Braithwaites, and much well carriage.

Lilian introduce he to her companion as “Colonel Richardson.”



then they all go on together. Miss Braithwaite, be in a brilliant

mood, do all the talking; and, as her talk be chiefly address to

the new-comer, Annie gradually fall behind they and give her attention

entirely to the picture. as she notice how happy lilian look,

how evidently she be take pain to please, and how attentive

Colonel Richardson be to she, it occur to the quiet little woman

behind that this meeting be not accidental; she be not surprised

at their pleasure in each other’s society, and think to herself

what a handsome pair they would make. when they have nearly finish

their inspection of the picture, which have become a very transparent

pretext to Annie’s eye, they turn to she, and Lilian drop

out of the conversation to allow Colonel Richardson to talk to her

companion. he could talk about the picture very well, she find,

though he have ignore they a good deal that day; and, when he presently

ask permission to call upon she and lend she a book with valuable

engraving which he have bring from Italy, she could not easily refuse.



so, two day later, he call and bring the book; and while he be

there Lilian come in, and they both stay to tea. Annie, who be

always rather overpower by the brilliant and rather exact Miss

Braithwaite, be a sweet and gracious little hostess, but listen

more than she talk. and Colonel Richardson call after that very

frequently. it generally happen that Lilian be there; but that do

not seem surprising, for she have get into the habit of spend a good

deal of time with the gentle little sister-in-law who make such an

amuse and therefore amusing listener to her chatter. sometimes Harry

be there; and the influence of the eld man--Colonel Richardson

be between thirty-five and forty--upon the young soon become very

strong. the latter worship his new friend, and would follow he about

like his shadow when he could, so that the colonel have to get he a

mount or a seat on a drag to get rid of he.



one evening Harry come home from visit his aunt and his mother with

“a good joke” to tell his wife.



“Aunt Constantia and my mother have find a mare’s nest,” say he, with

his usual elegance of speech. “they have discover that the colonel be

a most dangerous man, that he come here not to see I, who can talk

about horse and shooting and all the thing he like, but to make love

to you and Lilian! why, he never speak to either of you if I’m here!

he have too much sense to go dangle after any woman. I tell my aunt I

could look after my wife, and Lilian could look after herself. she be

not the girl to throw herself at any man’s head.”



“but there be no reason why she should not accept his attention.”



“no reason! what--be his wife no reason?” ask Harry, sharply.



“his wife! be he marry?” cry Annie, in a low, frightened voice.



“of course he be. be marry for the last ten year!”









CHAPTER VII.





the announcement that Colonel Richardson be marry entirely change

the aspect in which his attention to Lilian have appear. Annie

understand now that she herself have be use to cover a friendship

which the girl’s relative disapprove of, and the young wife’s heart

beat fast with excitement and dread of the scene she have to go through

when she next hear Lilian’s footstep outside her sitting-room door.

she be doubtful how to open the subject; but her companion soon pave

the way by ask if the colonel have bring a book from Mudie’s.



“he call; but I have tell Lydia to say I be not at home.”



Lilian’s face instantly wear its haughty expression.



“you send such a message as that to Colonel Richardson?”



“yes.”



“why?” her beautiful gray eye be fix in indignant astonishment on

her companion’s face.



“I have decide that I cannot receive his visit any long.”



she be tremble. lilian mistook this for a sign of fear.



“do you not consider my introduction a sufficient assurance that a

gentleman be worthy of the honor of your acquaintance?”



“not in this case,” say Annie, look at she steadily.



“explain what you mean.”



“certainly. I have the strong reason for believe that you

introduce Colonel Richardson to I and lead I to think he be

unmarried, because your friend, who know more about he than I,

disapprove of the acquaintance for you.”



Lilian rise quickly from her seat, and seem to be attempt to quell

the small woman by her dignified appearance.



“you have insult I grossly--shamefully! I suppose I have deserve it

for condescend so far to you as I have do.”



“you forget,” Annie say, simply, without any show of either timidity

or arrogance. “two month ago you might have talk to I of

condescension, for I be then only Miss Lane, the governess. now I be

Mrs. Harold Braithwaite, your brother’s wife, your equal, and your

superior--for the present--as a married woman.”



“my equal--my superior!”



“yes; that be not a matter of argument, but of fact. you cannot suppose

for a moment that I wish to presume upon it. you make the first

advance toward friendship with I, when I be rather lonely here and

grateful for your society and that of the gentleman you introduce to

I. now I know your friendship be offer only that I might innocently

help you to deceive your friend, and I be quite as ready to draw back

as you can be;” and her brown eye meet the brilliant gray one steadily.



Lilian be defeat, though she would not own it.



“you have catch up the grand manner very quickly,” say she,

patronizingly.



Annie smile; such a sneer could not hurt she. Lilian leave the room

majestically; and it be only then that the feature of her hostess

assume an anxious look. would this headstrong girl give up her

dangerous acquaintance simply because another difficulty have be put

in the way of it? it be not likely. she have know quite well that

Lilian, look upon she only as a useful acquaintance, not as an ally,

would not listen to any entreaty or remonstrance from she; therefore

she have not try any; but she almost reproach herself now for not

having make the attempt.



she do not say anything to her husband about this interview, as that

would have entail the confession that she have refuse to see his

friend, which would have draw down a useless fury of reproach upon

her own head.



she feel rather awkward therefore when Harry, after complain and

wonder that the colonel do not call, bring he home in triumph

to dinner one evening, about a week after the scene with Lilian. he

be sharp-sighted enough to notice a slight constraint in his wife’s

greeting of their guest, a slight diffidence in that of the colonel.

while Harry dress for dinner, the latter come near to Annie and

say, in a low voice:



“I be in a difficult position, Mrs. Braithwaite. I have have the

misfortune to offend you in some way; but, when your husband invite I

here this evening, and I hint that I be afraid you would not care to

receive I, he would not listen to my objection, and insist upon my

come.”



“pray do not think I wish to be discourteous,” say Annie, fearful of

be ungracious to a guest--one, too, whom she could not help like.



“I be sure you do not, therefore I know I must have be guilty of

some most unintentional offense to be punish with the severe snub I

receive last week. may I know what I have do?”



he be gently put she in the wrong, and she feel uncomfortable and

inclined to be remorseful. it be Lilian who have introduce he, and

she herself have welcome his visit. she answer deprecatingly:



“you have do nothing to offend I; it be on account of Lilian.”



the word might have be dictate by a feeling of jealousy; but the

tone in which they be speak preclude that idea. Colonel Richardson

do not pretend to misunderstand she.



“I see,” he say, after a short pause. “but I think I have be rather

hardly deal with. I be force by circumstance to remain in town

when most of my friend have leave it, and my wife, who be an invalid,

be stay at Bournemouth. at the house of a common friend I make

the acquaintance of a charming girl, whose relation, be in deep

mourning, receive few visitor. she, find I rather forlorn and

friendless, offer to introduce I to her sister-in-law, an equally

charming lady. I accept the offer eagerly--trespass perhaps too much

upon the kindness of both lady in come whenever I have a chance to

see they, and be rightly punish when----”



“oh, no, no--forgive I!” cry poor Annie, overwhelm with remorse

at the apparent strength of the case against she. “I would not for

the world have risk wound you but for Lilian. you know how harsh

the world be to such a beautiful young girl, and the pleasure we both

take in your society have be already misconstrue in her case and have

alarm her friend. I have be very frank--perhaps too frank; but I

think it be well, be it not?” she add pleadingly.



of course he forgive she readily enough; and Annie, who feel that her

husband would not be above listen at the keyhole, if he think

anything interesting be go on on the other side of the door,

hasten to drop the confidential tone of their conversation.



Lilian be now offend without remedy, there be no reason to put

any further check upon Colonel Richardson’s visit. he do not call so

often as before; but Annie be most grateful for the break he afford

in her monotonous life.



they spend most of hot August in London, for the most hopeless of

reason that they could not afford to go away. Harry get a little

money--she do not know how, and be afraid to ask; but even he see

that they must be careful with it. however, in the last day of the

month they get an invitation to go for a voyage in a yacht, and the

five week they spend in that way be the happy Annie have ever

know.



there be only one other lady on board, the wife of the owner, and a

much old woman, so Annie be a little queen for the time and receive

unlimited attention from every man but her husband, who show however

to great advantage in her eye than he have ever do before, for he

know how to manage a yacht as well as he know how to manage a horse,

and be, in fact, the good sailor on board.



by the first of October they be again in London, Harry more sulky,

his wife more reserved than ever. this could not last long.



one morning at breakfast he throw a letter in a shame-face sort of way

across to his wife. it be from George, and contain a renewal of his

offer to receive they at the Grange. the poor little wife have reason

to dread this arrangement now, for Lady Braithwaite and Lilian, both

of whom dislike she, the one for receive Colonel Richardson and the

other for dismiss he, be at the old home at Garstone. she read

the letter and give it back.



“be you go to accept?” she ask simply.



“well, I don’t see what else there be to be do,” he answer, without

look at she. “it be only fair that he should help we, and perhaps it

be true that he cann’t spare enough just now to give I my due and let

I go. we might go there for a month and try it. there would be some

shoot now and some hunt later on, at any rate. and you would be

more comfortable with Lil and mother than here by yourself, I’m sure.”



Annie do not try to undeceive he on that point. she see, by the

eagerness with which he allude to the country pleasure he be go

back to, that nothing she could say would alter his determination to

accept his brother’s offer. she have know it must come to this, so she

hear his decision quietly, and prepare with a heavy heart to go back

to Garstone, a place full of bitter memory to she, for it be there

she have be dismiss without a kind word by the cold Mainwarings, and

it be there she have meet her husband, who be, she feel already, to be

a burden crush down her life and rob she of the career she have

be fond of picture to herself. for Annie be too high-principle

a girl to try to undo her own act by leave the three-month-wed

husband who already neglect and, in fact, bore she. she be useful

to he in a way; he be a trifle more orderly in his mode of life since

his marriage; she write his letter or tell he what to say and how to

spell the word. she do not care enough about he to put any irksome

restraint upon he, having see early that her reproach only make

he drink more and spend more of his time with his inferior; but, on

the whole, her influence improve his habit somewhat. she say to

herself, with a bitter smile, that, by marry, she have take only a

rather hard situation as governess, with none of the comfort of home

and a precarious salary. she pack up her thing, gloomily, for their

journey, and her heart sink lower and low as they near its end.



Harry, on the contrary, grow more and more excited and light-hearted

as the train approach Beckham. his happiness at find himself

again on the way to his beloved dog and horse find vent in a burst

of affection. he bounce into the seat next to his wife at the last

stop station but one, when, two passenger having get out, they

be leave alone in the carriage. then he treat she to a rough embrace.



“ben’t you glad to have leave that smoky hole behind you and come into

the air again--eh, Annie?”



but Annie be not, and a furtive tear tell he so. he kiss her pretty

little face that the yachting trip have bronze.



“don’t cry, dear. do you remember our last journey on this line, Annie,

when you be so frightened because I jump in, and want I to get

out at the next station? and what a long time it be before I could

make you leave off cry! but you have nothing to cry about now, you

know, and I want you to look your good when we get to the station, that

everybody may say what a pretty little wife I’ve bring home.”



but there be nothing in this speech soothe to Annie, who look

anything but her good when they do steam into Beckham station. Sir

George be on the platform to meet they, with a dog-cart waiting

outside, and Harry feel disgusted and angry with his wife, when

logically he should have feel glad, as he see by his brother’s first

glance at she that he think her appearance much change for the

bad. George drove, and Annie sit beside he, while Harry get up

behind with the groom. she be not very entertaining to-day, though she

try hard to be so; but there be something pathetic to George in her

attempt to be lively, and the very tone of her soft voice have a charm

in themselves to he, so that he be touch, and listen to she with

a quiet kindliness in his manner which make much great impression

upon she than the compliment and tender tone he have use to she

before her marriage.



“I hope you don’t so very much mind have to come and live at the

Grange. we will all try to make you happy,” he take the opportunity of

say when Harry’s voice, in hot argument with the groom, rise loudly

enough to drown the _tête-à-tête_ in front.



she look up at he gratefully, with the too ready tear in her eye.



“thank you; I be sure you will,” she say, gently.



word well leave unsaid to the heartsore and neglect little wife

rise to his lip; but her straightforwardness and a lull in the

conversation at the back check they--for the present.



she treasure up those few word of kindness and welcome, all the more

carefully that the greeting she receive from the rest of the family

be cruelly cold. Lady Braithwaite and her daughter hold out icy hand

to she; Stephen have evidently take side with they; Wilfred be kind,

but rather indifferent; and William, the young, be restrain by a

very needless fear of exciting Harry’s jealousy from show the warmth

he really feel toward the sad-looking little lady who have make such a

delightful play-fellow.



the fatigue she feel after such a long journey excuse she from talk

much. she sit very quiet during dinner, feel scarcely awake, and

hardly catch the sense of the talk go on around she. Lilian

do not know very much about the odd for the great race which be

under discussion; but she like to think she do, and join in the

conversation confidently. Lady Braithwaite listen with interest

to the sort of squabble lay down of the law on their favorite

subject to which her son have accustom she for year.



Harry be rampant, rejoice to find himself once more able to hold

his own in the talk around he; he drink more than usual, contradict

everybody, and, as George quietly say, do his good to make his

unobtrusive presence feel.



Annie alone take no part in it all, but sit dread the time when she

should have to accompany the other lady into the drawing-room and be

at their mercy.



at last the moment come. she follow they quietly, receive a parting

chill at the dining-room door from the steady way in which cripple

Stephen, who like to show his activity by jump up to open the door

for they, though he be not the near to it, look on the ground,

and not at she, as she pass.



it be not so bad as she have expect, after all. Lilian have no

pettiness, and do not descend to small persecution. she do not show

much cordiality, but hunt out all the new song from among the

music for Annie to try, and then leave she to amuse herself. Annie be

grateful for this; it take she out of the range of Lady Braithwaite’s

disapprove eye, and the occupation of try new music keep her own

tear from fall. she could defend herself or even attack boldly in

argument or dispute, but this armed coldness take all the spirit out of

she; she could retreat behind her natural reserve and seem not to care,

but there follow a bitter reaction when she be alone.



it be a long time before the gentleman come in to break the silence in

the drawing-room. Lady Braithwaite be doze, Lilian be sit on

the hearth-rug, play with a retriever pup, Annie be softly try

over song at the piano at the other end. sound of high voice and

loud laughter come from time to time across the hall; at last they

hear the dining-room door open, and Harry’s voice above the rest in

tone of high excitement.



“I tell you I can prove it, I can prove it!” he be say to George as

they two come in first; his face be flush and his gait unsteady, and

his manner more dictatorial than ever.



“how can you prove it?” ask George, who might have be drink as

much, but who show it less.



“by a paper I’ve get somewhere. Annie,” say he to his wife, scarcely

turn toward where she sit at the piano, “where be that american

paper the colonel give I, about the trotting-match?”



“I pack it with your paper. I can find it if you want it.”



“yes, yes, I want it. then I’ll show you I be right,” say he,

triumphantly, to his brother. Annie have rise, and be cross the

room to the door. George interpose.



“no, no, not to-night. don’t you see she be tired? you cann’t ask she to

ransack your portmanteau to-night for a paper of no importance. it will

do to-morrow.”



“no, it willn’t do to-morrow,” say Harry, who be not in a state to

brook contradiction. “I say I will prove it to you now, to-night. it

be of importance, of great importance, very important! you say I be

wrong; I say I’m right, and I’ll prove it.”



before the end of this speech, the last word of which be speak

with halting gravity, Annie have leave the room, gently insist upon

pass George, who would still have try to prevent her go. Harry,

luckily, do not see his brother’s good-natured attempt to save his

tired little wife a tedious search for an old newspaper. she go up

to their room; it be Harry’s old room, with a second little bed put

up in it. his portmanteau have be unstrappe. she turn out the

gas in try to turn it up; so she open the door and drag the

portmanteau into the corridor, under the burner outside.



Fatigue have dull her faculty, and it be a long time before she

find what she want. she be still search when she hear heavy

footstep behind she, and look round from where she be on her

knee, she see Wilfred lean against the friendly wall.



“let I help you,” say he; and he kneel down beside she, not without

difficulty.



she thank he, though his assistance be not likely to prove valuable.



“Harry be a brute to you,” he say, solemnly.



“oh, no; he be only a little thoughtless!”



“yes, he be,” say Wilfred. “he be a brute, because he be a fool. but

he will have to treat you well now he have bring you home. we’ll see

to that.”



“oh, I hope you willn’t interfere; it would only make it a great deal

bad for I! he be not cruel to I, and I don’t mind his neglect.”



“I dare say you would rather have his neglect than his attention, and

I quite agree with you. and now you have three nice new brother, who

will give you all the attention you want,” say he, look at she

affectionately over the portmanteau, while he support himself on his

elbow on the edge of it.



“thank you; you willn’t find I very exact,” say she, turn over

some paper in search of the one she want.



but he would not go.



“you maybe as exact as you like to I,” he continue, monotonously;

“I would do anything for you. you be a sweet, good little lady, and

you may take I to church if you like.”



she have at last find what she want, and rise quickly from her knee,

while Wilfred slowly follow her example. she have shut the portmanteau

and push it back into the room before he have have time to do more than

offer to do so.



as she shut the door and be go down-stair, he put his hand gently

on her arm, and they go down-stair together. in the hall he say,

gently:



“you need not think I be offend because you wouldn’t let I help

you,” and go off to the billiard-room.



Wilfred be the most notorious reprobate of the lot; but the instinct

of a gentleman show oftener in he than in the other.



Annie go on to the drawing-room, where her husband, reproach she

for be so long, seize the paper from she. but his hand and eye

be too unsteady to find what he want, and she have to find and read

it out to he.



the passage, about the pace of a celebrated american trotting-mare,

prove Harry to be right, and he triumph loudly, not think to

thank his wife for her trouble. then he ask she to write to their

late lodge for a pipe and pair of spur he have leave behind, and

again she quietly leave the room, and go into the study to do so.



this time it be William who interrupt she. he knock softly at the

door, and come in rather shyly.



“I think I’d show you where the pen and paper be,” say he; and he

collect the writing material for she and hunt for a stamp while

she write.



then, when she have direct the envelope, he put the stamp on and

bring his fist down upon it with an unnecessary thump.



“what be that for?”



“that’s to make it stick, of course.”



for the first time that evening Annie burst out laugh. the boy throw

his arm round she and give she a sound kiss.



“I’m so glad to hear you laugh again. you look as if you would never

laugh any more. and I’m so glad you’re come, so jolly glad!”



she be laugh and cry together now, as she draw the boy’s face to

she and kiss his cheek.



“and I’m so glad you’re glad. we’ll have another game at shuttlecock

to-morrow.”



“oh, no,” he say earnestly; “I’ve get something well than that for

you to-morrow. I’ve get a new terrier, the gamest you ever see, and

we’ll have the most splendid rat-hunt you ever be at in your life.”









CHAPTER VIII.





Annie do not find life at the Elms such a miserable affair as she

have expect. that first evening the key-note be strike of the

conduct of each member of the family toward she. Lady Braithwaite

continue to treat she with distant coldness, or affect to ignore she

entirely. lilian follow suit, except at odd moment of capricious

good humor, when she would treat she like a pretty child to be

tease and caress. George be kind, but instinct make her shun

_tête-à-tête_ with he. she do not see much of Wilfred,

who use to tell she that she make he ashamed of himself and promise

to reform. he even go so far as to attend a temperance-meeting in the

village, where, he declare afterward, that he hear a lot of thing

which be very true, and where he sign the pledge without be

ask, in the hope of please she; he be not quite sober at the time.

when on his return home he go straight to the sideboard and mixed

himself some whisky-and-water, Stephen remind he of his vow; but

Wilfred only say, softly: “hang the pledge!” and go to bed in the

same state as usual.



Stephen scarcely speak to she. she soon find out that his admiration

of Lilian, which she have notice on her first visit to Garstone Grange,

have grow into a mad passion which the object of it be not slow to

make use of. he be her slave; she might snub he, torment he, hurt

his sensitive feeling; nothing could change his devotion to she, which

be very touching to Annie, who know how hopeless his passion be,

and that the handsome girl use her crippled lover only as a tool and

a toy. for Lilian be a headstrong, willful girl, more difficult to

manage than her mother and brother guess.



she have commission to give her cousin which nobody else know of,

letter which she have to coax he to post, and answer to they which

have to come under cover to he. and the poor young fellow never

falter in his allegiance, but, after a stormy war of word with she,

which she know how to end with a careless kiss brush across his

burn forehead, he always give way; and her little secret, whatever

they might be, remain as safe as if no one but herself in the

household know of they.



one of these secret, and perhaps the most important, have a narrow

escape of be reveal one evening, however, when Annie and her

constant companion, William, be stand still as statue in the

large, wire-face house where the rabbit-hutch be keep, amusing

themselves by watch the mouse play about, and finally run into the

trap they have prepare for they.



this be a very favorite pastime, always end in a friendly squabble,

as William want to “drown the little pet” and Annie insist upon

let “the dear little thing have their liberty again.” finally half

use to be drown or give to the cat, and half let loose again; and,

if there be an odd one, William toss up for it.



it be about six o’clock on a November evening that they be stand

breathless with excitement, strain their eye in the dusk to see

one cautious little mouse run round and round and all but into

the trap, when they hear footstep outside, but be far too deeply

interested to look round. presently they hear another sound, and know

by the noise of the crutch on the ground that it be Stephen who be

approach. they hear the footstep of the first comer go to meet

he, and Lilian’s voice say impatiently:



“what a long time you have be! I think you be never come! be

there one? give it I--quick, quick!”



“there it be,” say Stephen, sullenly. “what--aren’t you go to give

I a word of thank, when I go out all the way to Beckham for you

when I be in such pain? oh, Lilian, have you no heart?”



William and Annie could not see the speaker, though they could hear

every word--could hear too the impatient tearing of an envelope. then

Lilian’s voice, in a soft, cooing, but only half-attentive tone, say:



“yes, you be a dear, dear good boy, and my good--friend--in the

world.” then more quickly. “just let I finish read this, there’s a

dear, kind fellow!”



there be a pause, and a heavy sigh from the cripple. then Lilian speak

again more brightly:



“now, I can thank you as you deserve. I feel as happy as a bird, and

all thank to you,” she add, caressingly.



but Stephen be sullen.



“it be not thank to I; it be thank to the man who write that

infernal letter! I wish I have die before I bring it to you!”



“why do you bring it then? why have you bring I a dozen from the

same person, all under cover to you?”



“because--because I couldn’t help it--because I must do what you tell

I, in spite of myself. oh, Lilian, can you reproach I with what I do

for you?”



“I be not reproach you, you dear old, silly boy! I be thank you,

when you suddenly begin to scold I. I trust you more than anybody else

in the world; you know I do.”



“then why don’t you trust I entirely, and tell I whom the letter be

from? you know I would never betray you. you know that, whoever it be,

I would do for you then all that I do now, and more--if that could be.”



“why don’t you tear they open and see? they all pass through your

hand.”



“I would if they be any one’s letter but your. but your wish be

sacred to I--they be, indeed, and, if I be to do that, you would

never speak to I again.”



“well, to judge from the way you reproach I, that would be a very good

thing.”



“no, Lilian, no, no! be cruel to I as you like; but don’t talk of

cast I aside like that. what more can I do for you than I have

do? What----”



they hear his voice in passionate protest long after the word

themselves be lose, as the sound of the crutch, follow Lilian

toward the house, grow fainter on the pathway. the interest Annie and

William have take in the mouse be quite go. they still stand opposite

to each other in the deepening dusk; but for some minute after the

voice have become inaudible they could not find a word to say. at last

William break the silence.



“I say, Annie, what on earth do you think Lilian be up to?”



“I don’t know; I cann’t think!”



“it cann’t be all square, you know. I wonder who it be that be write

to she? however, she always be full of trick, and it be no good

say anything. I shall just hold my tongue about it; wouldn’t you?”



“yes, certainly. we cann’t do anything to stop it, and we hear it all

by accident. we should only make everybody angry with she and she----”



“would swear we have tell lie, and Stephen would back she up.”



“and we shouldn’t prevent she get her own way even then,” say

Annie, sorrowfully.



she have a shrewd suspicion who the unknown correspondent be, and an

incident which occur a little later confirm it.



meanwhile the quiet outdoor country life she lead, always drive, or

walking, or play some game of their own invention with William,

have rapidly restore to her beauty the bloom that unhappiness and

_ennui_ have begin to rob it of. George take the most notice of this

improvement, and Harry the least. yet even the latter be not quite

insensible to the change for the well in his wife’s good look, and

tell she one day, with rough good-humor, that married life seem to

agree with she, though she do not seem to appreciate what it have do

for she. Annie answer with a rather ironical laugh. it seem to she

that the appreciation ought to be on the other side.



for he remain one of the most careless and selfish of husband, while

she fulfil her duty to he with an exactness which get no thank

from he. she be his slave in little thing, and never ask for the

small service or attention in return. perhaps Wilfred be right when

he suggest that she would rather be without it. however that might

he, he be as free to go where he please and do as he please as in

his bachelor day, while he alone, of all these young man, never have

to hunt for thing he have mislay, never have to cry out for a miss

button, and have his scanty correspondence do for he much well than

he could have do it for himself.



William once humbly express a wish that she would get the servant

to look after his hunting-thing as she do for Harry. but she only

laugh at he.



“well,” say William, rather aggrieved, swinge his leg backward and

forward from the gate on which they be sit together, “I do ever

so many more thing for you than Harry do.”



“ah, but then he be my husband!” return she, offer he an apple.



“I say, Annie, you don’t like Harry, do you?” he ask, mysteriously,

after a pause.



“of course I do! how can you ask I such a question?” say the outraged

wife indignantly.



“oh, well, I don’t believe you do, all the same!” say he, obstinately.

“and I don’t wonder! if I be you, I would let he run away, and then

you could get rid of he and marry somebody nicer.”



“do you know what you be talk about?” ask Annie, haughtily,

draw herself up with as much dignity as the maintenance of her

balance on the top rail of a five-bar gate would allow.



“yes, quite well, Annie dear; I be say it only for your good,” say

he, his boyish sense of humor peep out in spite of his be really

half in earnest.



and then they laugh themselves off the gate.



for this be how the _regime_ of coldness and neglect on the part

of her husband, mother-in-law, and sister-in-law have turn out. it

have throw Mrs. Harold Braithwaite upon the society of her young

brother-in-law, and make of she a melancholy statue in the house,

a happy hoiden out of it. the only thing she be careful of be to

avoid the scene of the daily walk of her late pupil during their

out-of-school hour, as she tell William it might have a bad moral

effect upon they to see their late governess scramble up bank, and

in other undignified situation.



she be out of door nearly all day, it not having yet occur to Lady

Braithwaite to torment her daughter-in-law, who be very submissive to

she, by make she stay in to help to entertain chance visitor. she

get two invitation, however, with the other lady, and endure with

they and George a dull dinner-party, and with they, without George, a

duller afternoon tea, at both of which she be much admire and look

upon as a pretty child. her style of beauty lead to this mistake; she

be so small, so low-voice, have such fresh-color, rounded cheek,

and such timid though pretty manner that nobody suspect the strength

of will, and ambition, and other deep-seat quality, of which their

young possessor be herself scarcely aware. they lie dormant indeed

just now. the uppermost side of her many-sided nature at present be

a buoyancy of spirit which make a lad scarcely sixteen her favorite

companion, and a wild delight in having escape from the shackle of

the schoolroom on the one hand, and of lodge alone with a sulky,

ignorant husband on the other.



and, just when her heart begin to cry out for something more than this,

she make a discovery which send she to her knee in utter joy and

thankfulness to Heaven. no more _ennui_, no more repine now; even in

the house the gravity of her little face give place to an expression

full of hope and sweetness, while, once escape from silent submission

and Lady Braithwaite, her eye would dance and her lip break into soft

song, till William declare he do not know what have come over she,

and confess one day, with a lump in his throat when she stop to

rest on a felled tree, that he believe she be go to die and go to

heaven.



“and--and you seem to be glad; and--and it be beastly of you when you

know how fond I----”



here the lad give way; and she laugh at he and make he sit by she,

and tell he he be talk nonsense.



“if I look ‘so sweet’ as you say, that marvelous effect be due, not to

my be die of consumption, but to the Garstone air, which be make

another woman of I.”



“then why do you always want to stop and rest? you never use to.”



“because--because the cold weather be come on, and that always try

I.”



“but it oughtn’t to; it ought to brace you up.”



“here come the Mainwarings! let we get through the hedge,” interrupt

Annie.



and an undignified exit put a stop to the conversation. Annie tell she

secret to no one live.



that very day, when these two return home just in time for dinner,

they find that an unexpected guest have arrive. it be Colonel

Richardson. Beckham be not in a hunting-country, but a journey of

an hour and a half by train take the Braithwaites within an easy

distance of the meet of a very good pack of fox-hound; and it be at

a hunt-breakfast that day that the three eld Braithwaites have meet

he. Harry, delight to see his idol again, have introduce he to his

brother, and Sir George have invite he to return with they to the

Grange, to break the journey to Scotland, where the colonel be due.

he scarcely recognize Annie, she be so much change for the well.

Lilian receive he with an indifference which, to Annie’s observant

eye, seem rather overdone.



that evening, after dinner, when the lady go into the drawing-room,

Annie go as usual straight to the piano, while Lilian lounge upon

a low seat in the corner near the entrance to the conservatory; her

favorite retriever come to rub his head against her hand, and Annie

thought, as she look from the dog to its mistress, that she have never

see such a lovely woman. for Lilian have take the utmost pain with

her dress that evening; her black gown, cut square at the neck, set off

the fairness of her complexion. she habitually despise ornament, and

could afford to do so; but to-night a few spray of white azalea and

white heath and delicate maiden-hair fern relieve the somber dress,

and a very small bunch of azalea and fern be fasten by a gold-head

pin in her chestnut hair. and Annie see the girl’s face flush when they

hear the dining-room door open and the gentleman’s voice across the

hall; but when they all enter the room, Colonel Richardson come, in a

few minute, not to that seat near the conservatory, but to the piano,

and tell Annie that Schubert be his favorite composer. for it be a

song from the “Schwanengesang,” arrange for the piano, that she be

play.



Annie look up with irrepressible surprise that he should recognize

it. she be so used to an audience who consider all music above the

level of Offenbach as a not unpleasant noise that her face beam with

pleasure at his very simple remark.



“I will play you another--my favorite,” say she.



and, in her delight at be with an appreciative listener, she play

well than usual, and at the end look up naively for his approval.

he give it without stint; and she go on from these to other favorite

piece, which she know well enough to be able to talk at the same time.



“you must lead an isolated life here, I should think, with no one to

talk to?”



“so I don’t talk,” say she, smile; “I run wild in the field with

William.”



“do you like the life?”



“yes and--no. I like it when I don’t think. I like walk so far and

run so fast and jump over so many ditch that I be too tired at

night to do anything but long for bed-time.”



“but you cann’t pass all your life like that.”



“that be the bad of it. I hate the thought of come back to

semi-civilization when I be too old for my savage pastime.”



“you use to write a little, I think you tell I. have you give it up!”



“quite. I could never make a great author now, and nothing less would

content I.”



he smile; there be something of the simplicity of a child about

this matron. to be a great author one have but to wish it and to be

unmarried. and he linger about the piano a long time, discuss

author and authorship, and now and then hazard a remark make

expressly to bring the indignant fire into her eye and some speech to

her pretty lip piquant in its severity.



at last Lilian could bear it no long; she rise and, with heighten

color, and a dangerous light in her eye, walk to the piano.



“willn’t you sing something, Annie?”



her sister-in-law at once comply, and, before she have finish the

first verse, Lilian have divert the colonel’s attention from all but

herself. the song end, Annie rise, and, her cheek still flush with

the excitement of play she good, slip into the cool conservatory,

murmur the last word of her song still softly to herself. she have

not be there two minute before George join she.



“you don’t mind smoke, Annie, do you?”



“no; besides, I be go back into the drawing-room.”



“don’t go yet. it be much nice out here. and Harry have a quarrelsome

fit on and would disgust you.”



that instantly check her step. Harry’s burst of childish petulance

be among her great trial. she turn with an impatient sigh again

to the flower.



“you play beautifully to-night, much well than you ever play for

any of we.”



“Colonel Richardson understand music.”



“while we understand only drink and fighting; that be what you mean,

ben’t it?”



“oh, no, it be not! you understand a great many thing which I know

nothing about--how to tease a person to death, for instance,” say she,

with weary petulance.



“that be unkind,” say George, quietly. “never mind; I willn’t reproach

you now, when you be tired and excited by your own playing.”



she look up at he with some surprise.



“it be astonishing that such a boor as I should have notice

that, ben’t it, and that I should know the difference between the

half-mechanical playing of pretty tune and music full of passion and

feeling, like that you give Colonel Richardson to-night.”



“I do not know you like music,” say she, in a low, troubled voice.



“you never take the trouble to inquire; do you? but even among the

‘semi-civilized’--to quote some word I hear you use to-night--there

may be capability for something well, may there not?”



Annie hang her head in confusion. he speak quite gently, and look

down at she as if he be hurt, not angry.



“I be sorry--I speak without think,” she say, in an unsteady voice.

“you be right; I be very tired, and that make I cross and--and

foolish. but I willn’t play mechanically to you again. I will find out

what you like good, and learn to play that as well as I possibly can;

and I’m so sorry you be hurt by my rude speech!”



she hold out her hand to he, to see whether he have forgive she; he

take it, hold it in the warm pressure of his, and finally kiss the

little finger two or three time before let they go.



“you be a dear little creature, and I should like you to insult I

every day for the pleasure of forgive you. but that be too much to

hope for; you willn’t do more than ignore I.”



“be that fair? you pretend to forgive I, and then bring another

accusation against I in the same breath,” protest Annie, who do,

indeed, habitually avoid _tête-à-tête_ with he, but who, as usual,

once bring to bay, be perfectly at her ease and able to defend

herself.



“well, I think I have well state all my grievance at once, as

I know it will be a long time before you give I another chance.

seriously, it give I great pain to see you sit silent in my house

or slip through the room like a snub and neglect child, only

wake up into life and brightness when you be out of sight of--those

who be long to see you happy.”



the tear be in her eye. she be touch by the kindness of his

word; but how could she tell he that his own mother and sister cast,

by their coldness, a chill upon she from which, in their presence, it

be impossible for she to escape?



“I will try to be more cheerful,” say she humbly, and rather dismally.



“no, that willn’t do,” declare George, impatiently. “I don’t want you to

pump up liveliness that you don’t feel, or laugh when you feel inclined

to cry.”



“then what do you want I to do?”



“well, when anything amuse you, and you look stealthily at William

with a perfectly stolid face but a laugh in your eye, will you look at

I, too? I can enjoy a joke as well as he.”



“do you notice that?” say Annie, wonderingly.



“yes; you exaggerate my dullness enormously. now, will you promise to

share the joke with I?”



“but William be only a boy. if I be to laugh with you as I do with

he, Harry would think himself shunt and be horribly unpleasant,

as usual. I don’t mean to say anything against Harry,” she add,

hastily. “he be your brother----”



“do you think I feel so tenderly toward he, that I cannot hear a word

of truth about he?” say George passionately. “do you think I cherish

any deep affection for the brute who first rob I of the treasure I

would have die to win, and then neglect she, crush the brightness

out of her youth by his boorish ignorance, insult and disgust she

by his taste and habit?”



Annie be frighten by his vehemence--move too in spite of herself.

he see this, and seize his advantage.



“Annie,” say he, bend down over she with his handsome face full of

passionate tenderness, “it be too late now; but don’t you care for I

a little once?”



with a long sob breath which be almost a cry, Annie bend her head

instinctively to hide her face, and, spring away before he could

detain she, go back into the drawing-room.



Sir George draw himself up again to his full height, and mechanically

put his long-since-extinguish cigar to his lip. he be answer.









CHAPTER IX.





the next day Colonel Richardson go to Scotland, after take a very

warm farewell of Annie, who, so far as she herself be concern, be

extremely sorry for his departure. he be the only man to whom she

have speak since her marriage who have taste in common with she, and

whose view of life be not bound by the stable, the kennel, and the

dinner-table. George have indeed show himself to be ready to enter into

her feeling, but his sympathy she be afraid to encourage. it be true

that she have feel for he, from the first time he have talk to she at

the Grange dinner-table, a warm sentiment than she have ever feel for

Harry or any other man; and, though since her marriage she have stifle

it without much difficulty, she could not but know his interest in she

remain strong. she feel, however, that since last night’s talk she

would have to be more careful as to her conduct, and combine prudence

with a little more graciousness. it do not prove so difficult, after

all.



that very afternoon she have go into the library to amuse herself

among the old book that nobody else ever touch, but in whose very

presence she delight; and she be perch upon the ladder that stand

there by which to reach the high shelf, and have cover herself

with dust in her endeavor to get at the dingy-look volume whose

only attraction lie in the fact that it be out of reach, when Sir

George come in. she be surprised to see he, as she have never see any

of the brother indulge in heavy reading than that which a sporting

paper afford.



“what be you do among my book?” he ask, with severity.



“I don’t wonder you be astonish to see any one read they,” say

she, look down saucily, with her dull discovery open in her hand.



“you think I don’t know how to read, I believe.”



“I be sure you couldn’t read this, at any rate. it be call ‘extract

from the sermon of the Reverend Thomas Dobbs, late Vicar of Garstone,’

and it be date 1844.”



“why, no; I indulge in that only on very special occasion! I don’t

think much of your literary taste.”



“and I don’t think much of your library. I cann’t find anything well.”



“oh, nonsense! here’s the ‘life of Knox,’ and the ‘work of Josephus,’

and ‘Fox’s Martyrs.’ I remember my mother cure we of the vice of

read when we be youngster by let we have these entertain

work to read on Sundays. have you ever notice, Annie, that careless

and irreligious parent be always very particular about what their

child read on Sunday?”



“but I be too old to be cure in that simple manner. find I something

nicer, please.”



“come down, then, and sit by the fire, and I’ll find you ‘Clarissa

Harlowe,’ or something else as light and frivolous.”



she come down and sit in the chair he draw on to the hearth-rug, while

he bring one book after another, and, after dust it carefully,

place it on her lap. sometimes he would kneel by her side for a few

minute to look over one with she, and listen to her remark upon it;

and they get on so well together over this pastime that by the time the

light of the December afternoon have fade, and the red glow of the fire

be all they have to see by, the awkward barrier between they be quite

break down, and a friendly intercourse between they begin, which be

to Annie merely a new pleasure, but which bring to the young baronet

a delight which he know to be full of peril.



after that day she avoid he no long, but treat he with gracious

gratitude for his kindness, which would have disarm a man of well

principle.



Lilian’s coldness to she have grow into more open dislike since Colonel

Richardson’s fondness for music have keep he so long at her side on

the eve of his journey to Scotland. but the girl could not do much to

make her sister-in-law uncomfortable for fear of her eld brother,

with whom she jealously feel Annie’s interest to be strong. Young Sir

George be a hard and somewhat colder man than his father have be,

and take the lead in the family of which he be now the head as much by

character as by position.



it be get very near Christmas when the baronet tell his sister

one day at luncheon that he wish to speak to she. they go into the

library together, have a long interview, and, when the girl come out,

her face be red and swollen with crying. she be very silent that

evening, and Stephen watch she in wistful wretchedness. he have not

be able to speak to she that afternoon; he could only guess at the

reason for her unhappiness, and he sat brood sullenly over George’s

cruelty in bring tear to those proud eye, and long to be with

she alone, that he might learn what her trouble be and comfort she. it

be late in the evening before he get an opportunity of speak to she

in the morning-room, whither she have go on the pretext of fetch

some work, know well that her cousin would follow she. she break

into the subject at once.



“Mr. Falconer have propose for I, and George insist on my accept

he.”



Mr. Falconer be a rich gentleman of about forty, who have pay Lilian

mark attention for some time. Lilian affect to look down upon he

because his father have make his money in “cotton;” but the sneer be

absurd, as her admirer be a man scarcely less stalwart and handsome

than her own brother, and as much their superior in intellect,

character, and feeling as it be possible for a man to be.



Stephen lean on his crutch, tremble from head to foot at the

news. he have know very well, poor fellow, in spite of mad dream after

an occasional moment of her fascinating kindness, that she could never

be his; but her marriage have be a horrible dread for the distant

future, and, now that it prove a not distant reality, his heart sink

within he. she be touch by the utter prostration of this poor

cripple, who would, as she very well know, have give his life at any

moment for she. she lead he to a chair, and try to cheer he with a

sort of regal tenderness. at last he say, his lip tremble:



“but George cann’t force you to marry he, Lily.”



“yes, he can, practically. the money that ought to have be mine, of

course, I shall never get from this spendthrift crew. George say it be

impossible that he can give I what my father intend I to have, that

the estate be so burden that there may be a break-up before very

long, and I be half inclined to believe he. so I be portionless, and

ought to think myself lucky to get a husband at all, it seem.”



“but, Lilian, that be nonsense! you be the most beautiful girl in the

country; you will make a sensation in London, and marry a duke, if you

like. you be surely never go to let George do what he like with

you, with your high spirit?”



the girl do not answer, but impulsively hide her face in her hand. a

light come into Stephen’s troubled eye, and he shudder as he look

at she.



“Lily,” he whisper, “have George hear anything?”



“I think so,” she answer, without look up. “he just hint, in a

way that make I think he must have be pry into my affair, that

it would be well for I to do as he wish. but, after all,” she

cry, in a different tone, raise her proud head from the table as

suddenly as she have cast it down, “I have do nothing wrong--nothing

to be ashamed of. it be not my fault if I be so hunted and tease and

mistrust by my own family that I cannot see what friend I please,

but must correspond with they secretly. for I willn’t give up my friend

at any one’s bidding!”



“but you see he not long ago, and by your friend’ invitation,” say

Stephen, in a low voice.



“what do you mean?”



“do you think I don’t know at the first moment of see you with

Colonel Richardson, that it be his letter I have be receive for

you? oh, Lilian--and he be marry!”



“and what if he be?” ask the girl, quietly. “I like he well enough

to marry he if he be free; but I be not go to give up his

friendship just because Aunt Constantia and mamma and Annie insult

he and I when I be in town by say our acquaintance be improper.

I shall have what friend I please--now and always; and, if I be to

marry Mr. Falconer soon after Christmas, I will see Colonel Richardson

again before then.”



“soon after Christmas!” echo Stephen, in a low voice.



“so George say. and the soon the well, for then I shall be free,”

say the girl, impatiently. “and now you must post a letter for I at

Beckham to-morrow--just one more--the last,” she add, coaxingly.



“to Colonel Richardson, under cover, as usual, I suppose?”



“yes. and, as it be perhaps the very last service you will ever be able

to do I, I be sure you willn’t tease about it, will you?”



“it be a very bad service I be do you, Lily. if George be really

to find it out, I think he would kill I, and perhaps you.”



“oh, the sense of honor be not so keen as you imagine in our family!”

sneer Lilian. “he would bully we both, and perhaps strike one of we;

but he wouldn’t risk hang on your account or mine.”



“but what do you want to say to Colonel Richardson?”



“I want to tell he to come and say good-bye to I before he go away,

for he have be order abroad. George willn’t invite he here again, I

know; but I must see he, and I will.”



“but how can you----”



“he must come on Christmas Day, in the evening. you know how my

brother will celebrate Christmas by drink more than usual, and

then quarrel among themselves. they will soon give I an excuse for

leave their society, and I will meet Colonel Richardson at the gate

at the bottom of the garden--the one that lead to the short cut to

Beckham.”



“you would risk that? think what you be do, Lilian. Colonel

Richardson would never consent to put your reputation in peril like

that.”



“he will put himself in peril too, with my wild brother about; so

he’ll risk it. and I know how to make he come. I’ll tell he, if he

don’t come down here, I’ll come up to London to see he.”



“Lily, be you mad? I will not help you to do this.”



“very well, then; I’ll risk it without your help--post my own letter,

receive the answer, and you may betray I to George if you dare. I

believe I be mad, I be so miserable!”



“and all for a man who don’t appreciate you, who like Annie well

than you?”



“it be not true,” say she fiercely. “if I believe that, she should

not stay in the house a day long--I would not rest until I get the

little hypocrite turn out! but it be not true--it be not true! now,

will you desert I at the last just when I be so wretched, and have

nobody to help I?”



“I will serve you to the end, for good or for evil, as I have always

do, Lily; you know I live only for that. when you be go, whether

Mr. Falconer marry you or somebody else, my wretched life will be

no good to I, and I don’t care how soon I lose it. no one will ever

worship you as I do, Lily, nor for so little thank.”



but she soothe he with sweet word and kind eye. she do indeed feel

the strength of his devotion, and, moreover, he be too useful an ally

not to be worth a few kind speech.



so the letter be send, and the answer come--and the secret be safe.



since the regular hunting-season have begin, Harry’s neglect of his wife

have not only grow more open than ever, but have be supplement by

sneer at her “refined taste” and “poetry, prune, prism” manner. she

could not tell the cause of this change, and go on quietly in her own

way, dutifully care for his small comfort, and accept his coarse

snub with the same placid indifference with which she have formerly

take his scanty thank.



when Christmas Day arrive it be spend just as Lilian have predict.

in the morning the lady go to church, accompany by Stephen and

William. as there be no hunting, and Lady Braithwaite have insist

upon the groom have a holiday, the other young man spend the

afternoon in the stable and the billiard-room, wrangle more than

usual. Wilfred have already remonstrate with George for tease Harry.



“you be always say thing to put his back up now. what do you do it

for?” he ask.



“I don’t care a straw what he say!” cry Harry, sullenly, who be

flushed and excite long before the afternoon be over. “and, as for

my not be ‘a person of authority,’ as he call it, I have as much

authority as anybody here.”



“over whom or over what, pray?” say George, tauntingly. “I don’t say

you cann’t manage a horse as well as--an hostler; but show I the man or

woman on whom your word or your opinion have the slight effect.”



“well, I like that!” burst out Harry, his face twitch with passion.

“don’t I manage my own wife--doesn’t she obey I, and quickly, too? do

you ever hear she contradict I or differ from my opinion? answer I,

or, by Jove, I’ll make you!”



“your wife don’t think your opinion worth differ from, and

she obey you as the short way of getting rid of your presence.

everybody know that.”



“I say, George, do shut up!” break in Wilfred. “cann’t you see you be

only irritate he against his poor little wife, who have quite enough

to put up with from he already? what on earth be you drive at?

cann’t make you out lately!”



“don’t interfere with your infernal preaching!” shout Harry. “so my

wife have enough to put up with from I already! very well, she’ll have

more than enough, then, before long, if she don’t get rid of she

confoundedly cold tragedy-queen air, I can tell she! I’ll show she

and you too if I’m not master of my own wife!” and Harry fling away the

cigar-end he have be bite, and swing himself out of the yard, unable

to control himself any long.



Wilfred turn to his brother.



“why the dicken do you badger the boy like that? he’ll only go and

let off his ill-temper on poor little Annie, and perhaps take to

prove his authority with his fist or his boot, the hulking bully!”



“well, the soon he do, and disgust she thoroughly, and make she

throw he over altogether, the well for she.”



Wilfred look at his brother keenly.



“I say, George, you’re not play square.”



“yes, I be; you don’t know the game;” and the baronet lounge out of

the stable-yard with his hand in his pocket, but with tooth so firmly

set that he bite his cigar in two.



Dinner that evening begin quietly enough. there be a lull in the

hostility between the young man, Harry be sullen, Wilfred rather

sleepy, and George give all his attention to Lilian, who be in she

most brilliant mood, talk, laugh, tease her eld brother, and

delight he by her archness; only one person at the table notice

how feverishly bright her eye be, and the nervous play of her

delicate finger when she be not speak. for Stephen never take his

eye off she; he drink scarcely anything and eat nothing. Annie be

pale to the lip, and the sound of Harry’s voice make her start. only

Lady Braithwaite and William be quite their usual self.



“so this be the last Christmas I be to spend as Miss Braithwaite!” say

Lilian. “I wonder how I shall like married life.”



“ask Annie how she like it,” suggest George.



the young wife do not look up; but all could see that a shiver pass

over her slight form. Harry make a restless movement on his chair.



“confound she!” William, who sit next, hear he mutter; and the boy’s

blood take fire. Wiser than George or Wilfred in the interest of his

play-fellow, however, he say nothing, and clinch his hand together

under the table to keep himself from punch his brother’s head.

such act as that have not be unknown in past time at the Grange

dinner-table, and a repetition of they seem perilously near.



when they at last come into the drawing-room after dinner, after

sit an unusually long time over their wine, Annie be seat--it

almost seem that she be hide--in the shadow of one of the

window-curtain close to the conservatory. Lady Braithwaite be happily

doze as usual, and Lilian be flit about the room, more animate,

more restless than usual. she look at her brother searchingly

as they come in, they be all talk and laugh loudly and

discordantly. Stephen be the only one perfectly sober, and he, white

to the lip and silent, be more excited than they. he watch Lilian

with glisten eye full of fear and anxiety.



she have scarcely listen to half a dozen sentence of her brother

when she leave they and cross the room.



“where be you go? we want you to play something.”



“I think you can amuse yourself well without I to-night,” she

say, with playful insolence--“at least for the present. I’ll come down

presently, when I’ve finish my letter to Aunt Constantia, and give

you ‘John Peel.’”



she calculate upon their having find some other mean of pass the

time long before they think of she again; and, before they could stop

she, she have leave the room. the little black figure in the shadow of

the curtain spring up, and be at the door to follow her example, when

Harry’s voice thunder:



“Annie, stop where you be!”



but for once she take no notice, and she be turn the handle when he

spring forward and stumble over a footstool. George laugh. William

dart across the room to Annie, and, hold the door open, say:



“go, dear--quick!”



but the power to do so have go from the frightened woman’s limb. she

hesitate. in that one moment Harry have recover himself, and, just as

William be give she a gentle little push, her husband reach they,

and, seize Annie’s arm roughly, swing her round into the middle of

the room again.



there come a sullen imprecation from the lip of every other man in the

room, and William, with a howl of rage, fell his staggering brother

like an ox to the ground. Wilfred, sober for the moment, turn to the

wife, who have clasp her hand in fright as she see her husband fall.



“go, my child, go!” he say earnestly. “he ben’t hurt. for Heaven’s

sake, go before he get up!”



they be all between she and the door now, swearing, fall husband

and the rest. she turn, flee through the conservatory, and out into

the garden; she run, run--over the steeply-slope lawn and down into

the shrubbery at the bottom, too much scared to stop herself. she

fancy she see a tall, black figure among the tree in front of she,

and call “Lilian!”--but there be no answer. then, having reach

the path that run between the tree all around the garden she lean

against a tree to get back her breath. the next minute she hear a

man’s footstep come hurriedly down the walk. her excited fancy tell

she it be her husband come to wreak his disappointed fury on she; she

try to get behind a tree, but there be a wire fence which stop

she. she crouch down on the ground with her face hide, until the

footstep come quite close and stop.



“don’t, don’t! I cann’t bear any more!” she say, hoarsely.



but an arm be put round she very gently, and try to raise she from

the ground.



“my darling, it be not your brutal husband. don’t you know who it be?”



“oh, George!” she cry, with a gasp of relief, as he raise she from

the ground.



she hang on his arm, quite still, except for a convulsive trembling

from time to time, for a few minute, until her shake sense begin to

return; then she try to stand alone.



“I be well now, thank you, George. but, oh, I be so frightened!”



“lie still in my arm, my darling,” say he, his voice shake.



he draw she more closely to he, and she could feel the quick beating

of his heart against her.



“let I go, George; I be quite well now. you frighten I too!” she

say, piteously, imploringly, try to unlock his hand with her

slender finger.



he hold she more closely at once.



“I frighten you, Annie! I would not hurt a hair of your beautiful head

for the world. oh, my darling, my darling, tell I you be well! look

up at I, Annie.”



she raise her eye timidly to his face, then drop they again, as

his passionate gaze meet her.



“I be much well. let I go, George, please. willn’t you do what I ask

you? I be tired; I want to go in--to bed. oh, George, if you be really

sorry for I, let I go in, or I shall die out here in the cold!”



“you shall not die; you shall not be cold in my arm. do you want to go

back to the husband who be wait to bully you, perhaps to strike you,

away from the man who love you with all his soul?”



Annie gather all her strength and give one ring cry:



“Harry!”



the bare branch of the shrubbery-tree rustle and crack as a

man spring into the pathway and tear the trembling woman from the

unprepared George. she look up.



“thank Heaven! Colonel Richardson!”



George look at he, too, dumb with surprise. but his eye see what

Annie’s do not. from the opposite side of the path Lilian’s handsome

eye be flash in the moonlight in jealous anger at the woman who

lie unconscious in Colonel Richardson’s arm.









CHAPTER X.





Careless of herself and her own secret, in the burn desire

to be revenge upon Annie, Lilian speed back to the house, not

know that George have see she, and find Harry with the rest

in the billiard-room, still quarrel hotly about the scene in

the drawing-room, of which she have not yet hear. Stephen have be

forbid by she to leave the house that night, and he have be

torture with anxiety on her account ever since he see Annie go into

the conservatory, and then notice a few minute later that George have

also disappear.



Lilian beckon Harry imperiously out of the room.



“I have something important to say to you.”



her wide, glisten eye, pant bosom, and resolutely subdue

manner, check his oath at this interruption. he follow she into

the hall.



“George and Colonel Richardson be in the garden, in the copse at the

bottom, quarrel over your wife. I be sorry if I have startle you;

but I think you have well know.”



“she be the blight of my life,” hiss out Harry, with a bitter

imprecation, try to steady himself.



“hadn’t you well do something more than stand here and abuse she?”

ask Lilian, dryly.



she turn in disgust from the infuriate lad, and go into the

drawing-room. he be on the point of follow she, when Annie come

into the hall from the garden by another door. there be not a trace

of color in her face; she creep slowly, and it seem to her drunken

husband guiltily, toward the staircase.



“stop!” growl Harry. “you have something to say to I now. where have

you be?”



“in the garden.”



“whom be you with?”



“with George.”



“and Colonel Richardson?”



“yes.”



she speak wearily, all spirit seem to have be take out of she

by the scene she have go through since Harry’s first bully that

afternoon.



“what be you do there? tell I at once.”



“I be do nothing to be ashamed of; you know that perfectly well.

I will tell you all about it to-morrow. it would be of no use to try

to make you understand now,” say she, glance up at his flushed face

with an involuntary shudder of disgust.



“you will tell I now, whether I understand or not--that be my

lookout,” return he, doggedly. “I’ve have enough of your infernal air

of superiority, and I mean to show you I’m master. you go about with

a long face, tell everybody you be too good for I, when all the

while----”



“take care what you say!” she break in, with sudden spirit.



“what be you do in the garden, then?” thunder he. “what be

Colonel Richardson there for?”



she do not answer. it be not so much to shield Lilian as from fear of

another and bad quarrel between the brother that she be silent; and

excitement, fatigue, and disgust be make her reckless.



“do you intend to answer I or not?” ask Harry, lay a heavy hand

on her shoulder.



his touch make she defiant.



“not now.”



he raise his hand and strike she. it be not really a severe blow; but

it be enough to throw the fragile little creature to the ground.



“you brute, you cruel, cowardly brute!” she cry, in a low, sob

voice, look up at he with passionate dark eye full of hatred, from

where she have fall. “you may have kill your child!”--and her head

fall back upon the floor at his foot, while he stand still in stupid,

dumb bewilderment.



only for a moment. the rough, drunken fellow be not heartless. when

his dim, daze eye see clearly the white, senseless face at his foot,

and his dull ear begin to admit a suggestion of her meaning, he fling

himself down beside she and gather the unconscious woman into his

arm in a passion of loud, demonstrative remorse.



“I have kill she--I have kill she!” bemoan to the group

of frightened people from the drawing-room, billiard-room, and

servants’-hall whom his cry bring quickly into the hall. “Heaven

forgive I, she be dead! my poor, pretty little wife! oh, I be a brute,

a beast! Annie, Annie! she will never speak to I again!”--and the

slight frame he hold in his arm and press to his convulsed and

swollen face shake with the violence of his sob.



it be a genuine grief that prompt this outburst; but it be the

grief, not of a man, but of a child who in a fit of thoughtless anger

have take the life of a pet dog or bird.



they take she from he with difficulty, assure he that she have only

faint; and George and Wilfred lead he away, while the woman try to

restore she to consciousness. it be a long time before they succeed;

then Lady Braithwaite come into the billiard-room where the young man

be.



“she must have a doctor. somebody must ride to Beckham at once,” she

say.



“I will!” cry Harry, jump up.



“nonsense; you be not sober enough,” say George curtly. he be

bear his share of remorse at the result of the day’s work.



but, before he have reach the door. Harry pass he with a rough push

and an oath. the shock have sober the lad for the time; but he have

be drink since to drown his remorse. however, he be so familiar

with the stable as to be able almost by instinct to find what he

want; he put saddle and bridle himself on to the fast horse there,

and, once in the saddle, he be all right, for, drunk or sober, Harry

could ride.



he get back before the doctor, and run, all breathless, heated, and

splash, up the stair to the door of the room, into which Annie have

be take, knock as softly as he could, and open the door. she be

lie on the bed, and his mother and the housekeeper be with she.

they make gesture to he to go back; but he stand there, his face all

quiver with wistful anxiety.



“only let I just say one word to she,” plead he, hoarsely. he be

pant still from the speed with which he have come.



Annie, who have be lie half-unconscious, open her eye and turn

to Lady Braithwaite with a low cry:



“don’t let he come near I!” she whisper.



but Harry hear; and he slunk out of the room, stun as no physical

blow could have stun he.



Annie lie ill for week, and in all that time no message, no

entreaty would induce she to see her husband. the only glimpse he

get of she be by stealth, when she be asleep. for the sweet hope of

be a mother, which have make she secretly, silently happy under all

his neglect, have now be take from she, and she feel that it be his

brutality which have snatch away the one joy her wretched marriage have

bring she.



Lady Braithwaite try to soothe her mind and induce she to forgive she

husband. but the submissive daughter-in-law be strong in her weakness;

and no persuasion on the part of the eld lady, who have now grow as

kind as she have formerly be cold, could extract more than:



“tell he I forgive he; but don’t let I see he.”



she be so obstinate in this decision that, even when she be well

enough to be carry down-stair, she refuse to move from her room,

and the woman about she know that it be the dread of meet she

husband which keep she a prisoner. so that Lady Braithwaite have to make

her way to Harry’s room one night, and persuade he to go away for

a time. it be a difficult task for a mother, for the lad’s passion

break out vehemently in alternate fit against his wife and of fondness

for she. first he say he would go to the end of the earth, if that

would do she any good, and the next minute he swear she be a hard,

ungrateful little vixen, and deserve to have her ear box.



however, at last Lady Braithwaite carry her point; and he agree to

go away for a fortnight to some relative of her in Leicestershire--no

very great hardship, in truth, as the hunting-season be not yet over.



so one morning, before Annie be awake, he steal into her room with

elaborately clumsy movement expressive of his intention not to

make the least noise, all ready for his journey, except that he be

without his boot--he have leave they outside the door for fear of their

creaking. he stand look at she wistfully for a few minute, and then

creep close to the bed and softly kiss she. she do not move or wake.

then he take out of his pocket a letter, direct, rather quaintly, to

“Mrs. Harold Braithwaite, Garstone Grange, Lancashire.” he have first

write outside it simply, “Annie;” but then it have occur to he

that the dignity of the offended husband require the full title. this

letter he tuck gently under her shoulder, as he do not want anybody

else to see it. then, with another kiss and the murmur, “she don’t

deserve it--I’m bless if she do!” he leave the room.



when he get outside the door, he hesitate a moment.



“wonder if it would hurt she to wake she? she might just say good-bye.

oh, well, it be only for a fortnight!” and he put on his boot and go

down-stair.



only a fortnight--so he think!



when Annie wake that morning, she find the letter. it be badly

write, strangely spell, not punctuate at all, an authentic

uninspired document evidently:



 “MY DEAR ANNIE,--I ought not to have to write to you at all as a

 husband ought to see his wife whenever he like and she ought to

 think it a compliment but you be ill though I believe you be nearly

 well now and I say no more. you don’t know how sorry I be about it

 all or you would be kind for I can not ride or sleep or do anything

 hardly for thinking of you. then all say I be silly to go on like

 this just for a woman and I dare say they be right in the abstrackt

 but they don’t know how much a man feel this sort of tretment until

 they be marry themselves which I hope they willn’t be till they be

 old than you and I for a man should not marry until five-and-twenty

 I be sure of that now. I do not say that to reproach you for it be

 not your fault, and it be nearly as bad for you as for I and it will

 all be different in a fortnight when I come back for I will be very

 gentle and kind to you and I want you to promise that you willn’t say

 any more about it nor throw it in my face afterward when you be angry

 with I and that you willn’t always be so dredfully quiet before people

 as if you be afraid of I. I know I be not good enough for you and

 everybody be always tell I so and it be not at all a pleasant

 thing for a fellow and I think if you be a little less good it would

 be well. I would as soon you give I a slap in the face than obey I

 in the way you do like a statue or a martyr which you be not. don’t

 think I want to say hard thing to you for everybody will tell you

 how wretched I have be and I will say a lot more to you when I see

 you but now as the dog-cart be round and I have not have my breakfast

 I will say good-by and if you be not awake I will put it under your

 pillow. your affectionate husband,



                                                                “HARRY.”



as Annie read this letter, it strike she for the first time that she

have not appreciate the extreme youthfulness of her husband, who be

much young at twenty than she be on the eve of be nineteen. the

letter, in its boyish simplicity, amuse and touch she; however, it

do not alter, but rather strengthen, a resolution which she have be

busily form and develop during those quiet week of illness.



on the day follow Harry’s departure for Leicestershire she be

lead down-stair, be strong enough to walk now, and enthrone in

the drawing-room as a special pet and sovereign. she be rather shy

with George at first; but he know how to be so quietly kind as to

put she at her ease. William dance wild hornpipe of joy round she,

until they threaten to turn he out for be noisy, upon which he

instantly subside, and fall into the opposite extreme of speak only

in a thick whisper. all the rest be kind, Lilian rather ashamed of

herself, but grateful to Annie for not having mention her name to

indiscreet Harry on that eventful Christmas night.



George, after another stormy interview with his sister in the library,

in which she have be in a position to give he back taunt for taunt,

wisely agree to bury all allusion to that night’s event, and merely

use the power they give he to insist on her marry Mr. Falconer

soon than she wish. it have be a miserable business, that moonlit

scene in the copse, require hush up all round, but especially on

Lilian’s account; so her eld brother and Colonel Richardson have have

to content themselves with an exchange of hard word, and the latter

have return to the station and the former to the house, each with an

uneasy consciousness that he have never appear to less advantage in

his own eye in his life.



by the time Annie come down-stair for the first time, the preparation

for Lilian’s wedding be already in progress; and, when Annie

suggest to Lady Braithwaite that she think she want change of

air, the latter offer to take she away to the seaside as soon as

Lilian be marry, say she could not leave home before. but Annie

thank she, and say she would be well enough to travel by herself in

a day or two; and she want to go as soon as she could to her aunt’s,

she think.



when George hear of it, he beg his sister-in-law to wait until

after the wedding, when he himself would take both she and his mother

to Southport. she thank he, but without accept or decline the

proposal.



on the very day before Harry’s expect return, however, George having

leave home early in the morning for a day’s hunting, Annie come into the

morning-room--where Lady Braithwaite and her daughter be inspect

some newly arrive wedding present--dress for a journey.



“I know the obstinate little thing would go off by herself, after all,”

say Lilian, rather glad of her sister-in-law’s resolution.



the eld lady be completely take by surprise.



“what about your luggage? you cann’t go away without any,” she say.



“I pack it all last night, and order a cab from Beckham

yesterday--at least, it be I who send the order. the cab be at the

door now.”



“but you cann’t go off in that way; people would think it so strange!

wait until after dinner, and I will take you.”



“thank you. William be go to drive I. the dog-cart will be round in

a minute.”



this divert Lady Braithwaite’s thought.



“that horrid dog-cart! you be go to let he take you in that! you

will certainly be throw out and kill!”



“I be not afraid,” say Annie, smile; and, hear William’s voice

call she from the hall, she bid they both good-bye and leave the

room, they follow she to the front door.



her manner be very quiet and compose; but Lilian be not easily

deceive. she turn to her mother as the dog-cart disappear down the

drive.



“she do not mean to come back, mamma,” she say, in a low voice.

and one of the servant stand at the back overheard and nod to

another, whispering:



“I tell you so.”



William be in high spirit at drive his dear Annie again; but she

be very silent, or talk without her usual brightness. he say

nothing; but he think to himself, “if she be so sorry to go away,

she will be back all the soon,” and, when, at the station, he have

take her ticket--first-class, in spite of her direction--and find

she a comfortable carriage, he get in and fling his arm around she

affectionately, and tell she he should count the day till she come

back. then, to his sudden dismay, she burst into tear. the boy’s face

fall.



“Annie, what be the matter?” then, in a mysterious voice, “you haven’t

cut away from Harry, have you?”



Annie nod.



“don’t tell any one at the Grange yet, William, there’s a dear, good

old boy. I will write and explain. but I’m glad you know. I couldn’t

bear it any long. it be ruin both our life; we never could have

agree, and we shall both be happy apart.”



“but where be you go? what be you go to do? you be not go

to be a governess again, be you?”



“I don’t know. I be not sure of anything yet, only of this--that I

shall be all right, and nobody need be anxious about I.”



“but I shall be. oh, Annie, don’t go! let I go with you and see you

safely to your aunt’s. I have some money with I--George give I my

allowance only this morning. do let I go!”



“no, no; you must not think of such a thing,” say Annie, almost

laugh.



“and you be go to leave I just like the rest, without a word

about your not come back! oh, Annie, when we’ve be such chum!”



the boy’s reproachful face overcome Annie.



“look here--I’ll tell you what I haven’t tell anybody else, and don’t

mean to tell anybody else,” say she, affectionately; and she whisper

something into his ear.



“oh, Annie!”



“mind you be not to tell any one--ever. I have not even make you

promise, you see.”



“you needn’t be afraid. your brother-in-law be a gentleman,” say

William, gravely.



the express by which she be going stop twenty minute at Beckham;

but now the guard be cry, “take your seats!”--and William have to

jump out. he get up on the step outside to see as much as he could of

she at the very last, and say, in an important whisper:



“but I sha’n’t know where to write to you.”



“I will let you know. and mind, William, you be not to drink--at

least, not like the other!”



“all right; I willn’t. I may smoke, mayn’t I?”



“oh, yes, you may smoke, and you may ride and fish and shoot as much as

you like; only do try to read a little, and don’t swear quite so much

as Wilfred or Harry.”



“all right. you don’t mind my say a big, big D---- when I get a bad

fall just before the finish?”



“N--o, I’ll pass that. now get down; the train be go, and you will

be hurt.”



William jump off, but dash down the platform beside the moving

train a minute after, pant out, as he throw his purse into the

carriage:



“you must take it; I’ve take out all I want, and you may want it. you

know I take first-class when you say second. write.”



the last impression she carry away of her life at the Grange be the

memory of the big, handsome boy stand look at the disappearing

train, with an expression on his face which threaten tear when he

should be out of sight of the busy crowd around he.



when Annie’s own tear have stop, she pick up the boy’s purse,

which have fall as he fling it, on to the opposite seat. it be a

handsome purse and pocket-book, give he by his mother; but it have

suffer from experiment make upon it with the various article in

his tool-chest. he have begin a diary in it when it be new, which have

dwindle down to an occasional note of his transaction in rabbit.

there be other boyish document, a cutting from the _Field_, _et

cetera_, and there be more than five pound in money, a break

scarf-pin, and two use foreign postage-stamp. she have no scruple

about accept the money, which be a welcome addition to she not

very large store, and the pocket-book she put in her desk later as a

cherish _souvenir_ of the being she care most about in the world.

the boy’s high spirit and frank pleasure in hers have win she from

the first, and the only thing she regret in her life at the

Grange be the walk and drive and barbaric sport of rat and

mouse-bunt with he as a companion.



when she get to London, she go straight to a street she have be tell

of, north of Oxford Street, well know for cheap lodging. she take a

furnish bedroom at the top of a dingy house, and then next day she

return to Euston Station to fetch her luggage, which she have leave

at the parcel-office there, for fear of the extra expense of drive

about in a cab with it, in case she should have any difficulty in

find a suitable lodging. she be on foot; and, as she enter the

station, a hansom pass she with a young man in it who quite startle

she by his likeness to Harry. the resemblance be so strong that she

stop, half inclined to turn back and walk about for a little while,

in case it should be, indeed, her husband, so that he might have leave

the station before she get there. but then she reason with herself

that Harry be in Leicestershire, and be expect at Garstone to-day,

even if he be not already there; so that she decide to go boldly

on. another feeling impel she forward--an unacknowledged hankering

for a last sight of her husband, or even for a look at the man who so

strongly resemble he.



Annie do not love her husband--she have never really love he; and

since Christmas she almost hate he. but, now that she have leave he

forever, and that too without any farewell, a natural inconsistency

prompt she to try to steal a last look at the handsome lad who have

be her lord and master.



so she go into the station, and, leave her luggage for future

consideration, look about cautiously for the man she have see in

the hansom. he be not to be see about the ticket office, and,

grow bolder, she slip in and out among the group of people on

the platform. a train be about to start for the North. still with

caution, but attract in spite of herself toward that train, which, as

she know, would stop at Beckham, Annie advance until she be nearly

opposite to the door of the refreshment-room. they open, and a young

man come out. Annie stop, with the color rush to her face; for

it be Harry. he look so handsome in his light travel-suit, with

his overcoat hang loosely over his arm, that she feel quite proud of

he, and stand there with her eye fix upon he, half hope that he

would turn and see she.



but he do not, for he be gaze eagerly in the opposite direction--so

eagerly that he risk be leave behind, as the carriage door be

be close. Annie’s eye follow his, and find that the object of

his evident admiration be a showily-dress woman with bold eye and

impossibly yellow hair, who be totter along the platform in boot

which have long slender peg instead of heel.



with a sigh of disgust, Annie turn away. it be year before she see

her husband again.









CHAPTER XI.





the first thing Annie have do on arrive at her London lodging have

be to take off her wedding-ring and hide it away in a corner of her

desk. she have give to the landlady the name “Miss Langton,” which she

have resolve to adopt for the future. these be her first step toward

cut herself off from her past life; the next be a bold one.



during these long week when she have lain ill in bed, she have ponder

in her mind how she could live when she have leave her husband, as she at

the very beginning of her illness determine to do. one trial of the

life of a governess have be enough for she, and she could not easily

have re-enter it except in some sort under false pretense. besides,

now that she have throw herself upon her own resource, and stand once

more alone in the world, her old ambition have awaken within she, the

old spirit cry out, the vague but strong consciousness of untried

power turn her thought to a career of art. one form of art alone

seem open to she--the stage. all that she know, or almost all that

she know, of a theatrical life be distasteful to she, and her instinct

would have lead she to give herself up to writing. but she have already

try that, know how hard it be even to get a hearing from the reading

public, and cast aside the thought of literary distinction as take

too long to win.



of course, know nothing about the stage, she fall into the common

error of think that talent make itself more quickly manifest there,

and utterly ignore the fact that it be about as easy for a woman of

high principle, without either money or interest, to attain a good

position in a London theater as for a drummer-boy to become a general.

she know she would have to wait and to work before she find her way to

the front rank; but how long that weary waiting would last, or how dull

that work would be, she have not the least idea. she have unbounded faith

in herself, she have energy, a little patience, and she believe herself

to have talent, and her heart beat fast with the thought that she be

now free to measure her strength against the world.



as for the horror of her husband and the rest of the Braithwaites, if

they ever come to hear of the step she have take, why, she do not care

for their opinion, and their disgust could not humiliate she. besides,

the fact of she having become an actress would effectually cut she off

from they forever and prevent their try to bring she back to they, a

possibility too dreadful to be consider calmly.



for, now that they be over, yet still fresh in her mind, the trial

she have suffer during those few month of married life seem, in

these first day of relief from they, even great than they have really

be. Harry seem more brutal, more ignorant, more dissipated, Lady

Braithwaite and Lilian more coldly insolent, George more selfish,

wilfre more drunken, Stephen more unkind; so that the stage hold out

attraction for she in the social oblivion it involve which it would

have be far from have in her eye in other circumstance.



not once do the thought occur to Annie that she be do wrong in

thus leave her husband without consult he. from the first she

have be too obviously his superior in judgment to set any value on

his opinion, and now she only think she be rid he as well as

herself of an intolerable burden in the simple manner. she have try

hard to do her duty as a wife, and have succeed only in exasperate

he against she and in unwittingly irritate he to more than his

customary excess. in leave he free she think she be render

he the high service in her power; and in free herself she feel,

with a throb of joy, that she be once more able to indulge in her old

dream of ambition and success.



but in this argument with herself she forget one thing--namely, that

she have not leave Harry free. this forgetfulness be the natural result

of the effacement she have suffer at Garstone Grange which have cause

she to depreciate her duty as they have depreciate her right. it do

not occur to she to think that she, morally the strong of the two,

be abandon her husband, in all the first heat of a singularly wild

and passionate nature, to a life in which the innocent indulgence of

the affection be no long possible; for she look upon he as a

brute incapable of any but the low form of love. as for herself,

she do not think herself in danger--she be of cool temperament and

high intellect; her imagination take fire much more readily than her

heart; she have throw herself into the prospect of a brilliant career,

and the idea of lead a loveless life have few terror for she at

first, except in rare moment of depression.



but, though the future be full of charm for she, the present be not

without great difficulty. how be she to enter upon her new life? she

remember that some year ago, in the old day when her father be

alive, when she be still a school girl and theatrical matter have the

charm of mystery, she have be with her father on one occasion when he

have meet and introduce to she an acquaintance of his who be a manager

and an actor too, and whom she have wonder to find so exceedingly

silent and grave when she remember how he have make her laugh upon

the stage. she now hit upon the bold measure of write to he, and

ask if he would see she; but a week pass, and her letter receive

no answer. she write again to his theater, and this time inclose a

stamp direct envelope, with an apology for do so, and an earnest

request for five minute of his time. she receive in reply a hasty

note name a day and hour when he could see she; and, more excited

than she have ever be in her life before, she arrive at the theater

at the appoint time. she have to wait a long, weary time, very much

ashamed of herself, very much afraid her application would be in vain,

very much wish herself out of the group of shabby man--whom she

mistook for actor--with whom she be wait, when at last the manager

come. as his eye fall on she, she step forward, hold his letter

and give her maiden name.



as she have expect, he have long since forget she; but he ask she

to follow he up-stair, and give she a courteous hearing at the back

of the dress-circle. after some difficulty, he remember, or say he

remember, their former meeting. he strongly advise she not to go on

the stage, tell she that even great talent do not always command

success, that it be a hard life, full of disappointment. find her

resolution still firm, and for the sake of her father, with whom he

have at one time be intimate, he agree to let she make a very modest

first appearance at his theater as a silent “guest.” he do not much

approve of lady amateur, even in this humble capacity, but the girl

be much in earnest, her pretty pleading be so touching, that he make

this small concession, scarcely doubt that, if she go through all

the rehearsal, after a few night of a suffocating dressing-room and a

draughty stage, she would appear no more, cure of her unfortunate whim.



the rehearsal be a hard trial, certainly. to stand about for three

or four hour on a dark stage in the company of two or three more

“lady” who would have be scarcely refine enough for she to engage

as maid, and then sometimes to be dismiss without have to go

through her simple duty of walk across at the back of the scene with

a shabby man who by day fill the position of a bill-sticker, be not

work too exciting to leave time for some unpleasant reflection. when

the piece come out thing be a little well. of the three girl who

dress with she in a large, bare room which seem mile away, up at

the top of the theater, two be illiterate but inoffensive, and the

third prove to be one of the merry little creature who ever wish

to be a great actress when nature intend she for a good washer-woman.



go home alone at night frighten she dreadfully, and she never get

quite used to it. luckily there be omnibus which take she nearly

the whole way; but the short distance she have to walk before she catch

one be a nightly agony, though nobody ever take any notice of the

insignificant muffle up figure.



the piece be a failure, and do not run long; but she do duty again

in the same humble capacity with the same companion in the comedy

which follow, hope for an opening to something more dignified and

well calculate to show off her histrionic power, if she possess

any. the opening come. it be a very small one, merely the opportunity

of say one line as a maid-servant; but the minute before hear

her own voice for the first time in public be fraught with a terribly

intense excitement which no important part in after-time ever call

up in she with the same strength.



it be a few night after this ordeal that on return from the

theater she be seize, for the first time since leave Garstone, with

a longing to hear what be go on there--how her departure have be

take, and how William pass his time without she. so she write to her

brother-in-law, give, as the address for he to write to, that of a

stationer whose shop she pass on her way to and from the theater. it

be not that she mistrust the boy’s word, or even his carefulness;

but she do not wish to get he into trouble, as would certainly have

be the case if any of the rest suspect he of know her real

address.



in answer she get the follow letter:



 “MY DEAR ANNIE,--I think you be never go to keep your promise

 and write to I after all, and you haven’t tell I much now you do

 write to I. for I want to know ever so much more than you say. you

 need not be afraid of anybody see your letter. for when I get it

 at Moss’ I take it straight back and down to the willow-pond. I read

 it, and fasten it under the lining of my hunting-cap. so its all

 rigt. there be a shindy when they new you be go. George go to

 your aunt and first he scold mother and Lil and say they ought to

 be ashamed of themselves and your aunt dident know where you be.

 and Harry you should have see he go on. you would have think he

 be a good husbend and you a bad wife if you hear he. he have be

 to London and sell his hunting-wach and bougt you a dimand ring which

 I think you would have like but of course you be write to go away

 and I say so and he punch my head and I punch he back. so he

 dident get much good by his interferring with I. they think I new

 where you be and I say if they think I do they migt just try to

 make I say thats all. so they lissene to reason and Harry drink

 more than ever he be as bad as Wilfred evry bit. and he be allway

 hang about Green’s forge now. Susan Greens come back a pretty thing

 for a man marry like he be now. I only tell you this beco I think

 you ought to know be his wife which be a great pity. they none of

 they know you will never come back except Lil who say you willnot and

 that make George very angry and one evening make Harry cry like a

 great baby inste of try to find you. the place be beesly now you

 be go and if I wasent go to uncle Geralds in Ireland I thing I

 should have to come and dig you out.



  “your afecsionate brother-in-law,



                                       “WILLIAM FITZPATRICK BRAITHWAITE.



 “P.S.--If you could see the black and white rabit now I think you

 would laugh for his leg be alright but so stiff that he hop bout as

 if he be make of wood. Jo bite the pup tail off a fortnight ago.”



this letter make Annie thoughtful. the Rubicon be pass now; she

could not have go back, even have she wish to do so, with what

they would have consider the contamination of the stage upon she.

but what William say about Harry cause she to ask herself for the

first time whether she have not do he wrong, whether she ought

not still to have stay and continue coldly to fulfill her wifely

duty to the letter, whether there have not be more selfishness than

self-sacrifice in give he back his liberty. she feel not one whit

more of affection for the drunken lad who have become the ardent admirer

of the blacksmith’s daughter, but this last fact be too significant

not to awaken her self-reproach. she feel at the bottom of her heart an

unacknowledged gladness that it be no long in her power to go back,

and in the care of her present life she soon forget again those of she

past.



for the few shilling she receive for her work at the theater be

not enough to pay her modest expense for food and lodge without her

draw upon the small sum she have bring with she from the Grange;

William’s money she have resolve not to touch except in case of utmost

need. so she try her strength by live too simply, while she pass,

in spite of herself, at the theater as a “rich” lady, who “come behind”

for a freak. she have clothing enough to last for some time, and before

the end of the summer she be lucky in be able to sell a short

story; and then, after be for a few week out of work and in debt,

and almost in danger of absolute want, she get an engagement at a

salary which be just enough to live upon, but with no chance of more

than a few line to speak.



and this be her life, with now and then a hope of something well

to do, follow always by disappointment and sometimes by despair for

nearly three year, at the end of which time she be still appear

at a fashionable comedy theater, where she have be figure in the

programme for some month on the last line of the list of character,

thus--“Maid, Miss Langton.”



and the brilliant future she have picture once for herself seem

far away than ever. for she have by this time master some of the

secret of success on the stage. the high success, she still know,

fall only to the high talent; and this belief, which be directly

against the creed of most of her companion, she hold to the end. it

be all luck, they say. it be chiefly luck, she think too--the luck

of be somebody’s son or somebody’s daughter, of have good look

and bad principle or wealthy friend, of be by chance on the right

spot at the right time; and luck have be against she.



Disappointment, too, and weary, weary waiting have take the bloom off

her beauty, which be of a type depend very much on expression; and

the look her face habitually wear now be that of a woman whom care

and failure and struggle with necessity have reduce to an automaton.

yet in some respect her position would not have be an unenviable one

to a less ambitious woman. the conscientious care which have formerly

make she a good governess, and later an almost too submissive wife to

her careless husband, make she now fill she very unimportant _role_

with an attention to the most trifling detail which obtain for

she the consideration of the authority in the theater, although it

be of course not possible that her effort to be artistic in her

representation of monosyllabic maid should attract the attention of

the general public or of the critic in front. and her salary, though

not high, be now sufficient to keep she in comfort, which might have

be great, have she be more economical. so that the privilege of

think herself a martyr be almost out of her reach.



she have not quite give up hope, though it be no long join to

bright confidence in ultimate success, when a small part be intrust

to she which enable she to show unmistakable sign of talent. it be

such a very small part, and it would so undoubtedly have improve the

piece from a dramatist’s point of view to cut out the scene it be in

altogether, that the critic take no notice, and the public do not

seem impressed. but it draw the attention of her companion to she;

and Annie, with her heart beat wildly, overheard more than one

prediction that she would “get on.”



with reawakened ambition, her old high spirit come back to she; the

cloud of cold reserve which close over she in spite of herself when

she be unhappy, disappear, and for the first time Annie find

pleasure in her profession. the society afford at that time by the

theater she be in, be some of the pleasantest in London. it include

man and woman who be among the world’s recognize pet--woman of

beauty and man of wit, handsome actor, and two actress of whom

Europe have acknowledge the genius. Annie feel the charm of this

brilliant circle, which be indeed, as theater so seldom be, as

attractive as the outside world imagine it to be.



she be sit in the green-room one evening, between the act, when

two of the actor come in, discuss the beauty of a lady who sit in

one of the box near to the stage.



“I’m sure I’ve see she in the Park,” say one; “and I’ve be tell she

name; but I forget it.”



“be that her husband behind she--the tall man with the eye-glass?”



“don’t know, I’m sure. should think not.”



the other laugh.



“she be the handsome woman we have have in front for a long time--much

well-look than any of the professional beauty. perhaps she be a

professional beauty--eh?”



“no--too good-look.”



it be the other’s turn to laugh; and, when they be call on to the

stage, they be still criticise the unknown fair one and anxious for

another view of she.



Annie’s curiosity be excited, and, contrary to her custom of devote

her attention entirely to what be go on on the stage, she manage,

on her next appearance to say a few line, to get an opportunity of

look toward the box the two speaker have indicate. and she give

one of the slight, most imperceptible of start, for the lady be

lilian, exquisitely dress and look handsomer than ever. Annie

could not see the face of the man behind she in her glance at the box;

but she be anxious to know who it be, and later in the evening she

be satisfy; for a young actor name Gerald Gibson tell another

in her hearing that the lady be Mrs. Falconer, that he have be to

a dance at her house two night before, and that “the tall man with

the eye-glass,” who be one of the other occupant of the box, be a

Colonel Richardson, who have just return from abroad.



all this fill Annie with excitement and anxiety. have Lilian

recognize she? who be the other people in the box? have Colonel

Richardson really only just return from abroad? these and other

question concern her sister-in-law and the rest of her husband’s

family keep she awake that night in a fever of newly awaken interest

in the Braithwaites. the remembrance of her life at Garstone occupy

she very little now, the long, solitary hour of daylight, when she

be not engage in rehearsal, she fill by write, her old taste for

which have revive to console she for her otherwise monotonous life.

after the exchange of a few letter with William, she have hear no more

from he, and it be now more than two year since she have receive his

last. during all this time no news have reach she, of her husband or

his family. she have say of late bitterly to herself that, if they have

care to do so, they would have find she out long ago, and she have

begin to wonder whether she would ever see any of they again, when this

unexpected, yet most natural event, show she again the one of all the

Braithwaites whom she least care to see.



Annie like Gerald Gibson, as everybody in the theater do--a grave,

quiet, thoughtful-look man, whose reserved manner impress those

around he with respect, even though it be often merely the result of

his have nothing in particular to say. he might have be the son of

a cheesemonger, but he be as perfect a gentleman not only in look and

manner, but in mind, as if he have be the son of a duke. Annie know,

though she have know he only a few week, that she could speak without

reserve to he. on the evening after she have see Lilian, therefore,

she find an opportunity, when they be on the stage together, but not

immediately concern in the business of the scene, of allude to the

beauty who have make such a sensation among they the night before.



“I think I hear you say you be fortunate enough to know she, Mr.

Gibson,” say she, her interest peep out from under the indifferent

word.



“I don’t know she well. I be introduce to she about ten day ago, and

somebody get I a card for an ‘at home’ at her house.”



“she be very beautiful, ain’t she?”



“yes, very, for those who admire massive beauty.”



“then don’t you admire she?”



“yes; but I have see woman I admire more.”



“I don’t like such frosty enthusiasm. be she nice, pleasant, amiable?”



“I don’t think ‘amiable’ be quite the word for that type of woman. but

she be very brilliant, very charming.”



“I use to know she once before she be marry,” say Annie in a low

voice. “I be glad to hear she be happy.”



“I be scarcely able to judge of that. lady act so well, even when

they be not on the stage, and they be often charming when at heart

they be very miserable; so the novelist say.”



“you don’t think she be miserable, do you?” ask Annie, anxiously.



“indeed I have no reason for think so. she seem to have everything

she can want, beauty, wealth, position, a good husband.”



“then Mr. Falconer be nice?”



“he be generally popular, I believe; but I have scarcely see he.”



“ah!” escape suddenly from Annie’s lip. she think those last word

significant.



she could not bring the conversation round to Colonel Richardson now

without excite his suspicion, so she merely ask he not to mention

that she have ever know Mrs. Falconer.



“I wish to remain _perdu_ to my old friend until I have get on--if I

ever do get on,” she add, sadly.



“you will get on, Miss Langton. how can you doubt it!”



“how can I do anything but doubt it? I have wait so long, and seem no

nearer the end.”



“but you must be near the end.”



“ah--but what end?”



she turn away with a little shrug of the shoulder, and his eye

follow she with interest. she be not massive and he find more

attraction in her face than in those of all the professional beauty.



a few evening later, as he be leave the theater when his share of

the performance be over, he see Miss Langton in front of he walk

down the quiet street where the stage-door be. a gentleman stand

on the opposite pathway cross over and raise his hat to she. Gerald

Gibson see she start, stop, hesitate, and finally put out her hand.

Gerald pass they, but neither notice he; and he recognize the

gentleman as Colonel Richardson, whom he have meet at Mrs. Falconer’s.



“that be the reason of her interest in Mrs. Falconer then!” think

Gerald.









CHAPTER XII.





Gerald Gibson have not go many yard far down the street, after

see the meeting between Miss Langton and Colonel Richardson, when he

be overtake by a fellow-actor, Aubrey Cooke.



“do you see who little Langton be talk to?”



“some friend of her, I suppose. I don’t notice.”



“it be Frank Richardson, the man there be all that scandal about a

few year ago--Lord Berwick’s wife--don’t you remember?”



“well?”



“well, I’m sorry he have get hold of little Langton, that be all.”



“you be sorry without cause, then. Miss Langton be a long way above

his level. she cann’t refuse to speak to he, for he know her people

well year ago.”



with unerring certainty Gerald Gibson have jump to this conclusion.

the other look surprised.



“oh, you know all about it, then? you be the favorite one for whom

Miss Prim open her lip. well, I really be glad to hear it, for she

be the flag I always hold out when old lady tell I there be no

virtuous woman on the stage; and, if she be to go I don’t know where

on earth I should look for another.”



“you be too cynical, Cooke.”



“don’t shy long word at I. if I deserve they it be because I be

lead away to a meeting of the Society for the Mutual Improvement

of the Clerical and dramatic Professions this afternoon. capital

institution--the parson look happy and the pro.’s look good. but

that cann’t last. good-night.”



Aubrey Cooke be not at his good with Gibson; the two man have too

little in common. but he be a clever fellow. he have a plain, silly

face, a bitter tongue, and a manner which find favor with most woman.

he adore woman. those, however, he worship the most deferentially

would scarcely have approve of the manner in which he speak of they

among other man in their absence, for there be a strong dash of young

Paris in his adoration. he be too shrewd to make many mistake; and no

man know well the exact tone in which to address any particular woman

of his large and varied acquaintance. he bear Miss Langton no ill-will

for repeat unmerite snub; the caprice of woman be infinite,

pretty and less prim woman abound, and he could revenge himself

so easily by an epigram--not a slanderous one, but none the less

cutting--in the dressing-room.



when Annie first recognize Colonel Richardson as he cross the road

toward she, her impulse be to walk on; but anxiety to hear something

about the family at the Elms change her intention, and she stop,

shake hand with he, and allow he to walk down the street with she.



“I know you the moment you come on,” say he. “it be a happy thought

to go on the stage; I admire your courage.”



“I don’t think it be courage that send I on; and at present I have

have no reason to congratulate myself on my attempt, I assure you. do

Mrs. Falconer know I?”



“no. she do not care for the piece, and be not pay much attention

to it. she do not know you be on the stage, for she tell I she

think you have become a governess somewhere. you have do well than

that.”



“yes. and the rest of the Braithwaites? have you see any of they since

your return?”



“no; but Mrs. Falconer give a very bad account of some of they.”



“what do she say? tell I quickly, please.”



“it seem there have be quarrel among the brother lately,

about money matter, I believe. Sir George and Harry be the chief

disputant, and Mrs. Falconer never know what the next news about they

may be. but I be pain you----”



“no, no; I want to hear everything. will you tell I all you know about

my husband? be he well? be he no steady?”



“I believe he be well now; but he be ill some month ago.”



“Ill. what be the matter with he?”



Colonel Richardson hesitate.



“you know his habit be rather irregular, and he have ride too much

and excite himself too much, and I believe he be ill from the effect

of overexcitement. but why do you wish to know these thing? you be

happily spare the wrangle and disturbance of that unlucky household

now. you have the interest of your own career to occupy your mind; it

be much well for you not to concern yourself any more with the doing

of that barbaric crew.”



“don’t say that. every word you say make I reproach myself more. I

be not heartless, though I see now how selfish it be of I to sneak

away as I do. you will hardly believe that I think I be do what

be good for my husband as well as myself. I think he be too young

to be burden with a wife. we do not suit each other; I seem to

irritate he to bad brutality; we be spoil each other’s life

and our own.”



“you be quite right to come away. he would only have crush your

life out by his coarse cruelty before now, if you have stay with he.

how could you, with your sensitive feeling and cultivate taste, bear

with that uncouth boor? I use to wonder at your patience with he when

I first know you in town with he.”



“I be wrong, though,” say Annie, gravely. “if I think I could do

he any good I would go back now.”



“I beg you not to do anything so rash,” say Colonel Richardson,

hastily. “your husband be bad than an uncouth lad now; he be a

coarse, savage-temper man. Lilian--Mrs. Falconer--his own sister, be

afraid of he; and you know she be not meek-spirited.”



“what do he say of I? do he never speak about I? do you know?”



“the last time his sister see he he tell she that, if he ever meet his

wife again--and he use language which neither she nor I could repeat

to you--he would ‘crush the beauty out of the face that make a fool of

he.’ forgive my repeat his word to you; I think they will be the

good warning I can give you to keep out of his reach.”



Annie sigh.



“you don’t make I afraid of he; you only make I pity he as I would

a fierce hound who have be unwisely treat. if Harry be to crush my

face, as he say, in a fit of passion, it would be the one thing which

would make he treat I tenderly ever afterward.”



Colonel Richardson look surprised.



“you almost make I bold enough to wonder----”



“why I leave he? I suppose my strong reason really be that he be

unbearable to I. his tenderness be odious as his anger, and bad

than his neglect. I should dislike he more than ever now; but I should

know how to treat he more wisely.”



Colonel Richardson understand woman too well to say more on that

subject. he turn the conversation.



“Mrs. Falconer expect her brother William next week,” he say. “shall

I bring he to the theater and see if he know you?”



Annie catch eagerly at the idea of see her favorite William again.

she have nothing to fear from his knowing where she be, and she be

anxious to find out whether he be grow into a less worthless man

than his brother. he be now eighteen. she be anxious, too, to learn

whether he still retain the affectionate remembrance of she. so she

last word to Colonel Richardson be a repetition of her injunction

to bring he to the theater without any warning that he would see she.

she do not doubt that he would know she, especially as he be the one

member of the family who know she be on the stage.



the season be nearly over now, and night after night she scan the

audience anxiously in the hope of see those two face she know; but

it be not until the very last night of all that, as she come on to the

stage, she see a tall young man in the stall half rise from his seat,

with the exclamation, just loud enough for she to hear--“Annie!”



at the end of the street William meet she, and could hardly be

restrain from embrace she, regardless of appearance. he be

broad, manly in figure; but in his manner to she he be exactly

the same as before. she be thankful to see that he do not look

dissipate, and he hasten to assure she that he have observe all her

command, that he read a great deal and “quite like it.” he have not

live much at Elms, having pass most of his time with his uncle, his

mother’s brother, in Ireland.



“and, Annie, I’m not go to lead an idle life. I’m go to be a

soldier.”



“well, that be the next thing to it.”



“no disrespect to the army, I beg, madam. it be very hard work to get

in at all nowadays. no Braithwaite ever have to study so much before

as I shall have to do to pass the exam. I’m sure to be ‘pluck’ the

first time, of course, and very likely the second. I must get through

the third time, you know, or else it will be all up with I.”



“you must get through the first time,” say Annie indignantly. “if you

don’t, I will never speak to you again.”



“oh, yes, you will. if I don’t pass, you will have to console I, and,

if I do pass, you will congratulate I. oh, Annie, I wish I have be

old enough to marry you, or that you have marry George, so that you

might come back to the Elms again.” no suggestion that she should go

back to Harry, however. Annie look up at he quickly.



“how be Harry? he be not anxious for my return, I suppose?”



“oh, to think of your be his wife be intolerable! he be not worthy

to look at you. sometimes he be sorry, in a maudlin sort of way, that

he cann’t see you, and complain that you have desert he, and that

you be the only woman he ever care about. but that be all nonsense,

and he say it only when he be drunk. he drink bad than Wilfred.

and a few month ago----Well, never mind that! you mustn’t trouble your

head any more about he.”



Annie listen in silence, her heart ache with remorse. she know

well enough now that she have do irretrievable wrong in leave she

husband, whom at least she could, at the entire sacrifice of herself,

have keep from this. but it be too late now, she tell herself. if she

return to he now unbidden, with the feeling of repulsion toward he

a thousand-fold strong than ever, she could not expect a welcome, she

could not even repress the disgust she feel.



she tell William that she be go to leave town and travel with a

theatrical company, to gain experience in well part than she could

hope to play in London yet. he walk all the way home with she, and,

look at she gravely as he stand say the last word to she, he

complain that she be thin and pale.



“do you know, Annie, you be so much altered I should hardly have know

you. you have lose all your pretty color, and your eye be not half so

bright as they use to be. it be all that beast Harry, make you have

to work for your living!” he break out, passionately. “he deserve to

be kick!”



“come, be reasonable, William; that be not Harry’s fault. woman must

expect to ‘go off’ in look, you know, as they grow old.”



“but you be not old. that be nonsense.”



“I be two-and-twenty. when you last see I, I be not nineteen.”



“well, you ought not to have change so much in less than three year.

never mind,” add he affectionately, see that his word seem to

depress his sister-in-law--“I love you just as much as ever; and you

will soon get back your color when you get out of London and forget all

about Harry again.”



and he kiss she and bade her good-bye most unwillingly; for the

follow morning he have to go back to the Elms, to see George about

the expense of a “coach” to cram he for the examination he would have

to go through.



Annie go up-stair to her room--she could afford to have a

sitting-room now--feel ashamed of the pain his remark upon she

look have give she. it be a fact she have know for a long time now,

that her beauty have fall off, so that there be barely trace of

it leave. a thin, brown face, without a tinge of pink in the cheek,

and with scarcely more than a tinge in the lip, eye from which the

brightness of hope and joy have go, and a weary, wear expression,

be what less than three year of lonely work and disappointment have

leave of her youthful prettiness. no woman, and especially an actress,

can suffer the sense of lose beauty to be suddenly bring home to she

without a pang, and Annie’s vanity be strong enough to make her cry at

William’s evident regret.



“perhaps Harry himself would not know I,” she think to herself, “and

would be disgusted if I be point out to he as his wife.”



so she cry herself to sleep.



when William arrive at the Elms next day, he be even less inclined

than usual to meet his brother Harry on friendly term. for he look

upon the latter as be the cause of Annie’s exile--so he choose to

consider she voluntary flight--and therefore as the cause also of all

her struggle and the terrible alteration in her look. so the lad

avoid his brother as much as he could until dinnertime, when there

be no help for their come in contact with each other, as their

place be set side by side. an unlucky accident bring the name of

the half-forget wife into the conversation. Wilfred rally his

young brother, who have not be at the Elms for some time, upon

be “so confoundedly abstemious.”



“one would think little Annie be still here read you sermon

across the table with her pretty eye,” say he.



the blood rush to the lad’s face, for Harry utter an oath at the

mention of his wife.



“I wish we have never frighten the dear little thing away,” Wilfred

go on, in a maudlin manner. “she be our little bit of righteousness.

it make I take to bad course, she go away do.”



this be not a happy speech, and it be follow by a minute’s silence

on the part of all three of his brother; Stephen be not there.



“why don’t you hunt she up, Harry?” go on Wilfred, who either wish

to irritate his brother or have less tact than usual. “I wouldn’t let

my wife leave I in the lurch, if I have one, and go tramp about all

over the world, amuse herself without I.”



“she may go to the deuce for what I care, if she ben’t go already!”

burst out Harry.



William clinch his fist and try to keep still. the injured husband

go on:



“a little, sly, vagabond governess, glad enough to entrap a gentleman

into marry she, and then cut away and bring disgrace upon his

name!”



“Disgrace!” cry William, turn with flash eye upon his brother.

“as if any wife could disgrace you! as if Annie, who be a thousand

time too good for you to black her shoe, could have any bad

disgrace than to be your wife!”



“you hold your tongue, you young cub!” say his brother, doggedly. “I

say she don’t deserve a decent husband.”



“well, she don’t get one”--this from Wilfred.



“she don’t deserve a decent husband, and she couldn’t be expect to

stay in a respectable house.”



“what respectable house?”--Wilfred again.



Harry go on without notice the interruption.



“it be natural that her vagrant instinct should get the well of she

again, and she should take the first chance of go off on the tramp.”



“you infernal liar!” shout William, too much excited to be careful.

“she be no more a tramp than you be. and, as for her ‘vagrant

instinct,’ you stupid ass, they have lead she into much well society

than she would ever have get into with you at her heel!”



all the other be startle, and William check himself as he be

go to say more. Harry bring a rough hand down on his shoulder.



“so you be in the secret, be you? come now, out with it; where be

she?”



“out of your reach, luckily for she.”



“yes, but you be not, unluckily for you!” say Harry, thickly, rise

to his foot and stand threateningly over his brother, not heed

Sir George’s voice cry, “sit down!”



“now, then, where be she?”



William thrust away his chair and face his tipsy brother steadily.



“I would not help to put she in your power again by tell you where

to find she, even if I know, if you be to tear I to piece!”



he step aside quickly to avoid the lunge Harry make at he, and leave

the room.



“Bravo, young un!” say Wilfred.



the baronet afterward try gentler and subtler mean to find out

Annie’s hiding-place from the lad; but William keep the secret safely.



meanwhile, the fugitive wife be prepare for a new experience. she

have, as she have tell William, resolve upon leave London for awhile,

hope that practice in the country might mature her talent and enable

she at the end of a few month to take a high position than she could

aspire to at present. she know very well that, once out of London, it

would be by no mean easy to get back; but the feeling that she be

advance no far, and could not hope to advance far without

more experience, prevail over every other; and she think herself

fortunate in get an engagement, in a travel company, just about

to start on tour, to play second part in old comedy. it be not go

to what be consider the good town in a theatrical sense; but it

be a good company, and Annie have hear that one of the actor of the

theater she have just leave would be in it too.



she have hear Gerald Gibson speak of go into the country, and have

come at once to the conclusion that he must be the actor allude to;

she be very glad of this, for he be one of her favorite.



when, however, she get on to the stage of the theater which have be

engage for their rehearsal, which be as dark as most stage be

in the day-time, she see no face she know among the people assemble

there, except that of the manager who have engage she.



“I think you say I should meet one of my late companion,” she

remark to he when he shake hand with she.



“yes, Mr. Cooke be here somewhere,” he answer.



“oh, Mr. Cooke!” she echo, in a tone of evident disappointment.



now Aubrey be stand in the shadow only a few foot away from she. he

be always particularly quiet when he be not remarkably noisy, and,

have nobody to talk to at the moment, he have be still as a statue,

and have hear every word of this short colloquy, and notice the tone

of Miss Langton’s exclamation: and he be nettle by it. for he have

make up his mind that she be decidedly the most attractive of the

lady of the company, and have resolve to pay she the compliment of

devote his attention to she during the tour.



but, after this unconsciously administer rebuff, he have to resort

to the other alternative--of bask in the more easily win smile of

the lead lady, Miss Muriel West. all that Annie could see of this

lady in the dim light on the stage be that she be very handsome, with

great, win, velvety brown eye shade by long, black lash, and

that she be very badly dress, apparently in odd and end from her

stage wardrobe.



they be rehearse “she Stoops to Conquer,” and Miss West play Miss

Hardcastle, while Annie herself be Miss Neville. Annie discover

in the course of the morning that Miss West have a sweet, rich voice

and a kindly manner, an unrefined accent, and a rather heavy touch in

comedy. during the succeeding rehearsal she far discover that

Miss West be good-humor and amusing, and that she already exert a

strong fascination over most of the man of the company; Aubrey Cooke,

foremost as usual where a charming woman be concern, be absent

from her side only when he be want on the stage for his part of Tony

Lumpkin.



the rest of the woman be unintereste. there be a common but clever

girl of about her own age who play old woman; she call herself

“Lola Montrose,” but do not look like it, and be dress in clothe

which would have be neat and appropriate if she have not try to

“smarten herself up a bit” with large bunche of cheap but brilliant

artificial flower. and there be a well-bear and well-educate

girl who have go on the stage against the wish of her friend,

and who stay on it against the wish of the audience; she play

chamber-maid; but, though she could make witty speech of her own off

the stage, she always fail to extract the wit from any speech she have

to make on it. and there be also a curiously incapable girl who be

the manager’s niece.



on the day of the last rehearsal, before the tour begin, Aubrey Cooke

follow Annie to a corner of the stage, where she be stand

quietly, as usual, rather apart from the rest.



“I beg your pardon,” say he shyly--Aubrey be very shy sometimes--“I

hope you willn’t think what I be go to say impertinent; but I couldn’t

help overhear part of your conversation with Miss West this morning

about--about your live together.”



“oh, yes! she be suggest that we should lodge together, as it be so

much cheap than live apart. and she know all about touring, and I

know nothing at all about it. I think it be very kind of she.”



“she mean to be kind, I have no doubt,” mumble Aubrey. “but I don’t

think arrangement of that sort ever answer, unless people know all

about one another; and, if you have not settle anything, I would

strongly advise you to try lodge for a week by yourself first; and

then, of course, after that you would know all about everybody, and

be able to make arrangement with any lady you like. I hope you will

forgive my interference; I could not help see that, as you say, you

know nothing at all about tour yet.”



Annie have scarcely time to thank he for his advice before he have

raise his hat and leave she. Aubrey Cooke be a gentleman, and, in

spite of her apparent prejudice against he, he feel sympathy with the

forlorn little lady. when Annie leave the theater that morning, Miss

West be come out at the same time, and for the first time Annie see

her complexion by daylight; and the force of Aubrey Cooke’s advice

strike Miss Langton at once, for the pink and white and black of the

lead lady’s beauty show a difference of taste between they which

be more than skin-deep.









CHAPTER XIII.





before the company Annie have join start on a tour, she have hear

more tiding to distress she about the Braithwaite family. it be

Aubrey Cooke who bring they this time. he be tell she that he have

meet their late companion, Gerald Gibson, at Mrs. Falconer’s the day

before.



“oh! do you know she too?”



“yes; I have know she much long than Gibson have. he and I have long

argument about she.”



“I can guess which side you take.”



“I always take the part of a beautiful woman. and Gibson really do

her cruel injustice. she might sit for the portrait of the favorite

handsome panther-woman of the lady novelist.”



“I expect something more complimentary than that. I don’t call that

high praise.”



“don’t you? well, I don’t know any pretty woman who would not feel

flatter at be call a panther; most of they only get as far as to

be like cat.”



“now you be absolutely libelous! I know you will go on to say that

panther be as cruel as they be graceful, that they delight in human

victim, and you might add, if you dare, that the pursuit of they be

an exciting sport. and then you will ask if the parallel do not hold

good.”



“indeed, I shall say nothing so commonplace, Miss Langton. I always

maintain, to begin with, that beautiful woman be not cruel. it be not

their fault if we crowd round they in such number that they mix we

up a little, and hurt our feeling by forget we. I have a great

advantage over most of my rival in one respect--my appearance. I hear

a lady call I the other day the nice, quiet young man who look so

stupid. she be ask a man name Colonel Richardson who I be.”



“Colonel Richardson?”



“yes. he be a gentleman whom I always meet at Mrs. Falconer’s, a very

old friend of the family, I believe.”



now Aubrey Cooke have note well, without appear to remark it, the

expression of pain and anxiety which pass over Annie’s face as he

mention that Colonel Richardson be always at Mrs. Falconer’s. but

not have the least suspicion that she herself know the popular

beauty, he misunderstand the cause of her distress, and connect it

with the fact of the meeting he and Gibson have see a little way from

the stage-door some night before; and he wonder whether she know

that Colonel Richardson be marry, and whether she have hear certain

old scandal connect with his name.



for the first few week of the tour Aubrey see very little of Miss

Langton. she have take his advice and draw back, as civilly as she

could, from the proposal of live with Miss West, whom she soon find

out to be a coarse woman of not too reputable life, whose beauty and

a certain rough good-humor make she dangerous to many man. she see

through the motive of Annie’s shyness at once, and say, with a laugh:



“I suppose I be not good enough for you, little Puritan?”



but she show neither anger nor bitterness about it, and be

consistently kind, after her fashion, all the time the tour last,

to the quiet little girl to whom she have take a capricious liking.

so that Annie could not help a sneaking like for she, especially as

Miss West show, in part require dramatic power, a rough force

which in some scene keep Annie spell-bind in the wing watch she,

and ask herself if this be not genius. and then Miss West would

destroy the illusion by come off at the side, scold the prompter

for not be at his post, and call for stout or for brandy and

water.



Annie, therefore, choose to live alone, the only girl of her own

standing in the company be the amateur chambermaid, who be so

ostentatiously poor and aggressively economical that Miss Langton feel

that life with she would be a sort of voluntary martyrdom.



she have some trial with lazy landlady, extortionate landlady,

maid-of-all-work who do not give she enough attention, and other

who give she too much. they have be travel some week, when, in a

certain town which be one of the old in England, she get into some

lodging where the landlady be always out, and, be a lone widow who

keep no servant, sometimes leave her lodger to wait upon themselves

more than be meet.



Aubrey Cooke have room above Annie’s in this house, and, on reach

the door, tired, hot, and hungry after a long rehearsal of a piece

which have just be add to their repertory, Annie find she

fellow-lodger kicking the paint viciously off the inhospitable portal.



“it be of no use, Mr. Cooke,” say Annie, resignedly. “the stupid old

woman have go to market, and we shall have to wait till she come

back, unless we go and hunt she up where she be make her bargain in

stale cabbage.”



“but it be abominable to make her lodger stand kick their heel in

the blaze sun, while she be haggle over a penn’orth of onion!”

say he, with another lunge at the door.



Annie meanwhile have be prowl about.



“do you think you could open the kitchen window, Mr. Cooke?” she ask,

dubiously. “we might get in there. it ben’t far from the ground.”



it be a small window, just low enough for he to reach the fastening

easily with his pocket-knife. in a few minute he have push the

fastening aside, scramble up on to the sill, open the window, and

get in amid the crash of timber.



“what have you do?” ask Annie, anxiously, as he appear again,

disguise in flour and paste.



“I’ve fall into a lot of thing, it seem,” say he, “and I believe

I’ve sprain my ankle.”



“oh, my roly-poly pudding!” cry Annie, not heed his ailment in

the unhappy discovery.



“I’m afraid it be do for now,” answer Mr. Cooke, as he remove

the body of the uncooked pudding from his sleeve. “it will do for a

poultice for I, however,” he say, cheerfully; “and Mrs. Briggs will

put it down in both our bill, so it willn’t be waste. wait, I’ll give

you a chair to help you up.”



she get in; and they both begin to look about for something to make

dinner of. Annie go to the cupboard, while Mr. Cooke open a door

and fall down two step into the back kitchen with a cry of joy. he

have knock his head against a skinny-look bird, already pluck,

which be hang down from the ceiling. but Annie shake her head

contemptuously when she see it.



“it be one of Mrs. Briggs’ prehistoric chicken, and it would want a

lot of preparation before we could cook it. besides, I don’t know how,

and the fire be out.”



so they hunt again, and, not find anything but bone and Mr.

Cooke’s cheese, Aubrey go out to buy chop, having say doubtfully

that he think he could cook a chop, but ben’t sure, while Miss

Langton set to work to make a fire. when she come back, after a rather

long absence, they be both radiant; for Annie, as she let he in,

tell he in great delight that she have make a lovely fire, and find

where the plate, and knife, and fork be keep, and he pull out of

his pocket a number of small parcel and a gridiron, and produce from

under his arm a huge cookery book, which he lay triumphantly down upon

a bag contain cheese-cake.



“the baker’s wife lend I this; so now we can have fifteen course

if we like. this will tell we how to make a _vol-au-vent à la

financière_, or a _fricandeau de veau_ with _sauce piquante_, or----”



“but it willn’t tell we how to cook a chop without burn it to a

cinder, or how to boil a potato when I cann’t find where they be keep,”

say Annie, take up the gridiron and turn it over thoughtfully.



“why, I can show you what to do with that!” say he, with superiority.



and at last, after a great deal of unnecessary trouble and excitement,

and after having burn their hand and scorch their face and go

through a sort of purgatory on a hot early September afternoon, they

do succeed in cook the chop; and then Aubrey danced round they in

affectionate pride, while Annie suggest that they should dine in her

sit-room, which be only on the other side of the passage.



“oh, no,” say Aubrey; “let we have it in here, and then we can do some

more cooking!”



so they pull the kitchen-table out of range of the fire, and put bit

of firewood and paper under the rickety leg, and lay the cloth and

arrange the knife and fork with elaborate carefulness, and Aubrey

rush to the tap and fill a jug which they then discover to have

contain milk; and, the mania of cooking be still strong upon he,

he insist on put the batter cheese-cake into the oven “to

revive they,” and then make buttered toast “for dessert,” to work off

his culinary energy. and Annie laugh at he, and enjoy herself very

much. and then she suggest boil some water for coffee, which she

know how to make, she say.



“yes, because it don’t require any making. everything that demand

a little science fall to I,” say Aubrey, decisively, put the

kettle on the fire so that it immediately fall over on its side with a

loud hiss.



however, the coffee be make at last, and of course Aubrey say it be

the only time he have taste good coffee out of Paris; and, the landlady

not having yet return, though the afternoon be draw to a close,

Annie be rise to put away some of the thing, when Aubrey stop

she.



“don’t be so wrong-head as to save that unprincipled old lady

trouble,” say he. “besides, I dare say she will stay away till about

nine o’clock, and we shall want the thing again for tea.”



Annie make a grimace.



“then we shall have to wash they up.”



“that be very simple. put they all in the sink and turn the tap on.”



he be suit the action to the word when Annie stop he.



“well, don’t let we go away then, because the fire might go out, and

then poor Mrs. Briggs might find it cold when she come back,” say he,

with unexpected solicitude.



he do not want to break up this _tête-à-tête_, in which Annie, for the

first time, have be in her most charming, happy mood with he.



“do stay,” he say coaxingly. “let we tell each other story by the

firelight. I’ll begin; I’ll tell you a beauty that I make up myself,

all about ogre and a good little girl and a bad little girl.”



he be pat Mrs. Briggs’ rock-chair persuasively, and at last

Annie allow herself to fall into it, while Aubrey go on in a

chirping tone:



“there be once a very dreadful ogre as bad as he be ugly--he have a

mouth as big as mine--and he have for his play-fellow and companion

all the bad little boy and girl in the neighborhood; but of course

the good boy and girl run away as soon as they see he, especially

one little girl who feel quite sure that he would eat she up if she

speak civilly to he. so she be always as distant as she could be,

and sometimes make the poor ogre quite uncomfortable, which of course

be quite right and proper; until one day she meet the poor ogre when

somebody have steal his dinner--and hers too, by the way--and instead

of eat she up as she expect, he do his good to make himself as

agreeable as circumstance would permit; and----What be you laugh

at, Miss Langton?”



“I be laugh at something I be think about, Mr. Cooke. you cann’t

expect I to keep my attention fix on your idiotic nursery story.”



“oh! and so at last the good little girl get quite saucy; and--I really

must beg you to restrain your mirth at your own private thought, Miss

Langton. it be not courteous when a gentleman be do his good to

be entertaining--and instructive as well. to resume. and so the ogre

wonder to himself whether the good little girl would feel quite sure

for the future that he don’t want to eat she up, and whether she would

think he be not such a bad fellow after all and not half a bad cook at

a pinch. that be all, Miss Langton, unless you would like the moral.”



“let we have the moral, by all mean, if you can find one in all that

tissue of nonsense.”



“I pass over your impertinent comment in silence. the moral is----What

have I do to make you dislike I so much, Miss Langton?”



“I don’t understand you, Mr. Cooke. if I dislike you, should I have

devote all my energy, as I have do this afternoon, to prepare

your dinner and be to you all that Mrs. Briggs ever be and

more--for she never give you coffee after dinner?”



“your civility to I to-day have be dictate by the purest

selfishness. if it have not be for I you would have have to go out and

buy your own dinner, and you would not have know which side of the

gridiron to hold. I repeat, without I you would have be a forlorn,

dinner-less woman. look here--there be no make a bargain with a

lady, because she can always cry off when she like. but if you would

only believe that nothing would give I so much pleasure as to be able

to render you any service at any time, and that your reserve really

do hurt sometimes, I should be so glad of having have this chance of

tell you so.”



he get shy against the end of this speech; and Annie turn toward he

a face which look very sweet as well as pretty in the fire light.



“I do believe it,” she say, simply. “and I promise you that for the

future you shall not only not have to complain of my reserve, but you

may think yourself lucky if you do not have to check my forwardness.”



“Madam, my innate dignity will awe you sufficiently,” say Aubrey

haughtily.



but he look as much pleased as his inexpressive face ever allow he

to look. and when Mrs. Briggs come in just in time to get tea ready,

affect great surprise at their be home before she, and protest

that she have understand both of they to say they would dine out, they

be both still chat amicably by the kitchen fire. Aubrey be in

such high spirit that he seize the occasion to thunder forth a long

harangue at the frightened and apologetic old woman.



“be this the way to treat two member of a profession which number

in its rank the fairest of England’s woman and the noble of her

man? woman, do you take we for amateur? your four hour of trifling

and foolish chattering in the market-place--a thing which Bunyan

condemn as most reprehensible--have be gain at the expense of an

afternoon of unspeakable suffering and wretchedness to two of the most

pecuniarily desirable inmate who have ever condescend to take up a

temporary residence under your inhospitable roof!”



Mrs. Briggs be overwhelmed.



“I be sure, sir, I be very sorry. but you look pretty comfortable

sit there by the fire together.”



“comfortable! this woman say we look comfortable,” say Aubrey,

turn in amazement to Annie, who hasten to say:



“and so we be, Mrs. Briggs--at least, I be. as for Mr. Cooke, some

people be never content, you know.”



and she run away laugh to her sitting-room, while Aubrey go

up-stair to his, singe Siebel’s song in “Faust” in a very loud but

very melancholy voice.



after that afternoon in Mrs. Briggs’ kitchen, Miss Langton and Mr.

Cooke be very good friend. Annie find in he just the same boyish

high spirit which have make William such a delightful companion, while

the fact of his be well-educate and witty give he a charm in which

the Braithwaites be one and all sadly deficient. so that it gradually

come to be a matter of course that he should find out what be worth

see about each town which the company visit, and that he should

then take she to see it, and that, if they be in sentimental mood,

they should unite in conjure up picture of the olden time in the

ruin abbey and crumble wall they inspect; while, if they feel

incline to scoff at antiquity, they laugh together. the half-tender

tone of deference which gradually grow up in his manner to she do not

cause Annie the least uneasiness. she look upon he as a universal

lover, who could not keep sentiment quite out of his intercourse

with any woman, and, if any one have tell she that Aubrey Cooke be

grow seriously in love with she, and that her friendly manner be

encouragement, she would have be very much amuse at the suggestion.



but Aubrey have in truth grow quite conscious of the fact that this

capricious little woman, with her alternate fit of cold shyness and

madly high spirit, who could parry his nonsense with nonsense just as

wild one moment, and the next hold she own in a serious discussion, have

a charm for he which make all other woman seem insipid in his eye.

she be lovely to he; even when her little brown face look colorless

and unattractive to other, it be full of pathetic interest to he;

when she be look her good, when the wind have bring the bright hue

of health to her cheek and her eye be sparkle with fun or easily

roused excitement, he could not take his own vacuous light-blue eye

off her face. if his face have be more expressive, she could not have

fail to discover that his interest in she be deep than be safe

for his own peace of mind; but unluckily Aubrey’s feature be the

most perfect mask ever wear by a man whose feeling be in reality as

keen as his intellect.



Time after time he have make up his mind that he would propose to she at

such a time, at such a place. for it have come to this, that he feel he

must make her promise to be his wife, if she would, before this tour

be over. but, whenever the moment come which he have look upon as

propitious for the plunge, his heart fail he, or she would be in the

wrong mood, too friendly or too satirical, and the question have to be

put off. after all, there be no need to hurry matter; there be some

week of the tour to run yet, and in the meantime their intercourse be

delightful, and in the awful possibility of she say “no” there would

be an end of even that.



and there be a burden on his mind which he be anxious to find an

opportunity of remove. it concern Colonel Richardson and the

interest Miss Langton take in that handsome Lovelace. he make himself

an opportunity rather clumsily. they be read an epitaph of the

usual order on some man who seem to have have all the virtue, to have

be belove and respect by everybody, and to have make a blank in

the universe by his death.



“he be too perfect,” say Aubrey. “I suppose his widow put up this as

a salve to her conscience after worry her husband to death.”



“well, perhaps she really think it.”



“perhaps. in that case he must have be a handsome scamp, a sort of

Colonel Richardson,” he hazard, watch she.



“you should not take it for grant that all woman like scamp.”



“all woman seem to like Colonel Richardson.”



“well, he be nice! he know just how to treat they, to be interesting

and amuse without make love to they.”



“oh, I beg your pardon! I should not have be so rash as to sneer at

he if I have know he be so lucky as to have such a strong advocate in

you,” say Aubrey, out of temper.



“Advocate? what nonsense! he have plenty without I.”



“that be why I be surprised to find you worship at such a general

shrine.”



“worship! really, Mr. Cooke, you be quite rude.”



“I do not mean to be, I assure you. I only envy he his luck.”



and Aubrey stalk off over the old tombstone and begin dig out

bit of moss from a wall with the end of his cane, too angry to trust

himself to say any more.



“good-bye, Mr. Cooke; I be go home!” sing out Annie; and, before he

have make up his mind whether his dignity would allow he to follow she,

she have leave the churchyard and disappear from his sight behind the

wall.



that decide he, and in a few stride he be out of the gate and

cry humbly from behind she.



“Miss Langton, ben’t you come to have another of those tart you

like so much, as we arrange?”



“not if you be go to stalk off to the other side of the road if I

happen to say something you don’t agree with.”



“I beg your pardon. I be in a bad temper this morning, I suppose. I

will agree with everything you say. I think Colonel Richardson be the

nice man I know.”



“then there we sha’n’t agree,” say Annie, smile; “for, although I

think his manner be good, I don’t much care about he.”



“don’t you?” interrogate Aubrey, delightedly! “I’m so glad! do you

know, I don’t think he be the kind of man you would like much. then

you say what you do only to tease I?”



“do I?” say Annie, surprise that he should make such a fuss about a

trifle. “I don’t think I do. I say, shall we stay here next week, as

we be not go to York?”



“no; we be go out of our route a little. the governor have get we a

week at Beckham.”



“Beckham!” cry Annie, while all the color flee from her face.



“yes. why, what be the matter?”



“nothing,” say she, in her usual voice, but the color do not come

back to her cheek.



now, Aubrey know very well that “nothing” would not affect Miss Langton

as that mere mention of a place have do; but he see, too, that she do

not intend to give he a truer answer. it be not difficult to come

to the conclusion that there be unpleasant association connect

in her mind with the place to which they be go; and, after long

deliberation, he make up his mind definitely that Beckham should be

the place where he would at last screw up his courage to the point of

ask she to be his wife.



“if she like I--and I think--I almost think she does”--he reflect

that night--“why, my proposal will be the very good thing to drive any

unhappy recollection of the place out of her head. if she willn’t have

I--well, there be a river at Beckham!”



with which dark suggestion Aubrey blow out his candle and go to

sleep.









CHAPTER XIV.





Annie feel half incline at first to request the manager, on the plea

of illness, to let his niece, who be her “understudy,” play her part

for the week the company be to spend at Beckham, and take her chance

of his allow she to rejoin they at the next town they visit. the

incompetent little niece be eager, as Annie know, for such a chance,

and there would probably be little difficulty as far as that part of

the matter be concern.



but, besides the fact that she could ill afford to lose even one week’s

salary and risk the canceling of the rest of her engagement, she feel

sure that there be one person whom the plea of illness would in no

way deceive. Aubrey Cooke’s attention have already be awaken to

her reluctance to visit Beckham, and he be far too sharp a young man

not to be dangerous if she be to give he involuntarily a clew to a

secret she do not want to trust he with.



and the secret of her marriage she wish to keep from all her present

associate. the miserable tie seem to be less binding when all around

she be ignorant of it. for a long time she have almost forget it

in the unfettered life she have lead since she leave Garstone; but the

remembrance of it have begin lately to irritate she strangely. there

be now nothing on earth she dread so much as the possibility of her

husband’s find she out, and in a fit of capricious obstinacy or

tyranny insist on her return to he. the thought of be again at

the mercy of that ignorant, drunken boy fill she with a disgust which

be now not even mingle with pity. and she be to be bring against

her will to the very town which he and his brother visit almost

daily.



but, after long reflection, she decide that the risk of her be

recognize in Beckham be not so great as she have picture it to be in

her first terror at the thought of go thither. the family live

round about Beckham, as be usually the case with country town, very

seldom visit the theater--the Braithwaites never. upon William’s

authority, she be so much altered that, with the help of a veil and

other such simple disguise, she might pass unrecognized even by people

among whom she have live. when the young man from the Grange come into

Beckham, they be almost always on horseback or driving, so that it

would be easy for any one on foot to avoid they; and, above all, she

be on the alert to escape they, while they have not the least suspicion

of her come. in the town itself there be very little fear of she

be recognize by the inhabitant. she have not be in it much at

any time, and be very little known there. the mere change of name

would be enough to prevent their identification of “Miss Lane” or “Mrs.

Harold Braithwaite” with “Miss Langton.”



so, when the company arrive at Beckham, Annie be still with they. no

one notice any difference in her manner from her usual rather stolid

composure, when she step with the rest on to the platform at the

station which have more than one move memory for she, except Aubrey

Cooke, who watch she narrowly, and at once decide that she have be

there before. she be too wise to deny it when he ask she carelessly

whether she know the place, and then she set herself to the task of

find lodging as near as possible to the theater. she succeed in

engage suitable room in a back street within a few minute’ walk

of it; and she be grow secure in her _incognito_ when they have

play for two night and she have see no sign of the Mainwarings or

the Braithwaites, when an incident happen which bring she into

contact with the one she most dread to meet, with quite unforeseen

consequence.



Aubrey have not yet find the golden opportunity he seek, for Annie

declare that there be nothing in the least interesting to be see in

Beckham or round about it; and, the weather be wet and cold, she

seize upon this excuse to decline walk with he. the third day of

their stay be the fifth of November, and a friend of the manager have

invite some of the member of the company to some simple festivity,

which include a bonfire and firework, after the performance. on

the same night, Miss West, the lead lady, have invite Aubrey to

supper, and, on his pleading a previous engagement, she say to he

with some pique and in no very subdue tone that she know whose charm

outweigh those of any society she could offer he, and warn he

emphatically that the pleasure he prefer be far more dangerous

than those he reject.



“your little prude will throw you over some fine morning when you least

expect it. I know what those quiet little woman do. and you willn’t be

able to console yourself so quickly for her defection as I can myself

for your.”



and Miss West march away to bestow the charm of her racy speech and

artistic complexion where they be well appreciate. for indeed

Aubrey Cooke’s indifference to she rather overpower fascination have

become very marked since he have find metal more attractive in Miss

Langton, whose promise presence at the house he be go to visit

that night have more charm for he than firework.



the lady and gentleman who give this entertainment be delighted

with the good nature of Mr. Cooke and the two brother-actor of his

who be present, when they take the rocket and catherine-wheel out

of the clumsy hand of the coachman and superintend the exhibition

themselves, to the great delight of the child, who have be put

to bed and then pull out again, a few hour later to enjoy these

midnight festivity. but the young man certainly condescend to enjoy

themselves at least as much as the child, and Aubrey in particular

fire squib and burn his finger and his clothe with great spirit.

when at last the bonfire be light and the whole party jump and

whoop round it, and even the most timid be excited to stir the

burn twig with a pitchfork and then run scream away, Aubrey have

time to sneak round to Miss Langton’s side and pay she the grateful

attention of put into her hand an old garden-rake which he have

hunt out on purpose for she; and they toss the blaze bough

together; and, as the lurid light shine on her face, and she hop

about over smolder branch and expiring squib with the help of

his friendly hand, he feel that the moment be come. in the excitement

and hurly-burly which be go on around they, nobody notice the

tenderness with which he draw she back a few yard from the bonfire, on

the dark side of it, when her foot turn over on a glowing twig.



“take care; you be get tired. you must not play any more now,”

say he gently.



“let I go back and give it just one more toss,” plead she earnestly

but meekly. Annie have the charm of always yield to any assumption of

authority in small thing very submissively.



“no, I cannot allow it. this jump through the fire be a heathenish

custom highly unbecoming in an enlightened young lady of the nineteenth

century.”



“oh, yes, it mean something, don’t it?” cry she, interested. “the

canaanitish child be pass through the fire to propitiate Moloch.

and I have hear of a lot of irish and german superstition about

bonfire.”



“yes, they be all about luck and love. if you want to see whether your

love will be fortunate, you set a blaze hoop roll down a hill,

and, if it reach the bottom still alight and be not catch by any

obstacle, then you know she love you back.”



“where do you find out that? have you ever try it?” she ask

lightly.



“no,” say he, in a whisper; “I should not dare.”



they be both silent for a moment; the fire have fall into mere smoke

and blackness on the side near where they stand, and they could not see

each other’s face. but Annie hear the quick, loud breathing of the

man beside she, she could see he bend down over she with one hand

seek her, and a terrible fear leap up suddenly in her heart, as

she move quickly away from he with a low sound that be almost a cry

of pain.



Aubrey stand still, without attempt to follow or detain she. she

could not have misunderstood he, and she shrink away; that be enough

for he. it be a very hard and very unexpected blow; he have by no

mean feel over confident of his success with she, but at the bad

he have count upon she give he a hearing, and this abrupt repulse

sting he to the quick.



he do not stand there long watch the flickering light and shadow

cast by the burn pile in front of he. he spring through the fire

into the middle of the group of howling, delight child; and take

his place as the move spirit of the throng with great zeal than

ever.



and, when they have all grow weary, and have burn their clothe and

scorch themselves as much as they would, and the die bonfire be

at last leave to the man-servant to rake out, and, the child having

be send to bed, the rest sit down to supper, Aubrey Cooke be the

wittiest there as he have be the most active outside, and he give to

Annie’s watch eye only this one sign that she have wound he--he

do not look at she.



when they break up, between two and three o’clock in the morning, the

two other actor and the other actress who have come leave Miss Langton

as a matter of course to the care of Aubrey. but she slip past

he and go on by herself. he do not attempt to overtake she, but

follow at a short distance, in case she should be frighten by a

stray drunken rough in go through the narrow street which lead to

her lodge.



she be just in front of the house where Miss West lodge, when the

door open and two or three gentleman come down the step. the

foremost, who be walk very unsteadily, stagger against she as he

be turn round to speak to his companion. she give a frightened

cry, and rush past he in terror. as she hear first a laugh and

then a man’s footstep behind she, she break into a run, but stumble

against the curbstone of the pavement as she go over a crossing, with

the man close upon she. he catch she when her foot slip; and then,

as she turn round sharply, she suddenly give a startled cry and clung

to his arm, sob out:



“you, Aubrey! thank Heaven!”



“my dear child, who do you think it be?”



“I think it be that tipsy man!” she whisper, shudder.



“the clumsy brute don’t hurt you, my darling, do he, when he run up

against you? I would have punch his head----”



“no, no, no!” she cry, cling to he again, in fear of his

return. “he don’t hurt I at all; he scarcely touch I. but I

think it be he who be run after I, and I be frightened.”



“that be all because you be a silly girl and be too proud to let I

see you home. it be a ‘judgment.’ why, you be shake all over still!

I don’t think you be such a little coward!”



he soothe she tenderly, with a very happy remembrance of her delight

in recognize he, and of the impulsive closing of the little hand

on his arm. he begin to think that repulse of a few hour before might

be differently construe; she could not have smile up more than

gratefully into his face as she be do now if he have be repugnant

to she. other woman might, but not Annie Langton.



and Aubrey be right. she have feel just what her face express, that

the one person in the world whose presence inspire she with perfect

confidence have suddenly appear at the very moment when she dread

the approach of the person she most fear to meet.



for, in the half tipsy man who have stagger down from Miss West’s door

and reel against she, Annie have instantly recognize her husband.

he have not know she, he have scarcely see she, for the little figure

have fly past almost before he have recover his balance; but in the

first moment of terror, Annie imagine that he have see, know, and be

pursue she.



she walk on with Aubrey very quietly, very silently, her hand on his

arm and his hand on her, listen to his gentle, playful scolding

with a little laugh now and then, but without speak much, satisfy

that she be safe with he, and that she need not talk to show he

that she feel so. when they come to her door, she disengage her hand

and hold it out while bid he “good-night” with a smile that make

Aubrey bold. he take her hand in his, pass his other arm round she,

say, in a quick, jerky whisper:



“Annie, you do--you will trust yourself to I, willn’t you?”



there be no eloquence in his speech; but for once his light eye

speak very plainly, his voice break into tenderness. Annie tremble.

her eye, as they meet his, shine with a light he have never see in

they before. but before he could speak again, before he could draw she

into his arm, the light have fade. she give he one look so wildly,

unutterably sad that he never forget it; then, with bent head, she

slip gently out of the grasp of his arm and turn to the door. she

could not see the lock, for the tear be gather in her eye. after

a few moment, Aubrey, who have stand behind she without speak, take

the key from her shake hand and open the door for she.



“thank you, Aubrey. good-night,” say she, in a quavering voice,

without look up.



“good-night, darling!” he whisper back, manage to give one last

despairing squeeze to the little finger before she shut the door.



he go home to his lodging utterly bewilder, but resolve to get

from she the next day some explanation of her extraordinary treatment

of his advance. she have certainly understand he. she have at first

repel, then encourage he. he have see in her eye the very look he

have wish to call up in they, and the next minute it have change to an

expression of plaintive misery and regret which have chill his hope

even as they rise.



but the next day, when he call upon she, he be tell Miss Langton be

not well, and could not see any one. he know very well that she be

only put he off, and he make up his mind that at night she should

not escape he. she take care however not to be catch alone, and her

share in the performance be nearly over before Aubrey, always on the

watch, see Miss Montrose, who have be stand at the side with she,

go upon the scene at her cue and leave Annie by herself at last. then

she hear his voice behind she; she could not escape now, for before

long she would hear her own cue, and must be on the watch for it.



“good-evening, Miss Langton.”



“oh, good-evening, Mr. Cooke!” she give he her hand; it be tremble

a little, and she do not look up into his face.



“I have not have an opportunity of speak to you before. you will let

I see you home?”



“not to-night; I have promise to go to supper with Miss Norris.”



“you be put I off, I see. be it fair, Annie? be it right? be I

not worth an answer?”



“an answer to what?”



“to what I say to you last night. you cann’t have forget so soon.

if I be a stranger, if I be the most contemptible wretch living,

if you have always treat I with open dislike, you could not have

misunderstood or forget what I say to you last night.”



Annie turn and look up at he, pale under her _rouge_.



“I have not forget, nor understand--at least, I think not. I think

you too would have understand--that I try to avoid you, because I

fear, I know my answer, if I must answer, would give you pain.”



“then you don’t like I?”



a ray of vehement passion flash from her dark eye.



“don’t torture I! you know I like you; but I can’t--I cann’t do more! I

don’t know whether I have do wrong--I never mean to lead you to feel

like this. how could I go on avoid you when I be lonely and you

be kind?”



“why should you avoid I? why should you not love I?”



she do not answer; but there be no mistaking the misery on her face

for coquetry or caprice.



“be you bind by some other engagement, Annie?”



she shudder. before he could speak again, she turn quickly to he.



“don’t ask I any more; believe what I say, that I be suffer more

than you can, and it be my own fault. I be bind by an engagement in

which love be out of the question, and always must be. what love be to

most woman ambition be to I.”



“do you mean that you will marry for ambition? you, Annie? Wait, wait a

little for I; I will get on--I can--I’m not a fool----”



“hush!” say Annie sharply. “it be impossible; I can never marry you!

you be only torture I, and all to no end. I cannot marry you; I

cannot love you!”



“you could if you would, Annie. I could make you love I; you be

always happy when you be with I.”



his word move she, and she stop he abruptly.



“Happy? yes, for the time. we have be good friend, that be all. but

there be something more in life than you can give I.”



“what be there?”



“Fame, position, the mean of get on.”



“be that what you care for most?”



“what if it be?”



“it be not; but, if it be, I would get those for you easily enough.”



she laugh, but not merrily.



“I think you overestimate your power.”



Aubrey’s face look in that moment as if carve in wood, save for the

steady shining of his light eye. he say, quietly:



“oh, I do, do I? well, you shall see.”



they be both silent for a few moment, and then Annie hear her cue

and go on.



this conversation take place on a Thursday evening, and during the

next two day Annie avoid Aubrey still, and he do not again seek an

interview with she, but content himself with simple greeting, and

with watch she quite unobtrusively. she miss his companionship

keenly, far too keenly. she do not dare to leave the house all day,

fear as much to meet he as to meet any of the Braithwaites, yet

hold her breath when there be a knock at the front door, in the

hope that he at least have come to ask after she. but he do not come.

on Saturday night, as she be leave the theater, Aubrey come out,

follow by a boy carry his portmanteau. for the first time for

three day, he run after she.



“good-bye, Miss Langton; I be go to town.”



Annie start.



“what! you be go away?”



“only till Monday. I be go on business. you will wish I good luck?”



“with all my heart!”



he wring her hand and run on without a word. they could not trust

themselves to speak again. the next day Annie leave Beckham with the

rest of the company.



on Monday night they meet once more at the theater. Aubrey be look

paler and plainer than usual, and give as a reason for his alter

appearance that he have not be to bed for the last two night.



“may I see you home to-night, Miss Langton?” ask he, as soon as

he find a chance of speak to Annie. “I will not say a word that

could offend you. I will not touch upon the--the forbid topic,” he

whisper, earnestly.



Annie could not refuse; but it be hard work for she to hide she

agitation--and her pleasure--when she once more find he wait for

she that night at the stage-door, and slip her hand falteringly

within his proffered arm. she have no need to be afraid; his manner be

as cool and compose as if she have be his grandmother, and pique she

into similar calmness.



“I think you would like to know how I get on in town,” say he at

once, in the most matter-of-fact tone. “I go up about a London

engagement--at the Regent’s Theater--and I’ve get it!”



“I’m so glad,” say Annie, coolly.



“well, that be not all. I’ve get an offer of an engagement there for

you too.”



“not really?”



“I have, though. I know there be a part in the piece they be go to

play which would suit you down to the ground, so I mention that there

be a lady of remarkable promise in the company I be in, and say just

what I know would attract attention about you; and it happen that the

manager want some one for the part I have in my eye, and I think you

be pretty sure to get it if you write.”



“oh, Mr. Cooke, I don’t know how to thank you!” say Annie, in wild

delight, for more than one reason.



“don’t mention it, Miss Langton,” say Aubrey, in his old, deferential

manner; then he turn the conversation. “I meet an old favorite of

yours last night--Gibson--at Mrs. Falconer’s.”



“oh! how be the beauty?”



“well, she affect great distress about one of her brother, who be

ill, and not expect to live. it appear he fall down as he be

get into a dog-cart, awfully tight, last Wednesday night. but I

don’t think she be as much afflict as she would be if mourning don’t

suit her complexion. and, though she mention that he be quite alone,

she do not suggest go to nurse he.”



“do she mention the name of the brother?” ask Annie, quite quietly.



“yes; she call he ‘poor Harry.’”



Annie hear without give one sign that the news move she. for the

rest of the walk she speak little, and with an effort. at her door

he be strike by the marked constraint of her manner as she bid he

good-bye. when she have unlock the door and he have turn away, she

say:



“whatever you hear of I, remember I be not ungrateful.”



when Aubrey get to the theater on the follow evening, he find that

the manager’s niece be to play Miss Langton’s part, and learn that

the latter have throw up her engagement and have already leave town.









CHAPTER XV.





the news of her husband’s illness have fall like a knell on Annie’s

ear; for in a moment she see that the bright vision of pleasure and

satisfied ambition which Aubrey’s word about a London engagement in

the same theater with he have call up could not be indulge in,

except at the sacrifice of an unmistakable duty. it be her husband

who lie ill, neglected and solitary. for one moment she try to stifle

conscience by say to herself that she do not know where he be;

but then she feel ashamed of the flimsy excuse, for she could not

doubt that he be at Garstone Grange. Aubrey have say that it be on

Wednesday night that the accident have happen to he, and it be on

Wednesday night that she herself have see and even touch he in the

street of Beckham. she must go to he, and at once, before Aubrey

could guess her secret, before she herself, in an unguarded moment,

should let he know how much this separation would cost she. she dared

not trust herself to think what a great part of the fact of his being

engage at the same theater have have in her joy at the prospect of

play again in London; it be a dangerous subject, and she shun it

instinctively. she try to keep her thought fix on this one simple

idea--she must go to Garstone, nurse her husband through his illness,

bear his brutal temper and thankless snub as well she might, and then

slip back quietly into her free stage life once more, take her chance

of get a town engagement.



so, on the morning after her talk with Aubrey, she get the manager to

cancel the rest of her engagement, and, having pack her trunk the

night before, she leave for Beckham within an hour of his release she.

she look restlessly and eagerly from the window of the cab as she

drive to the station “to see if any of the company be about.” at last

she catch sight of Aubrey Cooke go down a street, with his back to

the cab, therefore so that he could not see she; and after that she

look out no more, but sit with burn cheek and her eye fix on

the front seat of the cab, all curiosity and interest go out of she.



she get to Beckham at three o’clock in the afternoon, and drive

straight to the Grange, which she reach before the dark November

day have close. to her surprise, the man-servant who open the door

recognize she at once.



to her question he reply that Mr. Harold be be nurse by the

housekeeper, that Lady Braithwaite and Mr. Stephen be abroad, Sir

George be in town, Mr. Wilfred in Leicestershire, and Mr. William

somewhere--he do not know where--“studying.”



Annie then ask to see the housekeeper, and learn from she that

Harry’s accident be indeed as serious as Aubrey Cooke’s word have

imply. he have slip as he be get into the dog-cart, one night

after sup with some friend in Beckham--Annie happen to know

something about those friend--and the wheel have pass over he and

break his left arm, besides inflict other less serious injury;

he have not yet quite recover from another illness, and have be

disregard his doctor’s order. after be take to a surgeon by the

gentleman who be with he, to have his arm set, he have insist on

be drive back home to the Grange at five o’clock in the morning.

the housekeeper continue that he have then, contrary to the advice

she have venture to give he, insist upon drink brandy in the

billiard-room; that she have wait about, not dare to go in and speak

to he again, until she hear a fall and a groan, and, run in,

have find that he have fall and again displace his broken arm. she

have get he to bed with the help of the man-servant and send for the

doctor; but no skill could prevent inflammation of the wound limb,

and he be now lie in a high fever and could recognize no one.



“I would strongly advise you not to see he, ma’am, until he be

quieter. he be very violent, and he use dreadful language.”



“I don’t suppose he say anything bad than what I have hear he

say when he be in full possession of his sense, Mrs. Stanley,” say

Annie, quietly. “it be not fair that all the care of nurse my husband

should fall upon you; so, if you please, I will go to he now.”



Mrs. Stanley lead the way to the room to which they have carry

he--not his own, but a large and more convenient one. she draw the

arm of the young wife through her own as they enter, for Annie have

grow very white and be shake from head to foot when her husband’s

voice, speak disjointedly to an imaginary listener, meet her ear.

she recover her self-command before venture to look at he; but,

however strong her emotion might have be, it would not have affect

he. he take no notice of her presence; his wide-open eye do not even

see she.



Annie do not give way again; but from that hour she take her place by

his bedside alternately with Mrs. Stanley, listen to idle babbling

of his useless vicious life, to invective against the carelessness

of groom, the meanness of his brother George, the “airs Sue give

herself.” but there be never one word of herself; she have pass out

of his life; be forget, as if those few month of their married

life have never be. only once do he refer to she, and that be not to

Annie, his wife, but to Miss Lane of Garstone Grange.



“see the pretty little governess go to church; feel half incline

to go too, just to look at she,” he murmur once while she sit by his

bedside listening. but then he ramble off into talk which concern

a dog he have buy, and Susan Green, the blacksmith’s daughter,

and let fall some epithet which, it occur to Annie, would apply

particularly well to Miss West, at whose house he and his companion

have be sup on the Wednesday night, or rather Thursday morning,

when she have run against he in Beckham Street, and when he have meet

with his accident.



it be a hard punishment for the weakness of marry he and the

fault of leave he that she be suffer now, as she listen to

his wandering talk about other woman, which show his contempt for

a sex he do not understand, or think worth the trouble of try to

understand. and all the while she have to try to overcome the disgust

with which he inspire she and the longing to be again in the society

of one man, one brilliant, interesting companion, for whom every word

she utter have a charm, every action of hers be right.



when Mrs. Stanley take her place in the sickroom, she would fly like

an escaped bird out of door, and wander through the field and the

now leafless copse by herself, rejoice in her temporary freedom,

try to forget the horrible fact that she be married, and the very

existence of that unconscious, senseless clog upon her life that she

have leave in the darken room up-stair. these ramble bring almost

as much pain as pleasure to she; they recall to she so vividly

the long marauding expedition she have have with William, when they

use to return home laden with bird’ egg and duck’ feather, and

moss-cover twig, all of which William have to carry as soon as they

get near the house, for fear any of the household should think that

Mrs. Harold Braithwaite be so childish as to care for such rubbish.

Harry have be merely an every-day trial then, to be shirk as much

as conscience permit; now he have become, and by her own fault, an

obstacle to her happiness which there be no possibility of remove.



she have return to the sickroom one afternoon to relieve the

housekeeper, and, find that Harry be sleep quietly--a fact which

make she a little nervous, as it prove he be get well--she

open a book and settle herself in an arm-chair by the fire, whence

she could see any movement of the invalid’s by merely raise her eye.

the book be George Sands’ “Consuelo.” open it at first carelessly,

the early page fix her attention, and before long she bent over

it, completely absorb in the fascinating story.



she do not see the sick man’s eye open, fall upon she, and remain

fix, at first vacantly, then intently, upon her bent head. she do

not even notice the slight sound he make as he struggle to raise

himself on his elbow, nor the faint gasp of astonishment he give

when, having succeed, he have satisfy himself that it be his

long-forget wife.



“Annie!” he exclaim, in a voice hoarse with weakness and with no

warm emotion than amazement.



she look up and say “Harry!” with just the same amount of tenderness.



“why be you here?” he ask curiously, as he fall weakly back upon his

pillow.



“why, to nurse you, of course!” say she in a soft voice, rise at

once without any noise or bustle, but in a quietly matter-of-fact

manner.



she come to the bed, arrange his pillow more comfortably, raise his

head, and give he something to drink, while he stare at her silently

and receive her attention without any remark, until she quietly go

back again to her arm-chair and “Consuelo.” still he gaze at she

fixedly, and, as she open the book at the right place, which she have

be careful not to lose on hear her husband address she for the

first time after nearly four year’ separation, he say:



“you’ve go off shockingly!”



“yes, I know I have,” say Annie, quite calmly, put her finger on

the line she have come to as she look up. “but you have well not talk

now,” she add, coaxingly; “it be very bad when you be still so weak.”



down go her head again; but, with characteristic tact, he insist on

continue:



“I don’t think I ever see anybody so much alter. I suppose that be

why you have come back. you find nobody else would admire you any

long, so it be time to come and saddle yourself on your husband.”



instead of be sting to the quick by this reproach, which be mean

to be very severe, Annie have some difficulty in repress an impulse

to laugh; but she only say, soothingly:



“it be all right, Harry; I be go away again as soon as ever you be

well. I’ll turn away so”--and she move the chair round to face the

fire--“and then you willn’t be annoy by the sight of my ugly face.”



she go on reading, or pretend to read, for some minute, until her

husband’s voice once more interrupt she.



“a fine lot of affection you seem to have for I now you have come

back! I dare say you wish I be dead all the time. never even ask I

how I feel! what do you come at all for?”



Annie put down her book again, and come toward the bed.



“I don’t think it be good for you to talk just at first. I think,

if I sit quite quietly, you would go to sleep again.”



“no, you don’t; you want to read your book. what be it?”



“it be a french book call ‘Consuelo.’”



“french! oh, of course--something too learn for I!”



“it be not learn at all. I’ll translate it to you if you like; but I

don’t think you would care much about it.”



“oh, no; it would be over my head, of course!”



his voice be grow very feeble and husky. Annie pour some medicine

into a glass and bring it to he.



“now,” say she, coaxingly, as she slip her hand under his pillow to

raise his head, “you have well drink this, and then lie still for a

little while. you be not very strong yet, you know.”



“I sha’n’t drink it--I willn’t have that vile stuff pour down my

throat!” say he, in a weak, dogged whisper.



“you have well take it. cann’t you feel how weak your voice be

get?” say Annie, persuasively.



“I willn’t take that, I tell you! that willn’t do--do I--any good! fetch

I some brandy-and-soda.”



“no, I cann’t do that; it wouldn’t be good for you.”



“do you hear what I say? fetch I some brandy-and-soda!”



he make a feeble, spasmodic effort to knock the glass out of her hand;

but she hold it out of his reach, and, lay his obstinate head, which

she be still support, gently down on the pillow again, she put the

medicine down on the table.



“don’t you mean to obey I? I willn’t drink your filthy poison! if you

want to get rid of I you have well doctor some brandy for I, and

then perhaps I’ll take it.”



“the brandy by itself would be poison to you now, without my

doctoring,” say Annie, quietly. “as soon as you be well again you

can drink what you like, you know; and the more faithfully you follow

the doctor’s order now, the soon you will be able to drink as much

brandy as you please.”



she say it in a very soft, gentle voice; but she could not quite

keep the scorn she feel for he out of the last word. weak tear of

impotent anger gather in Harry’s eye.



“you treat I like a dog! a fine make-believe your wifely duty be. when

I’m well again I’ll turn you out of the house at an hour’s notice--that

I will!”



she see that he be exciting himself dangerously; and fear the

effect of this emotion upon he in his weak state, she take the hand

he be convulsively clinch on the bedclothe in one of her, and

put her lip to it, say, in the most winning tone the actress

could assume:



“my poor dear Harry, I would give you what you want if I dare; and

when the doctor come, I will ask if you may have it. and I will go

away when you like; but you will let I stay until you be well, willn’t

you?”



Harry be touch by this unexpected appeal.



“all right; you may stay,” he murmur magnanimously.



“and willn’t you let I give you your medicine? I’ll drink some of it

first, if you like, to show you it ben’t poison.”



“no, that be only nonsense. I’ll take it,” whisper the grumpy

invalid, conquer; and when he have drink it, and she lay his head

gently down again, he say, “thank you. you may kiss I if you like,

old girl.”



Annie avail herself of this permission--not enthusiastically, but

still not without a touch of tenderness; and she sit in the chair by

the bedside until he go quietly off to sleep again.



the next few conversation she have with her husband, who get well

rapidly with the careful nursing he receive, be after the same

pattern--a little wrangle, with taunt and sneer on his side, and

careless submission on her, follow by a sort of tame reconciliation.

before long she have manage, by a firm refusal to do anything which she

do not think good for he and a very gentle manner, to get the upper

hand of the obstinate invalid; and, when Mrs. Stanley have a tussle with

he on account of his unwillingness to have his wound dress or to

take his medicine at the proper hour, she always go to Annie to get

over the difficulty. sometimes during a battle with the housekeeper he

would say:



“well, send Annie, then, and perhaps I’ll have it do.”



this flattering preference be receive by its object with anything but

gratitude. to be call up from her sleep in the middle of the night,

or to be send for in the course of a meal, because “Mr. Harold say he

willn’t take any slop, ma’am, unless you come and see that his beef-tea

ben’t hot enough to scald his throat,” do not fill she with any pride

in this rise in her husband’s esteem. at last, one night, when he be

fairly on the road to convalescence, she flatly refuse to go when Mrs.

Stanley come to say Mr. Harold would not let she dress the wound on his

shoulder, but want his wife to do it.



“tell he I say you can do it much well than I, Mrs. Stanley; and,

if he willn’t let you do it, he must wait till to-morrow morning,” say

the undutiful wife sleepily, as she turn over and shut her eye again.



the next morning Harry, who be to go down-stair for the first time

that day, bounce over on his side away from she as soon as she enter

his room and come up to the bedside. Annie walk softly toward the

door; then the invalid, who have recover much of the power of his

lung, roar:



“stop! where be you go?”



“I be go to breakfast,” say she, calmly.



“without even wish I good-morning! after refuse point-blank just

to step along the corridor in the night when I might have be die!

you’re a nice wife!”



“now, look here, Harry; I don’t pretend to do more than just my simple

duty to you, and don’t for a moment set myself up for a model wife.”



“I should think not indeed! everybody would laugh if you do.”



“everybody would laugh, as you say, if I pretend to show any

affection for a husband so selfish that he will break a night’s rest

of a very good nurse--I have be that, remember--on the most trifling

pretext. I dare say you think it an honor to choose I instead of Mrs.

Stanley to put on a poultice or arrange a bandage; but I assure you it

be one I don’t appreciate. you be nearly well now, and the task I set

myself of see you through your illness be over. my presence can only

irritate you now, and I think of take the hint you have often give

I, and go to-day.”



“go? what--leave I here all alone when I’ve show you I like to have

you near I? all right--go along then, you hard, heartless vixen! no,

no,” he call, as she turn again toward the door--“Annie, Annie, I

don’t mean it--I’m not ungrateful--I have be selfish! don’t go till

I’m quite well; don’t leave I all alone, Annie, till I can get about

again! I like to hear your voice; and you move so quietly, and you talk

so prettily--I’m always dull when you’re out of the room--I’m sorry

I’ve be so cross. don’t go, Annie, till I’m quite well. wait till

next week. willn’t you wait just till next week, Annie?”



she come back to his side again, look very grave.



“look here, Harry,” she say; “you be well enough now for I to speak

to you seriously, as I could not speak when you be lie there likely

to die. you have be very rude to I and ungracious, consider that

I come simply to do my good to get you well quickly. now the duty

I set myself be over, and I assure you, strange as it may seem to

you, I feel no irresistible wish to stay here a moment long than be

necessary. if you wish I to stay here still and do my good to amuse

you until you be strong enough to amuse yourself again, I will do so,

on one condition. it be that now you will drop the tone of childish

insolence to I which I have excuse on account of your illness, and

speak to I as other man speak to their wife--no well than that,”

she add, with a slight shade of irony.



“so you want to preach and domineer over I,” protest Harry, rather

sulkily, “just because I say I don’t mind your be in the room.

yes, yes, I will be civil,” he add hastily, as Annie’s head move

away; “I don’t mean to be rude to you: I really be grateful for the

way you have take care of I. only don’t speak to I in that hard

voice: just say something in your soft, pretty way, and I shall come

round directly. you always get over I when you speak in your soft

voice, you know.”



“well, then, may I go to breakfast, Harry?” say she, smile, and

take the hand he involuntarily stretch toward she.



“yes, yes; I willn’t be selfish again. kiss I first,” say the invalid,

in a more contented tone.



and Annie put her lip lightly to his forehead and leave the room. it

be very tiresome that she should have to delay her departure from

the Grange for this whim of her capricious husband. she hope that

she might be able to leave in a day or two, especially as George be

expect at the Grange; and, if she be to remain until his arrival,

she know well that she would find it difficult to get away. for she

could not fail to see that, while she have lose the first freshness of

her beauty, she have acquire, by her early encounter with the world

and by contact with the wit of the green-room, other charm of even

great power, which a man of Sir George’s type would be likely to

rate highly--especially in the country, where woman who can talk be

rare. she have no long the least fear of he, and she only dread, in

worldly-wise feminine vanity, not his attraction for she, but her for

he.



for the longing to be again at work in her profession be strong upon

she, and an unacknowledged wish to see that member of it whom she like

well be strong still. she know, too, that these few day of delay in

return to London might make the difference between her obtaining or

lose all chance of the engagement Aubrey Cooke have speak of to she.

her excitement and impatience grow so high as she think the matter

over during her solitary breakfast, that she feel oblige to throw a

shawl round she and rush into the open air to calm the fever rise

within she before return to her peevish lord and master up-stair.

how could she induce he to let she go at once, without exciting the

spirit of contradiction in he which would make he tease she to stay

because he see she wish to go? she have turn reluctantly toward the

house again, and be go indoor to Harry, who would probably be

dress and up for the first time since his illness now, when a wild

but delighted shout from the gate frighten she. she see a tall figure

race over the lawn toward she, and in another minute she be in

William’s frantic embrace.



he lift she off her foot, he make little rush at she, he danced

round she with savage cry, he show ecstasy in every uncivilized

and unheard-of way, ask she when she have come and why she have not

write to tell he.



“I don’t know where you be, William, my dear boy,” say Annie. “do

you know I be here?”



“rather! what do you think I’ve come for except to see you? and I

see George in town yesterday, and I’ve tell he, and he be come,

and Wilfred and everybody; and we’ll have the whole place light up,

and--Hooray! I must give you another hug!”



he be suit the action to the word when the window of Harry’s room,

which be on that side of the house, be throw sharply up by the

invalid, who be sit by it, and his angry and no long weak voice

call out:



“be off! leave she alone, you impudent young scamp! Annie, come here; I

want you. why have you be so long go? you don’t care what happen

to I!”



“I’m come,” say Annie, resignedly.









CHAPTER XVI.





Annie soon find herself in a difficult position between the

brother-in-law she like and the husband she dislike. William be

always want she to be out of door with he, Harry tease she

with sulky reproach if she be away from he for more than half an

hour at a time. the invalid come down to the drawing-room, which be

well warmed and cheerful, on the second day after William’s arrival,

lean on his brother’s arm. the ascendency over he which Annie

have gain in the sickroom she manage to maintain still; and the

artless William would make gesture of admiration and astonishment at

Harry’s docility to she from behind her husband’s back, and there be

much unpleasantness on one or two occasion when his brother catch

he. William also make himself obnoxious by call Harry “the Ogre,”

sometimes out of hearing of his eld brother and sometimes within,

and by assume an intimate knowledge of Annie’s movement during the

four year of her absence from the Grange, which Harry of course do

not possess.



in these early day of her return Annie put off question about the way

in which she have occupy those four year, and leave Harry to imagine

that she have support herself by teach. her skill in conversational

fence be much great than that of either of her companion, she

could always lead the talk into what channel she would; but it be

grow a delicate matter to avoid collision between Harry and William,

each of whom consider himself to have an exclusive right to her

attention, when the situation be change by the arrival on the same

day, though not by the same train, of Wilfred and Sir George.



William be dispatch by Annie to Beckham in the dog-cart to meet his

eld brother, and, when he be go, Harry, who, under his wife’s

care, be get rapidly through his convalescence, fidget about the

room, and at last knock over a gypsy-table cover with trifle.



“all right, Harry; I’ll pick they up,” say Annie, hear a muttered

oath from her husband.



“what be you in such a hurry for? I do hate a woman to be in a hurry,”

say he, testily, notice unusual haste in his wife’s movement as she

knelt on the floor gather up the thing his clumsiness have scatter.



“it be get very late, and I must dress for dinner now George be

come back.”



Harry fling himself into a chair and scowl at she.



“oh, all this fuss for George! your appearance don’t matter for I, I

suppose? I’m only your husband!”



“my dear Harry, if you will take the trouble to think you will see

that, as, since you have be ill, you have not have late dinner, I

have not insult you by change my gown to see you eat toast and

mutton-broth in your dressing-gown. besides, I should like to hide the

fall off in my look which you be kind enough to tell I of from

George, who will not hurt my vanity by mention it, if he do notice

any great change.”



“look here, Annie! I don’t want to hurt your feeling; I don’t think

you be vain; and--and--do you know--I really--I think sometimes, when

you tell we anything to make we laugh, for instance, you look pretty

than you ever do. you--you look so mischievous, and your eye sparkle

so, you make one want to kiss you--only then--then, somehow, you never

seem to want to be kiss--at least not by I!” he add, testily.



Annie burst out laugh, a little constrainedly perhaps.



“why, whom should I want to kiss I except my husband?” say she,

carelessly, as she bent over her occupation of fit together two

piece of broken Dresden china.



“I don’t know, I be sure,” say Harry, rather sulkily, feel that his

conciliatory speech have not meet with the response it deserved--“George,

perhaps.”



“why, surely you be not jealous of George, Harry!” she cry, laugh

more naturally.



“I don’t know that I’m not; but it wouldn’t make much difference to you

if I be, would it?” he ask; and, as, for one moment, she do not

answer, he walk, with the aid of the intervene chair, from the one

on which he be sit to one beside she, and lay his sound arm, the

right, on her shoulder. “it wouldn’t make any difference, would it?” he

repeat.



Annie look up rather mischievously.



“I don’t think it would, Harry.”



this be a disconcert answer to a husband.



“oh, very well!” say he, gruffly, after a minute’s pause. “then I

see what I be to expect;” and he get up to walk away with offended

dignity; but, not having recover his strength yet, and have tire

and excite himself already that afternoon, he stagger before he have

go many step, and immediately he find his wife’s arm in his. “thank

you,” say he, haughtily; then he add, with the air of a martyr, “I’m

not well yet, not nearly well; I’m not strong enough to walk steadily.”



“oh, well, Harry, I’ve see you walk just as unsteadily when you be

quite well!” say Annie, dryly.



Harry snatch his arm from she, and fall into the near chair,

flush violently.



“very well, ma’am; you call I a drunkard now! I shouldn’t have think

any woman would have the heart to make fun of a sick husband; but you

don’t care for anything as long as you can laugh and scamper about

the garden like a great tomboy with that infernal long-legged idiot

William! you be enough to make any husband drink, just to forget you,

you unfeele little creature, you!”



“come now, Harry, I don’t think you can say it be I drive you to

drink; and I think you would have forget I pretty quickly even

without that assistance,” say she, pass her hand soothingly down

his arm and speak in a caressing voice, the charm of which always

tell on he when she choose to use it. “you know very well that it

will not require any more crime on the part of your wicked wife, for

instance, to induce you to undo all the progress you have make toward

get well during the last few day by sit up to-night drinking

with George and Wilfred.”



“and what do you care if I do?”



“it be no affair of mine, of course, and I shall not annoy you and

bring down a storm upon my own head by interfere. to borrow your own

word, it would make no difference if I do.”



“how do you know it wouldn’t? don’t I always do what you wish?”



“I think the temptation to do what I don’t wish will be strong now

you will have pleasanter company than a faded wife.”



“whoever call you ‘fade’? I never do--you know I never do! and you

know I like your company. I never know you so pleasant before.”



“oh, you don’t think I pleasant always!”



“No; because you say such nasty thing--thing you never use to dare

to say when I be well. now I’m ill, you think you can say anything,

because I’m not strong enough yet to think of anything just as cut

to say back. but I’ll pay you out when I get well again, clever as you

be.” he speak in a rather irritated tone, but not ill-humoredly; she

be so smile, so careless, that he be as much amuse as annoy by

she.



“I sha’n’t give you a chance, because I have some very important

business in London, and my duty as your nurse be over, and to-morrow I

shall go to town.”



“and when be you come back?”--excitedly.



she do not answer.



“when do you mean to come back, I say?” he repeat, in a loud voice.



still no answer. Harry clutch his wife’s arm.



“then I shall not let you go! you be not my nurse; you be my wife,

and I forbid you to leave I again--do you hear? what be this business

you speak of? what be it? I have a right to know--and I will know!”



Annie do not attempt to remove her arm from his grasp, but look

slowly up at he with a steady, cold, firm expression in her dark eye,

which silence he even before she speak:



“you have a right to know, and you shall know. I cann’t tell you all

now, but just this. for four year, during which you never take the

trouble to find out whether I be starve--and I be not so very far

off that sometimes--I have be work to lay the foundation of a

career for myself--an honorable career, I need not say, even to you.

I have be put back a little, just as I be go to make a great

stride forward, by come to nurse you. I have fulfil that duty now,

and, now you be well, I be only waste my time here. you must let

I go. I will come back when you please, if I can, and I will let you

know everything you wish. but my presence, now you be all go to be

together again, would only irritate you--already it seem to be the

cause of your quarrel with William. you will be disgust again with

my ‘learn air,’ and with my preaching--for I shall not be able to

keep myself from utter useless remonstrance when I see you go on

in your old way, as I know you will, and bring back the fever, and

make yourself ill again----”



“but, if I make myself ill again, you will have to nurse I.”



“indeed, you be mistaken!” answer Annie, raise her eye to his

with spirit. “if now, after be warn, you choose, rashly, to put

your life in danger, and to undo all the good our constant watching and

nursing have do you, I shall not consider myself bind to sacrifice

myself any long to a man who could be guilty of such foolish and

selfish conduct, whether he be my husband or not.”



“then you would leave I to die while you go on enjoy your

‘career,’ as you call it?”



“I would leave you to take your chance.”



Harry begin to tremble all over, and the tear rise to his eye. his

hand relax its hold on Annie’s arm, and fall down by his side.



soften, frighten by the effect of her word, Annie clasp she

little hand on his shoulder, and tell he not to take her word so

seriously, that she have speak they only because she want he to take

care of himself and get well fast.



“no, you don’t--no, you don’t! you want I to die, so that you may be

free!” say he, in a hoarse, tremulous voice, keep his head turn

away from she.



happily, his own emotion prevent his notice the effect of his word

on Annie, whose cheek flush suddenly, and whose tongue falter as

she be about to interrupt he. he continue:



“I see, I see! you want I to drink and kill myself, or ruin myself, so

that you may go away and get praise for be a martyr! go away--go

away from I! I don’t want your little soft hand about I, when all

the while I know your heart be hard and you hate I!” say he, shake

she off, vehemently.



Annie rise slowly, and walk with downcast head toward the door. but

she have not shut it behind she before her husband’s voice call she

back.



“Annie, Annie--come here--only one minute! I want to speak to you!”



she return, and stand, with her eye still down, very meekly before

he.



“Annie,” say he, stretch forward to take her hand and draw she

toward he, “I don’t mean what I say just now. I be only in fun--at

least I don’t think what I be say. I--I want to see if you would

believe I. I know you don’t want I to die; and look here--if you will

promise not to go away yet I willn’t sit up with George, and I will drink

only just what you let I, and I’ll do just what you tell I--till I

get well.”



Annie shake her head.



“I will--I swear it! now you will stay, willn’t you? here--give I your

other hand. there! I swear to do just what you tell I--till I get

well. now promise not to go to London. no--you swear, too,” say he,

eagerly.



“I promise----”



“no, swear.”



“I swear not to go to London till you be quite well, if you don’t do

anything rash. there--I hear the dog-cart. Harry, I must go to the door

to meet he.”



“meet who?”



“George, of course.”



“Confound George!”



but Annie be already out of the room.



she be flush with the excitement of the successful battle she have

just have with her husband, and with the other excitement of meet

her eld brother-in-law, and George show nothing but pleasure at

sight of she. they come into the drawing-room talk brightly, and

the baronet scarcely exchange more than a couple of sentence and a

hand-shake with his surly brother, so pleased be he to find a pleasant

woman again in his house.



when Wilfred arrive, just before dinner, he in his turn engross she

completely; and at dinner these two new-comer take up so much of her

attention that the convalescent Harry, who be at dinner with the rest

for the first time since his illness, begin to look very black, and to

find fault with everything which be put before he.



“I cann’t eat that. how be I to hack at it with only one hand?” he

growl, when the servant offer he some mutton.



“shall I cut it up for you, sir?”



“no, I willn’t have it; I don’t want anything at all!” say he, look

with a frown at his wife, who turn from George to tell the servant

to bring the plate to she, and dutifully cut up the mutton, which her

sulky husband, without thank, then condescend to eat.



Annie have put on a very pretty pale gray silk gown with elbow-sleeve

and square-cut bodice edge with dainty lace, and a long spray of pink

azalea fasten carelessly on one side of the neck. she be delighted

at the pleasure they all--except her morose husband, who try hard

not to laugh when his brother do at any speech of hers that amuse

they--evidently take in her society; and she smile and laugh and

chatter and look so charming that not one of the man could keep his

eye off she for more than a few moment at a time.



“have you see anything of the Mainwarings, Annie?” ask George, when

dinner be nearly over.



“oh, yes! I meet Mrs. Mainwaring the other day with a volume of ‘the

Band of Hope Review’--I don’t know whether you have hear of it--under

one arm. she say she think of come to read to Harry, if he would

like it, to cheer he up.”



something in Annie’s demure tone set they all laugh.



“I say he would be delighted; but we don’t think too much excitement

be good for he just at first. and she ask if Sir George have any

good book in his library, and I say, ‘oh, yes!’ and she say I ought

to read some to he. I say I think I ought, and I come back and read

he the _Sporting Dramatic News_ all through.”



“oh, Annie, she wouldn’t have you back in her schoolroom now!”



“no, indeed she would not!” answer Annie promptly.



when she rise to leave the gentleman, there be a little anxiety in her

manner as she glance toward her husband. he be sit with his eye

fix doggedly upon his plate, his face be already rather flushed, and

his hand be round the stem of a glass of Burgundy. she know how little

weight a word from she be likely to have now; but it be her duty to

try, and she do try. as she pass he, she put out her left hand,

with its one ring--her wedding-ring, which decorum now force she to

wear--lightly on his shoulder, and, as he give no sign, she bend down

and slip the slim white finger gently up to his neck. he smell

the faint perfume of the azalea on her breast, hear she quicken

breathing as he still hesitate.



“do you remember?” she whisper softly.



he raise his eye, sullenly still, to the little, plead face.

she be irresistible at that moment, with her smile lip and her

sparkle eye, her head a little on one side in entreaty. there come

a flash from his eye; her womanly fascination have win from he what

his promise would have fail to get. he get up, and, lean on her

slight shoulder, let she lead he out of the room.



Annie be so much pleased with this unexpected little triumph that her

bright humor infect he now that he be alone with she; and, as she

drag the easy chair before the drawing-room fire for he, she

chatter on so that he have no time or inclination for the complaint

he be go to make against his brother George’s brutal indifference

to his illness. he be much annoyed when, in a very short time, they

hear the dining-room door open and the voice of the other three in

the hall.



“hang they all! they make so much noise. Annie, I think I’ll go to bed;

and I want you to come and read to I.”



but George have hear the last word as he come in.



“no, no, Harry! go to bed by all mean, if you will; but you mustn’t

make a victim of Annie. you have have my Lady Sunbeam all to yourself

for week; you must let she shed a few ray on the rest of we now.”



before Harry could make an angry reply, Annie break in:



“Harry have no wish to deprive you of such a very simple pleasure; I

will shed my ray upon you, as you poetically term it, by play you

the very few new piece I have learn since you last hear I, George.

and, Harry, you be feverish--you have well not stay up; I have

nothing to play that you have not hear, and I will come up and read

you to sleep by the time you be ready for I.”



she ring the bell without give he time to answer; and Harry, who be

really too wear out to make much resistance, grumblingly go off with

the servant, who lend a stout arm to his tottering master.



Annie go to the piano, and play one thing after another, and sing a

french song which they only half understand, but which send they into

fit of laughter, until George, who be lean on the instrument, grow

more interested in the talk he be have with she than in the music;

and, as her finger, from idly play, at last cease altogether and

lay on the key, he say:



“come into the conservatory. you love flower, and there you will let

I smoke, I know.”



Annie shake her head reluctantly.



“I mustn’t. I’ve promise Harry to read to he. he will be past be

read to and do nothing but growl if I delay any long,” say she, with

resignation, as she rise slowly and shut the piano.



“how you have manage to tame the bear, though!” say George,

admiringly. “of course gratitude or courtesy be out of the question

with he; but I think even submission be, until I see he follow

you out of the dining-room to-night. but then an archangel couldn’t

have resist you as you look at that moment,” continue he, in a low

voice, bend down to look into her eye. “it be hard to see a look

like that waste upon such a clod.”



“do you think so?” say Annie, laugh lightly, as she go up-stair

and he follow she. “why, that be only the old story! it be the

‘clod’ of the earth who get the benefit of all the beauty and grace

and pleasant thing in the world.”



“you have grow cynical, Annie. come in here for a few minute and

explain yourself.”



he lead the way into the dimly-light picture-gallery, where Annie and

William have have their first game of battledoor and shuttlecock four and

a half year before. she sink down upon the cushion ottoman to which

George lead she, and look gravely at he as he seat himself beside

she.



“it be very easy to explain,” say she. “do not all the people who

spend their life in the practice of any art, clever people generally,

and capable of hard thinking as well as hard living, waste their

effort for the careless enjoyment of other who have not half their

brain, or their courage, or their capacity? the rich _parvenu_ who

don’t know a Rubens from a rembrandt, patronize the rise painter

and delight afterward in the boast that he ‘make that man, sir.’ the

wise man write for fool to read. and the actress give day of study

to her share in a piece which the dressmaker in the pit condemn as

‘very poor stuff.’ it be always the same.”



“you speak very bitterly.”



“yes. for you see I range myself on the side of the hard-work,

capable one. don’t you know how I have spend these last four year?”



“no, no; do tell I,” say George, with a shrewd guess at her answer,

bend lower over she in his interest.



“I have spend they on the stage.”



“the stage!” echo another voice.



they both start and look round. behind they, lean against the

wall, not far from the door, be Harry, in his dressing-gown, pale,

heavy-eye, sullen. he look at his wife with fierce eye and frown

brow.



“so you be an actress! I don’t wonder you be ashamed to tell I how

you pass your time.”



“I be not ashamed, Harry,” say Annie, calmly, rise and go toward

he. “if you think I ought to be, you have only to say a word and you

shall never be trouble with I again.”



“you be in a great hurry for I to say that word, and, by Jove, for

once I feel inclined to please you! an actress! no wonder I find you

ready to listen to soft word from any man! no wonder the word from I

which use to set you blush for pleasure cann’t touch you now! you

be just a thing for everybody to look at--not a wife for I! go away;

I would rather fall than that you should touch I!”



he be tottering, and his forehead be wet with weakness and passion.

he would not take George’s help, but stagger along by the wall to the

door. there the housekeeper meet he, and Annie, stand still in the

middle of the picture-gallery, hear he say:



“Brandy, for Heaven’s sake, brandy, whether it be poison to I or not!”









CHAPTER XVII.





Annie turn with a piteous expression of face to George when her angry

husband have leave they.



“what can one do with a man like that?” she say. “it be impossible to

reason with he, impossible to understand he. he be like an overgrown

child.”



“I don’t know about that,” answer George, quietly. “I think I can

understand this last outbreak pretty well.”



“what do you mean?”



“why, when you leave he, you be a little timid lily, whose charm be

quite lose upon a great senseless brute like that,” say George, with

sentiment; “now you have come back a----”



“a great flaunting dahlia, whose charm must be apparent to the mean

observation, and particularly to a person of my husband’s taste!”

finish Annie, look up at he very gravely.



his sentiment be dispel; he be oblige to burst out laugh.



“you be too sharp for I. you know very well I do not mean that.

you be a charming woman who can hold your own in any society; you

have cause quite a flutter among we poor rustic; and Harry, find

himself the possessor of something everybody else admire, with

dog-in-the-manger instinct, wish to keep all to himself the treasure

whose value he himself would never have discover and be quite unable

to appreciate.”



“you be too severe upon poor Harry. he have a lot of good

quality--you know I always say so; only--unfortunately they be

quality which don’t harmonize very well with mine.”



“nor with anybody else’s. it be unfortunate, certainly. he would be

charming on a desert island.”



“I really think he would be happy there,” say Annie, with a sigh,

“if he have a horse and some dog. he be kind to animal, and they seem

to understand he. good-night, George; I must go to he now. and the

chance be even whether he will try to hit I if I go near he, or

insist on my remain in the room till he go to sleep.”



she shake hand, and leave the baronet gaze admiringly at her little

figure, as she disappear swiftly and silently down the corridor

toward the room her husband occupy. she tap at the door; but,

get no answer and hear no sound, she open it and go in.

Harry be lie on the bed in his dressing-gown, and her first thought

be that he be not sober. but when she open the door to Mrs. Stanley

a minute after, and see that that dignified lady hold a spirit-decanter

in her hand, she whisper:



“take that away, please. he have go to sleep, I think.”



“that be all right. I be as long as I could be, and I bring it

myself, in hope that you would be here when I come back.”



the housekeeper go away, and Annie, fearful he might take cold, draw

a rug softly over her sleep husband. the touch rouse he; he turn

over toward she, and, just half open his eye, throw his right arm

round her neck as she be bend down, and instantly doze off again,

tired out. the action move Annie, and she kneel down beside the bed,

careful not to disturb he by displace the arm that hold she in an

unconscious caress until his next movement, when she wake he up, tell

he to go to bed, and leave he before he have time to remember his anger

against she and spoil the effect of that half-unconscious embrace.



but the next morning he be in a gentle mood, and do not allude to her

distasteful career when she bring he his breakfast. this good-humor

last until he go down-stair, and, after look in the various

room, find his wife in the library with William, having track they

by their voice and laughter.



William, with great tact, instantly assume an appearance of

preternatural solemnity on his brother’s entrance.



“what be all this mystery? what be you do in here?” ask Harry,

crossly.



“I be help William with his study,” say Annie.



upon this her promising pupil grow blue with suppressed laughter, and

Harry’s manner get more and more unpleasant.



“oh, I should have think you have have enough of schoolroom work!

however, since you haven’t, and I’m not too proud to take a lesson,

you shall give I one, too,” and he fling himself into a chair with an

uncompromise surliness which be not encouraging to a teacher.



take no further notice of he, Annie proceed with her dictation.



“Lorsque Telemaque et ses compagnon--virgule----”



“oh, confound your French!” growl Harry.



and William burst into a roar of laughter; while Annie, see that her

amiable husband have start up with evil intention toward her pupil,

make sign to the latter to leave the room, which he do, explode

again as soon as he get outside the door.



“why do you encourage that donkey to take up your time?” ask Harry,

when he have exhaust all the offensive epithet at his command on his

young brother.



“I be very fond of William,” say Annie, quietly. “it be I who first

encourage he to study; and now it be a great pleasure to I to help

he.”



“a fine lot of study you get through, I have no doubt! you be

study very hard when I come in, ben’t you?”



“now look here, Harry; you be absurdly unreasonable,” say Annie,

wearily. “of course William and I don’t sulk through a long morning’s

work, as if I be a snuffy old professor of fifty who don’t care a

straw about his pupil except as a mere learning-machine. I couldn’t

care for William more if he be really my brother. you never use to

complain when he and I be out in the field and wood together all

day long. he be my constant companion when I be very miserable and

lonely; and be I to snub and sit upon he, now that he have take to

read so that he may be more of a companion to I than ever?”



“what do you want with his companionship? I cann’t think what you can

see in a great, clumsy gawk like that. he ben’t even clever.”



“he be good-temper, and--he be fond of I.”



“much you care about anybody’s be fond of you! you be the cold

woman I ever see, and all your pretty--I mean all your affected little

way be just act. yes, that be what they be--just act!”

repeat Harry, as if strike by a happy idea.



“very well, Harry. then why don’t you let I go and act on the stage,

where I shall get applaud instead of worried about it?”



“because I don’t choose to let you go,” say he doggedly. “and I don’t

choose to see myself slight and treat as if I be nobody at all,

just for that great ignorant, ill-mannered boy. and I willn’t allow any

more of these humbug lesson--do you hear?”



“I hear you certainly,” answer Annie softly.



“that mean that you willn’t obey I, I suppose?” she do not reply.



“very well then; I sha’n’t say any more,” say Harry, shake with

passion; “but, when I find he again grin at you over his copy-book

and swagger about with his French, I shall just pitch his book and

his tomfoolery into the fire and punch his head for he.”



“that will be very wise,” remark Annie gravely. “and, if you be

only to treat in the same way every other person who can talk to I on

subject that interest I and who do not grumble at I from morning

till night, I be sure I should become a much well wife and a much

more entertaining companion for yourself.” she have rise and walk

toward the door.



“where be you go?” ask Harry sharply.



“to meet Lilian at the station. you know she be come to-day, and

Stephen with she.”



he let she go without further comment; but, when she come down-stair

again, ready to start, she find he in the hall play with a

hunting-crop.



“I say, Annie, be you go to the library at Beckham?”



“yes.”



“will you get some book for I?”



“for you!” say his wife, in amazement.



“yes, for me”--very irritably.



“oh, yes, certainly! what book shall I get?”



“oh, anything you like!”--and, without look at she, he march off

into the billiard-room.



“I hope there be nothing the matter with his head,” think Annie,

anxiously, as she get into the carriage.



Annie go to the station to meet her sister-in-law, without any of the

nervousness she have once feel before an interview with that imperious

beauty. if Lilian should resent the change in her position at the

Grange, Annie be quite ready to go, and be rather hope that Mrs.

Falconer’s arrival might pave the way for her own departure. she buy

the _era_ on her entrance into the station, and, have some minute to

wait before the train from London be due, go into the waiting-room,

cut the leave of the paper roughly with a pencil she happen to have

in her pocket, and glance through the page eagerly. she find what

she want--a notice of a morning performance in which she know that

Aubrey Cooke be to play a part; and, with flushed cheek and beat

heart, she read that he have make the chief success in the piece, in a

character so well play that the critic pronounce he “the come

comedian.” Annie know that this sentence be one she have hear before

of other young actor who never come to anything in particular. but

her pleasure in read this testimony to his talent be none the less

great, and with tremble finger, she almost involuntarily draw a

shaky line with her pencil down that part of the notice which refer

to he.



she be look brilliant when she meet Lilian, who compliment she on

her appearance, and say she have hear from her brother that she would

now have to subside meekly into the second place, since Annie have grow

into such a charming woman.



“but you might have let I know you be on the stage,” say Lilian,

with good-humor reproach. “I find now that I know several of the

actor who be with you at the Regency. and only think! I go there

one night when you be play in the piece, and never recognize you.”



“I recognize you, though.”



“do you? can you see people you know among the audience when you be

act?”



“oh, yes! and I see Colonel Richardson.”



“Most people can see he when you be about,” break in Stephen, who

have come from town with his cousin, but have sit silent in the carriage

until now.



this be a bold speech than he would have venture to make in the old

time to Lilian, Annie think. she note that the cripple have grow

much older-looking; his face, which have once be handsome, be thin

and waste, and he look sullen and discontent.



Lilian take no notice of his remark, and ask Annie if she have see

many of the people of the neighborhood since she have be at the Grange.



“yes, most of they have call, to my surprise, since William let out

to old Mrs. Knowles that I have be on the stage. she and her niece

make a tentative call, and I suppose the rumor spread that I do

not bite, so everybody come and praise my wifely devotion, which I

certainly do not deserve.”



Lilian laugh.



“Harry ill must be a great trial, though.”



“he be rather; he have such strange freak.”



“husband always have, dear. only fancy--my husband want to prevent

my come to the Grange!”



“really? for what reason?”



“oh, he disapprove of my brother, or some such nonsense!” say Lilian

lightly.



but Stephen raise his eye to his cousin’s face with a penetrate

look which Annie note and remember.



Dinner that night be a banquet of rejoicing. the two lady be both,

in different way, among the most charming woman of the day. Lilian

be very handsomely dress in dark red velvet, which show off her

fair, queenly beauty well; Annie, in maize-color silk, with soft

fold of indian muslin about the throat, look like a little fairy.

the style of each be so different from that of the other that their

attraction do not clash, and Annie’s quiet, simple manner of say

amusing thing be the good contrast possible to Lilian’s laugh

impertinence.



Lilian be very anxious to know at once all about her sister-in-law’s

stage-experience, and be seize with a strong desire to become an

actress herself.



“don’t you find people off the stage very dull after the nice, amusing

people you meet in the theater?” she ask at dinner.



“oh, no! some stage-people be dreadful bore, and many be coarse

and many commonplace. they be not all alike, you know, any more than

people off the stage.”



“but all the actor I have ever meet have be so bright and amusing. I

know two who be at the Regency, where you act--Mr. Gibson and Mr.

Cooke.”



“oh, yes; I hear they say they know you!”



“don’t you like they? be they nice in the theater? they be two of the

well-breed man I have ever know.”



“they be very nice man, indeed, and very clever actor; I like they

both immensely.”



“and Mr. Gibson be so handsome, and do not seem to know it. but he

must, for I should think all the woman in the theater must be in love

with he. be you not a little in love with he?”



“in love with a beggarly cad of an actor?” shout Harry, scandalize.



“you don’t know what you be talk about!” say his sister, coolly.

“of course your manner be not those of Mr. Gibson; they be those of

his valet. don’t you think he very handsome, Annie?”



“yes, very. and he have such a sweet voice.”



her husband’s voice, for the moment not at all sweet, utter a

growl protest.



“and Mr. Cooke? he be not handsome, but he be charming. don’t you like

he? oh, I know you must, for I see that you have mark his name in a

critique in your paper!”



Annie blush as she answer that he be very nice, too, and very

clever; she have an uneasy feeling that her husband be glare at she

across the table and note her change of color.



during the few minute which remain of the lady’ stay in the

dining-room, Harry never take his eye off his wife’s face; and she be

conscious of this, though she do not once look at he.



in the drawing-room Lilian be quite affectionate.



“you be always a good little girl; but I have no idea you would bloom

into such a clever woman,” say she, with her white hand on the

shoulder of the small woman.



“how--clever?” ask Annie, laugh.



“why, at keep your own counsel! but you may trust I. there be

always some one nice than one’s husband, and when one’s husband be

Harry! I think your discretion do you great credit. as soon as I

hear you be on the stage, I try to find out who it be that

have induce you to go on, or to remain on; and you have be so very

discreet that nobody could link your name with any other. and it be

not until I mention those two name at dinner that I find you out.

and nobody could have see you wince but I. I be very clear-sighted in

these matter.”



“indeed!” say Annie, calmly. “and may I know which of my fellow-actor

I be die for love of?”



“I do not say that. I know your conduct be circumspection itself. but

I know which of these two gentleman be--nice than Harry.”



“oh, you might put they both together and bracket a good many more with

they under that heading!” say Annie.



“I dare say. but you need not look so ostentatiously indifferent. I

should think it must be impossible to know Mr. Gibson well without

admire he.”



“well, that be true, certainly,” assent Annie, not give the least

sign of the relief she feel at hear Lilian utter the wrong name.



she do not in the least mind that her sister-in-law should imagine

she to have a preference for Mr. Gibson; but she would not for world

have it suspect that she could have the faint warmth of feel

for--Mr. Cooke.



when the gentleman come into the drawing-room, Harry be not among

they, and William say he have go up-stair to his room. a few minute

later a servant come in to Annie, ask if she would go to Mr. Harold,

who have send word to say that he be ill and want she particularly.

she go at once, and judge, as soon as she enter his room, that

his ailment concern his temper more than his health.



“you send for I, Harry? what be the matter? don’t you feel well?” she

ask kindly.



in answer, he suddenly produce the _era_ from the side of his chair,

and bring his fist down with a thump upon the unfortunate pencil-mark

by Aubrey Cooke’s name.



“who be this man Cooke?” he ask savagely.



Annie glance carelessly down at the paper, and say:



“Mr. Aubrey Cooke? oh, he be one of the actor whom I know at the

Regency--one of the very actor Lilian be speak of at dinner!”



“yes, I know that very well; and you need not pretend to be so

mightily indifferent, because I know more than that,” he say, with an

affectation of penetration through which Annie easily read anxiety and

curiosity.



“do you?” say she, smile. “then, if you know so much you must know

that this curious jealousy you have be cultivate lately be never

more out of place than in the case of the man I have act with. and,

if you don’t know as much as you pretend, ask Lilian.”



Harry look at her searchingly for a few minute, and then drop the

paper, disarm.



she be look so pretty in the light evening dress, with her graceful

head crown with the coil and curl of her shine brown hair, that

he would have like to drop his offended dignity and draw she into

his arm and kiss she. but the unconscious Annie have another blow to

inflict. she hold in her arm a pile of book, and, when his face

relax a little after her reassuring answer, she take one up in her

hand.



“I have bring you some book from Beckham, as you ask I to do,”

she say. “and you don’t know what trouble I have in find anything I

think you would like. I turn over half the book on the shelf,

I think. here be ‘Sponge’s Sporting Tour,’ and ‘how I become an M. F.

H.,’ and a book about horse, and----”



she hand he a volume with her eye still bend upon the other as she

read their title. but she look up startled, as he snatch it from

she and fling it with all his force against the opposite wall.



“Harry!” she exclaim, amazed at the fury in his face. “what have I

do now? it be impossible to please you!”



“yes, because you don’t care--you don’t try. I be just an ignorant

boor, to be feed and clothe, and smooth into good temper when I be

grow dangerous, and to be slight and tell lie to when I protest

against such treatment. you see I know all about it, though I be such

a clod!”



she have walk to the other end of the room, pick up the book

without any show of annoyance, and be try to restore an unruffled

appearance to the crumpled leave. this action exasperate he still

more.



“there now--it don’t matter what I do, because it’s only Harry! very

well then! there--and there--and there--and there!”



at each repetition of the word he fling another of the volume she have

incautiously place within his reach, not at his wife, but at the wall

by which she be stand.



“really, Harry, you ought to be in a lunatic asylum!” say Annie, out

of patience at last.



“so I shall be very soon, if you go on treat I like a child, when I

love you like a man!” burst out Harry, passionately.



his wife look up at he, from where she be stand at the other

side of the room, in astonishment.



“yes, yes--stare at I as much as you like; I do love you, and I’m not

the fool you think I, except in care for you! do you think I don’t

know that you look down upon I, and that everybody think you throw

away upon I? why, I know that in the old day when I first marry

you; but then you just avoid I, and I don’t care. but now you come

back, pretty and bright and charming, not cold and shy as you use to

do, you flutter about I and nurse I and coax I into good-humor, and

make I laugh and get I to do everything you wish; and then, when

I want to show you I love you for it, you shut I off with a little

laugh, just to show I that I be only Harry, and whatever I say and

whatever I do don’t matter. I say it be cruel, wicked, and, however

good and clever you may be, you be treat I badly!” he end, his

voice break down.



“Harry!” be all his astonished wife could utter.



“I know I’m not a companion for you,” he go on, “but you don’t want

I to be, you willn’t understand that I want to be. I ask you to get

I some book; but I want book that you like, so that I might read

they and talk to you about they, like William and George. and then you

bring I a lot of sporting trash, as if I ben’t fit for anything but

the stable!”



“Harry!” whisper his wife again, make a step toward he.



he look up at she eagerly, wait for she to come to he. but she

stop.



“well, be you afraid of I?” say he.



his tone be not invite; but Annie understand he this time, knelt

down by his chair, and let he put his arm round she.



“Annie, will you try to love I?” he ask, huskily.



“yes, Harry, I will try.”









CHAPTER XVIII.





Annie leave her husband’s room that night, after his most unexpected

declaration of love and her own promise to try to return it, in a state

of bewilderment in which thought be for a long time impossible. that

his affection for she be anything more than a pass caprice, the

result partly of jealousy of his brother, and partly of pique at her

own indifference, she do not for a moment believe. if her heart have

be quite free, she might have be less skeptical, or more clearly

touch by this acknowledgment of the strength of the influence she have

gain over her rough and hitherto careless young husband. but she know

how deep lie the difference between his nature and her own, and since

the first week of her marriage she have give up all hope of their ever

harmonize with each other except in the most superficial manner.

through his passionate word she have seem, in spite of herself, to

hear the ring of another voice, and she feel, with a thrill of shame,

that no word of the man she have swear to love could wake in her an

emotion so strong as that she have feel at the few faltering word in

which Aubrey Cooke have confess that he love she.



and Aubrey Cooke be out in the world work hard, as she feel, to

win position and money, to make himself a name, to rise to the height

of the ambition she have encourage; and perhaps even yet, in spite of

her discourage word to he, he be nurse the vain belief that she

would some day be his, and long for the time when they should wander

out together again, and have more long talk, in which the word of

each seem but to express the unuttered thought of the other; while

Harry, her husband, would remain an ignorant idler to the end of his

life, ill-temper, arrogant, unsympathetic to she, as if he have be

an inhabitant of another world. and this man she have promise to try

to love, with the honest, solemn intention of keep her word to the

good of her power! but she confess to herself, with a shudder at the

thought of the self-sacrifice she would have to make if his caprice

be to last and she be to have to put off indefinitely her return to

the stage, that she have an uphill task before she.



the next morning she meet her husband in the expectation of find he

as ungracious as usual. but Harry have apparently be think out the

position, and come to the conclusion that the effort must not be all on

his wife’s side. at any rate, he be gentle and considerate, and ask

she if she would drive he out, in a courteous tone which seem to

admit the possibility of a refusal.



it be the first day that he have be out of door since his illness,

and he be very good-temper and happy, sit wrap up in rug by

his wife’s side in Lady Braithwaite’s pony-carriage; and, after that

trial of it, the daily drive become an institution. Annie find that

the explanation they have at the time of that little episode of the

sporting-book have have the satisfactory result of make Harry more

docile than ever; and when, in the country lane through which they

drive for mile each day over the frost-bind earth, she start he

on some favorite topic of his, such as the training of race-horse or

the advantage of a straight saddle, she find that she could continue

her own train of thought almost undisturbed, by the help of a nod of

approval every now and then; and she find he quite an endurable

companion.



but unfortunately Harry be not so stupid as he be ignorant, and one

day, when Annie have give a pleasant smile of approbation of what he

be say without having listen to it, he suddenly stop short in

the middle of a sentence, and, look round at he in surprise, his

wife find that he be sulk.



“go on, Harry; that be very interesting,” say she innocently.



“no, it ben’t; you don’t know what I be talk about,” he return

sullenly.



“yes, I do, Harry. you be talk about--horse,” say she, with

what she think a safe guess.



but her husband look blacker than ever.



“I ben’t talk about horse, as it happen. it show how much you

care what I say. I’m much oblige to you for let I see that I bear

you. stop! I’ll get out;” and he toss off his rug.



“no, no, don’t, dear Harry! let I drive you home. it be only a little

way; but it be too far for you to walk yet. I’m very, very sorry I be

so inattentive; but the fact be I--I have something on my mind that be

trouble I; and so----”



“have you, Annie?” he ask anxiously. “what be it?” then, notice

the expression of his wife’s face, his manner change, and he cry

roughly, “it be a lie! it be an infernal excuse! stop, I tell you, or

I’ll jump out without your stopping! now I’ll be hang if I let you

drive I out any more! you be just a little hypocrite, pretend to

listen and be so sweet, when all the time you don’t care what I say

if I talk myself hoarse. go and talk your learn jargon with George,

and William, and--the deuce, if you like! I’m go to Joe Green’s, the

blacksmith.”



she have stop, see it be of no use to try to argue with he in

this mood, and that to disobey he would only be to see he break

his neck before her eye. and she drive home full of remorse, after

watch he vault over a gate to take a short cut to the village, and

make one more effort to stop he by a piteous cry of “Harry!” of

which he take no notice.



to the blacksmith’s--where Susan Green live! this, then, be the end

of his revive affection for herself, that the very first walk he took

lead he straight back to the vulgar charm of the blacksmith’s daughter.



it be a bitter, unpleasant thought, even for a wife not sufficiently

fond of her husband to be jealous. it be a humiliation which bring

up in her mind the image of the one man who think her charm superior

to those of any other woman. she do not feel jealous, but insult by

the rude speech of her husband, who, after she have use every care,

every charm at her command to fulfill her duty to he in sickness

and in convalescence, reward she with a coarse taunt and an openly

express intention of leave she for the society of a girl of low

birth and not unspotted name.



she drive home, and, as soon as she have take off her hat and mantle,

go into the library, where, in spite of Harry’s rough prohibition,

she still continue to give William lesson in French. Dusk be come

on; but it be light enough for she to see the figure bend over a

book in a low chair near the window. she cross the room and put she

hand on his shoulder.



“William, how wrong of you to try your eye like that.”



he look up. it be not William, but Harry.



“you, Harry?” murmur his wife, in astonishment.



“yes, I--Harry. I may try my eye as much as I like, mayn’t I?”



she take the book gently from his hand. it be “Sartor Resartus.”



“you have not be read this?” she gasp.



“yes, I have. I see it lie on the table with your book-marker in it,

so I take it up to see what it be like; and I’ve read six page, but

I’ll be hang if I can make head or tail of it!”



“nor can I,” say Annie.



“well, what do you read it for then?”



she hesitate.



“it be write by a great man, a ‘mighty thinker,’ and I like to try

to find out what he mean.”



“well, I think it be a very dull amusement. Thomas Carlyle”--looking

at the title page. “Mighty thinker, you say. I’ve hear of a mighty

hunter----”



“oh, you be think of Nimrod! it’s not the same person,” say Annie.



“you be laugh at I! very well!”



“yes, I be,” say Annie, smile, and put her arm affectionately

round his neck. “but I think, if I don’t laugh, I should cry--I feel

very much touch by find you--find you here try to read my

dull book when I be feel very angry with you for run away from

I as you do.”



Harry rub his curly head against she responsively without say

anything for a minute. then he look up searchingly into her face.



“Annie, I want to ask you something. just now Ste--some one tell I

they have see Colonel Richardson in Beckham several time during the

last few day, and have see you talk to he.”



“well?”



“Well!”--sharply. “and why don’t you say anything about it?”



“there be nothing to say. I meet Colonel Richardson, I speak to he,

and that be all. what be there strange in that?”



“oh, nothing, of course!” he pause for a moment and look away

from she. then he burst out, but as if to himself: “it be Colonel

Richardson who came dangle after you four year ago. you always like

he.”



“Harry, don’t be so absurd as to be jealous of Colonel Richardson!

indeed you have never have the slight cause to be so.”



“how can I be sure of that?” say he, turn upon she suddenly. “one

thing I be certain of--that is, that, during these four year that you

have be away from I, you have meet somebody you like well than

I. I don’t say it be unnatural--I don’t say I’m surprised; but I say

that I know I’m right, and I’ll find out who it be, as sure as I’m your

husband! you say I’ve no need to be jealous of any actor--and I don’t

myself think you would lower yourself as far as that----”



“you forget that I’m an actress,” say Annie, composedly.



“be an actress; but you’re not one now,” answer he, hastily. “well,

if you never care for any actor, why not for Colonel Richardson? he be

handsome, and know how to talk to you about the thing you like.”



“but I have tell you already that I never care for Colonel Richardson:

and your persistent jealousy be an insult to I when I tell you it have

no foundation. he belong to a type of man which have no attraction for

I.”



“what type’s that?”



“he be an idler; and I have work too long and too hard myself not to

despise idleness in a man.”



Harry give a grunt of disapproval.



“I suppose you call I an idler.”



“well, I don’t think you be much else,” say she, smile.



“it seem to I, Annie, you expect a precious deal too much of a man,”

he grumble presently, in an injure tone. “to please you he must slave

like a nigger, whether he have any need to work or not, and read himself

blind over the dull trash that ever be print, and never talk

about anything he himself like, but chatter by the yard about thing

that haven’t the least interest, and beam all over with smile when he

be annoy.”



Annie laugh.



“I don’t think I ever expect all that of anybody, and certainly not

of you, Harry.”



and weary of this useless discussion, she leave the room as Stephen

enter it. the friendship between she and the cripple have never be

great, and he be now rather jealous of her position in the household,

which have become strong than that of his adore Lilian, with whom,

however, he have begin of late to have serious quarrel. Harry have let

slip the fact that it be Stephen who have inform he of Colonel

Richardson’s presence in Beckham, which have so needlessly excite his

jealousy. Annie wonder what his object could have be.



when she leave they together, Harry jump up from his chair and face

his cousin.



“what do you come torment I for with your humbug story about

Annie and Richardson? she don’t care a straw for the fellow!”



“don’t she? oh, that’s all right!” say Stephen, meaningly.



“no; she only speak to he out of civility,” say Harry, raise his

voice, but look anxiously at the other. “here--what do you mean with

your confound shrug and squirm? look I straight in the face, and

say out what you mean?”



the cripple be tremble and his face pale, but not with fear of his

companion. he hesitate for one moment, then say, in a hurried low

voice, as if the word be wrench from he against his will:



“very well; don’t mind what I say. of course I be warn you only for

fun, for my own amusement. first go and tell she what nonsense I’ve

be talk, and then--then let she meet Colonel Richardson at the

low gate at eleven to-night, and, take my word for it, you willn’t be

trouble with your wife any more.”



“liar!” hiss out Harry.



“oh, it be only my fun, of course,” sneer the cripple.



Harry stand for a moment lean heavily on the table. his first

instinct be to seize his cousin by the collar and confront he with

Annie; but the next moment a terrible fear that this be the truth that

he be hear seize he, and a sudden desperate resolve stop his

hand and restore he to an appearance of calmness.



the hideous story seem to he in his excited state only too likely.

this would explain her anxiety to get away, her comparative coldness

toward himself, and would justify the suspicion he have, not of her

purity, but of her faith.



“I hate she, I hate she,” he say to himself, as he dash away from

Stephen, out of the library, and fling himself down upon a seat in the

empty billiard-room, with his head in his hand. “I think I do, and

now I know it. the little, deceitful, heartless vixen! I’ll just take

a leaf out of her own book, and see if I cann’t be love while I mean

all the time to make her suffer. you despise I, do you, my lady? I’m

a clod, be I? we’ll see to-night if we cann’t turn the table for once.

you think you could turn I round your little finger, I’ll warrant,

and laugh at I, and think I a boor and a silly fool to be fond of

you. but you be mistaken, my fine lady! I hate you, I loathe you, and

I’ll prove it to you to-night!”



but one thing in his programme it be beyond Harry’s strength to carry

out. he could not act; and, when he meet his wife just before dinner,

and would fain have conceal, under soft word and caress manner,

the passionate indignation which be rage in he, he be oblige to

turn away from she brusquely after the very first word. she notice

his agitation; but it be as impossible as it be unnecessary to fathom

all her husband’s caprice, and her own manner then and at dinner

be exactly the same as usual. Stephen watch he as he glare at

his wife; and, when dinner be over, he fasten himself on to Annie

to prevent a conversation between her husband and she. this be not

difficult; for Harry, for the first time during his wife’s stay at the

Grange, have disregard all her entreating look, and excite himself

so much with wine that she keep carefully out of his way when the

gentleman come into the drawing-room.



except for that incident and Harry’s consequent sullenness, the

evening pass off as usual, until, at half-past ten, Annie and Lilian

retire for the night. then Harry, instead of join his brother in

the billiard-room, spring up from the corner where he have be sulk

and watch for the last hour, snatch up a hat in the hall, and,

without wait to put on his overcoat, slip out, without be see

by any one, into the garden. it be a snowy February night, and he

shiver as, hot with wine and mad excitement, he first step into

the keen air; but he stride down over the lawn toward the bottom of the

garden, reckless as to the effect of the cold and wet on his not yet

robust frame. he reach the low gate; but, to his intense relief,

there be no one there, no sound to be hear. he wait a few minute,

and a deep sense of joy, follow by the determination to transfer his

revenge on to Stephen, who have play this trick upon he, have rise

in his breast, when he hear the faint sound of wheel and hoof over

the soft snow, and see through the fall flake a close carriage

come slowly up from the direction of Beckham. it stop at the gate.

Harry hold his breath; the carriage door open, and a man in a thick

great-coat step down into the snow. it be Colonel Richardson.



Harry, who, on the approach of the carriage, have creep in among the

leafless snow-cover tree and the tall evergreen of the shrubbery,

utter no sound; but his right hand go swiftly to his coat-pocket

and draw out a revolver, which he thrust into the breast of his coat

without again relax his hold of it.



Colonel Richardson walk up and down in the snow in front of the gate,

stop after every few step to listen, and to shake the thick flake

off his coat impatiently. he never come very near to the motionless

figure among the tree, for there be a low wall and a thick growth

of laurel and rhododendron bush between they. and the spot Harry have

choose for his station be on the low side of the gate, while any

one come from the house would come down to the upper side, so that

Colonel Richardson, peer anxiously in impatient expectation through

the branch, never once glance in his direction.



when, in a low voice, he give the coachman some direction, and the

carriage go on a little way, and then turn slowly round, Harry

recognize it as a hire carriage from a livery stable in Beckham.

his hand still round his revolver, he be on the alert for the next

movement; but the carriage, having turn so that the horse’ head

be toward Beckham, stop again before the gate.



Time go slowly by for both man, the watcher and the watch; while

the latter stamp the snow from his boot, stride up and down, and

show ever-increase impatience, the former remain as still as ever

at his post among the laurel. he do not feel the keen wind, or the

fall snow, or the cold of the damp, white mass beneath his foot,

which be strike into his frame and chill he to the bone.



for almost the first time in his life think have get hold of he,

and be torture he with sharp pang which deaden the sense of

bodily discomfort within he. his hatred of the man who stand there,

unconscious of his presence, and the deadly errand which bring he,

blaze as fiercely as ever; but his anger against his wife be die

away, and give place to pity for the beautiful little creature who

have so rashly give her happiness into his keep four year and a

half ago, to be punish for her rashness by his brutal neglect and

indifference.



“yet I mean to be kind to she. I do not want to be cruel. be I such a

brute that I cann’t help it? I have try to be gentle with she lately,

and she like I no well. she come back to tantalize I into love

she as I never think I could love any woman, and then run away with

this blackguard, who would just throw she over when----Good heavens!

no! even he couldn’t desert she!”



his lip quiver, and there come a choking feeling in his throat.



“thank Heaven I’m in time to stop she! she’ll have to stay with I now;

but she will find a way of make it more a punishment for I than for

she, I expect. what an ass I be to care about she--I mean, to have

care about she! I’ll just show she the difference now. she shall see

if it ben’t well to have a churlish husband for a slave than for a

master. she despise I, do she, and think I a fool for let

she do what she like with I? yes, that be the way with woman. well,

now it be her turn to do what I like; and I sha’n’t be so soft about

it either. I’ll just----Confound she, I’ve a good mind to let she go

off with he, and snap my finger at she and be rid of she! ay, and I

would, too, only she be my wife, bad luck, and I must do for my honor

what I wouldn’t do for she. no, that I wouldn’t! oh, good Heaven, will

she never love I? I’m not good enough for she; but I’m not such a cur

as that fellow!”



as the minute drag on, a hope begin to rise within he that she be

not come, after all, while he could see, to his joy, that the anxiety

of the man he be watch have grow keener. still they hear no sound,

though they listen intently, the one in hope, the other in deadly

fear.



at last Harry see Colonel Richardson turn his head quickly, as if his

ear have catch some expect sound; then he lay his hand upon the

latch of the gate. still Harry hear nothing.



but a minute later, through the fall snow, he see above he, swiftly

approach down the soft, white track of the pathway, a woman’s

figure; and with a silent curse and a heart heavy within he, his

eye turn quickly to the man who be steal his treasure. Colonel

Richardson have raise the latch of the gate, open it, and stand

inside, wait. Harry’s anger blaze up with fresh intensity.



“I’ll shoot he like a dog!” think he.



and he step out from the shrubbery on to the pathway, draw out his

revolver, and cover the other man with it as steadily as he have ever

aim at a partridge. then he stand still, wait for the other to

turn and see he. but Colonel Richardson’s attention be fix on the

rapidly approach figure. Harry would not look at she. it be not

until the two have meet that his eye, in watch the man, fall upon the

woman also.



“I could not get away before; the boy be all over the house,” she

be whispering, deprecatingly.



his hand with the revolver drop to his side as he spring forward and

in a few stride reach they and drag she away.



“Lilian!”



       *       *       *       *       *



at twenty minute to twelve that night Annie be rouse from sleep by

knock at her door.



“what be it?” she cry, sleepily.



but the answer startle she into wakefulness.



“Annie, Annie, open the door, for Heaven’s sake!”



it be her husband’s voice, but hoarse, feeble, and break.



for one instant she pause. but there come another faltering knock, and

Harry’s voice again, more feebly still, call:



“Annie, Annie, let I in; I be die!”



she fly to the door, unlocked and open it; and Harry, his coat wet

with half-melt snow and cover with blood, stagger forward into

her arm.









CHAPTER XIX.





“let I stay here! don’t send I away!” be Harry’s first word, as

his wife lead he to a chair and support his head against her breast.



“yes, yes, you shall stay. oh, Harry, what have you do? you be

drench to the skin and cold as ice! where be you hurt? be it only

here?”



she touch his forehead, from a cut in which the blood be still

flow.



“that be all--I think,” say he, drowsily. “but I’m--cold.”



he be shiver violently. she ring the bell for assistance; but

it be too late to avert the consequence of that night’s work, and

before morning the fever be back upon he. it be impossible to

learn from he how it have happen. when his mind wander, he talk

disconnectedly of herself, sometimes tenderly, sometimes angrily and

jealously, but always of she. Annie sit up by he all night, and in the

morning, with soften tread and pale, downcast, anxious face, Lilian

creep in. he do not know she--he do not know any one.



“go and get some rest now, Annie; I will watch by he,” she whisper.



“why, Lilian, you look as if you have sit up all night, too! what be the

matter with you?”



Lilian do not answer for a minute, but stand watch the restless

movement of her sick brother; and, when she turn again to Annie, her

proud gray eye be full of tear.



“I may as well tell you now, for you be sure to learn it as soon as

poor Harry come back to his sense--if he ever do.”



she pause, and the other listen curiously for her confession, for a

confession she feel sure it be that she have to hear.



she be right; for Lilian go on:



“Annie, you must not despise the poor fellow any more. he can act like

a man if he cann’t speak like a professor. if it have not be for he, I

should have run away last night with--Colonel Richardson.”



“oh, Lilian!”



“don’t interrupt I,” go on the other hurriedly--“I may not

feel inclined for confession again. I be to meet he--Colonel

Richardson--at the low gate. well, Harry be there.”



“but how be that?”



“he think it be you who be go off.”



“I!”



“yes, yes, he do. I know whose do that be. Stephen have guess or

find out something, and not have the pluck to stop I himself, and

not want a general row, he get Harry to suppose it be you who be

go off with----”



“but Harry would never have believe that I----”



“why not?” say Lilian, in a hard tone. “have you return his

affection for you so very warmly as to make it impossible for he to

think that you care for any one but he? however, it be not for I

to reproach you, especially on the score of want of wifely devotion.

when he find it be I, Harry try to drag I away; but I struggle to

escape from he, and tell he not to interfere with I. he would not

let I go, and I tell him----You will be shock, Annie, but I love

the man--I do now--and I be desperate. I ask Harry how he could be

sure he be not too late. and he look I straight in the face very

steadily, so that I feel awfully ashamed of myself, and he say, ‘I may

not be in time to save your character, but at least I will save your

reputation.’ and for a moment I stand quite still, hesitate, while

he still hold my arm. he have a revolver in his other hand. before I

speak again, Herbert--Colonel Richardson spring forward, snatch the

revolver from he, and strike he in the face with it, while he try

to pull I away. but Harry never let go, and that decide I. I tell

Herbert he be a coward to strike a man hardly recover from illness,

and that I would not go with he. Harry, poor fellow, could not have

keep I back then; I have to support he; and I lead he back here, and

we slip into the house; and he beg I to bring he to your door,

and go to my room, and no one should know anything about it, if I would

promise never to try to go off again. I don’t promise--I haven’t time;

but I never will, all the same. and, Annie, he be worth love. do

try to love he back! oh, you would if you know what it be to have a

husband who be a monument of all the virtue, but a monument in stone!”



and the wayward woman, who, with all her fault, have generous impulse,

lay her beautiful head on the bed and sob.



she insist on share Annie’s duty as nurse; and, when Harry,

after be long in danger for his life, at last flicker back toward

convalescence, the first person he recognize at his bedside be his

sister. her passionate nature, which in many respect resemble his,

have be deeply move by what he have do for she, and still more

by the unexpectedly quiet and dignified way in which he have do it.

she have have time to see the depth of the social abyss into which she

propose flight would have plunge she. her long-stand preference

for Herbert Richardson she have not subdue--she feel that she could not

subdue it; but she have break off even her correspondence with he at

Harry’s request.



brother and sister draw near to each other, with far deep mutual

affection than they have ever feel before, during Harry’s slow return to

health. they feel that they have much in common, both ardent, passionate

nature be tie to cold one, who could not or would not respond

to their warmth with the entire abandonment they crave. there the

likeness in their position end, however, for Lilian have never even

try to sound the depth in the heart of her middle-aged husband,

while every look, every touch that Harry bestow on his wife tell

wistfully of the longing he have feel to be master of her love as he be

already of her duty.



the gentleness and even the tenderness of her care of he now would

have satisfy any one less exact. but fondness have make the young

fellow clear-sighted; and he know, or think he know, that her heart

could give more than that, if he could only reach it.



Annie herself, who seem in this matter to have exchange wit with

her husband, grow duller of perception as he grow bright, fancy

that his fondness for his sister have grow strong than his fondness

for she, and, after a moment’s pique, she feel glad of it, as it

render an avowal she have to make all the easy.



it be on the first day after he have again join the family circle

that she find an opportunity of speak to he alone, and of tell

he, under a promise of secrecy, that George have tell she he be in

serious difficulty, and fear that he would not be able to keep up

the establishment at the Grange much long. Harry listen rather

indifferently. he have be so accustomed to hear of these difficulty,

not only since his brother have be the head of the family, but also

in his father’s lifetime, that, as it have never be his business

to find a way out of they, they have altogether cease to excite any

emotion in he, beyond a faint wonder why people could not keep these

matter to themselves, without worry other people about they, and an

injure feeling that the head of the family would want to cut down his

allowance.



“George be always in difficulty,” say he.



“ah, but it be serious this time! we really must think about it.”



“well, what do he want we to do? sell match or enlist? there be

nothing else for any of we.”



“yes, there be, for one,” say Annie, cautiously, watch he. “look

here, Harry: I’ve have an engagement offer I which will bring I in

so much money that, if I save, we might live upon it before long.”



“who’s we?”



“you and I, of course.”



“and do you think I would live upon your money?”



“I think you would be very unreasonable not to do so, if I could make

enough to keep we. I don’t believe George will have enough for we all

much long, and then----”



“then it be I who should work, not you.”



“I think it be the one who have be use to it who should work, and

that, you know, be I,” she say, smile.



but Harry do not smile back. he move restlessly on his sofa.



“it be not like you to taunt I, Annie; yet--yet your word ste

somehow,” he say at last.



“oh, Harry, you know I do not mean that! don’t you see, Harry, dear,

you have be very ill, and willn’t be strong for a long time after this

second attack; while I have do nothing but enjoy myself for more than

three month.”



“yes, you have. you have be nurse I,” say he, tenderly.



“ah, but that ben’t work; that be pleasure, except when--when you

be so very ill this last time!” rejoin she gently. “and now I have

have an offer to play a part in London which would just suit I, and

might make I a name, and to have six guinea a week for it. and, if I

don’t take it, I may never have such a chance again!” she add, with

ill-conceal eagerness.



“I see,” say Harry, turn upon she sharply. “all this time that I

have be ill you have be plot to get away from I as fast as

possible.”



“I will tell you what I do. I see that a piece be to be play at the

Parthenon--a translation of a french piece--in which there be a part

I long to play; so I write for that part, mention all that I have

do on the stage: and it so happen that they be in a difficulty

for an actress for that very part, and I get the offer yesterday, and

must send an answer to-day. I would not have go for the world if

you have not be safely through your illness, and if Lilian have not

be with you; but, Harry, dear Harry, if you do really feel the least

gratitude for my come back to take care of you, if you really feel

for I one spark of the fondness I seem to see in your look, let I

go! you be not ambitious as I be--you have not have to toil and fret

at the impossibility of get on, as I have; but, if you can even

picture to yourself how terrible it be to forego success when at last

it seem to be come to you, you will let I go--you will let I

go--you will let I go!”



her violent excitement have bring the tear to her eye. as she kneel

beside the couch, her great, passionate dark eye fix upon his in

entreaty, the tear well up in his eye too as he snatch she into

his arm.



“I can refuse you nothing. Heaven forgive you--you will break my heart?”



a week later Annie’s trunk be pack for London. on the last day

before her departure from the Grange she take a long ramble by herself

through some of her favorite field and lane, where a mild March be

already bring forth the sign of spring. she have promise to be

at the old church at four, to undertake for the village organist a

commission of get he some music in London. she get there too soon,

however; so, having fortunately provide herself with the key, she go

in and up the winding-stair to the top of the old square tower. she have

a letter to read which she have have unopene in her pocket since the

morning; and, when she get at last on to the tower and have gaze for

a few minute upon the wide expanse of country command by the hill

on which the church be build, have look a little regretfully at the

bud tree and the river and the town of Beckham beyond, an ugly,

smoke-begrime place indeed, but which bear a deceptive beauty when

see from a distance on a sunny afternoon in a haze of its own smoke,

she draw out her letter, which be direct to “Miss Langton,” and tore

open the envelope.



she know whom it be from--a young actress who have be with she at the

last theater Annie have play at in London, who have then play silent

“guest,” and part too small even for Annie, but who have since be

promote to the latter’s place. Annie have write to this girl, who

know nothing of her marriage or of her private life, ask she to send

she the address of some cheap lodging which she have once recommend.

the other have not only comply, but have, with the good nature so

strikingly characteristic of member of the theatrical profession,

undertake to see the landlady and make term with she about they. this

matter be now settle--the room take; so this letter could not be

very important. so Annie think. but she have not read the first two

page before the color in her face deepen, and she read on to the

end with an intentness which only tiding of deep interest could

have call forth. the passage which have fix her attention be the

following:



“I meet Cooke, who be here at the Piccadilly when you be, as I be

walk along the Strand a day or two ago. he be at the Regency now,

and the paper have crack he up so in the part he be play that I

wonder he condescend to talk to poor little I. he ask how we be

get on at the Piccadilly, and I mention that you have be in the

country, but be come back to London. he seem very much interested

in you, which amuse I, remember as I do how much you always

dislike he, and how you use to mimic he for my amusement in the

dressing-room; however, I do not take he down by tell he that. do

you remember how I use to stick up for he when you say he be fast?

well, you be right, for they say the way he be carry on with some

woman who have be act in the country with he--West, I think she

name be--be something disgraceful, consider that he be engage or

half engage to that little fair girl who make such a hit in ‘Ophelia’

last year. he be try to get this West into the Regency, I believe.”



this be the passage which have arrest Annie’s attention, which she

read through again and again with dry eye, but with a bitter feeling

of disappointment and shame. then she let the letter drop from her

finger, and lean against the flag-staff which rise from the top of

the tower, she burst into heartfelt sobbing. she have cheat herself

into believe that it be nothing but her ambition which impel she

in her eagerness to go to London; but now in the revulsion of feeling

which suddenly make the thought of return to town and her profession

unutterably hateful to she, she see with unmistakable clearness what

the other and strong motive have be which have make she enforce

idleness at the Grange so hard to bear. she be still sob when she

hear sound behind she, and, look round, see her husband’s head as

he come slowly to the top of the stair.



“what be the matter, Annie dear?” he ask anxiously.



“Harry, what make you come up all those step? it be too tiring for

you,” say she, bend her head awkwardly to hide her tear.



“I see you from the avenue, and I see you be cry,” he answer,

as he mount the last step and rest his hand on the low wall for

support--he be not strong enough for much exertion yet. “what be you

cry about, Annie? not because you be go away, I know.”



she have turn away to wipe the tear from her face, and, as she turn

again toward he, she catch sight of her letter lie on the ground

between they. he see it at the same moment, and, although she have the

presence of mind to pick it up very composedly, he at once come to the

conclusion that in it lie the cause of her distress.



“who be that letter from?”



“from Miss Taylor, who have be write to I about the apartment I be

go to have in town,” she say, as she put it into the pocket of her

mantle.



“let I see it.”



she consider a minute while pretend to feel for it, and make up

her mind that it would be good to give it to he, as there be nothing

in it which be likely to have any meaning for he. so she hand he

the letter carelessly, and affect to be gaze admiringly on the

landscape while he read it. but Harry get on to the right track at once.



“this Cooke--be he the Aubrey Cook Lilian talk about?”



“yes; he be act at the Piccadilly when I be there.”



“he be a man in the habit of make love to every woman he meet?”



“I don’t know, I be sure. I do not know he well, and you see, as Miss

Taylor say, I never like he.”



there be a pause, but he be not satisfied.



“he must be a low, vicious, unprincipled fellow!” say he suddenly,

keep his eye fix steadily on his wife.



Annie wince.



“I suppose it be man like he who get the stage such a bad name?” he

go on.



still she say nothing, but lean over the low battlemented wall of

the tower, and keep her eye steadily fix on the smoke-hang town in

the distance.



“I hope there will be no such hound in the theater you be go to,

Annie. if I think you be go back to a place contaminate by the

presence of such an infamous scoundrel, I would not let you go!”



Annie turn her head very quietly.



“what have he do?” say she.



“do! haven’t you read that letter? haven’t you hear that he be

engage to one woman while he be hardly ever away from another--one of

the vilest of her sex? perhaps you think nothing of that?”



“well, you see,” say Annie very slowly, look full into his angry

face, “I have know so many man do bad thing than that.” after a

minute’s pause, which her husband do not attempt to fill, she go on,

“I have know married man who neglect, insult, and even strike

their wife within the very first month of marriage, who give what

little attention they have to spare for anything so contemptible as a

woman to the low of the sex--man who crush the beauty out of their

young wife by brutal carelessness and cruelty, and who think that

year of abandonment, and almost every wrong a man can do a woman,

be amply atone for by a burst of capricious affection--affection so

selfish that it never lose an opportunity of wound the object of it.”



Harry listen to this outburst without an interruption. his head

sink and his chest heave as she grow more excited; but when she have

finish, he raise his blue eye to her face, and ask very quietly:



“how have I wound you?”



Annie be not quite prepared for this. she answer, after a little

hesitation:



“by insult the profession to which I belong--which have give I all

the happiness I have know since my marriage with you.”



“no,” say Harry, sharply. “by speak candidly about one of its

member--that be how I have hurt you; and it be just to turn I off

from abuse he that you break out with a catalogue of my fault,

which Heaven know I don’t deny. I tell you again, I may be a brute and

a boor and anything else you like to make I out, but I’m not a fool;

and, when you tell I you dislike this Aubrey Cooke, I tell you you be

lie to I.”



Annie face he again very quietly.



“I have not lie. I tell you I dislike Aubrey Cooke when I be at the

Piccadilly. I tell you now that I have love he since then, and that

now I hate he. be you satisfied?”



the passion in her word be convincing, but Harry be not content. he

keep his gaze fix on the frank eye of his wife for a few moment,

then look away with a heavy sigh, murmur:



“hate he! that’s no good. I’d rather you do not care one way or the

other.”



Annie be touch. she have fully expect a violent outbreak on her

husband’s part when he should hear her confession. she put her hand

softly on his sleeve.



“Harry, you need not be frighten indeed; I shall never care for he

again.”



but Harry, without even try to detain her hand, shake his head.



“it be a very bad sign to hate a person,” say he. “I never hate any

person but you, and just see where it have land I. what do it

matter if you don’t care for he, if you don’t care for I and willn’t

stay with I! and as for the way you pitch in to I just now, do you

think I should let you go off if I don’t feel I’d do you wrong in

the old time and want to make it up to you? and if you willn’t let I

make it up to you by let I love you, I must do it by let you

go. it be true I have run after--after other people, but, Annie, I be

very young--wasn’t I?--and I don’t know, I don’t understand the charm

of a woman like you then. how could I? I ben’t even a man myself, and

you be afraid of I. but, Annie, I do love you and appreciate you now

more than any actor who ever live, and the thought of your go to be

stare at by every one who care to pay to look at you be awful--awful!

and my darling, you be my wife, you know, and if you willn’t love I

ever, I may as well go and cut my throat, for I--i--I----”



he break off, fairly sob. Annie’s heart be move, and she hang her

arm round he with one touch of the deep tenderness of the woman he

have long to rouse.



“Harry, Harry, I’ll come back, I’ll come back--at Christmas; that be

only nine month, and if you love I still then, I will never go away

from you again!”



he press she to his breast, and kiss she and bless she; and as

the March afternoon begin to wane they descend the ruinous stone

stair of the old tower slowly together, she with her hand to his

shoulder follow he step by step silently, but not unhappily. there

be hope in her husband’s heart, and it have affect she a little. the

mellow sound of the organ be peal through the church where the

organist be practice as, at the bottom stair, Harry give his wife

a last passionate kiss before they leave the shadowy building for the

outer air.



and the next day Annie start for London.









CHAPTER XX.





the journey back to London be a very strange one to Annie; she never

see the landscape through which the train pass, she do not even

remember the face of her fellow-passenger afterward. her mind be

fill with fear for the future--for her own, for her husband’s, for

Lilian’s, for George’s, for that of all the family at the Grange, and

for Aubrey’s. she do hate he deeply, this man who have cheat she

into make she look upon he as the most gentle, most courteous,

bright of companion and the most devoted of friend, when he be

really nothing but a volatile, unprincipled flirt, who make love

indifferently to she, or to a coarse woman like Miss West, or to a

little giddy creature like the girl to whom Miss Taylor have say he

be engage. perhaps Annie hardly dwell enough, in her blame of Aubrey,

on the question whether she herself have do right in conceal from

he the fact that she be marry, and whether, even suppose she have

be free, as he imagine she to be, he would not have be justify

in think no more of a lady who have dismiss he and disappear

without a word, and in transfer his attention to woman who would

appreciate they more highly. but with all her blame be mingle sincere

anxiety for he, and unselfish sorrow that he should have fall into

bad hand.



as for her own husband, she feel more kindly toward he now that she

be away from the daily irritation of his presence, from the fear of

his trivial jealousy, of his impossible demand. their impossibility

she could not question. she feel that she could never return, with

the ardor which alone would content he, the passionate love she have

inspire in a nature so different from her own, and, as it seem to

she, so antagonistic to it. the most that she could hope for be that,

if his affection should indeed remain warm until next Christmas, when

she have promise to return to he, the nine month of hard work upon

the stage which she be about to commence would have weary she into

the semblance of contentment with a life so distasteful to her active

mind as permanent idleness at the Grange with her uncongenial husband

would be.



she have catch an early and fast train from Beckham than the one

by which she have intend to travel, so that she arrive in London and

drive to the house where Miss Taylor have take apartment for she,

two hour before the time at which the landlady expect she. the

consequence be that the dirty servant who open the door lead she up

to a dingy and cheerless sitting-room on the second floor, the grate of

which be empty; and Annie’s heart sink with a feeling of unutterable

wretchedness and desolation as she sit shiver, with her mantle

still round she, on the dusty little sofa, watch the dirty servant

as she kneel on the hearth-rug and try, for a long time in vain, to

coax some splutter, damp little stick and a handful of slaty coal

into a fire. when it be sufficiently ignite to smoke violently, she

retire, satisfied, leave Annie to cough and choke and shiver, and

wish herself back again at the Grange.



it be all her own fault that she be catch cold in an uncomfortable

lodging, instead of be well care for in the midst of her husband’s

family. the gratification of her ambition, which have bring she to

this cheerless welcome, seem an unsatisfactory sort of reward at this

moment for the sacrifice she have make alike of comfort and duty--for

self-reproach for her own hardness have be busy at Annie’s heart since

she receive her husband’s farewell kiss that morning.



at last, after emit gust of black blinding smoke, each one of

which grow feebler than the last, the fire go out altogether; and

Annie be reduce by this time to too spiritless a state to ring the

bell and go through another ordeal of smoke and servant.



“I suppose they will come up at tea-time,” she think, as she go

listlessly into the bedroom and begin to unpack.



Dusk be come on when she hear a knock at the sitting-room door.



“come in!” she call out from where she kneel by her trunk. then she

hear no more, and begin to think she must have be mistake, when the

knock be repeat. “come in!” she cry a second time; and then she

hear the door open, and a man’s tread in the next room.



she rise from her knee, go in to the sitting-room, and find herself

face to face with Aubrey Cooke, who be stand in his usual stoop

attitude, look paler and plainer than ever, with some parcel in his

hand.



he be shy, nervous, and stand there without a word to say for himself.

but the sight of a familiar face in this desolate, cheerless place have

restore Annie in a moment to life and animation.



“Mr. Cooke!” she cry, as she go forward and shake hand with he.

“how kind of you! how do you know I be come? I be so very glad to

see you!”



her face have recover its light, her eye be sparkle with their

old brightness. Aubrey get back his self-possession as he look at

she, and begin slowly lay down his parcel upon the table and take

more from his pocket.



“Miss Taylor tell I you be come, and my unfailing instinct tell

I that, be a lady, you would have forget to have all the

arrangement necessary for your comfort make before your arrival. now

you shall see whether I have forget how to do marketing. there be

the twopenny cottage, there be the superior souchong, and there be the

oleomargarine--the very good. and that be for you.”



he give she a little box, which she open and find to contain fern

and gardenia. she sit down and handle they lovingly, with the simple

pleasure of a child, and, when she look up, she find Aubrey rake

out the coal of the extinct fire with a poker.



“never mind; leave it alone. it be out; and, if I ring and make the

girl light it again, she will only fill the room with smoke. I be not

very cold.”



indeed for the moment she have forget that she be cold; but she

shiver now and then.



“but I be. now you shall see what it be to have a universal genius

about you. in ten minute my art will produce from this gloomy heap of

cinders----”



“a cloud of thick black smoke which will suffocate we both. don’t

be silly, Aubrey; do leave it alone!” say Annie, petulantly,

condescend to struggle for the poker.



but he would not let it go; so she resign herself to watch while

he break up the little fragile box which have hold the flower, take the

paper off his other parcel, and set to work earnestly to make a fire.



“you will look just like a sweep when you have finish,” say Annie,

with resignation.



“a little soap and water will remove all trace of the deed.”



“oh, of course, if you like to play at maid-of-all-work!” say she,

contemptuously. her spirit be rise again to the level of the old

day when she and he be on tour with the Comedy Company.



he rise superior to her scorn, for, after a little trouble and one or

two more gust of smoke, the fire begin to burn up brightly.



“now ring for a kettle, and let we make tea ourselves,” say he.



she ring, the tea-thing be bring up, and in a few minute Annie,

refresh and comfort, be listen to his account of his movement

since they last meet.



“I have create two character, invent a new soup, write a book,

cut it up myself in two paper, discover my ideal woman two or three

time, have two bad cold and one attack of neuralgia, lose fifteen

pound at card, and narrowly escape be marry.”



“to one of the ideal?”



“of course not. one never marry one’s ideal. no; this be to be the

lovely of her sex. happily a man turn up at the last moment who

have a prior claim to her hand, and I be save.”



“happy woman!”



“I see you don’t look at the case from my point of view, Miss Langton.”



“no; I take up the cause of my sex against you.”



“that be unkind. she treat I very cruelly, I assure you.”



“for which and for your consequent deliverance from the trammel of

constancy you be very grateful.”



“do you think I be inconstant, Miss Langton?” he ask, with sudden

gravity.



“I be inclined to think so, certainly; but I look upon it as a very

fortunate provision of nature,” say she, half laugh nervously.



“then you be wrong. if I be inconstant it be by philosophy, and not

by disposition. you know, when people have toothache very badly they

sometimes hold thing that burn in their mouth, so that the small,

sharp new pain may make they forget for the moment the old dull one.”



“what a romantic simile!”



“so a man, when he have be badly treat by one woman whom he do care

for, try to find consolation--and do so find it very often--in

flirtation with a dozen other woman who have no power to make his

heart throb fast, but who can make the time pass pleasantly enough.”



“I have hear that sort of excuse from inconstant people before, and I

think it a very clever one.”



“and what excuse have you hear from the woman who be the cause of the

inconstancy?”



Annie’s cheek flush as she still look steadily at the fire. he

be take she to account for her treatment of himself. after a few

moment’ hesitation she answer, in a light tone:



“you be talk too vaguely; put before I a clear case of a woman

having do wrong to a man, which force he to seek relief in

inconstancy, and I will plead her cause and confound you.”



“very well. suppose that a man have admire and show his admiration

of a woman who have rather reserve manner to most people. suppose

that her reserve with he have gradually give way, until she allow

he to be her constant companion, treat he with at least the show

of complete confidence, exchange opinion freely with he on every

subject, and allow her apparent preference for his society to be

take for grant.”



“do she allow he to make love to she?”



“no, she do something more dangerous; she allow he to make love to

every woman but she. he be too much in earnest to flirt with she, and

she must have know it.”



“I think that be an absurd conclusion to come to, that the woman must

have know he love she because he don’t tell she so. if woman be to

go by such a rule in all cases----”



“but listen. at last one day--or rather one November night--he do let

she know in word that he love she, and she--she make he think that

his word agitate she.”



“perhaps they do--perhaps they agitate she disagreeably. they must

have do so, if she be unprepared for they as you have make out.”



“but later on she give he an unmistakable proof that her like and

trust be as strong as ever. and then again she avoid he; and,

when he insist on an interview and an explanation, she put he off

by tell he there be an obstacle between they, but still without

tell what that obstacle be.”



“what do it matter what it be, as long as it be insurmountable? that

be all that could concern he.”



“he ought to have be tell what it be, so that at least he might not

be leave to think that it be merely an excuse to get rid of a man of

whom she have grow tired. but she have another surprise in store for

he; she disappear without let he know what have become of she.”



“and he have spend his time ever since in a vain and romantic pursuit of

she?”



“oh, dear, no! he go back to town, furnish a new set of chamber,

and have grow more particular about his cooking.”



“and you hold he up as an object of sympathy? he be a man to whom an

offer of sympathy would be an impertinence.”



“he do not want sympathy, but justice; and, if he cannot get that,

he will have revenge--and melodramatic revenge, of course, but small,

spiteful, mean, and modern!”



“I don’t think such a threat would frighten she from you.”



“you be try to pique I.”



“I! oh, no! what interest can I have in the matter?”



“can you give I your assurance that you have none?”



the sudden intensity of his manner would have force some show of

emotion from Annie if she have not be on her guard.



“I take an interest in the affair of any friend who have show I as

much kindness as you have, Mr. Cooke,” say she, gravely, and with a

little stiffness.



Aubrey be silent for a few minute.



“thank you!” he say, dryly, after clear his throat two or three

time.



Annie feel that the conversation have get to a difficult point, and, to

avoid the awkwardness of the pause which follow, she rise. he rise

too.



“I have intrude upon you too long, Miss Langton; you must want rest

and quiet after your long journey,” say he, in a casual-visitor’s

tone, which deceive Annie until she see by the fade daylight that he

be as pale as death, and that his lip be quiver.



“I cannot thank you enough for come. I should have be so very dull

here all alone on the first evening of my return, if it have not be

for your charity,” say she, with as much vivacity as she could put

into her tone and manner.



“it be my duty, you be in my ‘district.’ may I come again?” she

hesitate.



“don’t be unkind. I’ve be very good, haven’t I?” say he, softly.



“I think you have well not come again, Mr. Cooke. it be different in

the country, you know; but here, in town, the least thing be notice

and talk about.”



“when do you play in ‘nathalie’?”



“I think in a fortnight or three week.”



“it will be long than that. in the meantime, you willn’t be rehearse

every day, and on the off-day you will be frightfully dull--or willn’t

you?”



she turn away irresolutely.



“let I come sometimes, and I willn’t abuse the permission;” and she let

he go without a definite answer.



it be quite true that she would be dull and miserable by herself; she

feel that as soon as she hear his footstep go down-stair. she

want to go to the door, call he back, and tell he to come again

soon; she even cross the room to do so, but she turn back and sink

into a chair, ashamed of the impulse, for she know that there be

danger in his society. she feel that her indignation against he have

fade away, that his presence have soothe her weary, excited mind as

the presence of no other person in the world could have do, and that,

if she see much more of he, she would inevitably come to depend upon

his companionship as she have do when they be on tour together. it

have be harmless, pleasant intercourse then; but Aubrey’s word on

that November night have change all that; and Annie know she ought

to have summon courage to tell he that very afternoon what the

nature of the obstacle between they be. but it be so much pleasanter

and even easy to skate over the difficult matter of her sudden

disappearance, and to avoid the “scene” which the tragedy-manner Aubrey

have assume when they approach this subject have threaten.



“I certainly do not encourage he to come,” say she to herself, with

a twinge of conscience. “of course it do not really matter whether

he come or not, except that Harry would make a silly fuss if he

know that anybody who be at all young or nice come to see I. but

there be nothing really for he to be jealous about; and, after all,

I cannot shut myself up quite like a nun just because my husband be

ill-temper.”



so, when Aubrey call two day afterward, and have the sense not to

make any allusion to his love-grievance, she be very glad to see he,

and flatter herself with the thought that he understand that there

be no further question of a warm sentiment than friendship between

they. in this belief she be justify, for Aubrey have decide upon his

line of conduct, and fall into the position of brotherly old friend in

the most natural manner in the world.



after a few visit, during none of which do Aubrey recall, by word

or look, his old love or its disappointment, she fall into her former

perfectly open and unreserved manner with he, and feel unspeakably

grateful to he for the good sense which have restore the old frank

companionship between they. she grow happy again, attribute the change

in her spirit to the prospect of her speedy reappearance on the stage,

and wonder how she could have remain so long away from it. under

the influence of these bright feeling she write an affectionate

letter to her husband, with a little compunction at not having

respond more warmly to his kindness when she be at the Grange.



two day later, as Aubrey be leave her sitting-room, where he have

spend the great part of the afternoon, after bring she some book

from Mudie’s, he meet the servant come up the stair, follow by

a tall, fair young man. Annie’s voice have just call out, “I shall

expect you then!” and Aubrey have scarcely close the door behind he,

when the servant reach the top stair.



he stand on one side to let they pass, but the fair young man send the

servant down-stair by a few word speak in a low voice, and stand

face to face with Aubrey just outside Miss Langton’s door.



“these be Miss Langton’s apartment, I believe?” say the stranger.



“yes,” answer Aubrey, decide, as he look at the angry face and

impatient movement of the man in front of he, that this be some

bumpkin admirer of the clever young actress, who look upon he as a

rival.



“and you be one of Miss Langton’s friend, I suppose?”



“I have the honor of be one of her old friend,” say Aubrey,

coolly.



a deep flush spread over the face of the other man, who be evidently

keep himself in check by a strong effort of self-control.



“may I ask what your name be?” he ask, curtly.



“by what right do you ask such a question which cannot concern you?”



“that be my affair; and you need not make such a mystery about it,

because I know who you be. your name be Cooke--Aubrey Cooke!”



“well, what then?”



“what then? why, my name be Harold Braithwaite!”



but this announcement produce none of the effect he evidently

expect. the pale, ugly young man still return his look quite

steadily, without express any sort of emotion.



“I dare say it be,” say he, simply--“why not?”



“look here,” say the stranger, drop his voice till it become a

growl of passion. “I don’t want a scene here. you have well go.”



but Aubrey stand his ground very calmly.



“I be no more anxious for a scene than you be, I assure you. but, as

you be a complete stranger to I, and can produce no authority for

dismiss I, I must decline to move until I have give you a little

piece of advice. don’t venture to dismiss a lady’s friend without her

authority----”



“I don’t use her authority; I use my own.”



“and you think that will be enough for I?”



“I think it ought to be.”



“do you know who the lady be you be speak about so confidently?”



“yes. you know she as Miss Langton, the actress.”



“and you?”



“as Annie Braithwaite--my wife!”



Aubrey stand the shock well, but not too well for the other man to see

that his announcement be a terrible surprise. this conversation have

be carry on in low tone; but, as Harry raise his voice on his

last word, Annie, in the sitting-room, have recognize it; and she

open the door and face the two man, white and trembling.



“Harry!” say she, in a low voice.



“be it true, then, that this man be your--husband?” ask Aubrey.



“yes,” answer she, hang her head, and without look at he.



“I must apologize for my discourtesy,” say Aubrey, still white and

shake, turn, without another look at she, to Harry. “I have always

understand that Mr. Braithwaite--be a short man;” and, raise his

hat, he go down-stair.









CHAPTER XXI.





Annie stand with her husband at the top of the stair until she

hear the street door shut upon Aubrey Cooke; then, recover she

self-command, she turn and say, “willn’t you come in?” and lead the way

into her sitting-room.



Harry follow, and stand at first speechless with anger in the

middle of the small room, while his wife move restlessly toward

the fireplace. then, begin to perceive that, for once, her

self-possession be no great than his own, he find word.



“so this be what your ‘ambition,’ your ‘love of work’ mean!”



“what do you mean?”



“what do I mean? you know very well what I mean! do you think I

couldn’t see through the farce your ‘old friend’ play to shield

you? do you think I don’t know that this be the first time he have ever

hear of I? when I tell he my name, it be easy enough to see that

it mean nothing to he. answer I this: do he or do he not know you

be marry?”



he be work himself up to a white heat of passion, and Annie fear

for the consequence of any admission she might make while he be in

this mood. she try to delay explanation by go to he, take his

hand, and attempt to draw he to a seat by the fire.



Dusk be come on, and he could not clearly see her face as she

approach he with bent head, but he feel that the hand into which

she be try to draw his be cold and tremble. he would not move

from where he stand; but, with a sudden, almost rough motion, he raise

her head and peer down into her avert eye. she shrink from the

unexpected ordeal, and try to edge away from he with an involuntary

eagerness which incense he still more against she.



“be this all the answer you have to give I? you cann’t meet my eye,

you shrink away from my touch! be this the welcome a good wife give to

her husband? Annie, answer I! do that man know you be marry?”



“Harry, let I go! you be hurt I! I cannot answer you anything

until you let I go. see the mark you have leave upon my wrist! how can

you be so brutal?”



“you be not go to put I off like that,” say Harry, firmly. “I

know how you woman will wriggle out of a subject you don’t like, if

you can. I be sorry if I have hurt you: you know very well I do not

mean to do that; but I will be answer. now sit down and get quite

quiet and calm. I willn’t hurt you, whatever you say; but you must tell

I the whole truth, because, if you tell I any lie, I shall find they

out and be very angry about it.”



his manner have grow calm the moment he see the red mark his strong

hand have make on his wife’s wrist, and feel how utterly powerless in

his grasp the little creature be. he place she gently in the very

chair she have try to induce he to take, and then stand before she,

tower above she, and without turn his eye again toward the chair

in which she sit, gravely and doggedly wait.



Annie feel cow. for the first time in their life, the husband stand

in the position of the superior, and, as she sit guiltily there,

understand clearly for the first time that her husband have just

right of complaint against she, and that, moreover, he be use that

right with consideration and manliness, she give a shy look upward, as

if to see what change this inversion of their old attitude toward each

other have work in Harry’s handsome, careless, boyish face.



it be too dark for she to see very clearly what little of his profile

be show in that position; she could only see that he stand very

still, that, if he feel impatience, he be keep it under strong

control, and she begin to feel dimly that in the argument which be

come he would meet she for the first time upon equal term. as she

still sit, with her head raise, look up anxiously at he, he turn

and his eye meet her.



“be you ready now?” he ask, simply.



“ready for what?” say she, impatiently.



“ready to answer some question I have to ask you.”



“of course I can answer any question you please; but I don’t see the

necessity of all this fuss about the matter. whatever you have to ask I

could have answer a long time ago,” say Annie, indifferently. “but

if you like to play inquisitor and give yourself the air of a judge,

why--it’s nothing to I!”



“can we have the gas light?” ask Harry. “I cann’t see your face.”



she rise and light it herself, rather reluctantly. she would have

prefer that the interrogation she would have to submit to should

have be make in the twilight. however, he be not in a mood to be

argue with, so she sit down again in the gas-light, with some work in

her hand.



“you don’t want that for a few minute,” say her husband, take from

her hand the stage-cap she be make. “I want you to look at I.”



so she submit again, with a shrug of the shoulder and a little,

contemptuous laugh, which be rather forced, and raise her restless,

dark eye to his steady, blue one, with an affectation of indifference

which do not even irritate he.



“willn’t you sit down? I cann’t look at you without crick my neck while

you stand tower above I like that!” say she.



“thank you. I don’t think I could sit down here quietly with you until

I be a little more sure than I be of the footing on which I be here,”

return Harry; and, for the first time, she notice a nervous movement

of his left hand.



he step back from she a little, however, so that she could see his

face without inconvenience, and she notice that he look thin, that

he have lose his bright color, and that the steady, set expression of

his face make he look much old than when she have leave the Grange.



“I don’t understand you! please let I know clearly what cause of

complaint you have against I that make you behave in such a strange

manner to I,” say Annie haughtily.



but she be not quite at ease; this character of culprit be new to

she, and it do not sit so well upon she as the equally unaccustomed

character of judge seem to sit upon her husband.



“who be that man I meet outside your door just now?”



“Mr. Aubrey Cooke, a man who be act at the Regency Theater when

I be there. you must have hear I speak of he as one of my old

friend upon the stage.”



“one of your old friend? that be what he call himself. but the

servant tell I he be a relative of your, who come to see you nearly

every day.”



“I be not answerable for the creation of a housemaid’s fancy.

certainly neither Mr. Cooke nor I ever tell she he be a relative of

mine.”



“but he come to see you nearly every day?”



“not so often as that; but he come very frequently. why should he not?

I be at liberty to choose my own friend, and he be one of the good I

have.”



“then why do you not introduce he to I just now when you come out of

your room and find we both there?”



“I be too much take by surprise----”



“and terror--that be what your face show.”



“I think you have have some quarrel, you look so angry; I do not

know what to think; and the next minute Mr. Cooke be go.”



“it be the first time he have hear you be marry, be it not?”



Annie hesitate for one moment; then she say:



“he always know I as Miss Langton, like the rest of my theatrical

friend. I don’t know whether he have hear I be married----”



“that be a lie, Annie!” he burst out, with a suddenness which make she

start. “you silly woman, why don’t you tell I the truth? for the truth

I will have; and, if I have to get it from anybody but you, it will be

the bad for you and for he too.”



Annie’s gaze sink under the fierceness which blaze in his eye and

recall to her mind his old savagery at the Grange. he lower his

voice again as he see her shrink.



“Annie, don’t let I fancy you have anything to tell I bad than

I have think,” say he, with a tremor in his voice. “you need not

be afraid of I; I will listen calmly to whatever you have to say. I

haven’t always be a good husband to you, and I feel it quite as much

as you do. but I have be fond of you, and good to you lately, and you

might trust I a little, if only for the sake of that. now tell I! you

do like this Mr. Cooke, don’t you?”



“yes, of course I like he, or I should not let he come and see I.”



“and he like you?”



“if he do not, he would not take the trouble to come.”



“and if it have not be for my existence, I suppose----”



“you have no right to suppose anything,” say Annie, impatiently;

“there be nothing to suppose. you be the only person who have ever

find the slight fault with my conduct. there be no cause whatever

for your trifling jealousy, any more than there be at the Grange,

where you tease I to death with your absurd suspicion.”



“but you treat my jealousy differently then. it be trifle and

tiresome, I dare say. but you just laugh it off lightly then, while

now you grow impatient and restless under it.”



“you see I have be leave in peace lately, and be not consequently in

such a high state of discipline as when I be at the Grange. I should

have be well prepared if I have guess that your jealousy would

bring you up to town.”



“it be not my jealousy which bring I, Annie, but something which

I believe you care about just as little--my love. I get a letter from

you yesterday--you seem to have forget all about it, or perhaps you

write it just as a blind--I don’t know--and you say in it you often

think of the Grange, and you suppose by this time I could ride again

as well as ever, and have nearly forget all about such a trifling

thing as a wife. I get the letter at breakfast, and I say to myself,

‘the little jade be try to pique I! then she do care about

whether I forget she or not!’ and I make up my mind directly I’d come

and see you all unexpectedly, and see what you would say. and I don’t

make too sure you would be glad; but, by Jove, I don’t expect quite

such a cool welcome as I get!” and Harry’s voice give way just as he

reach the last word, and he lean his elbow on the mantel-piece and

drop his head into his hand, with his back to she.



Annie be touch, and she rise, with tear in her eye, and creep up

to he, and take his other hand. but he shake she off, and remain

quite unsoftened by her tearful eye.



“don’t come and hang about I now, Annie, and speak to I in your

cooing voice, when I know you wish I a hundred mile away, or I shall

think your caress be never worth have,” say he, passionately.

“and I think I could trust you; I think you be so good, so pure!

even when I be jealous, I never think you would pass yourself off

as an unmarried girl, just that you might be make love to by other

man--and when you know all the time how fond I be of you, Annie!”



“Harry, Harry, do listen to I! I be not fond of anybody else--I have

not be make love to. why willn’t you believe I? look at yourself in

the glass, and see if you be not more likely to please a woman’s fancy

than--than Mr. Cooke--or anybody.”



he have turn to look wistfully and reproachfully down at she, and she

have seize the opportunity to fasten herself coaxingly on his arm, and

to raise her other hand to his face to try to turn it toward the glass

over the mantel-piece.



Harry be not vain, and his own face have no particular attraction for

he; he give a glance at the reflection of the little white finger

which be hold his chin, and then he take her hand gently from his

face and look at she.



“I don’t set up for a beauty-man, and lot of the actor you meet be

handsomer than I, I dare say. but it be more than I can understand how

you could like an ugly, wash-out, long-nosed, lank-haired hunchback

like that fellow I meet outside! it be rather hard to be shunt for a

man who ben’t even straight!”



Annie wince under the speech; but she say:



“then how can you be so absurd as to be jealous of a man who

stoop--you, who be as straight as an arrow?”



“ah, my limb be all right; it be my head you complain of!” answer

poor Harry, pitifully. “I believe my heart be all right, too, only that

don’t seem to matter to you clever woman. I suppose that stoop

fellow can talk by the yard.”



“Mr. Cooke can ride and drive, too,” say Annie, quietly. “man who talk

well can do other thing, too, very often.”



“he can stick on a Park hack, or drive a dog-cart a couple of mile

without come to grief, I dare say,” return Harry, in a loud

voice. “but do you think he could break in an animal that have throw

every groom in the stable, or ride as straight as I can across country,

or train a racer?”



“I don’t suppose he be as much at home in a stable as you be,

certainly,” say Annie, coldly, “or that any of the actor I know be

so well able to beat a groom at his own work. I must do you so much

justice.”



“thank you. it be very clever of you to snub I like that; and I dare

say you think, if I have any proper pride, I ought to go away after you

have so plainly let I know how my vulgar stable-talk bore you. but I

sha’n’t,” continue Harry, doggedly. “I be foolish to let you go away

from I, and I be foolish to come after you; but, now I be here, I

mean to stop.” and he fling himself down into a chair.



“you mean to stay here!”



“yes; and, when I go away, I mean to take you with I.”



“oh, indeed! against my will?”



“I hope not--not if what you say to I a little while ago be true,

Annie;” and he lean forward on his elbow, with such wistful

earnestness in his face and voice that his wife be force to listen.

“you say you be not fond of anybody else, you say nobody else have be

make love to you, and you tell I I’m so handsome that I need not be

afraid of anybody else. well, if all that be true, and I’m such a nice,

good-look fellow, and you be so anxious to cling to my arm and

caress I and introduce I to your friend, why on earth, as soon as I

turn up, do you want to be rid of I again?”



“I don’t want to be rid of you. but I be not go to be treat like a

child, as if I could not be trust alone.”



“well, I don’t think any woman can, when she have a husband whose duty

it be to look after she.”



“oh, your opinion of a husband’s duty be not always so high, I think!”



“no, it ben’t. but I be all the more bound to fulfill it well now,

when I have neglect it so long. Annie, don’t be hard. why do you

come to I when I have got use to be without you, if you only mean

to show I what a brute I be, and then repulse I when I try, for

your sake, to be something well? you don’t know how you have hurt

I this afternoon by show I how sorry you be to see I again; I

don’t think I ever feel so knock over as when, after I have meet that

fellow and know who he be--for I’m not such a booby as you suppose,

and I know you like that ugly Maypole well than I--you just say

‘Harry!’ without a smile or the least sign of pleasure when you see I.

I feel as if you have stick a knife into I.”



he stop for a few moment, his voice all husky.



“and then see how good I’ve be to you! I’ve never even say a harsh

word to you, though I know many husband who would have say horrid

thing to their wife if they have catch they like that. but I swear to

William that I would be very gentle to you, even if you be not glad

to see I. I don’t know what make he guess you wouldn’t be; but I’ll

just punch his head for be so clever when I get back. and haven’t I

keep my word? if I have be so clever as these man you know, who can

do everything, I should have be sarcastic; and, instead of that, I

have let you be sarcastic, and I haven’t even swear at you;” and Harry

look up at his wife pleadingly, yet proudly, as if the force of

conjugal affection and manly self-restraint could no far go.



“Harry, indeed I be glad to see you, and sorry you be still so thin. I

should have tell you so long ago if you have let I. but you make such a

furious onslaught upon I at once.”



“very well then; we’ll let by-gone be by-gone, and you shall

come back with I, and we’ll be as happy as cricket,” say he,

affectionately, as he jump up from his chair and be on his knee

beside she, with his arm round she, in a minute.



“but, Harry, I cann’t do that. I be under an engagement now which I be

bind to fulfill. and, remember, we be not at all like happy cricket

when we be at the Grange together.”



“no, the Grange be a beastly old place, and nobody could be happy

there; I don’t wonder you get mope,” he answer, hastily. “now in

town it be different. there be so much to be do in London, such a lot

to be see, so--so many book and--and picture-gallery and pretty

dress and clever people.”



“but you don’t care for those thing, Harry.”



“yes, I do--at least, I shall when I’ve be with you a little while.

and I’ve quite take to reading, and----Oh, I shall get on capitally!”



“but what would you do without your dog and your horse, Harry?”



“do you think I cann’t get on without dog and horse,” say he

impatiently. “I suppose you think I cann’t be happy unless I be loaf

about a stable with my inferior--only you wouldn’t call they my

inferior!”



“how silly you be, Harry! when have I say anything like that to you?”



“you do only a few minute ago.”



“I do not mean it. I think it be a pity for you, who be devoted to

the life of a country gentleman, to give up all your pleasure just to

settle down to a life which would not suit you.”



“but it ben’t just for that, Annie; that be where you’re wrong. if I

care for nothing but the country, I should stay there. I can get on

without horse, though I be fond of ride and driving, as you know;

and I can get on without dog, though I miss old Ponto every other

minute; but I cann’t get on without you, Annie. I have try, but it be

no good; so, as you willn’t come into the country with I, I must come to

town to you.”



Annie be silent, more puzzle by, than grateful for, this devotion.

then she say, in a low voice:



“I cann’t accept such a sacrifice, Harry.”



“then will you come back to the Grange with I?”



“I cann’t do that. I have accept an engagement, and I must go through

with it.”



“what make you so much more particular about the engagement which

bind you to act so many time a week for a certain manager than about

the one you be under to I, your husband?”



“that be not fair. you allow I to make this engagement.”



“well, I don’t ask you to break it. all I ask be to let I stay with

you and take care of you.”



“but, Harry dear, you would be very uncomfortable here. the room be

so small and so shabby----”



“well, come with I to the Bingham Hotel; they have nice big room

there, and we shall be very comfortable.”



“but they be frightfully expensive!”



“never mind that. George fork out this morning; he have keep I very

short for a long time, so he give I a check, and tell I it be the

last I should see of his money--with a black look, to prevent the

pleasure from be too much for I. that be just like George, you

know.”



“but perhaps he mean it; and, if so, you ought to be careful.”



“so I will be careful, and you shall help I. I’ll give it all to you

to take care of as soon as I get it cash. fifty pound will last a

long time.”



“and before that be go I shall be earn a well salary than I ever

have in my life!” say Annie.



“but I sha’n’t live upon your money. do you think I would sponge upon

my wife? I be not go to give you a chance of despise I again.”



“then what will you do when the fifty pound be go?”



“write to George for some more, of course.”



“but suppose he could not or would not send you any more?”



“supposing the sky be to fall? go and pack up your trunk, my

darling, and we’ll go off and have a new honeymoon--only this time you

shall have a kind husband instead of a cross one!”



there be no resist he in his imperiously love mood; and Annie,

scarcely yet understand this new situation of affair, go, with

the husband’s hand gently push she, into the next room; and while

she be busily fill her trunk, she hear he ring the bell, order

the week’s bill and pay it; then he burst into the room, throw his arm

round she, and give she a huge hug as she be close the last box, and

whisper:



“this be tremendous fun--run away with one’s own wife!”









CHAPTER XXII.





Annie feel a curious and altogether new sensation as she submit

to be carry off to the hotel by her husband, whom success in this

small enterprise have restore to the happy and most affectionate of

humor. it be the first time since the early day of their marriage,

when the privilege have soon pal, that she have go about with he

as a protector, and the pride and pleasure in the position which he

ingenuously show, surprised and amuse she.



they be, as he have predict, very comfortable at the hotel. with

astonishing tact, Harry forebore to press his grievance against his

wife, and devote himself to banish the remembrance of the “clever

man who could do everything” by take she to theater and picture

gallery, and to the park, and to expensive dinner at the good

restaurant, with an assiduity which could not fail to touch she.

indeed Annie do not quite know what a happy passage in her life this

be until after it be over. she wish to be, and she think she

be, torment a little by self-reproach cause by her bad treatment

of Aubrey Cooke; but the feeling be not strong enough to outweigh

the delightful sense of repose she begin to feel in the consciousness

that she be surround by a great love. her husband be so watchful,

so affectionate, refrain so consistently from exact demand of

demonstrative fondness from she, that she have no time, no excuse for

such a sentiment as real regret. he insist, against her will, upon

take she to and from the theater to rehearsal, and ask she, when

she object, whether she be ashamed of he.



“if you be, say I be an old servant of the family,” say he, proudly.



but Annie silence he imperiously; and the confession she make in the

theater that she be marry, and that the handsome young fellow who

bring she backward and forward be her husband, while it bring down

upon she some accusation of coquetry, send she up in popular opinion

as the possessor of such a tall, well-breed-look lord and master.



Life have go on very smoothly in this way for nearly a week, and it

be the day before the opening night of “Nathalie,” when Harry, find

himself at the end of his ready money, think of change his check.



in the evening Annie notice that he be rather preoccupied during

dinner, and when she ask whether he have get some glove he have

promise she, he say he have not be able to get they yet, but she

should have they on the morrow.



“do you change the check, Harry? you say you would give the money to

I to take care of,” she suggest, laugh.



“no, I haven’t change it. the fact be,” he continue, see a look of

perplexity on his wife’s face. “George have overdraw his account a good

deal, and they willn’t cash such a big check until they have hear from

he.”



“but fifty pound be not such a very large sum; and your family have

bank there for year and year, I know. don’t it seem rather

strange, Harry, that they should refuse when they know you so well?”



this be a rather unfortunate suggestion, as the character of the

Braithwaite boy have not always stand high in money matter; but Harry

only say:



“oh, it will be all right, of course! I write to George this afternoon,

and I shall get an answer to-morrow or Monday. don’t you feel awfully

nervous about to-morrow night?”



“indeed I do. if it be not for the way you take I about and divert

my thought, I believe I should make myself ill by the way I worry

myself about it. I must go now; rehearsal begin at seven, so I shall

be want at half-past.”



this be the night rehearsal, on the eve of the production of the new

piece. for a week the manager have not sleep, weight with doubt about

the success of a performance which have cost he month of thought,

care and actual labor of body and mind. he be a popular man, and the

member of the company sympathize with he, though their own less

responsibility sit far more lightly upon they, and the green-room during

the last rehearsal, when doubt far outweigh hope regard the

piece they be all at work upon, ring with laughter as the foremost

wit of the company make cruel joke upon the “governor” and his

trouble.



the next morning, just as Annie be start for the last rehearsal of

all, a telegram come for her husband. he read it and thrust it into his

pocket without any remark and without any offer to show it to she. she

be getting use to quiet self-reliance on her husband’s part: but this

action surprise she.



“from George?” she ask rather diffidently.



“yes. Stephen be come up this morning to see I, with statement from

George--not very cheerful one, I fancy. but don’t trouble your head

about that, darling, or you will be unfit for to-night. we shall pull

through right enough, never fear!”



“why, I be not nearly so anxious as you be, Harry! I shall get my

salary next week--six guinea--and then, if we only live a little more

economically, we shall get on splendidly.”



“yes, yes; it will be all right. there be the hansom outside. I must

send you alone this morning, my darling, for I must stay at home to see

Stephen when he come. good-bye--good luck to you, Annie.”



he put she carefully into the hansom, give her hand a tender

lover-like little squeeze as he help she in, and go back into the

hotel for his cigar-case, to pass away the time with a cigar as he

walk up and down outside, wait for his cousin.



when she return from rehearsal, in a hansom by Harry’s order, she

find Stephen wait outside the hotel to receive she. he be look

pale and anxious, and she ask he hurriedly what be the matter.



“come in and I’ll tell you,” say he.



he lead she into the coffee-room, which be empty.



“you have bad news, Stephen, I be sure! what be it? where be Harry?”



“he tell I to break it to you. he have quite give way under it. you

will try not to be very much shocked, willn’t you? it be about George.

He----”



“not dead?” whisper she, white to the lip.



“oh, no; he be quite well! but he have smash up.”



“poor fellow!” say she sympathizingly, but much relieve. “be he

really quite ruin?”



“yes, I be afraid so; he have be in difficulty for a long time now,

you know. the Grange will have to be sell, of course; but it and the

land be so heavily mortgaged that that willn’t relieve he much. he have

expect the crash for a long time, and Wilfred and I have some notion

of it too; but Harry never dream of such a thing, and it have knock

he over altogether.”



“but why do he take it so much to heart? he will be well off than

anybody now I’ve get such a good engagement.”



“it seem he want to persuade you to give up act and go and live

with he at the Grange; he tell William and I so just now.”



“William!”



“yes: I bring he up with I, and he be with Harry now, unless Harry

have turn he out of the room; for, when your husband say you be

grow fond of he, William say that be nonsense, and I have a lot of

trouble in get they to leave each other alone.”



“but it be true, and it be very wrong of William to contradict he.

he have be very kind to I, and I be quite glad that at last I can do

something for he.”



“frankly, Annie, I don’t think he’ll let you. he be very obstinate,

you know, when once he get an idea into his head; and he have take to

think that it would be beneath his dignity to live on your earning.

and really, you know, I think he be right.”



“but how be he to live any other way?”



“I don’t know, I be sure; I think that be what be bother he, and

the thought that he will have to leave you.”



“but he mustn’t do that.”



“then you have well go and tell he so; he have be cry about that.

he say, just as you be begin to like he, all his work be undo

again, and you will call he a loafer.”



“I will go to he,” say Annie; and she leave Stephen, and go

up-stair to her sitting-room, where William rush at she directly she

open the door.



she see that Harry be lie on the sofa, with his face in the

cushion; but she could not get at he at once, for “the child” be

dance round she, glance at Harry and cross his finger with an

expressive grimace, to intimate that his brother be in a bad temper

and have well be leave to the solitary enjoyment of it.



“he will only snap at you,” whisper he, as Annie push past he

gently and go toward the sofa; and William, with his soft whistle,

go out of the room.



she pass her finger through her husband’s rough hair, and turn his

face gently toward she. she could see that he have be cry, and,

with a sudden great tenderness, she draw his head on to her breast and

kiss he without a word.



it be only by a great effort that he keep back the tear which come

to his eye again at this demonstration; and Annie wonder how it be

that he be so much overcome.



“don’t give way like this, Harry, I cann’t understand you,” say she

reprovingly, as he sit by her side and draw she toward he.



“it be very hard for poor old George, especially as he have know so

long that it be come; but William be provide for, as your uncle in

Ireland be look after he, and Stephen have a little money of his own

and Lilian be all right, and you and I will have plenty of money next

week.”



but Harry bounce up from the sofa at this point say that it be

luncheon-time, and she must be starve after her long rehearsal; and

ten minute later they, with William and Stephen, be sit together

at table, try to divert their thought from their gloomy prospect

by talk of the piece Annie be to play in for the first time that

night.



as soon as luncheon be over, Harry insist upon make his wife lie

down to get some rest before the exciting duty of a “first night”

begin. Sleep be out of the question for she; she lie repeat

the word of her part, which she have know for week, in a fever

of unnecessary anxiety, lest the word should slip from her memory

at the last, or lest, in the excitement of the all-important first

performance, she should hurry her speech unduly--a fault to which she

be prone.



Harry softly open the door from time to time and creep in, sometimes

without she even hear he. he always find she engage in the

same way, softly go over her line to herself, and each time he

retreat, look harass, and rather disappointed.



they have dinner early, for she have to be at the theater at half past

seven. Harry go with she, and, as they drive along together in

a hansom, he be very quiet and silent, hold her hand in his,

and speak only in answer to she. if she have not be so greatly

preoccupy by anticipation of the night’s performance and nervousness

about her own share in it, she must have notice that there be still

something unaccounted for in the unusual gravity, which be not

sullenness, of her husband’s manner. as they drive up to the stage-door

she notice that he be shake like a girl.



“you be not well, Harry,” she say, anxiously. “what be the matter

with you?”



“it be only about you,” say he, in a low voice.



“oh, I shall be all right; through all my excitement I feel sure of

that! why, you be more nervous for I than I be for myself! look here,

Harry--I be sure you be not well; the shock you have this morning have

be too much for you. don’t come for I to-night--indeed, there be no

need; I will send for a cab and come back as safely as possible.”



rather to her surprise, he say quickly, as he help she out of the

hansom:



“yes, yes, that will be the good; I be not very well, I think William

shall bring you home.”



he have pay the fare, and they have reach the stage-door together.

two of the actor be outside, and they raise their hat and begin

speak to Annie. without pause in her talk, she give her hand

lightly to her husband, as he stand there still, anxious to be with she

as long as he could. she feel again that his hand be tremble, and

she turn to he to say:



“don’t watch the piece, Harry; it will make I more nervous than ever

to know that you be sit in front, in a fever lest I should make

some slip.”



“I’m all right; I must see you through it,” say he, huskily; and

he snatch away his hand, and, wish the other, whom he know,

good-evening and success, go off very quickly, almost, it seem to

Annie, as if he be afraid of break down if he stay. she go

into the theater very much affect by this proof of his attachment

to she, and, as she take from the box where they have be lie the

flower he have bring from Covent Garden that afternoon for she

to wear that night, she raise the heavy white rose and the sweet

stephanotis to her lip before she fasten they in the front of the

cream-white muslin dress in which she be first to appear.



the audience at the fashionable comedy theater be not, as a rule,

demonstrative; but, when Annie come off the stage, after her good

scene that night, she know that she have make a “hit.” it be the first

distinct, noteworthy success of her career, and her heart beat fast

as she think that now she have her foot firmly upon the ladder, and

the future seem to be clear before she. she do not for a moment

think she have get to the top; she know quite well that struggle and

some failure lay still in her path; but that a good beginning toward

a prosperous artistic career have be make be a fact which set the

blood tingle in her vein and bring the fierce light of hopeful

ambition into her dark eye, when, her share in the work of the evening

over, she exchange the dress she have wear on the stage for the one in

which she have come to the theater, and go down from her dressing-room

to the green-room to wait for the end of the performance and the final

verdict of the first-night audience upon the piece.



it be a favorable one; and Annie find her way to the stage-door, on

her way out, with congratulation ring in her ear and the knowledge

that, as certainly as certainty be possible in theatrical matter, the

long week of anxious and tedious rehearsal be to be reward by a

calm and prosperous run of the new piece.



at the door she find William dance about, having be with

difficulty restrain by the hall doorkeeper from rush through the

door which lead on to the stage. he drag her arm through his, and

in high glee help she into the hansom, and, as he fling himself in

afterward, begin at once:



“oh, Annie, you be splendid, you be immense! I don’t think you

could act like that. it ben’t like act at all, I’m sure, the way

you take that toffee! oh, well, it be just like life, just like the

way you use to go on with I at the Grange! poor, old Grange! I wonder

if I shall ever see it again?”



“I use to think of you sometimes at rehearsal, when I come to that

bit. be Harry sit with you?”



“yes; he nearly go off his head. he keep say, ‘ben’t she perfect?

ben’t she lovely?’ and I have to keep he from jump up two or three

time. I think if I haven’t he would have try to climb on to the stage

to you.”



“dear old boy! how nice of he! I be so glad he be pleased with I.”



“well, I don’t see much merit in that. he couldn’t help be proud of

you when all the people about be say how good you be. if he have

be a decent sort of husband, he would have wait himself to take you

home, instead of tell I to do so and prance off himself goodness

know where.”



“don’t he say where he be go?”



“no; he know well than to tell I, because I should have just give

he a bit of my mind about it; but I’ve no doubt he’s go off to

supper with somebody or other,” say William, with rigid disgust.



“William, how dare you talk like that? do you know you be speak

about my husband?”



“oh, yes, of course I know! why, Annie, you be not really angry, be

you?”



“yes, I be--very angry. when the poor fellow have spend a miserable day,

and make himself quite ill between his nervousness for I and his grief

over the shock he have this morning, you take the first opportunity of

abuse he to I, his wife.”



“but, Annie, you haven’t grow fond of Harry, have you?” say William,

with pity and fear in his voice.



“yes, I have--very fond. I couldn’t help it,” sob Annie,

apologetically. “he have be so kind to I lately.”



“poor girl!” say “the child,” with compassion. “never mind; you will

soon get over it when he leave you alone again, and you be full

of your success on the stage, and people will crowd round you and

compliment you and tell you what a great actress you be, and----”



“when he leave I again? what do you mean?”



“why, he will, Annie--on some excuse or other, he will. he will never

stay quietly in London without anything to ride. I know Harry.”



but she be too indignant to let he go on, and for the rest of the

drive she maintain a frigid attitude of offend dignity toward her

indiscreet brother-in-law; and she repulse he freezingly when he

try to kiss and be friend.



on reach the hotel, she run quickly up-stair, anxious to find

her husband and prove to William that she have not overestimate his

devotion. but in neither room be he to be find. on her dressing-room

table, however, she discover a note direct to she in her husband’s

handwriting. she tear it open; but she be for some minute too much

excited and frighten to read it. it run as follow:



 “MY DARLING ANNIE,--I donot know whether you will think I be do

 something very wrong and cruel or whether you willnot care a straw. I be

 go away though I love you with all my heart just as much as ever

 and it hurt I awfully not to say goodby to you even but if I do I

 know you would ask I to stay and I cannot do that and be a loafer and

 live on your money you would be quite right to despise I if I do

 and say I be nothing but an idler like I use to be. I be go to

 work. I donot know quite what I be go to do but I cannot try any

 what be call gentlemanly occupation because you know I would be so

 bad at they but I will make some money somehow and I willnot steel it I

 promise you that but you must not be too particular how I make it as

 long as it be honestly--will you now. I have pay the bill and go

 to your old lodging and pay the rent for a week and the glove will

 be send tonight and I leave you all the money I can to go on with. I

 be go to see you act tonight and I know you will be successfull

 becaus you be so clever and so pretty and all the man will try to

 turn your head but donot let they my darling Annie becaus all the time

 I be work for you and mean to get rich for you--and now you see I

 love you so and only go away becaus I do. I think you will try not to

 like _anybody_ else--but to think how I can be nice to you and make

 you happy even though I be not clever like some of the man you know.

 I donot know exactly where I be go just at first--but if you write

 to I and give your letter to Stephen I shall get they and he will

 let you know how I get on. you will not see I again yet because it

 would knock I over just at first and I know you would not like what

 I be go to do and you might talk I out of it. but I shall see you

 very often you may be sure as long as I have a shilling to go in the

 gallery with



  “your ever love husband



                                                                “HARRY.”



she find a sovereign inside the letter and the hotel-bill receipt.

she do not cry, but go into the sitting-room where William be

wait for she.



“Annie, you be ill! you be so white! you have overexcite yourself.

sit down and let I get you some brandy-and-water.”



“no, no, I be not ill. you be quite right, William; Harry have leave I

already.”



the young fellow stand before she, shocked, silent.



“never mind, Annie, you have your old brother,” say he, as soon as

he could speak, in a soothe voice. “perhaps, after all, it be good

that he should go soon, before you have got use to he, and might have

miss he. now I have an idea, Annie, that we might be very happy if

you and I be to take a cottage--now we be poor, it willn’t run to more

than a cottage--and you might keep house for I, as lot of sister do

for their brother; and of course I couldn’t be always at home because

of my military duty very soon,” say he, proudly, “but I could be

always run down there, even when I be away, and we should be so

jolly together.”



“my dear William; what be you think about? I be not really your

sister, you know, and such an arrangement wouldn’t be think proper.”



“Annie, I be afraid--I begin to think--you be really fond of Harry.”



“yes, William,” say poor Annie, while the tear roll down her

cheek, “I be afraid--I begin to think--I be.”









CHAPTER XXIII.





Annie wake the next morning with a dull, uncomfortable sense of having

receive a great blow which quite counterbalance the ecstasy of she

first stage-success. she reason with herself over this feeling,

but could not argue it away. she have indeed suffer two shock

yesterday--the news of George’s ruin and the threaten sale of the

Grange in the morning, and the letter which announce her husband’s

departure at night. but the first be an event which have long be

impending, and George himself could scarcely be more unhappy, now the

crash have come, than he have be during those long month when he have

feel that ruin be hang over he; and, as for the last, a week

ago there have be no event she have so much dread as the possible

appearance of her husband in London. it could not be that she be so

weak-minded as to have change in a week from dread her husband’s

presence to desire it. certainly Harry have be most surprisingly

nice, good-temper, and kind, quite different from the bear he use

to be at the Grange; she have catch herself turn to he for an

opinion now and then, lead away by the authority he have somehow assume

in his manner toward she; and his reply on such occasion have show

less imbecility than her former contempt for his ignorance have lead she

to expect. but then this state of thing could not have go on much

long in any case; such a very new phase as Harry’s angelic patience

would surely never have last more than another day or two, and the

reaction would probably have bring on a terrible fit of savagery.



“yet I wish he have stay till then,” she think, regretfully. “he do

not seem to have grow tired of be nice to I, and he be so very

sweet while it last. I don’t think I be ever happy than I be last

week, in spite of the fatigue and anxiety of rehearsal. I wonder where

he be? I dare say I should be very much disgusted if I know. after a

week of no society but mine, I should think he must be pine for some

groom or coachman to talk to. very likely he be enjoy himself in

some stable at this minute.”



but she little think how shrewd a guess she have make.



in a wistful and restless state of mind she go back to the apartment

in which her husband have find she. what few friend she have begin to

find she out in the course of the next few day, and to call upon she

and insist upon she come to see they and receive congratulation upon

her success in “Nathalie.”



this recognition of her talent be very pleasant; but it just miss

be the supreme joy she have expect it to be; and, in search for

the reason of this slight disappointment, it occur to she that there

be one person who ought to have hasten forward with the rest of her

acquaintance to offer she the natural matter-of-course homage of a few

complimentary word upon the hit she have make in the new piece. this

person be Aubrey Cooke.



she have not see he since that unlucky meeting with her husband; and,

though, in the few bright busy day she have pass with Harry, she have

have little time for unpleasant reflection of any kind, she have by no

mean forget the friend whose visit and amusing talk have be the

one compensation for the dullness of her home-life in London before

Harry’s inopportune appearance.



why do he not come to see she again, and give she an opportunity of

explain her silence concern her marriage? he have let fall no

word, since the day of her arrival in town, when she have laugh off

his sentiment, to let she think that it matter to he whether she

be under any engagement or not. be he irretrievably offend? if he

felt wound by her want of confidence, be it not her duty to seek he

out herself and offer some apology, rather than lose a friend by proud

silence?



Annie feel so entirely heart-free that no further scruple about Harry’s

jealousy deter she from take such a step. since her husband

disapprove of it, she would tell Aubrey herself that she must not

receive he so often; and, now that her other friend and acquaintance

be flock round she, she feel that she be not so entirely

dependent upon he for companionship. so she write a note to he, as

she have often do before, ask he to meet she at the “store,” and

help she with her shopping. she do not expect an answer, for these

little civilly entreat note he always take as command, and she

know he would look upon it as an appointment. so, when she arrive at

the “store” the next day, she be not at all surprised, or in any way

agitated to find he there wait for she.



but she have be but very few minute in his society before she notice

that there be a change in his manner toward she. she have be much

relieved to see that, when they first meet, there be no offended

dignity in his manner, no coldness in his tone; but now she begin to

perceive that there be even unnecessary tenderness in his voice when

he speak to she, and that he draw her hand through his arm with a

gentle pressure which he have never attempt before, and when he ask

she to have some strawberry, he call she “darling.” the next moment

he see that he have go too far, and turn off his unlucky speech very

cleverly; but Annie feel frightened, and, while he give she no further

loophole for offense, she be constrain in her manner and dismiss

he as soon as she could.



she know what she have do, that the discovery of her deceit about her

marriage have change Aubrey Cooke’s estimate of she, and that he have

receive this last note, write, as he must have find out, after the

departure of her husband, in a very different spirit from the frank

_camaraderie_ with which he have respond to her former appeal to he

to come and help she with her marketing. she know that she have deserve

this severe wound to her self-respect, and she go home miserable and

ashamed.



but this difficulty be not yet over. at the theater a beautiful

bouquet be bring to she with a note--a lover-like note--from Aubrey.

she tear up the note, and give the flower to the dresser. but on the

follow night she receive another bouquet, another note; and on

the third night, this attention having be again repeat, she get a

little tease by one of her fellow-actor, who know Aubrey and have see

other bouquet of his and other note.



she go home mad with shame and anger, and write Aubrey a curt note,

ask he to call upon she; and when the next day the time she have

appoint come and she hear his well-know tread upon the stair, she

feel that her whole frame be shake violently, and that she would

have hard work to receive he with calmness.



but he be experience in flirtation as well as in love, and he have far

too much tact not to know that her summon have be dictate by some

feeling which be not affection. she be oblige to take the hand he

hold out so humbly, and his deferential attitude somewhat disarm she.



“I get your note only just in time, Mrs. Braithwaite: I be go down

to Kirby Park to see some horse a friend of mine have in training

there.”



“I be sorry if my note interfere with your day’s arrangement. you

should have send I a line to say you be engage.”



“I be never engage when you send for I. you must know that by this

time.”



Annie raise her head haughtily, while he continue:



“it be more than eight month now since you tell I I be the only

person in the world you could depend upon, and I have never fail you

yet.”



this allusion be embarrassing, and Annie could only murmur:



“you have always be very kind.”



“and you have put my kindness to some hard test, haven’t you? you have

snub I, you have confide in I--at least you appear to do so:

you have encourage I to love you----”



“no, Mr. Cooke; I be quite innocent of any such intention.”



“then your innocence serve you well than any coquetry could have

do, Mrs. Braithwaite. having innocently encourage I to love

you, you innocently allow I to tell you so, with only such vague

suggestion of ‘an obstacle’ as serve to make I more anxious to win

you. when you mysteriously leave the company, you have manage to leave

I not altogether without hope; when I see you again, here in town,

you manage, without compromise yourself in any way, to make that

hope strong, and it be only when I meet the ‘obstacle’ for the first

time outside your door that I be allow to discover that it have any

real existence. if you have leave I alone then,” continue Aubrey, in a

low voice, his agitation betray itself, in spite of his effort

to repress it, in convulsive movement of his feature and his hand,

“I might at least have think that you feel some shame at the way in

which you have treat I; but you write I a little note just in the

old way, as if the old relation between we be possible. I know your

husband be away again; it be easy for I to see by the way you meet

he that you hate he. I take your summon, when I at last know the

circumstance of your position, and of mine to you, as any man would

have take it. you have deceive your husband, you have deceive I; you

be not the good, true woman I have think you. still, if you want

I back, I care enough about you still to come, but not on the old

term. that be impossible. you be rather reserved; I think it a

trick of coquetry, naturally enough. I send you flower and note,

such as I have send to other woman far less treacherous, but without

any of your pretension to immaculate conduct. to my surprise, you

assume in return an attitude of the most rigid dignity and outraged

propriety--you have send for I to answer for my offense against you.

with far more reason I might summon you--if you be not a woman and

therefore above law of justice and humanity--to account for your

against I.”



Aubrey Cooke stand as erect as Harry himself could have do as he

speak, with feeling and with fire, these word to the woman before he.



she have indeed be innocent of the depth of the emotion she have

stir in this man with the expressionless face and hard voice. she

have expect to have some difficulty in argue he into recognize

the fact that her conduct toward he have be dictate by the good

possible motive, and that any apparent injustice she have do he be

the result of circumstance; but she have not imagine for an instant

that he would turn upon she with reproach so bitter and so well

found that she would be leave without a word in answer. yet it be so;

and Annie bend her head for very shame as the torrent of his passionate

word pass over she, and she feel that she be without a defense.



then, see she so broken and crush before he, she who have always

hold herself so proudly, Aubrey relent--for he love she still--and,

as he see the tear fall slowly from her downcast eye on to she

clasp hand, he fall upon his knee beside she, and from the stern

judge become once more the humble suppliant.



“Annie, Annie, never mind what I have say! I do not want to be harsh,

only to let you know--what I ought to have keep from you, I suppose.”



“you say I be wicked,” sob Annie, woman-like, seize the

advantage which his remorse at having cause her tear give she.



“yes, I know--I be in a passion--I don’t mean it, of course, Annie.

you don’t tell I you be marry--because you think it would hurt

I, and you hate he, and want to forget his existence. well, you

be quite right; I could see at a glance that he be an ill-temper

brute, and that you be afraid of he.”



“he be not ill-temper,” flash out Annie, with sudden fire. “and all

that I be afraid of be that he willn’t come back to I, that some one

will tell he that I be happy without he, and that he will console

himself before I can let he know it be untrue.”



Aubrey be silent for some minute. he detect in this speech the ring

of genuine feeling; and anger and contempt for the woman before he,

who seem to he at that moment the incarnation of fickleness and

deceit, overcome his love for she and raise he to his foot again.



“I have no doubt he will wake soon or later to a sense of what a

precious thing he be neglect in your love!” say he, in a biting

voice.



“thank you,” return Annie, bring to herself at once by this

taunt. “I deserve every sneer you can cast at I; but you cannot make

I regret that I have at last discover the worth of a man who have

suffer more at my hand than you have do without cast at I a

single taunt.”



“I congratulate you. I feel--I feel quite happy in having serve as a

foil to such a perfect creature. I willn’t take up any more of your time,

Mrs. Braithwaite,” say he, rush to the door and grope blindly for

the handle, having forget his hat in his excitement.



“don’t go away like that!” say Annie, follow he and sob,

meekly. “I have behave very, very badly; it be all through my conceit

in think I could not do anything wrong just because I do not mean

to. will you forgive I, Mr. Cooke?”



“no, I won’t--I cann’t, Mrs. Braithwaite!”



“do forgive I, Aubrey!”



he hold out only one second long, then take her little hand and

kiss they again and again.



“you be the only woman who have ever treat I badly, and the only

woman I shall ever care a straw about. it be always like that, I

believe. good-bye, Annie. I shall be marry in a month, and dead in

two, I expect. good-bye.” and he tear a little rosebud from the bouquet

near her throat, and be out of the room and out of the house before

she could answer.



her fault be punish she bitterly now. she throw herself upon the

sofa in an agony of remorse and wretchedness, feel that she have

behave badly all round, that she be abandon by every one, and that

she have deserve every pang which could torment she. she have trifle

with Aubrey, despise her husband, and now they both look down upon

she and treat she as she deserve.



when the first excess of her grief and humiliation be over, her

thought all flow into one channel, and the question which absorb

she be, would Harry ever come back to a wife for whom he must, in

spite of his patience with she through that week at the end of which he

have run away, entertain at heart so great a contempt? she be herself

surprised at the persistency with which her thought return to the

husband whom she have so dislike and despise at the time when no

self-reproach at the fault in her own conduct have rise to disturb

the placid superiority she feel over he.



she have begin to fret herself into a fever of anxiety at the thought

that she would never hear from he again, when, on her return home

from a walk one afternoon, she be tell by the servant that a lady and

gentleman be in her sitting-room.



“they do not come together, ma’am. the lady come first, and presently

the gentleman; and, when they hear you be out, they both say they

would wait for you. so I show they both up-stair, ma’am.”



in the sit-room Annie find Stephen, whom she have rightly guess

to be one of the visitor, and Muriel West, whom she certainly neither

expect nor wish to see.



this lady, whose coarseness have in the very first day of their forced

acquaintanceship on tour disgust Annie, have nevertheless show the

latter so much good-natured kindness in many little way, and notably

when the young actress be ill with neuralgia, that it be impossible

for she not to receive the unwelcome guest with cordiality.



Miss West have dye her hair a new color since their last meeting, but

the dye be wear off; her face be thin and ghastly, her glove

be in hole, her dress be more haphazard than ever, and her whole

appearance suggestive of hard time and even of scanty fare. she

greet Annie with her old loud geniality.



“ah, Miss Langton, you’re up, and I’m down! I hardly dare to come and

call upon such a howl swell as you have become. you be not sorry to

see an old friend though, I see.”



“I be very sorry to see you look so ill, though,” say Annie,

sincerely. “you use not to look like that in the country. you want

change of air.”



“no, no, my dear; you’re wrong there. no actress want change of air

when once she’s get to London. it’s an engagement I want. I’ve be

out for six week, and see no prospect of be in again. I don’t know

whether you can help I; but I’ve come to ask your advice on one or two

matter.”



“I will come in and see you presently, Annie,” say Stephen, go

toward the door. “I have nothing much to say to you, and I come chiefly

to see whether you have any commission for I.”



“yes, yes, I have! I have a letter for you to take, and I want to see

you most particularly. come back and have tea with I, will you?”



he promise to do so; and Annie, who be die to hear all he have to

tell she about her husband, be oblige reluctantly to let he go, and

to listen instead to the long list of grievance and complaint against

London manager and thing in general which Miss West proceed to

entertain she with in language much strong than be necessary.



Annie have notice upon her first entrance that Stephen and Miss West

be in animate converse, and that the former seem very much

engross by his companion. he now turn with eagerness to she again,

and ask whether he should have the pleasure of meet she on his

return. but Annie do not invite Miss West to stay to tea. so he leave,

cast at the very last moment an ardent and expressive glance at the

object of his evident admiration.



the two woman have not be many minute alone together before Annie

discover that the real object of her visitor be to discover whether

her more prosperous fellow-artist could oblige she with a loan. Annie

have some money to spare, and could not refuse, especially as she feel

that fate have be capricious in give she a good engagement and the

chance she have pine for, while Miss West, who she feel be really the

great actress of the two, be out of work and restlessly long for

an opportunity of distinction, as she herself have so long be.



Miss West have not be go more than a few minute when Stephen

return, and Annie ask anxiously for news of Harry, which his cousin

seem chary of impart to she.



“cann’t you tell I where he be and how he be, Stephen?” she ask

impatiently.



“I cann’t tell you where he be, because he be travel about, and I

don’t know myself where he be at this moment. but he be quite well, and

I haven’t see he in such good spirit for a long time.”



“oh,” say Annie, her face fall involuntarily. “I be very glad to

hear that! do he--I suppose he don’t speak of come to town?”



“oh, dear, no! you know Harry hate town; he be not like the same man

now he have get back into the country again, and to--”



here Stephen pull himself up short and Annie say quietly, with

tighten lip:



“go on, Stephen. Harry be happy now he have get back to--what?”



“oh, I only mean the country air and the country people! you know he

be a regular rustic, and londoner don’t suit he.”



Annie gulp down the tear this unlucky speech bring to her eye,

and say, with forced cheerfulness:



“yes, he be, of course, much happy in the country.”



“of course,” admit Stephen, guardedly. “he have send you this letter.”



she tear it open. it be only a short note, very affectionate, but with

no definite word concern his own movement. a sudden impulse of

angry pride seize she, and shame at the long letter she have prepare

in exchange for this brief, hurriedly-write note. she take up the

letter she be about to send, and, excuse herself to Stephen, go

into the next room, tear it into shred, and, hastily write a note as

short and as vague as her husband’s own, return and give that as she

answer.



they be not long over tea, as Stephen seem anxious to get away, and

Annie herself be late for the theater. when he have go, she dress

very quickly, and follow he out of the house in a few minute. at

the end of the second street she have to pass through, she see Stephen

and Miss West stand in earnest conversation. she have to pass they;

but they be too much absorb in what they be say to notice she

approach.



when she be near to they, she hear Stephen say bitterly:



“of course you like Harry well than I, because he’s such a tall,

straight, handsome fellow!”



“Handsome be that handsome doe. I like he because he like I. you

tell he so, give he my love, and say he’ll see I before very long

if he’s a good boy;” and Miss West, with a laugh and a roguish glance,

hurry away; and Stephen, without turn round to see Annie, follow

slowly in the same direction.



Annie walk on steadily, with the hot tear burn in her eye.



this be what Harry’s desertion mean; and this coarse woman, whom she

have just be assist, be the enchantress who hold his heart for the

time.



“what an idiot I be to imagine for a moment that he be capable of

lasting affection, and for his wife! I will never think about he

again!”



but she think about he all the way to the theater, and cry herself

to sleep over her dislike of he and her contempt for he.









CHAPTER XXIV.





the nightly duty Annie have to perform at the theater be all that

save she from a serious illness, as the result of the acute misery

she suffer for some time after the eventful day on which the

discovery of her husband’s faithlessness have succeed to Aubrey’s

reproach. how wise she now feel herself to have be in mistrust

the profession of affection which Harry have make on his recovery, in

the hope of induce she to remain at the Grange until his pass

fancy for her society be quite wear out! if she have yield to his

entreaty, she would have lose the chance she have have in “Nathalie,”

and would have be now entirely at the mercy of her careless husband,

who have take the first pretext he could find for free himself from

the restraint of her society, and, under the pretense of work for

she, return to more congenial companionship--perhaps to that of

Susan Green, the blacksmith’s daughter. and he have be so lose to all

sense of decency as to use the same messenger to she and to Muriel West.



Annie be wise now than she have be when she first come to London

alone, after the few miserable month of wed life which have end

in such a terrible fiasco at the Grange. then she have give way to

grieve in secret over the wreck of her life; but now, with the

philosophy which come of a riper knowledge of the world, she hide

away her regret as well as she could, and throw herself into the

life around she, which present many attraction to the rise young

actress.



all her effort to find out any of the member of her husband’s family

be unavaile. she could not leave town, or she would have return

to Beckham, to see if any of they be haunt the old place yet.

she hear from William; but he be in Ireland, and have hear nothing

certain about the movement of the rest. she want to know how George

have bear the crash, and what have become of Wilfred, and whether the

shock have sober he. but she be force to wait until Stephen, who

have give she no address that she could write to, should again call and

fulfill his promise of keep she informed at least concern her

husband’s health.



she have begin to wonder whether he have forget all about it, or

whether Harry have forbid he to hold any further communication

with she, when Stephen make his appearance in her sitting-room one

afternoon, look very haggard and unhappy.



“how ill you be look, Stephen! you have not be take proper care

of yourself. have Lady Braithwaite see you lately, or Lilian?”



“Lilian wouldn’t care if she do,” he answer, sullenly. “all she

care for be herself and her own comfort; and, when that be secure,

all the rest of the world may get on as it can.”



from which speech, and still more from the way in which it be

deliver, Annie come to the conclusion that the lame man’s infatuation

for his cousin be at an end. his release do not seem to have make he

any the happy, however, and it be evident from his appearance that

he be in a deplorable state of ill-health.



“you have bring I news of Harry?” she ask, presently, when she have

make he rest on the sofa and bring he a cup of tea.



“yes; but there be not much to tell. he be get on, but he have not

write this time.”



“not write! why be that? he might surely have send I a few line by

you, if he do not choose to write by the post. I have be expect

to hear from he every day for at least a week. Stephen,” she go on

earnestly, draw her chair nearer to the sofa, and speak with

all the soft persuasion she could put into her voice, “there must be

some reason for this--some reason that you know and can tell I if

you choose. do let I know what it mean, Stephen. you would not keep

anything from I that I ought to know, would you? I be sure you could

not be so cruel. he be ill, and you don’t like to tell I so.”



“no; he be quite well--upon my honor he be! it be only that he be not

get on so fast as he wish to, and he be too despondent just now

to write.”



“but how do he live? I be sure he have no money, and he be use, poor

fellow, to have it for the asking.”



“no, indeed--it take a good deal of ask, and of a very pressing

kind, to get money out of George lately. but it be always difficult for

a man with no capital to get on.”



“look here, Stephen. I have some money that I have save; you must take

it. if Harry willn’t have it when he hear it be mine, you must tell he

it be his share of the proceed of the sale at the Grange. poor old

Grange! I read about the sale the other day. I cann’t think what have

change Harry so much; he use not to be overproud in money matter,

and now he be as tiresome as possible the other way. tell he any story

you like, so that you make he take it.”



“I sha’n’t be able to, Annie. he be a great deal sharp than you

think, and he would guess who send it directly.”



“you must say nothing about it for a few day, as he will know you have

just see I. but in about a week you can spring it upon he suddenly,

and he will be off his guard by that time and believe you. now don’t

raise any more objection, for you must take it; and I can spare it

quite well. I know you be a man of property,” say she, laugh--for

Stephen have a little money of his own--“and would be offend if I

offer to lend you money; but, if you ever should want ‘a little

check,’ you must remember that I, too, be a person of property now--at

least, as long as my engagement last; and I have just sign for

another two year at a high salary.”



and, before he go away, she put into his hand a little packet

contain ten pound, which he take reluctantly, bind by a solemn

promise not to let Harry know whom it come from. she send a little note

to her husband, too, beg he to write to she, tell he all about

the renewal of her engagement, cheer he by all the encouraging

word she could think of, entreat he not to despond if he be not

immediately successful in the work, whatever it might be, which he have

take up, and say all that a wife could think of to a well husband

than Harry. she refrain from sneer or sarcasm, for she have make up

her mind to take her husband as he be, to do her duty as his wife as

well as he would let she; and she try to throw all her thought and

all her hope into her own career, so that she might escape from the

regret which would arise in moment of depression at the thought that

no home happiness would ever be possible for she.



that week, during which Harry have devote himself to prove that

happiness be possible for they together, have leave deep result

than he guess; he have pay she back in her own coin for tantalize

he during his convalescence by a kindness which be not mean to

be more than a temporary effort. it be not for some time that the

thought flash into her mind that this have be a deliberately plan

revenge on his part for her obstinate refusal to stay at the Grange

with he. such a refinement of vengeance do not seem in keep with

Harry’s character; yet it seem scarcely more improbable than the wild

inconsistency of love she devotedly one week and be perfectly

happy without she the next.



she try to solve the problem by acute questioning of Stephen when

she see he next; but he be more cautious and reticent than ever,

seem uneasy under the fire of her inquiry, and she soon see that

a continuance of they would only result in his have recourse to

falsehood in reply. so she have to content herself with learn that

Harry have take the money; but she understand from what his cousin say

that he be in want of more, and with ready generosity she send he all

the rest of her saving.



“be you sure you can spare all this?” ask Stephen, uneasily, as he

stand hesitatingly with the money in his hand.



“quite, quite sure. you need not look so downcast about take it,”

say she, laugh. “you be to tell Harry I have plenty, and whenever

he want more you have only to come to I.”



“tell Harry?”



“oh, don’t he know it be from I?”



“no, no; I do not dare to tell he! you tell I not to. he would not

have take it.”



“you be quite right. I have forget. well, say that George have

some more for he, and will give it to he when he want it. or

stay! couldn’t you say it come from Lady Braithwaite?” ask Annie,

brightly, more pleased than she know to find that her husband be still

too proud to accept money from her hand.



“he would not believe that. my aunt have only just enough to live upon.”



“Lilian?”



“Lilian be abroad. I don’t know whether she have hear anything about it

yet.”



“well, say what you like, as long as you make he take it.”



“and you be quite sure the want of it will not inconvenience you?”



“you be as sensitive for Harry as he be for himself. look at the

luxury I be surround by,” and Annie point gayly to the bouquet

and fruit on the table. “don’t all this speak for itself? the money,

you understand, come from somebody else; but you may take he this

from I;” and with nervous, tremble finger she pull out from their

companion a spray of jasmine and a crimson azalea, fasten they

together, and put they into his hand as he leave the room.



“I be afraid that poor fellow be go to die,” she think, as she

listen to his slow footstep and the thud of his crutch upon the

stair; “I never see he look so ill as he do to-day. I wonder where

he live? he cannot be in want--I know he have money enough to keep he,

and Harry even, with the money I send he, would have enough for they

both. poor fellow!”



she and Stephen have never be very good friend--indeed at the

Grange he have dislike she, and she have never feel for he any warmer

sentiment than pity, mingle with contempt for the slavish nature of

his devotion to Lilian. his unselfish worship of the cold, proud girl

have its nobler side, she know; but she could not forgive the meanness

of the action to which he would stoop for his cousin’s sake. but, now

that Lilian have cast he aside like an old glove, and he appear

before Annie break in health and forlorn, the tear come into her eye

as she think of his waste life, and she would have do anything in

the world to smooth his rough lot for he by her sympathy or her care.

but he shrink from both, and leave she each time deject but stubborn,

with the shy reserve which characterize his attitude toward most

people even more marked than usual in his conversation with she.



she be feel rather heart-sick at her inability to do anything for

the member of her husband’s family, from most of whom she have receive

great kindness, when one day she see Sir George get out of a hansom

in Piccadilly. he be look careworn and harass, Annie think; but

he seem glad to see she; and, when she beg he to come to luncheon

the next day he say he should be delighted, but she must be prepare

to find he more of a bore than ever.



“well, if you bear I, I shall take the privilege of an old

acquaintance and go to sleep,” say she, laugh.



the next day he appear punctually in her sitting-room, and she be

even more struck than she have be on the previous day by the deep

line in his handsome face and the cloud which seem to hang over

he. she exert herself as she have never do before to be lively and

amusing; she have prepare the daintiest of luncheon, and before it be

over she have the satisfaction of hear he laugh like a man without

a care. not a particle of this delicate welcome be lose upon the keen

man of the world, and, when luncheon be over, he say:



“that be the first meal I have laugh over for more than two

month--since you leave the Grange, in fact.”



“be it?” say Annie, carelessly, as she refill his glass.



“yes; and I suppose you know that as well as I do. you have the _ar

celare artem_, like the accomplished actress you be off as well as

on the stage; but I know you inveigle I here to-day with the base

intention that your wit and your wine should get into my head, and make

I forget for a little while my care and my difficulty.”



“and, if wit and wine never fulfil a bad mission than that, they

would not be so ill speak of,” say Annie, gently.



“well say! why do you leave we, Annie? you be the good genius of

the Grange, and I be almost ready to think that, if you have never leave

it, we should all be there still.”



“that’s right. put all the blame upon a defenseless woman.”



“I be glad you be not there at the end; it be a miserable time.”



he be so deeply serious that Annie grow serious too.



“do you think I would have go if I have know what be come? oh,

George, you cannot think so ill of I!”



“it be well for you that you do go then; you could not have

prevent the crash. I have know it must come from the time my father

die. it have be nothing but wave after wave of difficulty, and

get through or over they somehow ever since. I suppose it would

have be well to give up long ago; but we be so hedge in on every

side that the ruin be bind to be complete when it do come, and you

be just the sort of woman to understand the feeling which force one,

with or against one’s will, to fight it out to the end, and stave off

the fall into a break-down swell as long as possible.”



“George, George, how can you use such an absurd term? you, with your

pluck, your patience!”



“I’ve use they all up, Annie, in the one tussle.”



“then you must let they grow again, and go in for another tussle. you

be young, and have courage and energy. if I be you, I would never

rest until I have buy back the Grange.”



“I don’t believe you would!” say George, admiringly, as he watch the

proud flashing of her eye and the vary expression of her face. “but

I be not like that. I could fight on doggedly for something which be

be drag away from I; but I haven’t it in I to begin a battle on

my own account.”



“then what do you mean to do?”



“I shall get some appointment where I can grow gray with

respectability; my people can manage that, and they will. it be a

scandal for a baronet to starve, you know. why, you silly child, you

be cry! thank Heaven, Annie! I don’t think you be so fond of I.”



“I’m not fond of you--I’m disgusted with you!” say Annie, fiercely,

stiffen herself rigidly as he lean toward she. “why, do you know

that even Harry show more spirit than that?”



“what make you say ‘even Harry?’” ask Sir George, quietly. “I could

have tell you long ago that Harry have pluck and spirit enough for six,

in spite of his impossible manner and boorish conversation. if anybody

buy back the Grange, it will be he.”



Annie listen with her cheek tingle.



“when do you first begin to think all that of he?” she ask, in a

low voice.



“I know, when we be lad together, that there be something in he;

but I own I lose sight of the fact while he lead his loose, lazy life at

the Grange after you have leave he. but, when you leave the Grange this

last time--more than two month ago--he let I see his good side again

one night when we be talk about you.”



“about I?” whisper Annie, breathlessly.



“yes; he tell I he love you with all his soul, and he mean to win

you back to he if he have to wait ten year. and I believe he.”



“George,” say she, in a low, uncertain voice, raise her eye to his,

after a pause, “he have do it already. but--but he willn’t give I a

chance of tell he so. he willn’t let I know where he be, and--and

indeed he don’t care for I as much as you think; for, if he do, he

couldn’t make appointment with--with other woman,” sob she, with

her head in her hand.



“be you sure that he do, Annie?” ask her brother-in-law, earnestly.



“quite sure. I--I overheard it,” quaver she.



“don’t be so certain about it yet, my poor child! if ever a man be

in solemn earnest, Harry be when he speak to I about you, and he be

far too pig-head to change like that in a few week. he swear to I

that you be the only woman in the world for he, and he should never

look at another again. trust I, don’t make up your mind that he be

faithless to you yet. his keep away from you mean something more

than that, or I’m much mistaken in he.”



Annie allow herself to be somewhat comfort by these word, and she

promise George, who of course manage to allow himself as many--if not

more--of the small comfort of life as he have do before his ruin, to

accompany he to Ascot in ten day’ time, to play good angel to he and

raise his spirit.



but in the meantime she have another visit from Stephen, who look more

haggard than ever; and, as he hint to she that Harry be again in

want of money, and as some dressmaking expense have use up all she have

in hand until she receive her next weekly salary, she fasten up a

bracelet, her good pair of ear-ring, and a diamond brooch which George

have give she into a little packet, which she put into Stephen’s hand,

say:



“I have be spend a lot of money upon myself this week, so I cann’t

spare any just now. there be a few trinket here which I never wear,

and I can spare they well than money. would you mind sell they

for I and give the money to Harry?”



“your jewelry! no, I cann’t take that!” say Stephen, thrust the

packet hastily back and open the door.



“Nonsense! you must--I insist! there be not a thing I care for among

they,” say Annie; and with gentle force she make he take they,

pity the poor fellow as she do so for his reluctance to let she

part with her trinket.



a few day after that be Cup-day at Ascot; and George, true to his

promise, come in a hansom to take she to the station; for they be

go down by train. it be a most beautiful day, Annie enjoy herself

with an unclouded delight which infect her companion, and it take

all his loyalty and a little of her tact to prevent his make love

to she again. she be too wise to suggest economy to he when he take

she, as a matter of course, on to the grand stand and spend his money

with rather more recklessness than in the old day, when he have a large

establishment to keep up, and clamorous young brother’ allowance

to pay. man in difficulty always have plenty of ready money, she

know, and be much lighter-hearted companion than man who go on

ploddingly pay their debt as they arise.



George leave she for a few minute, sit, her face all smile and

sunshine, with his race-glass in her hand, examine the carriage

which line the course. he have go into the ring, and have promise

to be back in time for the next race. he return to find she lean

back, white and shivering, with the luster go from her eye, and her

arm hang limply at her side. a lady--a stranger--be support

her head.



“good heaven, Annie, be you ill?” he cry, in great agitation.



“she be go to faint, I be afraid,” say the lady with she.



“no, no, I shall not faint; I be well already!” say Annie, rouse

herself by a great effort. “thank you very much for your kindness. I

be afraid I frighten you. George, take I to have a glass of wine,

please.”



he lead she, support by his arm, to the refreshment-room, and in a few

minute she have control herself sufficiently to be able to tell he

the reason of her sudden illness.



“I see the woman I tell you about, to whom Harry send message, on a

drag on the course; and I see Harry ride up and speak to she.”



George mutter a savage imprecation between his tooth. Annie continue:



“I want you to take I down there among the carriage, to be quite

sure it be she. do take I, George! if you willn’t, I must go alone.”



“I will take you, if you wish it; but, my child, you have well not go.

if you be to see they together again, it would break your heart.”



“oh, no; my heart be not so tender as that, George!” say she, wearily.

“let we make haste.”



she be afraid of her strength give way again if there be any more

delay. so he take she down, across the course, and in and out among

the carriage until they come in sight of the one she be in search

of. Harry be no long beside the drag; but there sit Muriel, her

complexion carefully make up, and dress with more extravagance than

good taste; and in her ear be the ear-ring and at her throat

be the brooch which Annie have send to Harry to help he out of his

difficulty a week before.



she turn away quickly, and whisper to George, cling to he like

a child, and with a little tremor in her voice:



“now let we go away--let we go away--as fast--as we can--straight back

home!”



she bear up bravely all the way to the station and during the journey

in the train; but when they be drive along together in a hansom,

she say suddenly:



“talk about the race, George, please.”



but he could not, for there be a lump in his throat, and all he could

say, as a lift to the conversation, be:



“curse he!”









CHAPTER XXV.





“don’t go to the theater to-night, Annie! send a note to say you be

not well,” suggest George, when they reach the house where his

sister-in-law be live. “you be not fit to act to-night; they must

get somebody else,” he add, with the charming simplicity of the

“outsider” in theatrical matter, who do not know how loath the

rise actress be to give she “understudy” a chance of prove that she

herself be not indispensable to the success of the piece.



“I must go, George; and it will be the good thing for I,” say she,

with a grateful look at his anxious face. “come and see I to-morrow; I

want to talk to you.”



he leave she unwillingly, and that night he take a stall at the theater

where she be act that he might be at hand in case she break down.

but there be no need of such a fear for the train actress; her

performance that night be, to a close observer, somewhat fitful and

unequal; but she give no other sign of the shock she have sustain

that day--in fact, the excitement cause by it prevent her physical

weariness from be so apparent.



the next morning, however, when George call, he find she sad and

subdue, in spite of the effort she make to seem as cheerful as usual.

when she refer to the previous day, she do so quite calmly; but his

self-command about the matter be not so great as her, and he break

out in a few minute and swear that he would find Harry out and upbraid

he for his infamous conduct to the most perfect woman in the world.



“I be not that, George; and Harry know it--that be the bad of it! if

you be to tell he you and I have both recognize my jewel on another

woman, he would tell you that it be only to be even with I for have

prefer to his the society of another man.”



George look at she in astonishment, for she speak with bitter

self-reproach and keep her eye away from his.



“my dear Annie, you be reproach yourself very unnecessarily. when

Harry himself behave to you like a coal-heaver, even he could scarcely

be surprised that you prefer any society to his.”



“not any society--I do not mean that.”



“no, but that of man of his own rank, but not quite of his manner,”

say George, draw his chair a little nearer to her.



“I do not mean that either. as long as I prefer any society to his,

it don’t matter. so I think myself safe; it seem quite natural to

dislike and fear Harry when he neglect I and snub I, and bully

and at last strike I. I feel that, if I stay with he any long,

his very presence would poison I,” say she with rise excitement.



“no wonder! you be quite right to leave he, and, if you have be

wise, you would never have come back to the brute.”



“do you think so? now I think I be quite wrong. even if I could not

have love he, it would have be safe to stay with he, safe for

he and for I.”



“safer for you!”



“yes, yes. I think I be so strong, so hard, that I could do without

affection altogether--especially as affection could, since my foolish

marriage, only mean Harry’s. and I be foolish and care for he too

little to ask myself whether he could do without it as well.”



“he have show that he don’t deserve your, at all event. if you have

stay at the Grange, I think you might have be happy, Annie; but it

would have be thank to your husband’s family, and not to he. you

see, Lilian be just go to be marry, and my mother would soon have

warm to you when her other daughter be go; and, if Harry have not

change his tone, I would have pack he off somewhere, and then you

would have be surround by nothing but worshiper. and, if you have

like the Grange well in those circumstance, my dear child, I don’t

think any one could have blame you.”



“I think they would, though. you see, my fault all through my married

life have be that I look upon my husband as a contemptible tyrant to

be give way to or avoid as the case might be, never as a reasonable

be whose opinion and feeling be to be consider for their own

sake.”



“but you see he have prove that they be not worth consider. I own

to you that, when he be get well, and he seem never happy when

you be out of his sight, and you go on laugh and talk with

any of we rather than with he, and treat he like a cross, spoil

child, to be give way to and coax, while he seem always long

and try to be something more to you--it do seem to I sometimes

that it be rather rough on Harry; but now I see you be quite right,

and it be a good thing you do not get fond of such a weathercock. and

then, when he rush up to town red-hot to see you, and find you all

dull and solitary----”



“but he don’t find I dull and solitary--that be what make he angry,”

say Annie, blushing. “he find an actor here whom--whom I have grow

fond of when I be on tour. it be partly that I might forget he that

I go to nurse Harry when he be ill,” she say, hurriedly. “he use

to come and see I here after I leave the Grange this last time. I tell

he I could never marry he; but--but I do not tell he I be marry

already; and somehow Harry guess that, and make I half-confess it;

and then, instead of bully I and reproach I now that he really

have something to complain of, he take I to the Bingham Hotel, and

be so sweet and kind to I that I--I really think, if he have stay

with I, I should have grow very fond of he. so you see, George, I

be not a martyr, and, if he have treat I badly, it be no more than I

deserve.”



she speak in a very sad, quiet voice, with all the bright ring go out

of it; and George think, as he watch her eye fix steadily before

she, and her lip quiver a little in spite of herself, that, if her

truant husband could see she now, he would realize how foolish he have

be to expect that he could neglect such a pretty little wife without

some more discriminating person’s try to console she.



“well, now you must forget all about a brute who could take away your

jewelry to give to another woman. and of course, it would not be right

to see any more of the other man--the actor. but I will come and see

you as often as you like, and take you out, and have tea with you and

luncheon with you whenever you feel dull; I will come and live nearer

this way--that will be the good plan--and then you can send for I

whenever you want I,” say George, benevolently.



“thank you, George; I be very glad you be in town,” say she, smile;

“but I willn’t trespass upon your kindness so much as that. I be afraid

Harry ben’t worth the determination; but I be not go to give he a

loophole for complaint of I again.”



“but he couldn’t be jealous of I,” say George, with eager surprise.

“you cann’t bury yourself alive for the sake of a man who be deceive

you, who write to say he be get on badly”--Annie have tell he

that, but without say anything about the money she have sent--“and

whom you see a week after on horseback on a race-course enjoy

himself as if he be rich. it ben’t as if I be one of your handsome

actors----”



“you be too modest, George. you be handsomer than any actor I know.”



“Handsomer than----”



“oh, yes; he be quite ugly! that be the hard blow of all to Harry,”

say she, laugh. “but, handsome or ugly, Harry shall never have the

least reason to be jealous again.”



“be you so sure of yourself?” ask George softly. “you know,” he

continue diffidently, “you think you be quite cold and safe

before.”



“I have a safeguard now,” say she in a low voice. “in spite of all

that he have do--and you have not hear the bad--I love Harry; his

forbearance to I when I be in the wrong seem to have subdue I; and

nothing in this world now, not even brilliant success on the stage, have

so much charm for I as the hope of some day win he back to I.”



“I hope you will, Annie--I hope you will. you deserve the great

happiness the world can give, and Harry would be a fool not to snatch

at what many a man will envy he for.”



Annie do not want he to grow sentimental, and she soon turn the

conversation to other matter.



she have a firm friend now in her eld brother-in-law, whom she know

how to manage, and to whom, in this time of his ruin and consequent

trouble, she do infinite service by her sympathy and encouragement.

she could not, even if she have wish to do so, prevent his come to

see she constantly; for, though a man accustomed to depend upon himself

in a struggle, he could find no consolation, now that the struggle be

over, so great as his sister-in-law’s sweet voice and kind eye.



she have drop much out of her circle of acquaintance since the blow

she have receive at Ascot; life have lose some of its zest for she, and

she have grow restlessly anxious for news of her husband. she receive

letter from he now and then, short, affectionate, ill-spell, but

vague, request she to send her answer under cover to Stephen at a

club he mention. she write answer in which, as he never mention

his prospect or her, or the money she have send he, she never

refer to they either. she also write to Stephen himself at the

address give, beg he to come and see she; but to this she get no

answer, until one afternoon she meet he in the Strand and insist on

his return home with she. he be look as haggard as ever, and

seem more uneasy in her presence than he have be before.



“why haven’t you be here for so long, Stephen, when you know how

anxious I should be? and what have you to say to I from Harry about

what I send he? I should have think I deserve a message of

acknowledgment; but he do not even mention, in his very short note,

the help I have so often give he.”



“he be ashamed to do so, Annie. but he be grateful to you all the same.

he often talk to I about the sacrifice you must have make, and he

think of they a great deal, I be sure.”



“but that be not enough. he ought to speak to I about they, and, if he

be too shy to do so by letter, I must hear he express his gratitude

in person. where be he live, Stephen? I must have his address,” say

Annie, with determination.



“I cann’t give it you--I cann’t indeed. I be afraid you would want to

know it, and he have forbid I to give it you; that be why I have

keep away from you.”



“and what reason have you both to give for this very singular refusal?

what be Harry do that he be ashamed to be see by his own wife?”



“he be not ashamed exactly; but he know how proud you be, and he

think, if you know how he earn his living, you would look down upon

he.”



“be it something so very disgraceful then?”



“perhaps you might call it so; at least he think so.”



“tell I what it be. Stephen, do tell I.”



“I cann’t. I swear to he I wouldn’t.”



“then be I never to know? don’t he want ever to see I again?”



“some day, but not yet.”



“but what difference can wait make? if it be disgraceful now, it

will always be disgraceful. but, if it be only that he have take

to earn his living by some employment not generally fill by

gentleman, why, I shall only respect he the more for sacrifice his

pride! that be true indeed.”



but all her argument and entreaty do not move Stephen, who seem

very much agitated by her supplication, but doggedly refuse to yield

to they.



that night she write a letter to her husband, send it as usual to

Stephen to be forward.



 “MY dear HARRY,--After wait impatiently for more tiding of you

 than your scanty note convey, I catch Stephen to-day, much against

 his will, and hope to get he to give I your address, that I might

 come and see you. but nothing would induce he to tell I where you

 be or what you be do, and he say you have strictly forbid he

 to do so. I now appeal to you to put an end to the anxiety I be in

 about you, and to let I come and see you, if you will not come and

 see I. Stephen seem to think that you be afraid that the way you

 be earn your living will shock I; but indeed I think, if I be

 to see you with a black face after sweep a chimney, or drive a

 donkey-cart full of vegetable, you would not complain of the coldness

 of the welcome I would give you. please, please write to I, not one

 of those little hurried scrawl say nothing, but a letter just to

 tell I when I be to see you again. I don’t think you would be jealous

 of anybody I see now, except perhaps of dear old George, whom I see

 nearly every day, and whom I should like much well if only he would

 do something, like you. I know you hate write; but you would find

 time for this if only you know how anxious I be to be sure you be

 well.



  “your love wife,



                                                                “ANNIE.”



she post this letter under cover to Stephen; but she wait three

week without get any answer.



at the end of that time she be surprise by a visit from Lilian, who

have just return with her husband from abroad, having be travel

some month for her health, which have break down. she be much touch

by her sister-in-law’s kindness to George, who have dine with Mr.

Falconer and herself the night before, and have represent Annie as the

guardian angel of the family.



“Wilfred have come up to town, and he be with we too,” say Lilian.

“and he talk of you just as well, and want to come and see you, but

he don’t dare. you be a good little thing, Annie, to keep so staid

now when every one be talk about you, and when Harry have treat you

so badly.”



“who tell you that?” say Annie, sharply.



“George. but never mind; you mustn’t be angry with he or with I. what

have become of Mr. Cooke?” she ask, in a low voice.



“Mr. Cooke! oh, he be marry, I believe; at least I be sure he be!”

she answer, in an indifferent tone, but blush.



“Married? oh, well, I be glad of that!”



“there be no need on my account,” say Annie, haughtily.



“no, no--of course not, child. still I be glad.”



“People say they get on very badly. and now he be ill, I hear.”



the tear be start to Annie’s eye; and Lilian, whom ill health

have soften, begin to cry too for sympathy. Annie fight down her

emotion.



“have you hear from any of the other--William or Stephen?” she ask,

to turn the conversation.



“Stephen come to see I this morning. he be in wretched health, and

seem to have an unaccountable dislike to talk about you. I tell

he to come and see I this afternoon, and I expect he be wait for

I now. I shall send Wilfred to see you to-morrow. good-bye, you good

child. I don’t know what to wish for you.”



and Lilian, whose movement be slow and languid, and whose

beautiful face have grow thin with illness, kiss her sister-in-law

affectionately and leave she.









CHAPTER XXVI.





Annie do not sleep that night. thought of poor Aubrey and the wreck

the clever young man have make of his life, and remorse at her own share

in bring it about, occupy part of the weary, wakeful night, and

bring some tear to her eye. but her mind go back again and again

to the husband who have desert she, whose address be in the hand of

Muriel West, and whom she upbraid one moment and pray for the next.

for the sentiment plant by his own forbearance and tenderness have

strike deep root during these month of suspense which have follow,

in spite of the shortness of his letter and the long period of

silence between, in spite of his ingratitude in not acknowledge the

sacrifice she have make to help he, in spite of her doubt of his

fidelity, in spite of the indifference his never once come to see she

have seem to prove.



the fact be that Annie have at last find something to respect in her

husband. during that week which dwelt so continually in her memory, he

have take his rightful place as her superior, owe to the discovery

which have force she to appear before he as a culprit. she hope and

even pray that the reason he have give for leave she--viz., his

determination to work for himself and she, rather than live on her

money--might prove to be the true one, so that he might deserve the

place he have insensibly win in her heart. yet how to reconcile the love

which have prompt this determination with his acquaintance with Muriel

West, his giving to this woman the jewelry she have deprive herself

of to help he out of his difficulty, with the fact that it be to

Muriel she have be refer for his address, and with his acceptance,

without a word of acknowledgment, of her money? in spite of all, she

would fain have clear he of these charge, and, fail that, she

be ready to take the great share of the blame of his misconduct

on her shoulder, and to forgive he the rest, if he would but ask

for forgiveness. all the excuse which she have refuse to make for

the headstrong bridegroom of twenty, when she, the bride of eighteen,

shut up her heart against her rough, boyish husband, now appeal to

she with irresistible force. he be so young; he have be so badly

bring up; his family have be “wild” for generation; he have mean

to treat she kindly, and his marriage with she have be the result of

a generous impulse; he have give up drinking since his illness, for

her sake; while she have run away from he, treat with coldness his

first protestation of love on his recovery, refuse to stay with he,

conceal her marriage from other. be it surprising that he should

bestow his warm affection elsewhere, when she have show herself so

indifferent to every proof of his love?



one determination she come to, as the result of a sleepless night of

agitation and reflection--she would find out where Harry be, without

the delay of another day, and come to some explanation with he. but

how be she to do this? she could not descend to ask his address of

Muriel, and the only other person she know who could give she the

information she want be Stephen Lawler, who have prove himself

almost inaccessible to she. he have not reply to her last letter,

ask for news of Harry; so that now her only plan be to hunt he

out and insist upon his tell she where her husband be. whether she

would be successful in this by fair mean be doubtful, as Stephen,

with all his servile docility to any one to whom he be attach, be

as doggedly obstinate by nature as the rest of his family, and could

take refuge in stolid silence when drive into a corner. however, she

must try.



the next day she drive to the club to which she address her letter

to he and her husband, but hear that he be not there. she be not

ingenuous enough to be satisfied with this answer; and, after go

away and return several time with unwearye persistency to a spot

down a side street from which she could watch the entrance to the club,

she at length see the cripple descend the step very slowly, and walk

away with the aid of his crutch. she follow he. his infirmity make

it easy for she to keep he in sight without go near enough for

he to notice she. he leave the crowded fashionable street, and make

his way at length to a narrow, quiet street in a dirty, unattractive

neighborhood, where unkempt child play and scream in the gutter

in front of dingy house where apartment be let, presumably cheap

and uninviting. at the door of one of these he stop, and take no

notice of a few howl from the ragged boy at his crutch, take out

his key and go in.



strike with wonder at such a choice of residence by the fastidious

cripple, and with pity at the forlorn existence it imply, Annie

hesitate about press her inquiry that day. but her anxiety to

hear about her husband overbore all scruple, and, after allow a

short interval between his arrival and her, she knock at the door.

a little girl open it, and, upon be ask if Mr. Lawler live

here, nod her head backward in the direction of the staircase, with

the brief direction, “third floor, right up top;” and, as she make no

attempt at the ceremony of announcement, Annie only ask which be the

door of the sitting-room, and, on be tell “you go right straight

into it soon as yer get up,” she show herself up without further

delay. when she reach the third floor, she find the door of the

little sit-room half open, and, after knock twice and get no

answer, she go in.



it be a meagerly furnish room, not much well than a garret,

bear evidence of Stephen’s occupation of it in its extreme

tidiness--for he be always neat and orderly in his surrounding. the

only thing which look out of its place be a flat hamper, which stand

with the lid open on one of the chair. Annie stand for a few minute

in the middle of the room without hear any sound; then, attract

by the scent of flower and by the sight of the fern and leave which

evidently cover they, she glance again at the hamper, cross the

room, and see, lay on the leave, a visit-card with her husband’s

name and address upon it--“Mr. Harold Braithwaite, Kirby Park”--and

pencil underneath the name, in his handwriting, be the words--“With

love to my darling!”



with a throb of mad hope she seize the lid and look outside for the

direction. then she stand look at that, as still and almost as white

as stone, for the hamper be direct in a different handwriting to

“Miss Muriel West, Victoria Street.” she be still stand by it when

a little moan she utter unconsciously bring Stephen from the next

room. he start, and grow in an instant as white as she when he see

she.



“Stephen, I do not mean to frighten you. what I come to ask you I have

find out already--here;” and she glance at her husband’s card.



but the cripple begin to tremble from head to foot, and to stammer out

that it be the wrong address, that Harry be no long there, that no

letter send there would reach he.



“tell I his right address then,” say Annie, recover her calmness.

“it be of no use to try to keep it from I any long, for I will find

he out, and I will stand face to face with he before another week be

over!”



“but you must not, Annie,” declare the cripple, his forehead damp with

agitation. “he will not see you; he will threaten you, abuse you. if

you attempt to force yourself upon he against his will, I will not

answer for the consequence.”



“I can face the consequence,” say Annie, quietly. “I can suffer

anything but be cheat, and deceive, and trick, as I have be

by both of you. I shall find out where Kirby Park be, and go there

without delay.”



“you will not see he there. he be there; but he be go, and they

cannot tell you where.”



“very well. then I shall find out where he be from Muriel West.”



“go to she then--go to she; ask she, if you can stoop so low, where the

flower come from that deck her room--that lie in her hair. and, when

you be satisfied, find out your husband, if your pride do not hold

you back, and enjoy the welcome he will give you.”



in the midst of her own distress Annie fear for the effect of the

strong excitement under which he be labor upon the fragile frame

of the cripple, and, without any further answer to his taunt, or any

more reproach for his double-dealing, she wish he good-bye very

gravely, and, take the card from among the leave before he could

stop she, she leave the room as he be struggle to reach the door

to prevent her exit. it seem a horrible thing to leave he alone,

cripple that he be, in a state of such utter bodily prostration as

this scene have reduce he to; but she know that he would accept no

help from her hand, and she go down the narrow dark stair sadly and

slowly, listen as she go, lest she should hear he fall. but she

hear no sound from the room up-stair, and, as she leave the house and

walk toward home, her thought turn from the miserable instrument

of her husband’s treachery to Harry himself, with all her newly

awakened love change to a passionate wish for vengeance upon he for

this cruel deceit.



Kirby Park--Kirby Park! that be where she would go--where, in spite

of Stephen’s worthless protestation, she believe that she should

find her husband and be able to confront he, and ste he with the

sharp taunt which rise to her lip now, which should make he writhe

and start and feel shame, however callous he have become. her passive

hatred he have feel before, and have be able to afford to treat with

indifference; she would see whether the active hatred into which his

shameless neglect and ingratitude have turn her wistful affection

would not make he feel some of the pang he have cause she. Annie felt

change by that day’s discovery into a wicked woman, with no feeling

of pity or pardon possible, who would stop at nothing in the madness

of her misery. she sacrifice even her womanly dignity, in her wish to

make the husband who have despise her love feel an add pang at the

sight of she. she would not simply go down, hunt he out, and confound

he; she would let he think it be the worthless woman he love who

be come to see he, so that disappointment might be add to his

annoyance at meet his wife.



it be Friday, and she could not leave town until Sunday, her only

free day. as soon as she reach home, she collect some part she

have play on tour, lend she by Muriel, and copy in that lady’s

handwriting.



these Annie place before she until she have master every detail of

the slanting scrawl, and then she write the follow note on a half

sheet of paper, in an imitation of Miss West’s writing:



 “DEAR HARRY,--I will come down and see you on Sunday by the 2.30 train

 from Waterloo. send somebody to meet I.



                                                         “your darling.”



Annie have consult a railway time-table and find a suitable train.

she post this letter, and on the follow Sunday start for Kirby

Park, in a fever at the audacity of her enterprise.



she have have time, since send off the note to her husband, to be the

prey of regret at her hasty action, to ask herself whether she be

justify in give he the shock she have prepare for he, whether

it would not have be well, as it would certainly have be more

dignified, to take no notice of the discovery she have make, save in

a cold letter decline to hold any further communication with he,

or challenge he to give some explanation of his conduct. she be

begin to fear too some outbreak of her husband’s passionate temper

when he discover the trick she have play upon he. then conjecture

as to what her husband be do at Kirby Park--he have the name on his

card as if it belong to he--and excitement at the thought that she

be about at last to solve the mystery of his occupation add to the

wild confusion in her mind. she have hear of Kirby Park, but she could

not remember when or how, and the most extravagant guess occur

to she as to the position she would find her husband occupy. and

through all her passionate anger, her wish for revenge, her wonder, and

her sorrow there be deep down in her heart a fierce eagerness to see

he again, to hear his voice, to feel the touch of his hand, even if it

be not hold out in welcome.



part of her curiosity regard her husband’s occupation be satisfy

before she reach Kirby. two gentleman have get into the same carriage

with she at Waterloo, and her attention be catch by the word “Kirby

Park” in their talk; and, when her thought have wander off again to

the subject which be absorb she, she be suddenly recall to the

presence of her two companion by a reference to “young Braithwaite” by

one of they.



“you need not have the least apprehension on that score,” say the

other. “he have a sort of genius for the management of horse, and have

live more in the stable than in the house ever since he be about two.

I would trust he, on any matter connect with they, before any man I

know, young or old.”



“he be a gentleman by birth, ben’t he?” ask the young man.



“yes. haven’t you hear of the prank of Sir George Braithwaite, one of

the typical hare-brain scamp of a generation ago? this lad be his

son; his eld brother, the present Sir George, have to sell the estate

a few month ago, and it be then young Harold come to I, remind I

I be his godfather, and say, if I don’t give he some work to do,

he would hang himself on the gate-post as he go out. so I ask he

what he could do, and he say he could ride. I tell he I have no doubt

of that; but he be a long way too heavy for a jockey. ‘well, make I

coachman, groom--anything,’ say he; ‘and, when once you get I into a

stable, you’ll soon see I know more about my work than anybody there.

you needn’t say who I be, and they’ll never find out I’m a gentleman,’

he end, rather bitterly. well, I couldn’t do that of course; but

I get the lad to stay with I, for I be rather interested by his

obstinacy, and think I would find out what he could do. I soon find

he could sit anything, break in anything, and could give point to most

horsy man on any matter of training or go. so I make up my mind to

give he a trial, and I set he up at Kirby Park and put some of my

racer under his care. and of course two or three more have follow my

example; and now the lad have his hand full, and have get a fair chance.”



“it be a great responsibility for such a young man. he ought to be very

grateful to you----”



“well, I hope I may have reason to be grateful to he. my only fear be

as to whether he would stick to it. he be very wild a year or two ago,

I’ve hear; but he seem steady enough now, as far as I can find out. I

think I’ve get the right man in the right place, and that he feel in

his element, and will settle down all right. we shall see.”



with breathless interest Annie have listen to all this. this, then,

be the occupation which her husband have find, and of which, accord

to Stephen, he be ashamed for she to hear! he have become a trainer.

but Annie feel intoxicate with pride at the thought that her husband

have show a special capacity which prove he to be much more than the

lazy, incompetent idler she use to consider he, that he have show

talent and have find a field for it, that, if he have take her money

without acknowledgment, he have at least not live upon it in idle

dependence. but this discovery only make the thought of his infidelity

more bitter; in the very moment when she find that he possess all

the quality which might have earn her respect as well as she

devotion, she be hasten to a meeting which would fill he with

disappointment and anger, and bring down upon herself his execration

instead of his welcome.



she feel afraid of he. already she be hesitate whether she should

go back without see he, ask herself whether she could contrive

to miss he at the station, when the slackening of the train’s speed

and the exclamation of one of the gentleman, “here we be!” tell she

that the end of her journey be reach.



“Hallo, there’s Harry himself!” say the eld gentleman, look out

of the window. “why, how many more of we do he expect? he have bring

the dog-cart as well as the phaeton. nice turn-out, that!” he add

admiringly. “here he be! well, how be you, Harry?” he call out, as

he turn the handle of the door and step down on to the platform.



Annie spring to her foot at the other end of the carriage and look

out eagerly. there stand Harry, in a light overcoat, his face rather

flushed and his blue eye sparkle, look, she think, handsomer

than she have ever see he. he shake hand with the two gentleman, and

then he catch sight of she. she be watch he intently; but he be

well school than in the old day, and no one could have detect

disappointment in the flash which pass over his face on see she.

she come to the carriage door, and, as he help she out, he say, in a

matter-of-fact tone, as if he have expect she:



“so you all come down in the same carriage, Lord Lytham?”--turning to

the eld gentleman. “allow I to introduce you to my wife.”



she be then introduce to the young man, Captain King, who beg to

be allow to drive she in the dog-cart, and the other two drive in the

mail-phaeton, in which Harry himself have come to the station.



Kirby Park be only three quarter of a mile off. the house be a

large, heavy-look building, which would have be ugly but for the

tree about it. the park in which it stand be an extremely beautiful

one, and, as the dog-cart follow the other carriage up the winding

road through it, Annie’s thought be for a few moment divert by

the loveliness of the scene around she from the doubt and fear which

be agitate she.



when they reach the house her husband be stand on the step to

help she to alight. as they all go in, he say:



“you would like to rest while we go down to the stable, Annie. Mrs.

Clewer will take care of you until we come back.”



a very staid, elderly woman, the model of a trustworthy housekeeper,

step forward and lead Annie up-stair to take off her mantle.



“whose room be this?” ask Annie, as she be show into a large front

room with a beautiful view of the park and the landscape beyond.



“Mr. Braithwaite’s, ma’am.”



Annie tremble as she enter. she could not think yet, could not

understand what this calm welcome forebode. as his hand have touch

her in help she from the dog-cart it have not hold her quite

steadily; but Annie have not be able to see his face, have not know

what emotion cause his finger to close for an instant so convulsively

on her own. what do he mean to do? what would he say when at last the

time come, as come it must, for speak to she alone?



Mrs. Clewer take she to the drawing-room--a cold, bare room which

look as if it be little live in; and, when the gentleman come in,

and tea be presently bring, she play hostess very gracefully,

do she good to make her husband proud of she by charm of speech and

manner. whatever effect she might have upon her husband, who speak

little to she and never once look into her face, she enchain she

guest, who regret sincerely that they could not stay to dinner,

and delay their departure until they be in danger of miss their

train. when at last they leave, and Harry accompany they to the park

gate, she retreat to the deserted drawing-room, throw open the

window for air, and lean against it, shake from head to foot with

excitement and fear. then, after what seem a long time, during which

she think with horror that he have go away to escape she, she hear

his tread in the hall.



“oh, heaven, what will he say to I?” think she.









CHAPTER XXVII.





Annie hear her husband open the door, but she do not turn round;

then she hear his footstep advance to the middle of the room and

stop. she still stand lean against the open french window, see

nothing before she, and wait for he to speak to learn what tone

he be go to assume toward she. at last she hear he clear his

throat, as if to attract her attention; but she take no notice. she

fancy he must be work himself up to a proper pitch of indignation,

and she try to school herself to show a bold front when at last

his wrath should burst out. her case be the strong by far, and,

although that fact do not give she all the consolation it should have

do at that moment, yet it would stand she in good stead when the

conflict have really begin. nevertheless, she would have give world

for the _sang-froid_ with which she have enter upon any contest with

he in the old day when his opinion upon any subject be a matter of

indifference to she, and when his outburst of unreasonable anger have

excited in her nothing but contempt and disgust.



he clear his throat again, and again she take no notice. at last he

speak:



“Annie, ben’t you go to speak to I?” he ask, in the gentle,

most entreating of voice.



she turn round in surprise. he stand there before she, this big,

handsome young fellow who could tame the most fiery of horse with a

hand and a will of iron, shy, nervous, irresolute, look down with

wistful submission on the small, slight woman at the window.



“haven’t you a word for I after all these week?” say he, as she

be silent. “I cann’t help be horsy, so ben’t it well to turn my

horsiness to some account? I forgive you for not answer my letter;

but, now you’ve come to see I of your own accord, I think you might

have a kiss for I.”



Annie look, listen, in utter bewilderment. letter! kiss! what

be he talk about? be this Harry, with the love, plead eye

and the gently reproachful tone, the ungrateful, faithless husband

she have come to upbraid? be this some artful plan to avert her

accusation by be first with trifle charge against herself? still

in perplexity, but thaw in spite of herself under his affectionate

word, she move mechanically toward he. but the want of spontaneity

in the action rouse his passionate temper, and he step back from

she, his face all flush with wound pride and affection.



“don’t make a martyr of yourself, pray,” say he. “I don’t want a

little, cold duty-peck because I’m your husband. if you cann’t kiss I

because you love I don’t kiss I at all.”



she be in his arm, cling to he, her upturned face aglow with

passionate love, almost before he have speak the last word of his

hasty outburst. Muriel West, money, jewelry, unanswered letter--all

be forget, thrust aside as matter to be explain hereafter or

shelve as thing of no account. Whomsoever he might have love in

the past he love she now; whatever he might have do he be hold

she in his arm now; and he might condescend to prove his innocence

of every charge she might bring against he, or he might treat they

with contemptuous silence--he be her husband, she love he, he love

she--what else could matter at that moment?



it be not until they be sit side by side on the sofa in the

twilight that some word of his rouse in she the remembrance of the

grievance with which she have come arm.



“why don’t you come before, my darling? I have be long for a

sight of you; and the only glimpse I get of you be on the stage.”



“but why be that? why don’t you come and see I, or send for I?”



“how could I, when you be so disgusted with I?”



Annie’s face fall. a cloud have come over this new happiness already. he

have himself remind she of his own delinquency, which she have be

ready enough, in the first flush of this joy in her husband’s society,

to believe untrue.



“I think,” say she, draw her hand out of his instinctively, “that I

have reason to be.”



“but I don’t think you have any,” say he earnestly. “I know you will be

able to prove you be right, because you be so much cleverer than I

that what you say always sound right, even when I cann’t help think

you’re really wrong after all.”



“well, prove that I have no reason to be annoy, and disgusted--if you

can.”



“don’t speak so coldly to I then, and I will tell you what I think;

but I cann’t if you turn away your head so stiffly and speak just as if

I be the old Harry that you use to hate.”



“I’m not sure that I don’t hate you till I have hear what you have to

say for yourself.”



“yes, you be,” say Harry, twine her arm about his neck with

confidence. “you needn’t think I’m so simple as not to know the

difference between Annie who be sweet out of duty, and Annie who be

sweet out of pleasure.”



“go on with your explanation.”



“well, you be disgusted with I, and think I be degrade myself.”



“Stephen tell you that!”



“yes, and that you think it nearly as bad as be a groom, and

declare I should give it up in a month and idle about again, and that

it would take you a long time to get use to have a trainer for a

husband.”



“Stephen--tell you--that?”



“yes, of course; he be bind to tell I all you say!”



“All--I--say?”



“yes, yes! ah, you’re sorry now, ben’t you, my darling? you see you

want I to work, and there be nothing else I’m fit for, unless I have

go for a soldier or sailor. and you see I’m not a bit horsy than I

be before. you needn’t even know I’m a trainer unless you like. I have

all the whip take out of the hall to-day, and I hide my spur and top

boot and thing that be lie about my room, so that you shouldn’t

be remind more of it than I could help. and see--I’ve take out my

horse-shoe pin; and I’ve shut up the dog in the stable, and----Annie,

Annie, what be you cry for?”



“I--I don’t know in the least! go on!”



“well, you see it do seem rather rough on a fellow, when I be do

my good, and not drink--and work hard, so that I might have you

with I--when you hardly ever write, and only answer about one out

of three of my letter. I know they ben’t spell properly; but, if

you know how I hate write and what a trouble even a short note be to

I--I never seem to be able to say what I mean in a letter, somehow,

while your letter be just like talk--I think, if you know how I

hate it, you would answer more often than you do.”



Annie raise her eye, with a startled expression, to his face.



“I don’t understand,” say she, slowly. “I answer all your

note--they be very few--and I write you a long letter, beg you

to let I come and see you; do you get that? in it I tell you I should

be proud of the work you be do, whatever it be. do you get that

letter, Harry?”



he be startle in his turn, and sit look at she for a few moment

in bewilderment. suddenly Annie spring up, tremble.



“Harry,” say she, in a low voice, “tell I quick--do you get the

letter?”



“no.”



“do you--do you ever receive anything send to you by I?”



“oh, yes; I get three or four letter!”



“nothing else?” she ask, breathlessly.



“yes; once you send I some red-and-white flower. I’ve get they in my

pocket-book.”



“but--but, Harry--think well, dear, dear Harry, please--didn’t you

receive anything else from I?”



“anything else? no, I think not; I be sure not, for I should never

forget anything you have send I, Annie.”



“you never receive, for instance----”



“well, what? what be the matter, Annie? what do you think I receive?”



“you never have--money or--jewelry?”



“from you, Annie? no, certainly not!”



she sink at his foot and put her head on his knee in a passion of

tear.



“thank Heaven! oh, Harry, I be so happy! and yet something frighten

I,” she sob; while he look down at she, utterly puzzle and

astonish.



“what do you mean, Annie? what money--what jewelry?”



“nothing--nothing! I--I don’t know what I be talk about.”



“but I must know. now, darling, tell I.”



“will you listen quietly, then, and not be angry with I--or with any

one?”



“I will promise to listen quietly, and not to be angry with you. that

be all.”



Annie hesitate. she could not but know now on whom the blame of this

miserable misunderstanding between herself and her husband lie. no

explanation of Stephen’s infamous conduct to both of they occur to

she yet; but, even in the midst of her indignation against he, the

pity she feel for the forlorn, weakly cripple urge she to shield he

from the consequence of the terrible anger she already see gathering

in Harry’s blue eye.



“I don’t think I ought to tell you anything,” she say, gently, “until

I have find out whether there be not some explanation to be give of

the matter. you be look angry already. don’t let we spoil this

beautiful, happy evening by unkind and harsh thought about anybody,

Harry. willn’t you wait----”



“no, I willn’t wait!” interrupt he, very sternly. “don’t shrink away,

Annie; I love you for your sweet forgiveness; it be right for a woman

to be ready to forgive. but there be something else for I to do. now

tell I all about it.”



“not while you be in this mood, Harry. I will tell you when you have

promise to let it pass without a word of reproach, except just what

you may say to I.”



“you will tell I now, and without my make any promise, my darling,”

say he very softly, draw she up from her knee to a seat by his

side.



Annie have never before feel she will unable to carry out her purpose.

she struggle with herself now as she sit in the firm but gentle clasp

of her husband’s arm, and see his head bent in a listening attitude

toward her. then, feel at last the irresistible force of a

resolution strong than her own, she submit--submit in the most

win way in the world, place her little hand on either side of

his neck, and look up at he with her sweetest, softest expression

of face to coax away his anger.



“then I must trust to your generosity, Harry. and, if you don’t behave

generously and forgivingly about it, I shall think you be not glad

to have I again, for happiness ought always to make people’s heart

soft.”



he kiss she without answer in word; and she go on:



“when Stephen first come to I with a letter from you, look very

ill, very miserable--I think he be go to die--he make I very

jealous and hurt I by tell I how much happy you be now you

be away from town and among country people again. he do not know

how fond I have grow of you, and that I be silly enough not to like to

hear how well you be get on without I. be you as happy as he

say, Harry?”



“I be happy just then, because Lord Lytham be begin to show

confidence in I, and I see my way to earn money and be with you

again. but, if he say I don’t miss you, he tell lie.”



“he do not say that; and he have not the least idea how much it

matter to I. but I be angry with you for send I such a short

letter, and I think you be enjoy yourself, and very likely

don’t care; so I tear up the long, love letter I have write, and

send you a short one say nothing, like your.”



“oh, you little spiteful creature! I write that note four time before

I get one fit to send you; I be so afraid you would be offend if I

tell you what I be go to do. I think I would wait until I have get

on, and then come to you and show you that I could be just as fond of

you as if I have never be in a stable in my life. and, at any rate, I

think, if I succeed, you would think it be well than idle.”



“well than idle! oh, Harry, it be well than anything for you

to be successful and happy and--and fond of I!” after a pause, she

continue, “when he come the second time, he say you be not get

on as fast as you wish.”



“that be true; I be in low spirit about it. well?”



“then he say it be very hard for a man without money to get on. he

say that himself, not that you have say it. and I be afraid you be

perhaps in serious difficulty for want of money, and I beg he to

take some that I have put away and don’t want.”



“and he take it?”



“wait. he refuse for a long time, and say you would not think of

accept my money, so at last I push it into his hand, and tell he

not to say it come from I. he be very reluctant to the last; I expect

he be afraid to give it you and afraid to give it back to I.”



“be that the only time he take your money?”



“no; I give he some two or three time--not much, of course--and it

make no difference to I, for it be money I have put aside.”



“and what be that you say about jewelry? Come, Annie, you mustn’t

keep back anything! it ben’t fair to tell only half.”



“it be only that once, when I be short of ready money, and anxious, in

spite of poor Stephen’s entreaty, to send you some, I give he a pair

of ear-ring and two other little trinket I never wear, and ask he

to sell they for I.”



Harry start up restlessly from the sofa and begin march up and

down; then he stop short in front of she.



“why don’t you write to I when you get no acknowledgment?”



“I don’t like to. I think Stephen have keep from you the fact that

the money come from I.”



“and you think I be such a booby as not to have guess, and such

a bear as not to have thank you? Annie, that be impossible! you be

hide something from I still.”



but Annie do not answer or look at he. her eye be fix in front

of she, as a new light break in upon her bewildered mind.



“Harry,” say she at length, raise her glitter eye to his with

an expression which be almost fear, “those flower--you send--by

Stephen--a few day ago----”



“oh, do you get those then? he do not condescend to--”



“be they for I?” she ask, in a low voice.



“for you! of course they be for you; who else should they be for?”

say Harry, irritably, his excitement get the well of he.



“not for--not for--Muriel West!” she murmur the name so low that she

have to repeat it.



“Muriel West? no. who on earth be Muriel West?”



“you don’t know!” she cry joyfully. “but, Harry, I see you talk to

she on a coach at Ascot.”



“do you mean an actress name West? why, Annie, how jealous you be!

I scarcely speak to she, and shouldn’t have do so at all if Stephen

haven’t be with she. a fellow I know take I to supper once at her

house a long time ago--it be the very night of my accident--and I have

never see she since, except that day at Ascot.”



“then how be it that she be wear my ornament?” ask Annie,

quickly; and, as she speak, the truth flash upon they both.



“the little mean scoundrel!” growl Harry, clinch his fist. “the

little crooked, lie rascal! he shall suffer for this clever trick.

then he get all he could out of both of we, and keep we apart by his

lie! of course you never say it be a disgraceful thing for I to

turn trainer?”



“I never know you be a trainer until this afternoon, when I hear

those two gentleman talk about you in the carriage as I come down.

he refuse to give I your address, say you have forbid he to do

so, and I find it out only by this card.” she take from her purse the

card she have find in the hamper, and continue, “I go to see Stephen

last Friday, determine to find out where you be. I see a hamper

of flower with the lid open, and inside I find this card. I look

outside, and find that the direction be to ‘Miss Muriel West.’”



“the direction have be change; I direct it to you, and give it to

that wretched little hunchback for you. and, Annie, do you mean to say

that, when you see your ornament on that woman, you think that I have

give they to she?” he ask, look at she almost with horror.



“what else could I think, Harry?”



“and you never write to reproach I?”



“I could not write about such a thing--it be too dreadful! I think

I would accuse you of it face to face. but don’t talk about it, Harry,

please--I cann’t bear to think of it now; it be wicked of I ever to

think it could be true.”



“and you come down here to-day still believe it! and you could kiss a

man you believe capable of such an infamous thing!”



“no, no, Harry; don’t look at I like that! the moment you speak to I

alone in this room I feel it could not be true; because, you see, I be

sure you love I, and that clear it all away.”



and her husband draw she again into his arm, with a mist before his

own eye.



Dusk have fall, and they be still sit there, when they be

rouse from a silence of perfect happiness by the prosaic sound of the

dinner-bell. Harry have great difficulty in keep his boyish high

spirit under proper control during dinner, and, when it be over, he

say:



“let we go out of door, Annie; there ben’t room enough for my

happiness in a stuffy house.”



so he put on her hat and mantle very carefully and very clumsily, and

they go out into the park.



“take I to see the horse, Harry. here’s your cigar-case; I see it

up-stair, so I bring it down.”



“I may smoke then?”



“yes, of course. you be go the wrong way. ben’t that the way to the

stable?”



“yes; but I’m not go to take you there; you only ask to go to please

I.”



“on my word of honor, I ask to go to please myself; and, if you don’t

like to take I, I shall go over they with one of the stableman, while

you be sulk over your cigar by yourself. now be you come?”



so they go through the stable together, and Harry be quick to note

the genuine ring in the interest, for what concern he concern she

too now; and they walk all round the park together, and he say:



“do you think you could ever live happily with I here, Annie?”



“and give up the stage?”



“well, act only now and then. you might take an engagement for three

month or more, but not give yourself up to it altogether. I know

you be too clever to just settle down to keep house for a dull,

ignorant husband.”



“you’re not dull and ignorant, Harry.”



“well, not so ignorant as I be,” say he, with, mysterious

complacency. “do you think that would be too great a sacrifice, Annie?”



“no, indeed. I couldn’t throw my whole heart into my acting now if I

think I be neglect you.”



“and you will come and see I every Sunday, and stay till Monday

evening now, willn’t you? I mustn’t ask more than that yet, I suppose.”



and she consent readily enough. and then come the crown triumph

of the day to Harry. he lead his wife into the library, the volume of

which have luckily be collect long before his occupation of Kirby

Hall, and say, turn proudly to she:



“you never think I should get fond of book, Annie. well, I have, and

I like this room well than any in the house.”



there be three photograph of she on the mantel-piece, there be a

liqueur-case on a side-table, and the room be strongly perfume with

tobacco. Annie’s eye twinkle, but she only laugh contentedly.



“and now you shall hear I read aloud,” say he.



so he put she into an arm-chair, and sit on a footstool at her foot,

and read she a couple of page of the _Nineteenth Century_. it be a

very poor performance indeed, hesitating, badly emphasize, with the

long word slur over. he be not at his good, for he have Annie’s

finger in one hand and his cigar in his mouth.



“you read beautifully now, Harry!” say she, when he look up for

approval; and the clever, well-inform woman really think so.



“it only show what perseverance will do,” say Harry, gravely. “I’ve

read that piece aloud to myself twenty or thirty time.”









CHAPTER XXVIII.





Annie pass the night at Kirby Park; and, when she and Harry be

sit at breakfast the next morning, he tell she he should come and

see her act that night.



“then will you come up to town with I?” she ask eagerly.



her husband hesitate.



“I don’t know whether I can, Annie. I have some thing to see to down

here before I start, and something to do in town when I get up there,

so that I cannot be at your room till about four.”



her face cloud.



“something to do in town!” she echo, watch he narrowly, and

note the expression into which his face have set during the last few

minute. “be it--to see some one, Harry?” she ask timidly.



“yes, a business appointment.”



“oh, Harry, it be to see Stephen, I know! what be you go to do?

what be you go to say? you look as if you would kill he!”



“don’t be afraid. how could I condescend to touch the little misshapen

wretch, who have not as much strength in his whole body as I have in one

finger? but I be go to see he, and to-day.”



she see that it be impossible to alter her husband’s resolution, so

she desist from her persuasion; but there be a terrible fear at

her heart which she could not shake off. she know the violence of her

husband’s temper, and fear it all the more under this new aspect

of repression. she make up her mind to go to Stephen and warn he of

Harry’s come, and to beg he not to exasperate her husband far

by any attempt at concealment and false excuse, but to make a frank

confession, such as would, she feel sure, be more likely than anything

else to avert Harry’s anger. once resolve on this course, she let

the conversation turn to indifferent subject, and it be not until

breakfast be nearly over that she pretend to remember an appointment

with her dressmaker which would make it necessary for she to go up to

town before luncheon. she do it too naturally to excite in her husband

any suspicion of her good faith, and he go to the station with she,

and part with she very reluctantly, although he expect to be with

she again in a few hour.



Annie herself feel something more than reluctance; she be seize with

a foreboding of evil.



“ah, Harry,” she say, lay a trembling hand upon his arm, “I wish I

be not married to you!”



“why?” ask he, startle.



“because then perhaps you might do what you do long ago, fle all

consideration of business and duty to the wind and jump into the

train with I.”



“do you think my love be well worth have then than now?” he ask

softly.



“N-o, perhaps not. still I wish the wife have as much influence as the

girl have.”



if the train have be in the station, she in it, and he at the door,

these word would have carry he off. as it be, stand on the

platform beside she, Harry be seize with a great trembling, and,

walk away from she a few step, he come back and say to she, low

and reproachfully:



“that be the first time you have ever tempt I to what be not right,

Annie. if the train have be here, your word would have make I jump

in, and, for the first time since I have have work to do, I should have

neglect it--and through you. I have a lot to see to at the stable

this morning, and an appointment to keep with Captain King before I go

up to town. but I cann’t resist you; so, if you love I, Annie, and if

you care for what people think of I and say of I, don’t ask I again,

my darling, for I cann’t say ‘no’ to you.”



the young wife, self-possess and independent as she usually be, hung

her head. these word of his, inspire in she a strong feeling of

respect, do much to restore her confidence in his self-command when

deal with his treacherous cousin. as she take the rebuke silently,

Harry begin to be alarm at the effect he have produce.



“you be not angry with I, be you, darling? you look as if I have be

scold you, as if we have change place.”



“changed place, Harry!” cry she, look up in astonishment.



she have already forget the long period during which she have look

upon her husband as a tiresome, unreasonable child.



“yes, when I be get well at the Grange you don’t always treat I

with proper respect, I fancy,” say he, flush, but look down into

her eye rather mischievously.



“oh, ah--then you be ill!” she say, blush too.



the last word she say to her husband as the train go off be:



“remember you be not to be with I later than four. promise.”



“all right; I promise.”



and, try to look as if her mind be at ease, Annie give he a last

smile “good-bye,” as the train start.



on arrive in town, she drive straight to the house where Stephen

lodge, and, find that he be out, she sit down in the sitting-room

to wait for he. long ere this an explanation of the cripple’s cruel

and deceitful conduct have occur to she, and it seem more and more

probable to she, as she sit in the shabby sitting-room, with its low,

weather-stain ceiling and ill-paper wall. evidently the money

which he have keep back from she he have not spend upon himself; it must

have go where her jewelry have go, and Harry’s flower--to Muriel

West. Annie know well to what depth of meanness he would descend

in his devotion to a woman, for she remember with what dog and

disintereste fidelity he have fulfil every command, every wish of

his cousin Lilian in the old day at the Grange, before her marriage

with Mr. Falconer. in spite of her contempt for a man who could stoop

to such act, Annie be touch by the cripple’s hapless attachment,

and a great pity fill her heart as she hear the slow thud, thud of

his crutch upon the staircase. her compassion deepen when the door

open and Stephen stand before she, wild-eyed and pale with a pallor

which be like that of death. she sit quite still for an instant,

unable to speak, unable to express what she feel at the dreadful change

in his appearance.



but when she rise very softly and hold out a hand to he, she

discover, to her horror, that he still stare blankly in front of

he, make no sign. he do not see she.



“Stephen,” say she, in a low voice.



he start, and for the first time know that he be not alone.



“Annie!” he say apathetically. “it be you, be it?”



with mechanical courtesy, he move forward feebly and offer she a

chair; but she take his hand and lead he very gently to the hard little

sofa, and make he sit down beside she there. she think the feeling

which have evidently overmaster he must be remorse for his conduct

toward she and her husband, and she try to think of the sweetest

word she could to soothe his distress.



“it make I very unhappy to see how deeply you be suffer,” say

she. “if I have know you would feel it so much, I would have come

before.”



he play idly with his crutch, not in the least move by her word.



“it would have make no difference,” say he, in a dull, cold tone.



“oh, but I think it would! I would not have let you think so much about

it!”



“how could you help that?” say he, turn upon she his lusterless

eye. “I tell you I be not rich enough, and she would have throw I

over just the same!”



Annie start. he be think no more of the wrong he have do she

than if it have be a deed of a hundred year back. but she be not

angry. her pity rise higher than ever for this unhappy man, who have

sacrifice all, even to his honesty, for the sake of a woman who do

not care a straw for he now that she have get from he all he have to

give.



“Stephen, I be so very, very sorry for you,” say she, in a quivering

voice.



“be you?” say he, wake for an instant into something more like

life. “and yet--you have no reason to be.”



a feeling of shame seem for the first time to come over he as he

realize whose sympathy it be that be offer he; and he draw his

hand away from her.



“every one have reason to be sorry for any one else who be unhappy,”

say she. “and when you see that even I can feel sympathy with you, you

will see that you have friend who be worth live for yet.”



“not I, not I,” murmur he, in a broken voice. “there be nothing leave

for I. she have promise to marry I--she be not a lady by birth, you

know, and I could have make she one by position. I would have work

for she--I have work for she--I have do more. but I use up all I

have too fast--she see I have no more; she say, if she marry I, we

should starve. and she look at I quite coldly with her beautiful

eye, and say she be not well-educate enough to marry a gentleman--a

gentleman! I, a poor cripple! it be that--it be always that! there be

no happiness, no love for I; nothing but pity--wretched, miserable,

scornful pity, that sting I more than taunt, more than hatred. she

pity I, I dare say, and laugh at I, and let I go;” and he break

down into incoherent word and sobbing.



Annie try bright word of encouragement, ask he if he think

nothing of her friendship, of that of the rest of his family; but she

speak to deaf ear. when at length she rise to go, he give she his hand

and say, but still coldly:



“thank you. I shall be glad presently that you come. it be good of you

to come--generous--and I thank you. if I have a long life before I, I

would try to do you some service; but I be play out now, and there be

not much of my life leave to run. good-bye, Annie.”



she could not stay. his last word be almost a command to go. she

have not mention her husband’s name. she think that, in the state

of mind in which she be leave the cripple, the dread of an angry

visitor might make he desperate; and she know very well that, when

Harry see the miserable condition to which his sensitive cousin be

reduce, he be no more likely to be unmerciful than she have be.



but she could not shake off a foreboding that the meeting between the

cousin would be productive of evil, and she reach home anxious and

thoughtful.



her misgiving be not without foundation.



within an hour of her departure from Stephen’s lodging, Harry drive up

in a hansom and be direct, as his wife have be, to the little room

on the top floor. he enter with a very stern face and firm tread; but

the sight of the cripple, lie half on the sofa, half on a chair, in a

state of utter prostration of body and mind, make he pause. the other

look up at he without fear, without feeling of any kind.



“do you know I?” ask Harry, abruptly.



“yes; what do you want here?”



“I want an explanation. if you do not feel fit to give it to I now, I

will come again. but I must have it, and the less delay the well.”



“ask your wife, then. she have a well head than you, and understand

without so much talk. go to she for your explanation, and leave I

in peace.”



“not yet. I want some reason for your stop my letter to she and

her letter to I, for take the present we intrust to your care to

be give to each other, and for give her money, my flower, and even

her jewelry to a greedy, extravagant, worthless woman whom you couldn’t

satisfy if you have gold mine to give she. that be what I want you to

answer.”



the cripple have raise himself, his eye glitter with fury, and he

sit frown maliciously at his cousin until the latter have finish

his speech.



“then I willn’t answer you, except to say this; you be very good now,

and look upon extravagance and waste as very wicked thing. but you

haven’t be a saint so very long that you can have forget that you

yourself be as greedy and worthless as any one I know once, and that

you forge your father’s name to supply your own extravagance, which,

it seem to I, be bad than to stoop to meanness for the sake of a

woman you love and for whom you would die.”



the last word he speak in a low voice, look straight in front of

he with his glitter, feverish eye; and his hand move restlessly

toward his coat-pocket as he finish speak.



“look here!” say Harry, in a soft voice. “I don’t want to be hard on

you. I know I’ve do as bad thing myself, if not bad; and, if I’m a

saint now, it’s the first I’ve hear of it. but, if you’re so fond of

this woman as you say, I wonder how you could have the heart to play

such confoundedly nasty trick with the love of another man, and to

such an angel as Annie, who have always be kind to you too?”



“your love? your love be nothing to mine!” Stephen burst out,

contemptuously. “a woman may have a place in your heart; but your dog

and your horse fill the rest of it. you be handsome, straight; if

one woman will not smile on you, another will; while I, who love sweet

eye and fair face with a passion you cannot dream of, can only buy

kindness from a woman by the ceaseless labor of minister to all her

want, all her caprice; and then, when at last the time come when I

can give no more, I be cast aside and forget for--for one of your

sort, with a pair of blue eye that say nothing, and a head that cann’t

put two idea together.”



the passionate bitterness of this speech move Harry.



“it--it be rough on a fellow,” he murmur, in a low, gruff voice.



but the pity in his tone wake the wretched man before he to frenzy.



“you can spare I your pity,” say he, fiercely. “all our life through

you have get easily what I might work myself to death for, and never

get, after all. you always get enjoyment, admiration, love; and, now

you have sober down, you get respect, success, money. if you have be

in my place, Muriel would never have throw you over. she have see

you only once, at a supper-party, month ago, at Beckham. yet, when I

meet she in London, she remember your stupid, red face, and send you

message which I take care not to give you. but I will be even with you

at last; the remedy I prepare for my own wrong will do as well for

your.”



and Stephen draw out from his breast, where his hand have be hide

for some minute, a revolver, and, aim before the other have time to

realize his intention, fire it at his cousin.



       *       *       *       *       *



four o’clock come, and still Annie wait for her husband. he have

promise so seriously, so many time, not to be later than that hour

that her impatience grow quickly into anxiety as the time pass and

still he do not appear. at half-past four, just as she be decide

that she could wait no long, that she must go to Stephen’s lodge

and find out what have detain he, she hear a knock at the door,

which, however, she recognize, to her bitter disappointment, not as

Harry’s but George’s. he have bring William to see she, that young

soldier having just arrive in town, and be mad to have a glimpse

of his old play-fellow, and tell she how well he be get on in his

profession.



Poor Annie could give but a mechanical show of interest to the young

fellow’s eager outpouring, and at last she break down.



“William, I cannot listen now,” she say, with tear in her eye.

“you know it be not for lack of interest; but----George,” she cry

suddenly, turn to her eld brother-in-law, “Harry have go to see

Stephen, angry than I ever see he before. I cann’t tell you why now.

but Harry and I be reconcile. it seem you know all about his being

at Kirby Park. you might have tell I! and he promise to be with

I at four o’clock,” she go on, grow more and more excited and

incoherent. “you see it be a quarter to five, and he be not here! he

be very angry; and I be afraid something have happen. I must go and

see!”



there be no restrain she. in ten minute they be all three on the

way to Stephen’s lodge. as they approach the house, George catch

sight of something from the cab-window which make he turn suddenly to

his sister-in-law and advise she to return while he go in and speak

to Harry.



she see the alarm in his eye, and, steady herself to speak calmly,

she refuse. so the cab stop; and then Annie see that there be a

rough crowd outside the house and a policeman keep the people away

from the door. George spring out; but she follow so closely behind

he that she catch the policeman’s answer to his low-voice question:



“what be the matter?”



“man shoot, I believe, sir.”



Annie keep quite still, quite calm, while George induce the policeman

to let they pass in; and, as soon as the door be open, she slip

past her brother-in-law, who have not know she be so close, and fly

first up the stair, swiftly and silently as a bird.



“he have break his word to I,” she think in agony. “he have scatter

all our happiness; and now----Oh, where be he? I dare not go in!

perhaps already they have lead he away to--prison. oh, Harry, Harry!”



she be stand outside the door of the sitting-room, which be shut.

she seem to hear a noise of low voice: but she be not sure that it

be not the singing in her own ear. at last, with cold, weak finger,

she turn the handle and go in.



the only figure in the room be that of the cripple, lie motionless

on the sofa.



bring thus abruptly into what she believe to be the presence of a

dead man, Annie totter to the table for support, her face white and

damp with horror; but Stephen turn, raise his head and confront

she; and she give a low cry of relief when she see that he be alive.



“then Harry have not hurt you?” she whisper falteringly.



“no,” say the cripple, “it be not he. you will never forgive I,

Annie; you will hate I. I shoot he!”



Annie do not cry this time, do not even start; she stand tap with

her finger upon the table, strike suddenly into utter numbness. she

do not feel his tremble hand cling to her mantle as he fall at

her foot and implore she to speak to he, to scold he, and not to

stand before he as if his word have kill she. she do not hear the

door of the bedroom open or feel the touch of a stranger’s hand. but

the new-comer be a doctor; and, when she wake presently from the sort

of stupor which have seize she, he say, quietly:



“now, Mrs. Braithwaite, if you will remain calm, you shall see your

husband.”



“I be calm,” she say, simply.



she could not have cry, or moan, or lament her fate, if her life

have depend upon she show some emotion.



so he lead she into the next room; and there, not dead, but sit in

a fade chintz arm-chair, with his left arm bind up, be Harry. it be

then that her calmness give way. she be not very demonstrative indeed

over the passion of joy which light up and transfigure her whole face;

but she fall upon her knee by the side of his chair, shake from head

to foot.



“I think--you be--kill!” whisper she.



“why, my poor darling, who tell you so?” he ask, tenderly.



“I shall never forgive Stephen!” she hiss, clinch her tooth.



“yes, you will, Annie. he be to be pity, not I--only we musn’t tell

he that. he haven’t even hurt I much--the arm be not break; the only

danger possible to I through it be loss of blood; and, if I keep

quiet, I shall be all right again in no time. be that George’s voice I

hear in the next room?”



“yes; he come with I and William.”



“I must get William to come down with I to Kirby Park for a day or two

till I can ride again. he’ll be very glad to come and I to have he.

if I have to stay indoor alone, I think I should throw myself off the

roof.”



“oh, Harry, willn’t you have I?” Annie ask, in pitiful entreaty.



“why, how can I, my darling? I know you willn’t break your engagement at

the theater.”



“no; but I’ll go down to Kirby Park every night after the performance,

and come back each evening in time to dress for the theater.”



“but willn’t that tire you too much, Annie? it be more than an hour’s

journey by train,” he say; but his eye flash at the proposal.



“why,” say Annie, shyly, laugh a little, “I want to do so all the

time. I think of it yesterday; but then I decide to wait until you

ask I; and, after all,” she add, with mock petulance, “I’ve have to

ask myself.”



so that night, after the performance, Annie, escort by George, who

have make what excuse he could for not having reveal to she that he

have hear of Harry’s residence at Kirby Park, drive to Waterloo, where

she find William and her husband. the three go down to Kirby Park

together by the last train, very tired, especially Annie, but very

happy.



the next day she and William have a walk together, while Harry be

hold a business interview in the library; but William find that it

be not quite like the old time at the Grange.



“haven’t it improve Harry to have something to do?” say the young wife

proudly.



“oh, he’s well enough!” say William, without enthusiasm. “but

there’s a sad fall off in you, Annie. you’re quite spoil for a

sister-in-law. why, now, when anything amuse you, you look first at

Harry!”









CHAPTER XXIX.





More than six year have pass since the night when Annie return

with her husband to Kirby Park, and there be Braithwaites once more

at Garstone Grange. for Harry, with a wise and love wife at his side

to comfort he in failure, encourage he in effort, and rejoice with

he in success, have work on in the career well suit to he and

prosper, while she too, have strive successfully in her profession

until the time have come on which the hope of both have for year be

fix, and they have buy back the old home of Harry’s boyhood, where

also so many of the stormy event of their early wed life take

place.



it be Christmas-time, their first Christmas since their return to the

Grange; and Annie and her husband be expect some welcome guest to

celebrate this event and Annie’s final renunciation of her ambition

for that entire devotion to home and husband which have now become

her chief delight. for Annie have leave the stage, with its struggle,

its failure, and its triumph, forever, not without some regret at

bidding farewell to old friend, old usage, and a life which have have

many pleasure for she; but with new happiness in the thought that she

can now devote herself more entirely than before to the husband and

child in whom all her affection be center. for in the long, dim

picture-gallery where Harry see the demure little governess playing

battledoor and shuttlecock year ago two fair-haired boy be laugh

and shout at play. their father be rather disappointed that they

have his own blue eye and curly, fair hair, and he be in great anxiety

lest they should grow up like he in mind, instead of be “clever”

like their mother; but Annie be trouble with no such fear, and be

quite contented with her boy as they be.



two more Braithwaites lie in the family vault in Garstone Churchyard.

the first to go to his rest be Stephen, who live but very few month

after that miserable scene in which he shoot his cousin in his desperate

wretchedness. those month be the most peaceful of his unhappy life,

for he pass they at Kirby Park, to which Annie have herself gently

persuade he to come. she never weary in her patient devotion to

he, in her attention to his want, in her bright endeavor to amuse

and please he. Harry second her effort with gentleness which be

touch in the big, strong man; and the cripple’s feeling be too

strong and his penetration too keen for he not to appreciate rightly

every kind act and tone in the people about he.



Wilfred lie in the vault too; he be kill by a fall from his horse

in the hunting-field in the winter follow the sale of the Grange,

and they bury he beside his father and cousin.



a well fate be in store for the young brother, William. “the

child” be now Captain Braithwaite, and his letter to Garstone be full

of reference to the lovely girl that ever be see and mysterious

hint that he have a surprise in store for they--from which and a

certain incoherency of style in his letter Annie do not need much

penetration to decide that he be go to be marry.



Sir George pass most of the year in chamber in town, and have

never find the courage to begin a new battle with fate; he be still

unmarried, and there seem every probability that the title will pass

in course of time to Harry and his eld son.



he and William be now at the Grange to spend Christmas with Harry and

his wife; they be all expect two other guest, for whom the warm

welcome of all have be prepare. Lady Braithwaite, grow old now,

and reconcile to her daughter-in-law at last, be about to return to

the home where her wed life be pass, never to leave it again

until the time come for she too to sleep peacefully by her husband’s

side in Garstone Churchyard; and Lilian be come with she to spend a

week at the old home.



the winter sun be set when Annie, on the alert for the sound of

wheel, start up from her seat in the morning-room and go out on to

the doorstep with William and George to receive Lady Braithwaite and

her daughter, whom Harry have go to meet at Beckham Station. Harry,

who jump out of the carriage first, give way to his eld brother,

and it be on Sir George’s arm that the stately old lady lean as she

step down from the carriage and meet her daughter-in-law. Lilian

follow. she be thin and pale, and look much old than Annie, who have

recover almost all the beauty of the shy little governess of eighteen

who first attract the attention of the wild Grange boy more than ten

year ago. Lilian’s love of excitement and pleasure have tell upon she

health; she be not exactly an unhappy woman or an unloving wife; but

her passionate nature have find something want in life, and in the

eagerness of a vain search for it she have grow old before her time.



when they be all together in the drawing-room after dinner, and the

little boy, having begin to make themselves obnoxious by play at

ball over their grandmother’s head, have be kiss and send to bed,

the talk turn to town and what be go on there.



“oh, Annie, have you hear of the success of your old friend Aubrey

Cooke?” ask Lilian. “I go to see he in this new piece in which they

say he be so good, and I never feel myself so entirely carry away by

any act before. everybody say he will be the great actor of the

day.”



“ah, I think I be go to be the great actress once!” Annie

say, rather slowly.



“then he have fulfil his ambition, and you have give up your

unfulfilled. don’t you regret it just a little? come--be candid!”



Lilian speak in a low voice, mean only for her sister-in-law’s ear.

Annie hesitate, look down at the fire with an expression which it

be not easy to read.



she be startle by find her husband’s hand lay quietly on her

shoulder. he have overhear these last word of Lilian’s, notice his

wife’s reluctance to answer, and leave his seat to speak to she.



“be you sorry you be not the wife of a great actor instead of a plain

country gentleman, Annie?”



“no, not in the least; I never think of such a thing.”



“then why be you look so thoughtful?”



“any news of people one have know well and lose sight of set one

thinking.”



“I could give you some more news of he but that I be afraid it would

make you sad.”



“never mind; I should like to hear it. go on.”



“his home-life be a very unhappy one. they say he ill-treat his wife;

I know they be never see together. George tell I all about it

yesterday; but I do not tell you, because I know it would pain you.

however, it be something for he to have satisfy his ambition, and

you see he have do that.”



“while I have let mine go----”



“just to settle down into a mere quiet wife and mother. be that what

you be think? do you regret it, Annie?”



she turn her soft, dark eye, bright in the glow of the firelight,

toward he, with her head raise proudly.



“no, no: I have never regret it--I never shall. my ambition be very

strong, but I do not throw it away; I keep it and clung to it until it

be swallow up in something strong still; and I think you can guess

what that be.”



talk and laughter be go on brightly round they among the member

of the reunited family gather round the glow fire. Harry do

not answer his wife in word; but the firm pressure of his hand as it

clasp hers unseen by the rest tell she that he understand that the

passion which have absorb all other in the brilliant actress and the

true-hearted woman be her love for he.





[the END.]









Transcriber’s note



obvious typographical error have be silently correct. variation

in hyphenation and accent have be standardise. all other

spelling and punctuation remain unchanged.



Italics be represent thus _italic_.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a vagrant wife ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





