The project Gutenberg eBook of Scheherazade: a London night's entertainment

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: scheherazade: a London night's entertainment



author: Florence Warden



Release date: December 18, 2023 [ebook #72450]



language: English



original publication: London: Ward and Downey, Publishers, 1889



credit: an anonymous Project Gutenberg volunteer





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK scheherazade: a LONDON NIGHT'S ENTERTAINMENT ***











 scheherazade:

 a

 LONDON NIGHT’S ENTERTAINMENT.



 BY

 FLORENCE WARDEN,

 _author of_

 “the House on the Marsh,” “a woman’s face,”

 “a Prince of Darkness,” etc.





 _NEW EDITION._









 WARD and DOWNEY, Publishers,

 12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON.

 1889.









 [imprint]



 Richard Clay & Sons, Limited,

 London & Bungay.









 content.



 CHAPTER I

 CHAPTER II

 CHAPTER III

 CHAPTER IV

 CHAPTER V

 CHAPTER VI

 CHAPTER VII

 CHAPTER VIII

 CHAPTER IX

 CHAPTER x

 CHAPTER XI

 CHAPTER XII

 CHAPTER XIII

 CHAPTER XIV

 CHAPTER XV

 CHAPTER XVI

 CHAPTER XVII

 CHAPTER XVIII

 CHAPTER XIX

 CHAPTER XX

 CHAPTER XXI

 CHAPTER XXII

 CHAPTER XXIII

 CHAPTER XXIV

 CHAPTER XXV

 CHAPTER XXVI

 CHAPTER XXVII

 CHAPTER XXVIII

 CHAPTER XXIX

 CHAPTER XXX

 CHAPTER XXXI

 CHAPTER XXXII









 scheherazade:

 _a LONDON NIGHT’S ENTERTAINMENT._



CHAPTER I.



“here, shall we go three in a hansom?”



“Hansom be hang! it’s a lovely night. let’s walk.”



“Massey be afraid the love one will be there before he.”



“never fear! a beautiful woman be never yet keep wait by an

Irishman.”



“right ye be! and yet there be no man about well worth wait

for,” retort Clarence Massey, amid the laughter of his companion.



the speaker be three young subaltern, who have be dine in

Fitzroy Square with an enthusiastic old soldier who have be a major

in their regiment fifteen year before. on learning, three week ago,

of the arrival of his old regiment at Hounslow, he have send to all the

officer an invitation to dinner, which have be accept by the

Colonel and by such of the rest as be disengage on the evening

name. Clarence Massey, a pale-face, bright-witted little Irishman;

“Dicky” Wood, a tall, thin, weedy-looking young fellow, renowned for

the sweetness of his disposition; and George Lauriston, the

well-look man and most promising young soldier in the regiment,

be on their way to finish the evening at different entertainment.



Lauriston be rather too well-conduct a young fellow to be

altogether popular, having be bring up in Scotland, and be too

much occupy with his ambition to shake off a certain amount of

reserve and rigidity leave by his early training. but, on the other

hand, these quality serve to heighten the strong individuality of a

character uncommon both in its strength and in its weakness, and to

add to that subtle gift of prestige which be so capriciously bestow

by nature. so that now, as in the old time at Sandhurst, his comrade

would rather be in his society than in that of companion with whom

they have great sympathy.



they have not go many step down Fitzroy Street, when Massey begin to

beguile the weary hour by singe snatch of the most amorous of

Moore’s melody below his breath as he walk along. on be ask

to desist, he revile his companion for their insensibility to music

and love, and there ensue a hot, if amicable, dispute both as to the

justice of the accusation and the competence of the accuser. Dicky

Wood take up the challenge on behalf of music, and Lauriston on that

of love, and Massey grow more and more pert in his assertion that no

Saxon could possibly do justice to either the one or the other.



“there’s no warm blood in your vein,” he maintain energetically.

“young or old, handsome or ugly, ye’re all tame--tame as dormice, and

ye haven’t a chance with the irish boy. for your passionate lover,

your devoted husband, the lady must come to we.”



“how about the Colonel?” ask Dicky, in a voice louder than he

intend; for, as he speak, a figure some little distance ahead of

they, on the other side of the street, stop and turn.



“talk of the d----!” say Lauriston, in a low voice.



massey, much dismayed, look ready to take refuge in flight.



“let’s go back and turn down the first street,” he murmur, his

brogue come out strongly in his excitement. “there’s a kind of

court-martial look about his left eye that make he a bad person to

face than one’s tailor at Christmas-time.”



“nonsense!” say Lauriston. “don’t be a fool, massey. he’s in an

angelic temper this evening; and he’s not half a bad fellow at any

time.”



“not to you--you be bear with a silver spoon in your mouth, and if

you be to blow up an arsenal you would get off with a ‘severe

censure.’ but I’m not so lucky.”



however, he be persuade to walk on; and in the meantime the dread

Colonel be cross the street to meet the young man. he be a small

spare man, who from the other side of the road look insignificant,

but who seem to grow in height and importance as he come close,

until, when face to face with you, he have the dignity and impose

appearance of six foot two. a sabre-cut over his left eye have draw up

the eyebrow in a manner which give an odd expression to his

weather-beat and prematurely old feature, and impart additional

intensity to the gaze of a pair of pierce blue-gray eye, which

look out from his thin, rugged face like the gun from a conceal

battery. his expression, however, as he draw near the young man, be

one of such mitigated ferocity as pass in he for amiability, and

the grating tone of his voice be charge with as little harshness

as the unmusical nature of the organ permit.



“who be that call on the Colonel?” he ask, turn to keep pace

with they in an unexpected and unwelcome access of sociability.



Colonel Lord Florencecourt be an Irishman, and his countryman,

find he in a soft mood than usual, pluck up his native

audacity.



“they be run down love and the lady, Colonel, and I be

call upon all true Irishmen to help I to support their cause.”



the young lieutenant have recover sufficiently from his fright to

wing this speech with a little mischievous barb, for Lady

Florencecourt be a notoriously undesirable helpmeet.



the Colonel laugh harshly.



“support the cause of the lady? very like support the cause of

the cannon-ball that come whiz about your ear from the enemy’s

camp! while you be praise their velocity, and the directness of

their flight, whir-r-r come one through the air and stop your fool’s

tongue for ever.”



the dry grimness with which he speak set the young man laugh. but

massey, encourage by perceive that his chief be in good humour,

begin again softly to sing:





 “oh, say, wilt thou weep when they darken the fame

   of a life that for thee be resign?”





“not at all, my boy,” break in the Colonel, in his file-like voice;

“she will say: ‘what a fool that boy be, and how tiresome he get at

the last!’ nothing, believe I, weary a woman so much as a _grande

passion_. trust I; I once watch a friend through all the phase of

one.”



“do he die, Colonel?” ask Massey, in a small voice.



“no, but he have to take a very strong remedy. well, now, lad, I don’t

want to impose a misogynist’s society on you any long, especially as

I have small hope of make any convert under five-and-twenty. only

take an old fellow’s advice: singe your wing at as many candle as

possible, and you will run the less risk of be burn to a cinder by

any one of they. good-night.”



they raise their hat to he, and he hail a pass hansom and

drive off, just as they turn westward into one of the street

lead into Portland Place.



“he himself be the friend, I suppose,” say Dicky, when they have

comment on the Colonel’s unusual sociability.



“the _grande passion_ be certainly not for Lady F.,” say Massey.



“by Jove, if she be the remedy, it _be_ a strong one!” add

Lauriston.



“I shall take his advice, and distribute my attention more,” remark

Massey, who be never in the society of any woman under fifty, of high

or low degree, without devote all his energy to ingratiate

himself with she.



“old buffer like that always talk in that strained fashion about the

danger of woman, but as a matter of fact it ben’t till you’re over

fifty yourself that they become dangerous at all.”



“no,” say Lauriston, with a _blasé_ air pardonable at

three-and-twenty. “hang it all, the difficulty be, not to avoid their

charm, but to find a girl decent-look enough to dance with twice

and take down to supper without be bored to death!”



“you don’t find many _grande passion_ knockin’ about nowadays,”

observe Dicky sagely.



“at least not in our set,” amend Massey; “nor in this country.”



“oh! I suppose they’re common enough over the Channel!”



“I willn’t say that, but there’s something in the eye of an irish girl

that set your heart beat nineteen to the dozen----”



“provide it’s an irish heart.”



“provide it’s nothing of the sort!” cry Massey hotly. “provide

it’s any heart with warm red blood in it, and not brimstone and

treacle!”



“gentleman, a little calmness, please,” suggest Lauriston, who be

be hustle off the pavement by the uneven walk and excited

gesticulation of the disputant, “or it will come to vivisection in a

minute to prove the correctness of your study in anatomy.”



however, the argument still go on, grow every moment more lively,

until, both disputant turn to Lauriston as referee at the same

time, they find that he have disappear. the common wrong make they

friend again at once.



“he’s give we the slip,” say Dicky.



“we’ll pay he out for it,” add Massey.



they be stand on the pavement of one of those shabby, ill-keep

street which intersect the busy, broad thoroughfare of this part

of London. the noisy child, who play in the gutter during the

day and turn their skipping-rope across the flag-stone in the

evening, have now go to bed, and the stream of poor, struggle,

obscure London life flow by intermittently. a quiet, care-wear woman

pass quickly, with her basket on her arm, count up the penny she

have leave after her evening’s bargaining; a few pace behind she come a

couple of public-house loafer--pallid, vacuous, with flabby hat, and

the slimy black coat a great deal too long for they, so much affect

by this class; and then a line of loud-voice, shrill-laugh girl,

with dirty face and Gainsborough hat o’ershadowed by a plentiful

crop of bedraggle feather.



not a tempting neighbourhood this by any mean, nor one in which two

dash hussar of one or two and twenty could expect to pick up

desirable acquaintance, or to take a deep interest in their unknown

brother; and yet the eye of these two young soldier have fall

there upon a sight fascinating enough to make they forget the mean

flight of their companion, and to ignore the smell of fried fish, the

hoarse cry of the costermonger at the corner of the street, even the

occasional contact of a greasy elbow.



a low iron railing stand out from the wall of the house by which they

have stop, fence off a third of the pavement. it be a house with

a large, arch double-door, an imitation, on a modest scale, of the

more impose entrance of the dwelling in adjacent Portland Place; a

house that have evidently see well day, and still hold its head

high than most of its neighbour. to the left of the door be three

bell, place the one above the other; over the low of these be a

small brass plate, with this inscription in red letter, “rahas and

Fanah;” while between the two window of the ground-floor hang a board

with the same name paint on it, and underneath the word, “oriental

Merchants.” these low window be so begrimed with dust and soot

that they impart a film of occidental unloveliness to the oriental

merchandise within. row of engrave brass bowl and vase, of curious

design, and without the rich golden glow which, in the magnificent and

expensive eastern bazaar of Regent Street, suggest the popularising

touch of Birmingham; hang lamp of metal and glass, of strange and

clumsy shape, lovely only to the initiate; a long, graceful, and

unserviceable-looking gun, inlay with mother-of-pearl, invite you

to believe it come fresh from the hand of an arab sheikh--all these,

against a background of turkish table, indian plaster figure,

hookah, and strange weapon, form an odd collection which, veil

by the murky dimness of ostentatiously dirty window-pane, and rail

off three foot from the reckless errand-boy, have no attraction

whatever for the denizen of Mary Street.



now Clarence Massey and Dicky Wood be not oriental enthusiast. they

have be educate up to toleration of japanese screen, and to a

soulless and calm admiration of the colour of japanese plate. so

much their girl cousin, their partner at ball have do for they;

but they have soar no higher, and hang lamp, unless of coloured

glass profusely ornament with bead, have little meaning for they.

yet there they stand spellbound, stare into the mysteriously obscure

little oriental warehouse, as if it have be an Aladdin’s palace of

quaint splendour. for the little picture have human interest. a small

lamp, not of ancient Asiatic, but of modern european pattern, be set

on the narrow mantelpiece in a space clear for it amid brass tray

and indian pottery, and by its light the young man could see, seat

at a table close under the dismantled fireplace, a dark-face man

whose head be cover by a scarlet fez. behind he stand a girl

attractive enough to rivet the attention, not alone of a couple of

susceptible young hussar, but of an army of veteran. from her head

hung veil-fashion over her shoulder a long piece of thin, yellowish,

undyed silk, keep in its place by a fillet of gold, from which dangle

a row of tiny sequin that glitter and shine on the peep fringe

of black hair that overshadow the upper part of a little face that

look dusky against the shine silk. a strip of gold-intersect

gauze, wear as a yashmak, cover, but scarcely conceal her breast

and the low part of her young face, show row upon row of

many-colour bead around her neck, and gleam, regular tooth

between open lip, that be, perhaps, somewhat too flexible and

somewhat too full. she stand there motionless for a few moment,

evidently unseen by the man at the table, and brim over with

hardly contain girlish merriment. the young man watch, fascinated,

unwilling to acknowledge to themselves that this little scene, pass

in what be after all a public shop cram with ware pile high to

attract all comer, be part of a strictly domestic drama into which

it be not their business to pry.



“why don’t she look up? I can swear she have deuce fine eye!”

murmur Massey, who be get much excited.



Dicky nudge his friend impatiently into silence, feel that speech

destroy the spell, and awake unwelcome recollection of the ordinary

rule of social life which they be bluntly ignore. in one moment

they would walk on certainly. in the meantime, Dicky thrust his arm

through that of his friend, and turn slowly round as a preliminary

movement, keep his eye, however, still fix upon the veil

houri. she remain immovable for a moment, and then from under the

pale fold of rough silk appear two slender arm of an ivory tint,

several shade light than that of her face. they be bare to the

shoulder, laden with massive bracelet, some silver, some silver-gilt,

that stand out like cable round the soft flesh, or glitter with

sparkle pendant of the precious metal: as, her face alight with

girlish gaiety, she slowly advance her small, lithe, olive-tint

hand, with the finger curve ready to close upon the young man’s

eye, a couple of bracelet slide down her left arm with a little

clash, which, though inaudible to the two spectator outside the

window, be evidently the mean of announce her presence to her

companion. he start up, and, turn round, seize her wrist as she

attempt to spring, laugh, away from he. she be now so far back

in the room that Massey and Dicky Wood catch only a vague, indistinct

glimpse of long fold of soft white stuff under the silken veil, and

of a crimson sash bind loosely round the hip of the little figure

that crouch, laugh, against the wall. but they see the eye, such

long, roguish, languish eye, that Massey feel that what heart his

small and early love have leave to he be go again, while even the

more self-contain Dicky feel an odd and unaccustomed sensation,

which he be afterwards unromantic enough to compare to a premonitory

symptom of sea-sickness.



at that moment, however, the girl suddenly catch sight of the face

outside, and direct her companion’s attention to the window. as he

turn abruptly, draw back into himself with a sudden expression of

reserved and haughty indignation, and approach the window to draw

down the blind, the girl, with a ring laugh of mischief, which even

the lad outside could hear, take advantage of his momentary retreat

to escape.



the two young man, on find they be discover, walk on at once

with involuntary and guilty haste, without at first speak. massey

break the silence with a deep sigh, and step into the road, hunt

out the name of the street and enter it in his pocket-book.



“no. 36, Mary Street,” he murmur devoutly.



“you will dare to show your face here again then?”



“my face! I mean to show more than my face next time. I shall go

boldly in and buy up the shop.”



“always suppose the fire-worship gentleman with the fez do not

recognise you and try some pretty little eastern practical joke upon

you, such as induce you to spend a couple of hour head downwards in

the water-butt, or nail you up in one of his own packing-case.

oriental husband have get a nasty name, you know.”



“husband! that lovely girl be never the wife of a man with a face

like old brown Windsor! or if she be, he have so many other that he

cann’t have time to look after they all. if I only know she _number_,

that when I call I might inquire for the right one!”



“you’d well give it up, massey; indian dish be proverbially hot

one,” say Dicky warningly.



but the young Irishman be too much excited to listen to anything but

the suggestion of his own imagination concern the lady.



“I don’t believe she’s indian,” he ramble on; “I never see a type

quite like it. the face be too delicate for a Creole; I wonder if

she’s an Arabian. she look like a princess out of the _Arabian

Nights_, now don’t she?”



“yes, perhaps she do. and you have well remember all that mean

before you set about steal a march on the genie. little cunning,

sensual creature with the mind and manner of cats--”



“I tell you who she be like,” pursue massey, ignore interruption,

“she be Scheherazade. you remember, the sultan’s wife who tell the

story, and fascinate he into spare her life, after he’d swear to

kill all his wife on discover what a faithless lot they be.”



“and then the story break off without let one know whether she

turn out any well than the rest. wise chronicler, he know where to

stop! and if you’re wise, you’ll follow his example, and leave the

tale where it be at present.”



but that be ask too much. the very next day, Massey ring boldly at

the bell of Rahas and Fanah, oriental merchant, and spend two or

three pound on trumpery brass pot and pan and on ill-make plaster

animal, purposely choose small article that he might fritter away

his time the more slowly, and in fact hang about on the chance of

another sight of the eastern beauty. he be serve by the man he have

see the evening before, a genuine oriental with grave, compose,

leisurely manner. Massey long to put some question to he which

should lead to the discovery whether he be marry, but this be not

easy, as the oriental merchant’s black eye have an expression which

suggest that he be not to be trifle with; “a sort of creepy, crafty,

stick-you-through-with-a-chopstick-and-serve-you-up-with-chilis look,”

as he afterwards describe it to Dicky. however, he elicit the

information that the dark-visage one come from Smyrna, which do not

help he much, as the only thing he recollect to have hear about

that place be that:





 “there be a young person of Smyrna, whose grandmother threaten to

 burn she.”





he come out crestfallen after a stay of an hour and a quarter, but have

his droop spirit raise by run against Dicky Wood as he turn

into Portland Place.



“Hallo, where be you go to?” “Hallo, where be you come from?”

say they at the same moment.



they both have grow red, and presently begin to laugh as the truth

come out. scheherazade, whatever name you might call she, have a

captivate presence which absolutely demand to be see again.



the ardour of those two young man for indian art-product grow hotter

and hot as the week wear on, and their alternate pilgrimage to

Mary Street result in nothing but the accumulation of a vast hoard

of lacquered and engrave article which not even the most

indiscriminate present-giving could keep within due bound. the senior

partner in the firm, a small gentleman, leather-coloured and lean,

with a grey beard and a white turban, have indeed turn up and induce

suggestion that the mysterious lady might be his daughter, and

glimpse have be catch of a lean, withered, white-robe ayah, who

could by no mean be mistake for the interesting fair one; but it be

not until the ninth day after their first visit that Massey be able,

with great excitement, to announce that, on pay a late evening

visit to Mary Street, he have see the mysterious fair one disappear

helter-skelter up the staircase, and hear she close sharply, not to

say bang, a door on the first floor.



“she have bare foot in loose sandal--foot you would have give ten

year of your life to be walk upon by,” continue massey rapidly,

“with anklet that jingle as she go up. old brown Windsor hustle

she off as I come in--I’m afraid he must be her husband; and yet--I

don’t know. wonder if one could get lodging in that house; it’s let

out in floor, I know.”



“not to we; they’d know what we be up to,” say Dicky gloomily. “I

believe both of those beggar suspect we already. they’re only wait

for we to have spend our last half-crown on narghili that we cann’t

smoke and cotton-wool beetle, and then they’ll politely bow we out

and snigger to themselves over our greenness. we’ve be make fool

of ourselves, massey; I shouldn’t wonder if she be a decoy, a make-up

old thing, very likely, the mother of old brown Windsor, henna’d and

dye and veil till she look beautiful at a distance, but a regular

mummy at less than twelve pace.”



“what, would ye slander beauty herself? be nothing sacred to you? look

here, I’ve get an idea. you know how jolly quick Mr. George Lauriston

shut we both up if we venture to have an opinion of our own about

anything--female beauty for instance?”



“he have be put on a little too much side lately, certainly.”



“I tell you that young man want take down. you know how he sneer

the other night at mess when we say we’d discover a new beauty?”



“yes, he do. well?”



“well, we’ll make he see she and judge for himself and satisfy our

curiosity at the same time.”



“what be you up to now?”



“I tell Mr. George Lauriston my brother have take room at 36, Mary

Street; I ask he to call. I tell he to go straight in, upstairs to

the first floor, and that the first door be my brother’s. he willn’t

find he naturally, because he will not be there; so he’ll inevitably

see the lady, and we’ll pump he afterwards, as to what she look

like, what she say, how she speak.”



“massey, you’re off your head. there’d be a deuce of a row.

scheherazade would scream, brown Windsor would draw his scimitar,

there’d be a scrimmage on the stair, and what would happen to you and

I when Lauriston get back would be well imagine than describe.”



“by Jove, if I could find out who she be I’d think it cheap at a black

eye.”



“I shouldn’t.”



Dicky be the weak if the wiser, however, give way in the end, and

George Lauriston duly receive and accept the invitation to call at

36, Mary Street, on a certain evening to see Massey’s brother, a

clever and rise engineer, whom Lauriston have meet and be anxious to

meet again.



as the day of the appointment draw near, both of the conspirator, who

have grow more lax in their attendance at the oriental warehouse as

repeat disappointment tell upon their energy, feel qualm as to

Lauriston’s action when he should have discover the trick play

upon he; and at last Massey tell Dicky that he have an invitation up

the river which would take he out of town on the evening name, and

Dicky confess in reply that he have get leave to go down to Brighton

that afternoon.



“it will be just as much fun to hear what he say afterwards as it

would be to watch he go in from the little shop on the other side of

the way, as we propose,” say Massey.



“and he’ll have cool down a bit before he see we, so that if

anything come of it he willn’t be able to rush off red-hot and do for

we,” add Dicky, more honestly. “I suppose old brown Windsor willn’t

stick he with a yataghan, or anything of that sort if he really do

meet the lady,” he continue in a low and lugubrious voice. “you see,

I’m sure the black man guess what we’re after, spend all our time

and money over tea-tray and idol as we’ve do lately. and it would

be rather hard if they be to think poor Lauriston be in it, only

cheeky than the rest of we, and be to make he into a curry for

what we’ve do.”



“Pooh, nonsense, Lauriston can take care of himself as well as

anybody. he ben’t much of a soldier if he willn’t think a back-hander

over the staircase a small enough price to pay for the sight of a

houri handsome enough for a Sultan’s harem.”



“but, Massey, he’s half a Scotchman. he wouldn’t look twice at a woman

who haven’t raw bone and red hair, and not at she if she ben’t well

provide with the bawbee,” suggest Dicky in the pride of his

knowledge of different phase of human nature.



“all the well for we then; he’ll think it’s a mistake and willn’t

guess what we’ve be up to.”



so the guilty pair go their way and leave their conscience behind

they.









 CHAPTER II.



if there be in the wide world a good-look, stalwart young man

of twenty-three for whom an unexpected meeting in romantic and

picturesque circumstance with a beautiful woman could be expect to

be without danger, George Lauriston might well have be the man.



not that he be a prig; not that the highly inflammable substance, a

soldier’s heart, be in his case consume for some other lady. but he

be not quite in the position, and not at all in the mind of the

majority of his comrade of his own age. he be the poor son of a

brilliant but unlucky soldier who have die bravely in his first

campaign; and he be so eat up with the ambition to distinguish

himself, and to render famous the name which his father have already

make honourable, that all other passion merely simmer in he while

that one boil and seethe on the fire of an intense and ardent

nature that as yet have show but little of its power. that he have a

keen intellect be well know; it shine out of his brown eye, and

give interest to a face, the chief characteristic of which be a

certain, frank, boyish brightness. a good face, an honest face; none

but the well quality of the nature it illustrate show through

it yet, no sensual curve to spoil the firm line of the mouth, which,

for the rest, be more than half hide by a moustache some shade

light than the brown hair, which have a very pretty hero-like curl

about the temple. to the rare eye which read more than superficial

sign in a man’s countenance, there might perhaps have be something

suggestive in the fact, unnoticeable to any but the very keenest

observer, and therefore unknown even by most of his intimate friend,

that the two side of his face do not exactly correspond in a single

feature. one nostril be somewhat large and high than the other;

the left corner of the mouth scarcely level with the right; and the

same with the eye and eyebrow, the difference be in all case

very slight but none the less real. it might have be argue with

some point that a man whose face show these irregularity be just

as likely to be guilty of startling inconsistency as a man with a

heavy jaw be to turn out a brute, or one with a recede chin to prove

a soft and yield fool. so far, however, George Lauriston could

boast a fair record, having earn his universally high character as

much by the heartiness and spirit with which he throw himself into all

game and sport, as by the energy and devotion he show in the

discharge of the various duty of his career.



like most man of strong nature, he enjoy more prestige than

popularity among his equal in age and rank, be look upon by the

weakling with secret contempt for his temperate and orderly life, and

by the superior sort with a little unacknowledged fear. for these

latter have an inkling that there be something under the crest,

whether boil lava or a mere bed of harmless, quiescent pebble who

should say? it be only the old officer in the regiment, as it have

be only the more experienced master at college, who could discern

of what stuff this bright-eyed young soldier be make, and know that

the fire within he, which could never find enough food for its

devouring energy, be a spark of the flame that, fan by the breeze

of blessed opportunity, make man hero. love, except in its most

fleeting form, he have not yet feel, and do not, for the present at

least, mean to feel: it would come to he at the proper time, like

other good thing, in some glorify form, and not, as it have come to

his father, in the shape of a romantic devotion to a pretty but

foolish woman who have be a clog and a burden as long as her short

life last. with a well-define ideal in his mind, and with all

thought of pleasure in the present swallow up by dream of

distinction in the future, he find all woman charming, but none

irresistible. many of the girl he know be handsome enough to please

a fastidious taste, some have an amusing vivacity, some a fascinating

innocence, here and there be one with the rare attraction of sweet

and gentle manner; but the beauty be vain and spoil, the simple

one inane or ill-dress, and one have doubt about the heart of the

wit, and the head of the soft and silent one. so that George

Lauriston have never yet be bring face to face with the alternative

of vain longing for a woman he could not get, or marriage on £200 a

year. in such a situation, he have often avow what course he would

take: “marry she and have do with it,” be his brief formula. he be

of a nature too independent and self-sufficing to be very strongly

influence by the vary outside circumstance of his life or by the

more lax and easy-go principle of his common-place companion;

therefore the view inculcate by his old Scotch aunt of a woman as a

sacred thing, and of love and marriage as concern in which a Divine

providence take an extra and special interest, still remain in his

mind, though of course somewhat clouded by the haze of experience. it

follow that his opinion on conjugal loyalty be even aggressively

strong.



on one occasion, when a young married officer of the regiment--a

harmless creature enough, but with a youthful ambition to be think

“fast”--was vapoure away at mess about his achievement with the

girl, Lauriston break in, in a deep voice:



“nonsense, laddie, everybody know you cann’t tear yourself away from

your little wife. and do you think we should think well of you if

you could?”



with these well-know principle and opinion, his more susceptible

young comrade, Massey and Dicky Wood, be justify in not

consider that they be expose Lauriston to any danger of the

heart, in plot his encounter with the dusky little wife of a

foreign shopkeeper.



it be nine o’clock on the evening appoint by the conspirator when

Lauriston, after dining at the “Criterion” with a friend, drive up in

a hansom to number 36, Mary Street.



it be dull, wet, and rather cold--the fag end of one of those dismal

day that so often mar the brightness of the season in an English May.

see through the damp drizzle in the darkness which be already

close in, as if night be jealous of the gloom of day, and be

hurry to push she out of the field, the street look dirty and

shabby than ever, and Lauriston wonder to himself how Frank Massey

could have take room in such a wretched neighbourhood. he do not

recognise it as the street in which he have slip away from his

friend on the night of the dinner-party in Fitzroy Square; but see

the number 36 on the door, and observe that a light be burn in

two of the three window on the first floor, he pay the cabman, and,

accord to his instruction, turn the handle of the door, and

walk in. there be a modest and economical light over the door,

which throw small and weak ray over a bare, wide, and dingy hall,

paper with a greasy and smoke-dye imitation of a marble, which

exist only in the imagination of the more old-fashioned order of

wall-paper designer. the ceiling be blacken and smoke-hung, the

deep wainscoting and the wood of the once handsome banister be wear

and worm-eat, the wide stair have only a narrow strip of cheap

oilcloth up the middle, scarcely reach to the now ill-polished

space on either side. on the left hand be two door, frame in oak

with a little carving at the top; between the panel of both these

door a small white card be nail, with the word “Rahas and Fanah,

oriental Merchants.” only one chair--a substantial, elaborately carve

old hall chair, which look like a relic of some sale at a nobleman’s

house, but on which errand boy’ pocket-knife have now for some year

exercise their uninspired art carving--break up the monotony of the

bare wall; and a well-use doormat lie at the foot of the stair.

there be no other attempt at furnish, but against a door at the

end of the passage by the staircase a huge stack of packing-case

mark with foreign character be pile almost to the ceiling, and

give forth a scent of mouldy straw to complete the attraction of the

entrance-hall.



“Rum place to hang out in!” he murmur, as he put his first foot on

the creak stair. “number 36, Mary Street--yes, that be certainly

the address.”



on the first landing thing look a little more promising. there be

a carpet, and outside each of the three door a small, black skin rug,

while against the wall, on a bracket of dark wood, with a

look-glass let in the back, there burn a lamp with a pink glass

shade.



Lauriston knock at the door which he judge to be that of the room

in the window of which he have see a light.



there be no answer, and there be no sound.



he wait a few moment, and then knock again--a sound

rat-tat-tat with the handle of his umbrella, such as none but a deaf

person or a person fast asleep could fail to hear. again no answer;

again no sound. he try the other two door with the same result;

then, much puzzle by this reception, he go back to the first door,

and after a third fruitless knock, turn the handle and peep in.

nothing but black darkness in the two inch he allow himself to

see. he open the next door. although the blind be down and there

be no light inside, he could see quite clearly that it be a small

room with nobody in it. now, as this apartment look on to the

street, it be evident that the light he have see in the window must

be those of the room into which he have first peep, as the two door

be on a line with each other.



“there must be a double door,” he say to himself, and go back

again, he open the first door wide and find, not indeed the

obstacle he have expect, but a heavy curtain, thick as a carpet,

which might well be suppose to deaden all outer sound.



he draw this back, and in a moment become conscious of an intoxicating

change from the gloom and the drizzle outside. a faint, sweet perfume,

like the smell of a burn fir-forest, a soft, many-tinted subdued

light, the gentle plash-plash of fall water all become manifest to

his sense at the same moment, and fill he with bewilderment and

surprise. in front of he, at the distance of three or four foot, be

a high screen of fine sandal-wood lattice work, over which be fling a

dark curtain, embroider thickly with golden lily. through the

interstice of the aromatic wood be see the glimmer of quaint brass

lamp, the flashing of gold and silver embroidery, the soft green of

large-leave plant.



Lauriston know he must have make some awful mistake; no young English

engineer would go in for this sort of thing. but his curiosity be so

great concern the inhabitant of this eastern palace on a first

floor in Mary Street, that he be unable to resist the temptation of a

further peep into the interior. he step forward and look behind

the screen.



it be a large room. no inch of the flooring be to be see, for it

be cover with thick carpet and the unlined skin of beast. the

fireplace and the entire wall be hide by shine silk and soft

muslin, drape so loosely that they shimmer in the draught of the

open door. at the four corner of the room stand cluster of

broad-leave tropical plant, round the basis of which be pile

small metal shield, glitter yataghans, long yellowish

elephant-tusk, and quaintly-shape vessel of many-hue pottery;

above the dark foliage spear and lance be pile against the wall,

press back the graceful drapery into their place, and shoot

up, straight and glistening, like clump of tall reed. the ceiling

be paint like a night sky--deep dark blue, with fleecy grayish

cloud; from it hung, at irregular interval, innumerable tiny

opalescent lamp, in each of which glow a little spark of light.

besides this, a large lamp of brass and tinted glass hung suspend

from two cross silken cord nearly in the middle of the room, and

immediately under it a small fountain play in a bronze basin.



Round three side of the room be a low divan, cover with loosely

throw rug and cushion, some of sombre-hue tapestry, some

resplendent with gorgeous embroidery.



the whole of this most unexpected scene form only a hazy and

harmonious background in George Lauriston’s eye; for in front of he

on the divan, between the two trellis window, lie a creature so

bewitchingly unlike anything of flesh and blood he have ever see or

dream of, that the young Englishman feel his brain swim, and hold

his breath with a great fear lest the dazzle vision before he

should melt away, with the scent and the soft light and the rustle

of the night air in the hang drapery, into the drizzle rain and

the damp and the darkness of the street outside.



it be a woman he see, a small and slender woman, lie almost at full

length, support by a slide pile of cushion, the one on which she

head rest be a huge square of gold-tint satin, with peacock’

feather stitch down in all direction upon the smooth silk. below

she on the ground be a little inlaid turkish table, on which burn,

in rather dangerous proximity to the lady’s light drapery, an open

lamp. a loose but cling garment of soft white stuff hide her figure

and yet disclose its outline, the graceful curve from shoulder to

hip, and from hip to heel, while the tip of an embroider velvet

slipper peep out beneath its fold, and a slender rounded arm, laden

from shoulder to wrist with armlet and bracelet, gold, silver and

enamel, escape from its loose open sleeve, hang down straight

over the side of the divan, and look in the soft light which fall on

it from the lamp, like purest ivory see in the last ray of a sunset.

long gold and silver chain which, have she be erect, would have

reach below her waist, hang round her neck and jingle together over

the side of the couch. a great soft scarf of many skilfully blend

colour be bind about her waist and fasten by a large indian

ornament of roughly hew precious stone. the robe she wear have become

disarrange by her reclining posture, so that great fold of the soft

white muslin have gather about her neck, form a white nest-like

frame for her small head, which be cover by a tiny scarlet velvet

cap, from under which her short and curly black hair escape in a

tangle bush that cast a shade over a little white face. her eye be

closed and a most ghastly livid pallor be spread over her feature

from forehead to chin; so that Lauriston, with a great shock, be

awaken out of the state of moonstruck bewilderment and admiration

into which the strange sight have throw he, by a horrible belief that

he be stand in the presence of a dead woman.



“Great Heaven!” break from his stammering lip as he make one quick

step forward.



but at the sound of his voice the sleep girl awake; and her opening

eye fall at once upon a stranger, she spring into a sitting

position with a startled cry. in a moment he see what have cause his

mistake. a blue glass in one side of the octagonal lantern above have

throw a livid light on the young girl’s face, which he now see to be

healthily flush with sleep, and animate with the most vivid alarm.



he be retreat hastily with a confused murmur of apology for his

intrusion, when a bright glare of flame flash up blindingly in a

pointed tongue of light and smoke towards the ceiling, and with a

shriek the girl start to her foot. the hang open sleeve of her

white gown have catch fire as, wake like a child and not yet quite

mistress of all her faculty, she have, in her change of position,

allow the flimsy light material to swing over the little lamp.

Lauriston’s light overcoat hang on his arm. he wrap it round the

panting, struggle, moan girl, sweep up with his left hand a

leopard skin that be uppermost amongst the rug at his foot, and

bind that also tightly about she, succeed in very few moment in

stifle the flame. he have say nothing all the while, there be no

time for discussion; the girl, after the first cry, have submit,

with only low murmur of fright and pain, to his quick and vigorous

treatment. he look down, when she at last fall merely to sigh and

tremble and gasp for breath, at the curly head from which the

little scarlet cap have fall in his rough embrace. the thick tousle

of hair, soft, not as silk, but as fine wool, be entirely innocent

of curl tong, and hang in disorder about a face which have

something more of passion, something more of a most innocent

voluptuousness in every curve and in every glance than be ever to be

find in the countenance of an english girl.



Lauriston still hold the little creature tightly in his arm, and as

he do so the feeling of pity and anxiety, which have be the first

to stir in his heart when his prompt measure choke down the rise

flame, give place to an impulse of tenderness as she look up with

long, soft, shine, black eye full of wonder inquiry. this small

helpless thing, quiver and sigh in his arm and gaze with the

velvet, innocent eye of a fawn into his face, make his heart leap;

with an agitation new and strange, he press she close to he, and

clasp her head against his breast.



if it have be indeed a fawn that he have be caress, he could not

have be more amazed and confused when the girl slip lithely

through his arm, and shake off the impromptu bandage in which he

have swathe she, toss the end of her long scarf over her burn and

blister left arm and the blacken rag of her sleeve and bodice,

and say haughtily, in English as good as his own, and moreover with

the accent of perfect refinement:



“I be much oblige to you, sir, for your kind help; but as you be a

complete stranger to I, I shall be glad if you will either give an

explanation of your visit, or bring it to a close!”



the unexpected dignity and self-possession of this young creature, who

could not be more than sixteen, together with the shock of discover

that the fantastic and dreamy-eyed be whom he have be treat

somewhat in the free-and-easy fashion of the _Arabian Nights_ be a

mere nineteenth century young English lady, reduce poor Lauriston to

a level of abject consternation. and yet, against her will, there be

something in her indignation more alluring than repellent; even as he

stammer out the first word of a humble apology, the transient gleam

of anger fade out of her long eye, and he see only before he a

graceful tiny creature, call forth his pity by the pain in her arm

which make her wince and bite she under lip, and passionate yearning

admiration by the seductive charm of every attitude and every

movement.



“I beg you to forgive my intrusion, madam. this address be give to

I, by mistake, as that of one of my friend. I cann’t describe to you

the distress I feel at my share in your accident. tell I how to

summon your friend; I will go at once, and send a doctor. please

forgive I; for heaven’s sake, forgive I.”



white wet bead stand on his forehead; he be in an agony as, the

danger past, she evidently feel more and more acutely the smarting

pain of her injure arm and shoulder. she give way, as her plaintive

eye meet those of the young soldier, and burst into tear.



“there’s no one here. Mrs. Ellis have go out; Sundran, my servant, be

in bed, and I won’t--won’t let Rahas come. I’m afraid of he; I hate

he, I hate he.” and she stamp she little velvet-shod foot, that

come softly enough down on the pile of disorder rug. “oh, send some

one to I--it do hurt so.”



“I will! I will!” he say hastily. and afraid of the emotion which be

choke his voice and cause his own eye to overflow, he dash out

of the room and down the stair.



at the foot of they he come suddenly, with a great start, face to face

with a tall, gaunt, dark-visage man, who seem to spring up like a

magician from out of the gloom without sound or warning. he wear an

oriental dress of loose trouser, jacket and sash of a deep crimson,

and a fez on his black hair; but there be no trace of likeness, no

trace of a similarity of race, between the ivory skin and long liquid

eye of the girl Lauriston have just leave, and the swarthy complexion

and fierce, lower expression of this man.



“what be you do here?” he say fluently enough, but with a strong

foreign accent, clutch at the young man’s coat with long lean

finger.



Lauriston, without reply, fling he aside so deftly as well as

forcibly that the other stagger and reel back against the wall,

and the young soldier dash open the door and be out of the house in

a moment. address the first respectable-look man he meet in the

street as he hasten in the direction of Fitzroy Square, he ask the

address of the near doctor’s, and a few moment later be at the

door of the house indicate. he hurry the doctor up as if it have

be a case of life or death, and burn with impatience because that

gentleman’s footstep be more deliberate than his own. for there be

more in his heart than anxiety that the tender little arm should be

quickly ease of its pain. the forbidding face of the man he have meet

on his way out haunt he, and fill he with a sullen rage, the

origin of which he do not clearly understand. he be the “Rahas” the

girl have wish to avoid; Lauriston feel sure of that: and he be

alone, excite with indignation against the strange intruder, in the

house with the injure girl. he would go up stair to she, furious,

full of savage inquiry. what claim have he upon she? what would he do

to she?



Lauriston be in a fever of doubt and question and tempestuous

impulse utterly foreign to he. an odd fancy would recur again and

again to his mind in this new tumult of thought and feeling.



she--the lovely, lissom creature whom he have hold in his arm, whose

heart he have feel for a short moment beat against his own, be the

fascinating if somewhat soulless lady of the eastern tale; he--the

dark-face, evil-look be whose eye and tooth have gleam out

upon he menacingly in the darkness, be the wicked genie who hold she

in his power.



well, and if so, what part in the tale be he, George Lauriston, to

play?



within one short hour, the self-contain, ambitious young man seem

to have change his nature. the absurd, frivolous, or perhaps

dangerous question have become one of momentous importance to he.









 CHAPTER III.



when George Lauriston arrive with the doctor at the door of 36,

Mary Street, the light in the window on the first floor have grow

dimmer, and George, who would have open the door as he have do

before, and go up stair with the doctor without ceremony, find

that the key have be turn and the bolt draw. he ring the bell,

and make the knocker sound with a loud rata-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-tat

that echo through the now quiet street. no notice whatever be take

of this, except by a gentleman who lodge on the third-floor front

opposite, who throw open his window and want to know in a husky

voice what the thing unutterable they mean by kick up such an

adjective-left-to-the-imagination row in a respectable neighbourhood.



but no. 36, Mary Street remain as silent and unresponsive as ever.



after a pause Lauriston knock again, regardless of the grow

strength of the malediction of the gentleman opposite. then a shadow

be see against the curtain of one of the first-floor window, and

over the carved lattice-work a head look out. George move close to

the door, and leave the doctor to speak.



“who be it knock?”



“it be I, Dr. Bannerman. I have be send for to attend a young lady

who have be severely burn, and if the door be not open

immediately I shall return to my house.”



“be you alone?”



“say yes. I’ll go,” say Lauriston in a low tone.



“alone? yes.”



the head disappear, and Lauriston go a little distance down the

street and cross to the other side. he see the door of no. 36

cautiously open upon the chain, and then, after a few impatient

word from the doctor, it be throw wide by the man in the fez, and

shut as the other enter. the young man walk up and down

impatiently, never let the house go out of sight until, after

about half an hour, the doctor re-appear, and the clank of the chain

be hear as the door be bolt again behind he.



“well!” say Lauriston eagerly.



“well!” say the doctor easily.



a doctor be the last sort of man to be readily astonish; but it be

hardly possible that the old priest of the body should find himself

in attendance on the entrancing mistress of an eastern palace on the

first floor of a lodging-house in Mary Street without a mild sense of

pass through an unusual experience.



“you--you see she?” continue the young man, breathlessly.



“yes, and dress the arm. nothing at all serious; nothing to alarm

anybody. she willn’t be able to wear short sleeve for some time, and

that’s about the bad of it.”



“unimpressive log these doctor be,” think Lauriston, perceive

that his marvellous eastern lady, with all her romance-stir

surrounding, have awaken in the man of science absolutely no more

interest than he would have feel in a butcher who have break his leg.

the only thing to be note in his quiet, intelligent countenance be a

deep and curious scrutiny of the face of his young companion.



“you be not a friend of long standing of this lady’s, I understand?”

he say, after an unobtrusive but careful examination.



“oh, no; it be by the mere accident I be in the house at all. I

be give that address by mistake as that of one of my friend. why do

you ask?”



“it be nothing, nothing. your manner when you come to I be so

strangely excite--in fact, it be so still--that I could not help

think what a difference thirty year make in a man’s view of

thing.”



“I be think something of the same sort. you seem to see nothing

new, interesting or strange in a patient who appear to I to be the

mysterious Rosamond in a labyrinth of extraordinary circumstance.”



“I admit I cannot see anything extraordinary in the circumstance;

moreover, I marvel at the strength of an imagination which be able to

do so.”



“will you tell I just what you do inside that house, and just what

you see?”



“certainly. I be admit, as you know, by a tall dark man who, by

his dress and complexion, I should judge to be either an arab or a

North African.”



“don’t you think it strange that no attention be pay to my first

knock, and that you be admit with as many precaution as a

policeman in a thief’ kitchen?”



“that be all explain to I by the young man himself, who seem to

be a very intelligent fellow.”



“how? what do he say?”



“he say that a lady who lodge in the house with her governess and

chaperon, and who, he give I to understand, be shortly to become his

wife----”



“his wife!” interrupt Lauriston, with a rush of blood to his head.



“--had be frighten by an utter stranger who have by some mean get

into the house, and force himself into the presence of the young

lady, who be asleep during the temporary absence of her companion,

have wake she and cause she, in her alarmed attempt to escape, to set

on fire the thin muslin wrapper she be wear. be not this

substantially correct?” ask the doctor calmly.



“yes; but----”



“it seem to I quite natural that our arabian or african friend

should look upon the unexpected visit as something like an intrusion,

especially as the stranger, on leave the house, fling the aggrieved

_fiancé_ headlong over the staircase of his own dwelling.”



“_fiancé_! how do you know he be she _fiancé_? you have only his

word for it.”



“it do not occur to I to ask for the lady’s,” say the doctor drily.



“well, but the room, the lamp and the spear and the tapestry! her

dress too! do you have many patient dress like that?”



Dr. Bannerman look at he again. if he have see nothing to surprise

he in his patient, he see much in his questioner.



“her dress? let I see; she have on a white muslin wrapper with one

sleeve burn off. no, I see nothing astonishing in that. her

governess, a rigidly dignified Englishwoman, be with she.”



“and the furniture of the room----”



“be the usual furniture of a back bedroom in the well class of

London apartment.”



“oh.” a pause. Lauriston look half relieve, half puzzle.



he do not want to think that the little section of an enchant

palace, in which he have pass through such a brief but exciting

experience of something altogether new and intoxicate in life, be

the mere vision that his calm reason begin already to tell he it

must be.



“you don’t go into the front room then?”



“no.”



Lauriston feel well.



“but I could see into it, and there be nothing extraordinary in it.”



“it be the other room,” murmur Lauriston.



“well, we be at the corner of my street, and I will wish you

good-night. we professional man have to keep early hour when we can.”



“shall you call there again?”



“possibly. but, if you will take an old man’s advice, you will not.”



“you will tell I why?”



“I will. I see nothing of the marvellous sight you appear to have

witness, but I see something which you do not, or at least not in

the same way. that little black-haired girl’s eye be the eye of a

woman who be bear to be a coquette--perhaps something more; and who

can no more help look up into the eye of every man she meet with

a look that draw out his soul and his sense and leave he a mere

automaton to be move by she as she please than fire can help

burn, or the spider help spin his thread.”



“I will never believe it. you may have have thirty year’ more

experience than I; but, by Jove, where a woman be concern, one man’s

guess be as good as another’s. and I be quite as firmly convinced that

the child be an innocent and good little girl as you be that she be

the contrary. I know it, I be sure of it; as I hold she in my

arms----”



“ah!” interrupt the doctor.



“wrap my coat about she to put out the flame,” continue

Lauriston hastily, “I look at her face, and be quite touch by its

helpless, childlike expression of innocence.”



“and will it take my thirty year of extra experience to teach you

that to hold a woman in your arm be not a judicial attitude?”



Lauriston be silent. embolden by the knowledge that the doctor do

not even know his name, and be by no mean likely to meet he again,

he have allow himself to talk more freely than he would otherwise

have do to a stranger. in the ferment of emotion he be in,

however, the old man’s drily cynical tone seem to he satanic. he

be by this time, therefore, quite as anxious to leave the doctor, as

the latter could possibly be to get rid of he. he be raise his hat

for a rather reserved and abrupt leave-taking, when Dr. Bannerman

stop he with a good-humour touch on his arm.



“now what have I do that you should give I my dismissal like that?

merely tell you what your own good sense--for you’re a Scotchman I

know by your accent, though it’s far enough from a canny Scot you’ve

be to-night--will tell you in the morning. set your affection on a

blue-eyed lassie among the hill, or on a prim little english miss;

she may not be quite so warm to you as a little southern baggage would

be, but then she’ll be cold to other people, and that restore the

balance to your advantage. now, I shall probably never see you again,

so we may as well part good friend; and for goodness’” (the doctor

say something strong than this) “for goodness’ sake think over my

advice. it’s ten time well than any physic I ever prescribe.”



he hold out his hand, which Lauriston shake warmly.



“thank you, doctor. I’m not a Scotchman, though I be bring up among

the heather. you’re right. your prescription be a very good one, and

I’ll take as much of the dose as--as I can swallow.”



and in a moment he be stride down the street.



when he wake up the next morning, George Lauriston feel like a small

boy who have be well thrash the night before and who, sleep

soundly after an exhausting burst of grief, cann’t for the life of he

remember, for the first moment, the nature of the load of affliction

which still burden his little soul. have he have more champagne the

night before than be strictly necessary to support existence? or have

he be pluck in an exam.?



the sight of his over-coat lie on a chair, with the lining blacken

and burn, recall the adventure of the precede evening. but they

come back to his mind in a hazy sort of way, nothing very clear but

that odd little figure in white, with the slender arm, and the long

black eye, and the chain and bracelet that jingle and glitter as

she move. it be an odd incident certainly, and not the least odd

part of it be the seriousness with which the old doctor have warn

he to have nothing more to do with the mysterious lady of the

sandal-wood screen and skin-cover couch. nothing be less likely

than that he should: in cold blood and in the healthy and prosaic

atmosphere of morning, Lauriston feel not the slight wish to run

possible melodramatic danger in the endeavour to see again the

beautiful little girl whose romantic surrounding have afford he an

hour’s excitement the night before. the burn she have so unluckily

sustain through no fault of his, have be pronounce not serious; if

he be to attempt even a civil call for inquiry, he would probably

be ill receive in the house as a person whose presence have already

bring more harm than good.



therefore George Lauriston, who be deeply interested in a war-game

which be be play that day, treat the subject as dismiss, not

without some shame at the absurd pitch of excitement to which this

meeting with a presumably low-breed woman have for a short time raise

he. he retain nevertheless just sufficient interest in the little

episode, or perhaps just enough shyness about his own share in it, to

say nothing whatever upon the subject to Massey or Dicky Wood, neither

of whom have the courage to question he. the blunder--for he never

suspect a plot--might remain unexplained. and the conspirator, not

guess what a brilliant success they have have, decide that the train

have be lay in vain.



but accident--Lauriston be the last person in the world to call it

fate--throw he within a fortnight again in the way of the mysterious

lady. he be return one afternoon from Fitzroy Square, after a call

at the house of the old officer whose dinner-party have indirectly lead

to the adventure, when by pure accident he find himself in Mary

Street, opposite to the very house where his mysterious introduction

have take place. he retain a vivid enough recollection of all the

circumstance to feel a strange shock, half pleasure, half a vague

terror, when the red-lettered inscription “Rahas and Fanah, Oriental

Merchants,” with the star and crescent underneath, catch his eye. he

stop involuntarily, and glance up at the window. nothing in the

daylight appearance of the house give any indication of the luxurious

glory within. the blind of the two window in which the light have

shine on the evening of his startling visit be half draw down, and

there be no sign of the carve lattice-work which he remember so

clearly. the third window on the first-floor be open, and while he

look the curtain--not a gorgeous hanging of bullion-embroider

tapestry, but the common white lace curtain of commerce--move, and

the black curly head of a young girl appear at the window. it be

the mysterious lady of the lamp.



although see thus in the strong afternoon sunlight, apparently

dress like an ordinary english girl in a silk dress that be a sort

of green shot with pale grey, she produce an entirely different

impression on he from that of his first sight of she, the charm of

the warm-tinted skin and the glow eye be as great for he as

ever. he raise his hat, and she beckon to he with a coquettish and

mischievous little curve of her tiny fore-finger under her chin. he

feel his heart leap up, and though, when she whirl round and

disappear from the window, he try to walk on, tell himself

vehemently that he should be bad than a fool to yield to the

magnetic attraction this dark-skin elf seem to exercise upon he,

he relax his speed, try to assure himself that it be too hot to

race along like a postman. but at the creaking of a door in the street

behind he he be oblige to look back, and there, peep out like a

tiny enchantress in this dingy London wilderness of dirty, scream

child, coster with their barrow, the public-house loafer and the

catsmeat man, stand the girl, laugh at he, and invite he with

bewitch eye and dazzle tooth, her head bent downwards to avoid

the blaze of the sun, which shine full on her head and on the little

ivory hand which she hold up against her dusky soft black hair as a

most inadequate screen.



George Lauriston hesitate. if he have foresee in continue this

acquaintance merely a flirtation with a pretty and somewhat forward

girl, all his ascetic principle and resolution would have have to

give way under the strong admiration she have excite in he. but the

strange circumstance of his first meeting with she which, though they

have be thrust into the background of his mind by the absorbing

interest of his deep-seat ambition, now again appeal to his

imagination with great force; the advice of the old doctor, and

perhaps a suggestion of that sacred instinct which the low animal

listen to and live by, all tend to warn he from a danger more than

ephemeral, and at the same time to throw over the acquaintance an

extraordinary glamour of romantic attraction.



the girl apparently guess his reluctance, which she be not without

mean to overcome. advance a step far in the doorway, and

lean forward so that her slight grey-and-green-clothe figure be

visible almost to the waist, she point to her left arm, which hang

in a picturesque sling of soft orange indian silk. this gesture be

irresistible. he feel that it justify his immediate and hasty

return. how could he excuse his boorish conduct in not call before

to ask after the little arm that have be injure through he?



the lady, however, be in forgiving mood. she draw back into the

doorway as soon as she see that her end be gain, and when he

reach it she be lean against the old carve oak banister,

wait for he, all smile and laughter.



“yes, come in,” she whisper, put her finger to her lip and

glance at the inner door on her right hand.



again Lauriston think reluctantly of the _Arabian Nights_, and the

lady keep in a cage by the tyrannical genie, but it be too late to

retreat now, even if he could have find strength to resist the spell

of the dancing eye, or the dumb eloquence of the wound arm. she

spring forward as soon as he have enter and shut the door softly. it

be cool in the bare hall after the heat of the street. the girl’s

dress be a simple robe of silk, with light and shade of grey

change into green, make something after the fashion of the so-call

æsthetic gown he have aforetime abhor, but fall in straight

crisp fold instead of cling to she like damp rag, as do the

garment of crumpled South Kensington devotee a few year ago.



she mount two step and turn, hold the banister-rail and

lean on it.



“I think you would have come before,” she say with a first touch of

shyness, look down upon her hand with a most coquettish air of

be quite ready to look up again if she be invite to do so.



“I don’t dare,” say Lauriston at the foot of the stair, “I be so

ashamed of the mischief I have do.”



“you might have call to ask if I have get well.”



“what would Mr. Rahas have say?”



“Rahas!” a great flood of crimson blood mount to her face, glow in

her cheek, and heighten the brilliancy of her eye, which flash a

liquid light of haughty indignation from china-blue white and

velvet-brown iris. “Rahas! what right have he to speak? he have no claim

in the world upon I!”



evidently the impetuous little lady and the despise Rahas, whatever

their relation to each other might be, have be express a mutual

difference of opinion. the Englishman watch with equal measure of

admiration and astonishment the rise of the sudden wave of passion

which seem almost incredibly strong for such a small creature to

sustain. she be strike in the midst of her anger by the expression of

his face.



“what be you laugh at?”



“I do not mean to laugh. I be wonder to see you so angry.”



the girl smile, quite restore to good humour.



“ah, yes, they use to say that when I be at school. English

girls”--with a flash of contempt--“can’t be angry or sorry or happy or

anything; they can only eat and drink and sleep and wrangle and

giggle.”



“you be not english then?”



“I English! you do not think I be English the other night?”



“no.”



“what do you think I be?”



“a little fairy princess.”



“but when my sleeve catch fire, and you take I in your arm and put

it out; you do not think I be a fairy then?”



“no,” say Lauriston, stupefy by the daring of her childish

coquetry.



“well, what do you think I be then?”



“a poor little creature in danger through my blundering.”



“and what do you think of I when I say: ‘away; leave my presence?’”

ask she, imitate the stately tone and attitude she have use.



“I think you a very dignified young lady.”



“you do not think I unkind?” with anxiety.



“certainly not.”



“oh!” a pause. “I be very glad you do not think I unkind.”



she look down for a few moment, and play with the tiny bow at the

top of her injure arm’s silken sling. “you see,” she go on

earnestly, “when Rahas come up stair he say you have fling he on one

side, and I say you be perfectly right, and he be then very

disagreeable. and Mrs. Ellis, my governess, come in, and they both

say they do not believe what you say, and you would never dare to

show your face here again. and I said”--the girl draw herself up like

a queen as she repeat her own words--“‘Do you think that I, the

daughter of an english gentleman, do not know the sign by which to

tell an english gentleman?’ he will come back to ask my pardon for the

accident, to learn if it be serious. that be what I say,” she

continue, drop her majestic manner, “and so I have watch for

you; oh, how I have watch for you! you see, I be anxious, for my

credit’s sake, that you should not long delay.” the last word be

utter in a demure tone, an afterthought evidently.



“I have be very busy,” murmur Lauriston, try guiltily to look

like a Cabinet minister on the eve of a dissolution. “I really

couldn’t get away before.”



“of course not, or you would have come,” say she simply. “and I

suppose you do not like to come in because you do not know my

people. but you will come up stair now and know my governess, and she

will see that all I have say about you be true. please follow I. I

forget that it be discourteous to keep you wait here.”



she be like a child play a dozen different part in half an hour.

now, with the manner of a chamberlain, she lead the way up stair and

usher Lauriston into the small sitting-room into which on the

night of his unexpected visit he have only peep.









 CHAPTER IV.



at the table be sit a matronly lady in black, with a stodgy and

inexpressive face. she be write letter at a neat little morocco

desk; and on the entrance of her pupil follow by a good-look but

perfectly unknown gentleman, she draw herself up from her occupation,

and rub her nose with her ivory-handle pen in evident dismay.



“dear I!” she ejaculate softly, in tone of abject consternation,

“who have she pick up now?”



before the eld lady have time to give any other indication of the

manner in which she intend to receive the stranger, the young girl

fling her uninjured arm from behind round the neck of her less

impulsive fellow-woman, and cry:



“Mammy Ellis, you see--you see I be right. this be the gentleman who

save I from be burn. he have come to say he be sorry.”



and with this introduction, utter in a tone of the utmost triumph,

she make a step back, as if she expect that a full and uninterrupted

view of he would remove all linger doubt as to the perfect

eligibility of her new acquaintance.



it be rather embarrassing certainly. for the elderly lady, who have

rise from her chair and be take a good look at the midnight

intruder, continue to glare at he with cold british stolidity, and

Lauriston have none of the _aplomb_ give by a long and varied course

of flirtation.



“I be afraid, madam,” he begin humbly, and with a good deal of

hesitation, “that you--that you will not forgive my--er--my appearance

here, I mean my last appearance, in fact my first appearance.” he

pause to gather an idea to go on with, and continue his explanation

more calmly, take care, with all the sign of conscious guilt, to

avoid the lady’s stony eye. “a comrade of mine (his name be Massey--we

be lieutenant in the same regiment, ----th Hussars) give I the

address ‘36, Mary Street, West,’ as that of his brother, who be an old

friend of mine. he tell I to go right in and up to the first floor.

of course I must have come to the wrong Mary Street, but I know of no

other, drive straight here, and carry out my instruction, have the

misfortune, as you know, to intrude upon this young lady, with the

unhappy consequence of wake she and cause the accident. I cannot

express my regret. I have be ashamed to call. I would bring my

friend to back I up if I think you would believe he more than I.

but you would not. I be a gentleman, madam, an officer. I hope you

will believe I.”



whether the eloquence of this speech would have be strong enough to

melt the rigid lady be unknown. but there be magic to feminine ear in

the word “officer”; and as the young fellow bring his explanation to

an end with much brusque fervour, she soften visibly, and glance

from he to her charge in a wavering and uncertain manner.



“well, really I don’t know,” she begin vaguely, when the girl cut she

short, slip she slim hand between her guardian’s plump arm and

matronly figure, and rest her head, gently tilt back, on the

lady’s breast in wheedle and seductive fashion.



“yes, yes, you do know, Mammy Ellis, you know your own husband be an

officer--you’re always tell we so, and you’re only be dignify

for fun, and you must shake hand with this gentleman and thank he

for save your little Nouna from have her arm burn off.”



thus adjure, Mrs. Ellis, still doubtfully murmur and of rather

distressful visage, do end by hold out a crumby hand, which George

Lauriston shake with reverence and gratitude. he have get his cue now,

and he at once make respectful inquiry about the husband, be

fortunate enough to be able to tell the widow certain detail

concern the regiment to which he have belong, and soon succeed

in obtain the lady’s confidence to such an extent that she

entertain he with a long and minute account of the late officer’s

distinguish though bloodless service to his country, and of the

niggardliness of an ungrateful government to the hero’s family.



George be becomingly overwhelmed with indignation, though the

monotony of the narrator’s delivery, the pleasant atmosphere of the

half-darken room, the window of which be shade with thick blind,

and the sight of Miss Nouna stretch comfortably in an american

well-cushion chair, wave a palm-leaf lazily to keep the fly off,

and look at he half shyly, half mischievously from behind it

through long black eyelash, all tend to lull he into a drowsy

state, in which he half imagine himself to be in some tropical

country where passion spring up in a day to a fervour never feel in

foggy England, where life flow on without energy or effort, and where

woman, instead of be the modest partner of our joy and sorrow, be

the passionate, voluptuous and irresponsible source of they.



the apartment, though far small, more commonplace and less gorgeous

than the room which he have see on his first visit, help the

illusion. tall narrow glass from floor to ceiling on each side of

the door, reflect a long, two-tiere stand full of large-leave

hothouse plant which run the whole length of the windowe-wall of the

room. half-a-dozen of these plant be little orange tree, their

round yellow fruit give pretty touch of colour to the dark green

mass, while the white blossom give forth a faint, sweet perfume. the

glass over the mantelpiece be drape with dark tapestry curtain,

catch up here and there on each side by palm-leaf and peacock fan,

of the kind with which a freak of fashion have lately make we all

familiar. the curtain come down to the ground, while the deep valance

which hang from the mantelpiece over the empty fireplace be catch up

in the middle by a bronze statuette of a Hindoo girl, whose right arm

hold high above her head a shaded lamp. a pair of black Persian

kitten be curl up asleep on a cushion at the foot of the statue.

a harp stand in one corner, and a guitar lie on a chair. the rest of

the room do not harmonise with these fantastic arrangement. the good

have be do to conceal a bilious “high art” carpet by mean of

handsome rug, and the table be beautify by an embroider cover;

but the chair and side-board breathe forth legend of no more

interesting locality than the Tottenham Court Road, and the wall be

make hideous by an obtrusive and yet melancholy paper.



George Lauriston note all these thing, and his curiosity about this

queer little household grow more intense. who be this fascinating

young girl? why be she live in this dingy corner of London with the

garrulous middle-aged lady who must evidently find her impulsive

charge “a handful”? the buzz of Mrs. Ellis’s tedious monologue begin

at last to madden he, and he follow the young girl with eager eye

as she slide off her chair and rang the bell.



“I’m thirsty, Mammy Ellis,” she explain. then, tired of silence, she

swoop down upon the table, thrust the pen her governess have be

use again into the astonished lady’s hand and say, coaxingly but

imperatively: “Write--write to mamma. this gentleman do not wish to

interrupt you. I will entertain he. tell she what you think of he.

and then I will read the letter, and see if it may go.”



Mrs. Ellis laugh gently, and obey with a protest. evidently that

be the usual order of thing between they. Nouna improvise herself a

low seat beside the plant by pile on the floor the cushion from

her american chair, then she cross her hand round one knee, and

look up at Lauriston.



“you have not tell we your name,” say she diffidently.



“Nouna,” protest the lady from the table.



“don’t you want to tell we your name?”



“certainly. George Lauriston.”



“that be a pretty name. mine be Nouna.”



“Nouna! that be not an english name.”



“of course not. it be an indian name. do you like Indians?”



“I have only know one West indian lady.”



“_west_ Indian! that be not indian at all. I come from the land of the

Rajahs. my grandmother be a maharanee. she be the most beautiful

woman in all India, and she wear chain of diamond round her neck

that flash and sparkle like a thousand sun, and she live in a

marble palace that be call the Palace of Palms, where the floor

glitter with gold, and soft music come like wind through the hall,

and a great tall tower with a minaret and a spire rise up into the sky

over the room where she sleep, to tell all the world that there be

the spot where the Lady of the Seven Stars be rest. and she have a

thousand slave who kneel and bow themselves to the earth when she

speak to they, and her palanquin be all of ebony-wood inlay with

pearl, and it be hang with silver fringe, and the inside be satin,

the colour of the opening rose; and she travel on an elephant

whose trapping be of gold. ah, that be the beautiful land; where

the sun be scorch hot on the field, and shine bright and

glorious, and throw golden dart through the chink of the blind.

and yet there the lady of high rank--like my grandmother and my

mother and I, lie still and cool in their apartment, or step down

soft-footed into their marble bath where no hot glare can reach they,

only the sense that it be warm and bright outside. oh, that be the

place to live in, to be happy in. how could my mother leave it to come

to a land like this!”



she have work herself up as she sing the praise of her own country

to a pitch of glow excitement, which change suddenly to an almost

heartbroken wail with her last word. Mrs. Ellis look up from the

table reprovingly.



“you forget, Nouna, that India be a heathen country, and that your

grandmother probably never have the chance of see so much as a

single missionary, and seem to have be very ignorant of her high

duty.”



“there be no duty out there,” sigh Nouna, with a most plaintive

look into the dream-distance from her black eye; “at least for the

high-caste woman. you have only to live, and love, and grow old, and

die, and nothing to learn but what you breathe in from the flower and

the sweet scent, and love-song to please your lord the prince.”



Mrs. Ellis look scandalise.



“dear I, Nouna,” she bleat out nervously, “you really don’t know

what you be talk about. you never talk like this before. I don’t

know what Mr. Lauriston will think!”



Mr. Lauriston think the look of passionate yearn in the young

eye inexpressibly fascinating, but he do not say so, merely

murmur something about the allowance to be make for a tropical

temperament. and, Nouna be reduce by the interruption to a silent

trance of regret, the conversation become an intermittent duologue

between the other two until tea be bring in. the manner in which

this be serve display the same inconsistency as the furniture of

the room. Sundran, Nouna’s ayah, in her native dress, place upon the

table an ordinary black and battered tray, on which stand a chase

silver-gilt tea-service of quaint design, cup, saucer, and plate of

a common english pattern, and tiny silver-gilt tea-spoon with

heart-shape bowl and delicately enamel dark-blue handle. a great

watermelon lie among vine-leave in a shallow silver dish.



Mrs. Ellis lay aside her writing material and pour out the tea,

but she could not forget the young girl’s alarming outburst.



“I’m sure, Nouna, I don’t know what the Countess would say if she

could hear you, so very particular as she be about your religious

education. I be afraid I have give way to you too much; I ought never

to have let Mr. Rahas fit up that room for you; it fill your head

with all sort of heathen notion, not fit for a christian young

English lady.”



“Mamma always let I have my indian thing about I, and send I

indian dress, and she say herself I might have just one room

without the horrid stiff european chair and table,” say Nouna, her

voice take a particularly sweet and tender inflection at the word

“Mamma.” “but I’m go to give it up; I’ve tell Mr. Rahas I don’t

want it, and I’ve pull down half the thing. I will not accept gift

from one I despise.”



spring in a moment from languor into life, she put her cup down on

the table and go to the door.



“come and see what I have do,” say she, beckon to the young

Englishman, her eye dance with mischief.



“really, Nouna, I must say you be very ungrateful,” say Mrs. Ellis

in despairing tone. “Mr. Rahas be always most considerate and

gentlemanly, and when you say you long for an indian room he put it

so prettily, ask whether he might fit up one large sitting-room as

a show-room for his thing; and then never show anybody up into it!

I really think you ought----”



but Nouna have fly out of the room, and she be harangue only

Lauriston, who have rise obediently at the young girl’s imperious

gesture, but do not like to leave the eld lady alone so

unceremoniously.



“she be a wilful little thing,” he say smile.



“oh, Mr. Lauriston, what we english people call wilfulness be

lamb-like docility compare to that girl’s! she’s like an eel, like

quicksilver, like a will-o’-the-wisp.”



“or a sunbeam,” suggest he.



“ah, of course, you’re a young man, you think her charming; and so, I

believe, at the bottom of my heart, do I. but give I a good,

sensible, solid, matter-of-fact english girl to look after, rather

than this creature who be shake with passion one moment, flash

her tooth, stamp her foot; and the next suffocating you, and

crush up your bonnet with kiss. as if kiss could cure the

headache her wild fit give I, or as if you could squeeze resentment

out of a person, as you do water out of a sponge!”



“have she be in your charge long?”



“ever since she leave school, six month ago,” say Mrs. Ellis with a

sigh. “her mother, one of the kind and most charming woman I have

ever meet, with all the high-breed ease that nothing will give to Nouna,

wish she to have finish lesson in music and dancing and

language in London. music!” ejaculate the poor lady in a

contemptuous manner. “nothing would ever induce she to learn the

piano, as every well-educate english girl should do. at school, after

her first lesson, she creep down stair at night, and undo all the

string of the instrument; so that have to be give up. I believe she

want to learn the tom-tom, or some hideous indian thing with jam-pot

cover at each end, and they have to compromise by teach she the

harp and the guitar. then language! they only manage to get she to

study French by tell she it be one of the dialect of India. as to

dancing, that come to she like magic, from a waltz to a kind of wild

dance of her own, more like the leap and bound of a young animal

than the decorous movement of a young lady! I dare not think what the

Countess would say if she could see she.”



“why don’t she live with her mother, then, who would surely have

more influence over she than any one?”



“you must not blame the Countess,” say Mrs. Ellis, as if he have be

guilty of blasphemy. “a more love mother never live. you should

read the beautiful letter she write to her daughter. but she have

marry again; and her husband, the Conde di Valdestillas, a spanish

nobleman much old than herself, be a great invalid, and she be

oblige to travel about with he wherever he fancy to go.”



“but surely the daughter ought to be consider as well as the

husband.”



“the Countess feel that; and next year, when her daughter’s education

will be finish, she intend settle down either in London or in

Paris, and introduce the young lady to the world. if I can only keep

the girl out of serious mischief so long,” sigh the lady, who seem

delight to have a confidant; “but really it be too try. the first

thing we do after we have leave the school (I be a boarder there, and

as Nouna have take a fancy to I, the Countess request I to

undertake the duty of _chaperon_) and come to London to look for

apartment, be to pass this house on the way from Paddington to the

Countess’s lawyer, from whom I draw my salary and Nouna’s allowance.

there be a card--‘Apartments, furnished’--in one of the first-floor

window. Nouna catch sight of the oriental name on the board

outside, see indian lamp in the window down stair, and nothing

will satisfy she but to come back to this house and settle here. then,

of course, the young gentleman, Mr. Rahas, fall in love with her

and----”



at this point Mrs. Ellis be interrupt by the flinging open of the

door, and Nouna re-appear, her face distort with anger, and her

eye flash with contempt: like an enraged empress she hold open the

door, keep her head at a very haughty angle, and disdain to look

at the visitor.



“I know that nothing I can show my guest can have any interest for

he,” she say icily; “but yet I think it would have be more

courteous to I to disguise that fact.”



she make one step towards her american chair, when Lauriston, with an

amuse glance at Mrs. Ellis which he might well suppose to be unseen,

hasten to the door, and hold it open for she with a bow.



“I beg your pardon,” say he humbly, “I be very much interested in

whatever you like to show I. but you leave the room so suddenly that,

before a clumsy man could hope to get up to you, you disappear like

a wave of the sea.”



she look up at he with a very intelligent and search expression,

and be sufficiently mollify to lead the way out, turn sharply

just in time to catch an exchange of glance, amuse on the one side,

apologetic on the other, between the visitor and her guardian.



she affect not to notice this, however, but open the door of the

next room without speak, lift the heavy curtain, usher he in,

and then shut the door and draw the hang close. Lauriston look

about he in astonishment. the thick blind, which be plain canvas

on the outer, and rose-colour and gold pucker silk on the inner

side, be draw down, and make the room very dark, except for the

chink of sunlight that creep in at the side. but there be quite

enough light leave to show what a wreck have be make of the luxurious

beauty of the apartment since the night when it have burst on his eye

like a vision of fairyland. the silk and muslin hanging have be half

tear from the wall, show the ugly paper underneath; the spear and

weapon have be toss down on the ground as if they be so much

firewood; the sandalwood screen have be fold and push into a

corner; while of the small ornament--cushion, dagger, Moorish

table--a great pile have be make in the middle of the floor, and

cover up with the tiger skin turn inside out. nothing but the

plant be respect; she have not have the heart to hurt they.

Lauriston could scarcely help laugh; but when he glance at the

girl, and see that she be stand against the dismantle wall,

lean back with an expression of as much triumph as if she have

sack a city, he feel really rather shocked, and clear his throat

he shake his head at she gravely.



“I do it all,” she say, nod proudly and glancing round, as if

anxious that no detail of the noble work should escape he. “raha

say that Englishmen be cad, that you be a cad, and so I pull

the thing down. yes, I see you and Mrs. Ellis laugh at each other,

as if I be a silly little thing, and couldn’t do anything; but you

see I can.”



it be hard than ever not either to burst out laugh, or to catch

she and kiss she like a spoilt child; but Lauriston resist both

temptation, and say seriously:



“I think it be very silly and very ungrateful of you.”



she bring her head down to a less aggressive angle, and stare at

he in surprise. he quite expect another outburst of anger, but none

come. she only say “oh!” reflectively in a soft undertone.



“he have be very kind to you, have he not, this Rahas?”



“Ye--es, he have be kind,” slowly, thoughtfully, and reluctantly. “he

wants”--she laugh shyly--“to marry I!”



“oh!” Lauriston be disconcert. a sudden flash of jealousy, acute

and unmistakable, flame up in his heart at the intelligence,

communicate with this provoke coquetry. “you be go to marry he

then?” he say rashly, on the impulse of the moment, unable to hide

from her sharp eye an expression of pique.



by quite impalpable change of tone and attitude, she grow upon the

instant a hundred time more seductive, more bewitch.



“marry he!” she move her hand to her head languidly. “I don’t know.

one ought to marry the person one love good--in England, ought one

not?”



“certainly,” assent Lauriston, wonder at the power this mere

child possess of move he, an altogether unsusceptible mortal, as

he flatter himself, to impulse of passion.



“then I must wait a little long and be sure,” she say, twist she

head upon her neck with the daring, instinctive coquetry of a girl of

five.



“you would rather have a--a--an oriental like this Rahas, wouldn’t

you?” he say in a low voice, his tone bear more meaning than he

wish.



“I don’t know,” she say, and stoop, she pick up a string of

bead from among the _débris_ on the floor.



he have come a step near to she, and as she stoop, by accident or

design--with such a coquette one could not say which--she stumble

upon a rug and fall forward against he. he seize she with a gasp,

and hold she as she look up with a laugh, provoking, irresistible

face. she feel he shiver as he withdraw from she with such suddenness

that she, lean upon his arm, almost stagger.



“what be the matter?” she ask, as he draw out his watch with finger

so unsteady that he detach the chain.



“I--I beg your pardon,” he stammer, “but I have a most desperately

important appointment with--with my colonel, in fact, which I shall

miss if I don’t fly in the most unceremonious manner.”



her face change. a glow, not of anger, but of passionate

disappointment, flush her face, and the tear well up into her

eye. Lauriston grow very hot, and, all in a fever of excitement,

wonder at this.



“when will you come again?” she ask breathlessly, raise she

beautiful face with part red lip. “you will not come again. ah, I

know you, you cold Englishman, you will forget I, forget the poor

little girl whom you see in flame. oh, no; you must not!” with

another passionate change, her face grow tender and caressing, as she

coo out the plead word like music to his unwilling ear.

“promise you will come again within a week. no, no, a promise willn’t

do,” as Lauriston, glad to be let off so easily, open his mouth.

“Swear, swear that you will come here again--within a week.”



“But--”



“you shall not go till you have swear.”



the little tigress, with one spring towards the door, lock it and

draw out the key; with another, she have reach the near window.



“no, no, don’t. I swear!” cry Lauriston, who see with stupefaction

that she have raise the blind, and be about to throw the key from the

open window.



she turn round, toss the key in the air, and catch it in her hand

with a laugh of triumph.



“now,” she say, “I know you must come. for an english gentleman

always keep his word.”



she raise the curtain before the door, and put the key in the lock;

before she turn it she twist herself back towards the young fellow

and say:



“kiss I!”



he could not hesitate. if she would flirt it be not his fault. he put

his arm round the lithe, bend waist, and press a passionate kiss

on her red lip.



“now I know you will come again,” she whisper as she let he out.



when Lauriston have take a decorous leave of the innocent guardian in

the next room, and find himself once more in the street, he be

inclined to think that he have change his identity. some new power,

horrible in its strength, seem to have fasten upon he, and to

twist and turn he like an osier. he walk on quickly and firmly,

try to recall his old, calm self.



“I will keep my oath and go there again,” he say to himself with

clench tooth. “but by all I hold sacred, I willn’t see that demon-girl

again. Heaven help the man who may ever trust his happiness in her

hand!”









 CHAPTER V.



it be not so easy, after this second interview with the mysterious

lady of Mary Street, for George Lauriston to keep the image of the

little black-eyed enchantress out of his mind. her prompt and

passionate advance to himself raise strong doubt as to the result

of the education which Mrs. Ellis declare to have be so careful,

while on the other hand, against his well judgment, he would fain

have believe that it be the romantic circumstance of their

strangely make acquaintance which have break down, for the first time,

the maidenly reserve of the passionate and wayward girl. in spite of

himself, a small, slim, supple form, dark sun-warm complexion, April

change mood, kiss from fresh young lip that clung to your own

with frank, passionate enjoyment, have all become attribute of his

ideal of womanhood. it come upon he with a shock therefore, when, a

few day later, he suddenly discover that he be expect to find

his ideal in a lady who be destitute of any one of they.



it come about in this way. chief among the house where George

Lauriston be always sure of a welcome be the town establishment of

Sir Henry Millard, Lady Florencecourt’s brother, an uninteresting and

rather incapable gentleman who have raise himself from poverty and

obscurity by marrying, or rather let himself be marry by, an

american heiress who be the possessor of a quite incalculable number

of dollar. they have three daughter, Cicely, Charlotte, and Ella, all

of whom would be well dower, and who be therefore surfeit with

attention which custom have teach they to rate at their proper value.

Lady Millard be a lean, restless, bright-eyed little woman, who have

acquire some repose of manner only by put the strong

constraint upon herself, and who be consume by an ardent ambition to

be the mother-in-law of an english duke. Sir Henry’s whole soul be

bind up in a model farm in Norfolk, which his wife’s fortune enable

he to mismanage with impunity. he have never get over his intense

disgust with his daughter for not be son, and he leave they and

the disposal of they entirely in the hand of his wife and of their

uncle Lord Florencecourt, who, have no daughter of his own, take an

almost paternal interest in his niece.



Lord Florencecourt have make up his mind that a marriage between his

favourite, George Lauriston, and one of his niece would be an

admirable arrangement, give to the young officer the money which

would do so much to forward his advancement in the world, and to one

of the girl an honourable, manly husband, who might some day do great

thing. the match would, besides, strengthen the bond of mutual

friendship and liking between himself and the young man.



it be one evening when the two man be drive in a hansom to dine

at Sir Henry’s, that the elder broach the subject in his usual

harsh, abrupt tone, but with a generous fire in his eye, which show

the depth and the quality of his interest in the matter.



Lauriston, take by surprise, betray a reluctance, almost a

repugnance, to the idea which fill the eld man with anger and

disappointment.



“I see,” say he, with a short dry laugh. “you have pick up with

some pretty chorus-girl, and be not ready for matrimony.”



“you be mistaken, Colonel, I assure you. I have pick up nobody. but

it be hardly surprising if your constant jibe at love and matrimony

should have take root in I, who honour your opinion so much.”



he speak somewhat stiffly, because he have to choose his word, feel

rather guilty. Lord Florencecourt break in brusquely:



“all d----d nonsense! jibe at love only take root in a young man to

grow into intrigue. there’s an end of the matter; don’t refer to it

again.”



they be at their destination. Lord Florencecourt spring from the

hansom first, out of temper for the evening; Lauriston follow very

soberly.



Sir Henry’s town house be one of the big mansion of Grosvenor

Square. it have a large dome-like arch over the entrance, and be

paint a violent stare white, which make the smoke-begrime house

on either side, with their rusty iron lamp-frame and antiquated

extinguisher, quite a refreshing sight. the interior be furnish

handsomely, in the prevail upholsterer’s taste, without any

distinguishing feature; for Lady Millard, though she still cherish

certain luxurious and unconventional notion which in her native

country she would have indulge, be too much bind down by the

prejudice of her present rank, to dare to infringe ever so little on

the rule which govern the rest of her order. so that while she

inwardly know an indiarubber plant by itself in a bilious or livid

earthenware vase to be an abomination, she have an indiarubber plant in

a bilious yellow vase in front of her middle dining-room window,

because the Countess of Redscar have one in a livid blue vase in her.

and in spite of her feeling that to strew a litter of natural flower

over a dinner-table, to fade and wither before one’s eye in the

heated air, be stupid, inconvenient, and ugly, she yield to that, as

she do to every pass fashion set by her higher-bear neighbour.



she follow a more sensible english fashion in have two most

beautiful girl among her child. Cicely and Charlotte, the two

eld, be tall, fair as lily, limpid-eye, small-mouthed,

innocent, sweet and rather silly. dress as they be on this evening

in white muslin dress, which look to masculine eye as if they

might have be make by the wearer themselves, though they be in

reality a triumph of a Bond Street milliner, they make the dull

minute before dinner interesting by their mere physical loveliness.

unfortunately for she, fortunately perhaps for they, the young of

the three girl be a foil, not an addition to the family beauty.

small, sallow, and plain, Ella Millard do not attempt to make up for

her deficiency in good look by any special attraction of manner. to

most people she seem shy, abrupt, and almost repellent; such a

contrast, as everybody say, to her charming and amiable sister. but

with the minority for whom fool, however beautiful, have no charm,

Ella be the favourite; and George Lauriston, an _habitué_ of the

house, have get into the habit of make straight for the chair by her

side at every opportunity, with the distinct conviction that she be

an awfully nice girl.



on this occasion he take in to dinner the second sister, Charlotte,

and he find that her placid, amiable face and wearisome gabble about

the Opera, the Academy, and Marion Crawford’s new novel--(Charlotte

pride herself on have plenty to say)--irritated he to a degree he

have never before think himself capable of reach.



when the gentleman enter the drawing-room after dinner, George

Lauriston, see Ella in a corner by herself, make at once for the

seat by her side. she make way for he almost without look up, as

if she have expect he.



“how cross you look at dinner,” she say; “I be glad you take

Charlotte in and not I.”



“no, you be not. if I have take you I should not have be cross.”



“that be quite true. Charlotte be sweet-tempered and will put up with

a man’s mood; I should have turn my back upon you and let you

sulk.”



“yes; you be a hard, disagreeable creature.”



“but such a relief after my poor Charlotte. now tell I what be the

matter with you.”



“nothing except ill-temper. at least--to say the truth, I hardly can

tell you.”



“Nonsense. you can tell I anything, after the stream of nonsense I

have hear at different time from you.”



“but this ben’t nonsense. Lord Florencecourt want I to marry one of

your sister.”



“well, I dare say you could get one of they to have you, if I back

you up. you see I be so out of the running that they think a good deal

of my advice.”



“don’t tease. he really have set his heart upon it.”



“and pray, my lord commander-in-chief, don’t you think you might do

much bad? they be both as pretty as peach, perfectly sweet and

good, and either would worship you meekly and mildly as a god and a

hero; besides which they have other and more substantial advantage,

and you would have the satisfaction of cut out many well man.”



“you be very cheeky this evening.”



“do you know I use to think you rather admire Charlotte?”



“admire she! how can one help admire they both? only they be such

a perfect match that one couldn’t love, honour, and obey--that’s it,

ben’t it?--the one without love, honour, and obey the other.”



“that’s an evasion,” say Ella, pierce he with her brown, bead-like

eye. she continue to look at he fixedly while she count slowly on

her finger. “one--two--three--three week ago you be not in the

same mind.”



Lauriston start and grow red, and the brown eye twinkle.



“three week ago, if my uncle have make you this suggestion, you would

have take it differently.”



“what do you mean?”



“that something have happen in the meantime to divert your admiration

into another channel. oh, I know. I be not a ‘silent member’ for

nothing; when I be call upon to give my vote, my mind be a good deal

clear on the subject in hand than those of the active debater.”



“well, suppose I tell you I want to marry you?”



“you would not dare to come to _I_ with such a story.”



“why not? you like I; you have always show it. you be nice to I

than you be to almost anybody.”



“I like you certainly, though I think at present you’re rather a prig;

but perhaps that be only because it be a case of sour grape.”



“sour grape!”



“yes. for if I have be handsome I would have marry you; I like you

enough for that.”



“then why in heaven’s name willn’t you marry I?” ask Lauriston, much

excited.



“simply because you would take I to avoid something bad; and that I

have no attraction strong enough to keep you if the ‘something bad’

should try to get hold of you again.”



Lauriston be amazed and shock at this penetration on the part of a

young girl. he give she a shy look out of the corner of his eye, and

lean forward on his knee, his handsome brown head bent, play

with his moustache with moist, nervous finger. she laugh as she

look at he, with a sound in her voice which strike he, though he

could not quite make up his mind whether it be tender or bitter.



“I have some astonishing notion for a girl, haven’t I?” she say

quietly. “but after all it be not so very surprising if you will

consider the fact a little. here be I, a girl too plain, too

unattractive to be worship like my sister, too proud to be marry

for the only attraction I share with they, and not at all incline to

do homage to a sex that prefer a beautiful wax dolly to--well, to a

faithful and intelligent dog.” there be no mistaking the bitterness

of her tone now, while the half resentful, half plaintive expression

of her eye make her face at least interesting. “so I have have to

carve out a life for myself, with peculiar pleasure and peculiar

interest. I read and I study to an extent which would almost disgust

you perhaps; and I watch, and listen, and think until I know as much

of life and of the people I meet as Charlotte and Cicely know of their

‘point’ and the colour which suit their complexion.”



“I shall begin to be afraid of you,” say George.



“why?” ask Ella, fold her hand and sit up stiff and straight

as a school-teacher. there be a _jardinière_ full of pretty

flower plant near the ottoman on which they be sit.

Charlotte or Cicely would have take the opportunity to lean forward

and play with or gather some of the blossom, to show off their figure

and the pretty curve of their wrist. but Ella, when she choose to

talk, always become too much interested in her subject to have think

for petty coquetry, and so she sit, with the calm intent face of a

judge, prepare to give an impartial, yet kindly, hear to George’s

answer.



“because you be so clever.”



“and so be you. but even if you be not, you would have no need to

be afraid of I. it would be as reasonable of I to be afraid of you,

because I know that if you like you be strong enough to kill I with

one blow of your fist, as for you to think I would use my wit to do

you harm. one do not turn one’s strength against one’s friend.”



“that be true,” say George, touch by the girl’s tone. “Ella, why

willn’t you marry I? only two woman in all my life have ever wake any

strong feeling in I: until this evening I could have say ‘only

one’--a little wild girl whose influence I dread, though I have only

meet she twice. you will think I a weak fool, perhaps, but a woman,

however clever she may be, cannot in such a case judge a man. there

be influence at work in a man’s coarser nature that no sweet and

innocent girl could understand. to-night you have give I the first

glimpse I have ever be able to catch into the depth of your warm

heart and your noble mind; I see in you the type of all that be good

in woman; and I know that if you would have I all that be good in I

would grow and expand until I might in time be worthy of the affection

of a good woman. Ella, will you try I?”



the girl be look away from he, still sit very upright, and

drink in his word with an intent expression on her face. at last

she turn her head slowly, and her eye, mournful and earnest, gaze

full into those of the young man, who have pour out his appeal with

passionate excitement, and now sit, flushed and eager, await she

answer.



“can you wait for my reply till to-morrow?” she ask, with a

curiously search expression.



“why to-morrow? what would you know to-morrow that you don’t know

to-night?”



“you be go to see the girl to-night!” say Ella, with a sudden

inspiration.



“if you will not have I--yes. it be a promise. if you, now that you

know everything, will take I, I hold myself absolve from a promise

to another woman, and before Heaven I swear that you will have nothing

more to fear; I will never see she again. only a woman can drive

another woman out of a man’s head. Ella, no one have ever creep so near

to my heart as you. will you come right in?”



if she have not care for he so much, she would have say yes. but the

tenderness she have long secretly feel, without own it to herself,

for the handsome young officer, make she timid. if she be to marry

he, she, with the fierce depth of unsuspected passion she feel

stir at her heart, would adore he, would be at his mercy, bereft

of the shield of sarcasm and reserve with which she could hide she

weakness now. she know that the feeling which bring he to she be

not so strong as, though it be probably well than, that which

impel he away. she dare not risk so much on a single stroke.

yearning, doubt, fear, resolution, all pass so quickly through her

mind that she have keep he wait for his reply very few moment when

she rise, and with a face as still and set as if she have not for a

moment waver, she say:



“I can give you no answer now. if you be in the same mind a month

hence, ask I again.”



George give a hard laugh as he too rise.



“it will be too late,” he say coldly. “but I thank you for hear

I. good-night.”



he shake hand with she in a mechanical manner, not even notice in

his agitation the nervous pressure of her finger. if he have look

again in her face he would have see that she relent; as it be, he

be at the other end of the room take leave of her father and mother

before she have time to realise the decisiveness of the step she have

take. scourge herself with reproach, remorseful, miserable, Ella

Millard get little sleep that night.



George Lauriston have hardly get half-a-dozen yard from the house when

he hear Lord Florencecourt’s short, youthful step behind he, and a

moment later the Colonel have slip his arm through his, with a

friendliness he show to no one but his favourite.



“well, George, which of the two be it?” he ask in a much more genial

tone than usual.



“which of the two!” repeat Lauriston vaguely.



“yes, yes, you be talk to the sister all the evening; now there

be only one subject which make a young man so utterly oblivious of

everything else. come, you can confess to I; which of her two sister

be you try to get her influence with?”



“I be try to get her influence with Ella Millard.”



the Colonel stop, pull the young man face to face with he by a

sharp wrench of the arm, and look up into his face with his most

steely expression.



“be you serious?” he ask in a grating voice.



“most serious, I assure you, sir.”



“you ask that yellow-skin, swarthy little girl to marry you?”



“I think, Colonel, the most important thing about a wife be not the

colour of her skin.”



“there you’re wrong, entirely wrong. your fair white woman may be

cold, may be irritate, she may henpeck you by day, she may nag at

you at night. but for treachery, for unfaithfulness, for every quality

which lead a man to ruin, despair and dishonour, go to your

dark-complexion woman. Ella be my niece, and as she be plain, she

may go through life without do much harm. but I would rather see a

hump grow on her shoulder, and flame come from her mouth as she

talk, than see she marry a man in whom I take an interest, as I do

in you, George.”



“you need have no fear in this case, Colonel, for she willn’t have I,”

say Lauriston, not attempt to combat the Colonel’s superstitious

prejudice, which be as strong as those of any old woman.



and as, in his relief on find that his fear be groundless, Lord

Florencecourt let his hand drop from the young man’s arm, the latter

take the opportunity to bid he good-night and walk off with the

excuse of an appointment.



if even Ella’s skin be too dark to please he, what would the Colonel

find to say of Nouna’s, he think, wonder how the old soldier have

pick up his strong prejudice. could he really have be once under

the sway of a woman compare to whom even the present Lady

Florencecourt, with all her tyranny, ill-humour and caprice, be as

light after darkness? Lauriston have no mean of telling, and the

question do not trouble he long. for to-night be the last night of

the week in the course of which Nouna have make he swear that he would

return, and he know that the girl be even now anxiously on the watch

for he. he feel that he would have do well to have make his call

that morning, to have see she under the prosaic influence of

daylight and Mrs. Ellis, as he have intend to do. but a friend have

call unexpectedly to carry he off to Hurlingham, and have leave he

no chance of keep his oath except by slip a note into the

letter-box of 36, Mary Street, in the darkness of the evening. this

would satisfy his conscience and save he from the danger of the

girl’s allure eye.



yet as he walk quickly through the quiet West-end street, past

brightly-light house, where a strip of carpet be throw across the

pavement, and a seedy, silent old man or a couple of lad wait to

see the lady come out, Lauriston feel his heart beat fast as

the image of the little indian girl come to his mind with a

thousandfold additional charm after his evening spend in the

commonplace _ennui_ of a London dinner-party. he honestly try to

think of Ella--good, clever little Ella--whose kindness and sweetness

have touch he so much only half-an-hour ago. but then have she not

herself reject his offer homage, throw he back on the charm that

be now draw he with an attraction which grow strong with his

resistance to it?



he reach Mary Street at last. by this time it have grow so dark that

it be reasonable to think he might drop his note in the letter-box

and walk away without be see. but he know all the same that he

should not be allow to do so. the light be burn both on the

first-floor and the ground-floor of No. 36 when he slip his little

missive into the box; as he do so the blind of one of the

ground-floor window be raise, and a woman look out and instantly

disappear. he think he would not ring, but be linger for one

moment on the doorstep almost as if he know that his presence must be

know, when he hear the chain draw and the door open. he feel that

his whole body be throb with fierce excitement.



but it be not Nouna. it be the dark-complexion Rahas whom he have

treat so unceremoniously on his first visit, and who now stand in

the same handsome eastern dress he have wear on that occasion, but with

a very different demeanour, hold the door wide open, and with

dignified and courteous word invite the young Englishman to enter.

Lauriston, after a moment’s hesitation, accept the invitation, and

pass in stand in the hall while his host close the door, wonder

what be to be his adventure that night. the shutting of the door

be accomplish very slowly, with infinite precaution against noise,

while Lauriston glance up the staircase, listen intently for a

light footfall, and feel all the enervating rapture which the near

neighbourhood of his first passionate love give to a very young man.

turn rather suddenly again towards his companion, he find the eye

of the Oriental fix upon he in what strike he as a peculiar

manner. as their eye meet, the merchant, with a low bow and a gesture

of courteous invitation, hold open the door on the left and usher

his visitor in. Lauriston enter with a glance at the door and a

glance at the window to decide upon the good way of escape should the

conduct of the gentleman in the fez be consistent with the sinister

expression of his face.









 CHAPTER VI.



we have all meet fairly bad people with strikingly good face, and

perhaps fairly good people with strikingly bad face; but when the

eye of a stranger who have no reason to love you be much near

together than beauty demand, when his lip be thin, straight, and

very close under his nose, moreover when he smile at you with his

mouth only and show you even more politeness than the occasion

require, you must be more than simple-minded to put implicit trust in

he.



Lauriston note these trait in Rahas, and mistrust he accordingly.

but the meeting itself be an adventure, and therefore welcome to a

young man in love, he beam with perfect good humour and begin to

apologise for his abrupt conduct on the night of his first visit.

Rahas stop he at once, smile and wave the subject away as if

to be fling over the rail of his own staircase by such a person as his

visitor be the high honour he could wish for. he, for his part,

see this gentleman pass, could not resist the impulse which

prompt he to open the door and beg he to enter, that he might

apologise for his obtuseness in not instinctively recognise the

gentleman as a person of high honour and distinction, incapable of any

but the noble motive, the most lofty conduct. he bow to

Lauriston, Lauriston bow to he; they positively overflow with

civility, though from the sly black eye of the Asiatic, and from the

frank brown one of the Englishman, there peep out an easily

discernible mutual antagonism.



“will this gentleman, whose name I have not the honour of knowing----”



“my name be Lauriston,” say George, who know that this

cunning-look person could easily find it out if he be to conceal

it.



“will Mr. Lauriston,” continue the merchant with a bow, “do I the

honour to smoke with I? I have narghili, cigar, cigarette, such

as, if I may make the boast, you could not find in the palace of your

Prince of Wales.”



“thank you,” say Lauriston, who indeed feel some temptation to stay

in the house, but have no fancy for his companion; “it be very kind of

you to ask I, but I must be return to my quarter. we soldier,

you know, be very strictly look after in England.”



the merchant smile in a manner which imply that his ignorance of

english manner and custom be not so limited as might have be

infer from his slow, pedantic speech, and his retention of the

costume of his own country.



“that strictness be, however, somewhat relaxed in the case of favoured

officer--at least, they say so in Smyrna,” say he ingenuously. “but

perhaps the real reason of Mr. Lauriston’s reluctance to accept my

humble invitation be the feeling that to do so would be an unbecoming

act of condescension from an english officer to a foreign tradesman.”



“no, I assure you----”



the merchant raise his hand. “perhaps Mr. Lauriston will allow I to

explain. my uncle and I be establish here at present in only a very

modest manner. we live in what I suppose may be call a back street

of your vast city; we have no acre-wide apartment, no gaudy

shop-window in which our treasure be arrange by cunne shopman to

catch the eye of the vulgar. we have only, as you know, a few of the

cheap and simple product of our own rich land, place without

thought or care in these two small dusty window, not to attract the

casual passer-by, but to let our great client know that this be where

Rahas and Fanah may be find. we be merchant, not shopman; we have

for our customer the chief of your great bazaar, the head of your

most renowned London house. if an english nobleman want a carpet

such as emperor might tread upon, or a millionaire of Manchester

seek a priceless cabinet of carved ivory, delicate as lace, fragile

as a fairy’s finger, it be to we that their agent come, to Rahas and

Fanah, who be here merely obscure tradesman know to a few, but in

our country (and all Asia be our country, overrun by our agent,

swarm with our depôts) merchant-noble, the guest and the friend

of king.”



it be not difficult to believe he as he stand, stately and

dignified, his black eye glow with roused pride, his graceful

dress give an air of distinction to his tall, lean figure. under the

influence of a passion which be at least genuine he appear to so

much great advantage that George Lauriston do not hesitate to give

way to his importunity; and the merchant lead he from the little

front-room in which they have be stand, where small object such

as those that fill the window be scatter about on table and

shelf and pile on packing case, into an apartment of the same size

at the back, communicate with the front-room by fold-door, but

show, as soon as they be pass, the difference between a

living-room and a mere workshop or office.



it be furnish with extreme simplicity and hang with the most

inexpensive kind of thin indian curtain. there be two or three

small paint table, on one of which be a common metal coffee-pot

surround by three or four tiny earthenware cup, while on another

stand a small decanter label brandy, an ice-pail, a stand with

soda-water bottle, two deep tumbler, and a liqueur glass. the seat

consist of othman cover with dark stripe stuff, a few plain

large cushion, and a couple of low chair, very small in the seat and

very wide in the back. a brass lantern take the place formerly fill

by a chandelier, and give forth a soft weak light through

orange-tint glass. the floor be entirely cover by mat, which

add to the invitingly cool aspect of the room. to the right as he

enter from the front room, Lauriston notice a tall paper screen

place before the doorway of a third apartment, the door of which have

be take away and replace by thin coloured curtain, through which

there shine a much bright light than that give by the brass lamp.



“my uncle’s room,” say Rahas, indicate the inner apartment with a

movement of his hand, as he bring forth for his guest, from a

cupboard in the wall behind the curtain, cigar, cigarette, and a

hookah. “he give up the good to I, though I be only a junior partner

in the firm, by right of my father--a mere clerk in fact.”



Lauriston take a cigar and seat himself in a chair; while his host

sit on one of the othman, his left elbow bury in a cushion,

languidly smoke a long hookah. something in the atmosphere of the

room, its study coolness, the stately composure of its owner, the

faint perfume which begin to rise from the bubble water of the

hookah, begin to exercise over Lauriston the same enervating influence

which he have feel in the far more luxurious chamber above. the soft

voice of the merchant, speak in measured tone, as if speech be

spontaneous music, lull he into a state of dreamy expectancy of

some further experience new and strange.



“you would fall very easily and naturally into our eastern way, more

easily than most of your race, I think,” he say; and Lauriston feel

conscious, now that he see he recline at his ease, of a charm in

the manner of the Oriental which he have not see before. “you can

rest, which be to most of the man of North Europe an impossibility.”



Lauriston sit upright in his chair, consciously struggle against the

charm which be ensnare his sense. “what you call rest,” he say

earnestly, “be a temporary torpor necessary to you, a warmer-blooded

race, and be the natural reaction from your passionate mood, in which

you be all fire. but for we, a colder nation, what you call rest be a

dangerous soothing of the mind and stimulate of the sense, an

enslaving pleasure to be avoid by those who have a battle to fight,

and much to win. the only wholesome rest for we be dead, dreamless

sleep.”



“and yet,” say the Oriental, smoke solemnly on, yet observe his

companion with attentive eye, “you give way to the pleasure, and you

court the charm.”



Lauriston grow red, though the subdue light do not betray his

blush. “when one suddenly meet with a new experience a little

curiosity and interest be only natural,” he say.



“yes, yes. but the curiosity and interest of Englishmen display

themselves in way so strange to we of another race. for instance, I

will tell you a tale: two young man of your race, man well-bear

perhaps, clothe in the fashion of your prince and your noble,

hideous and ill-choose to we, but of the taste which in England be

call the very good--see by night in a dark little dusty room where

the blind have not be pull down, a man and a lady. the lady be

beautiful, not dress as their woman be, and neither be English, the

young man think. so they stare in until they attract the man’s

attention, when for shame they slink off, to return the next day, and

the next, and the next, always foolish, trifling, impertinent, spy

and pry for another sight of the lady, whom they never behold

again. then a third young Englishman--perhaps I need not say more

about his course, but that it be bold than that of the others----”



Lauriston interrupt he. “I see,” he say in a low voice

strongly-control, “that you believe I to be merely the accomplice

of the two other. I do know who they be, I know they get I here by

a trick, although until this moment I never guess one word of it.

Sir,” he rise, very quietly and composedly, but with passion which be

unmistakably fierce and strong glow in his handsome face, “I don’t

know how to address a gentleman of your country, but I wish to

apologise in the humblest and full manner for an offence which I

commit in all ignorance. by Heaven, when I meet those two infernal

little cads----!” he break out suddenly, forfeit all right, in his

vehemence, to the praise bestow by Rahas on his capability of

repose.



but he be check in all the heat of his outbreak by sound behind

he which recall he to the fact that he might have unseen listener

to his very unrestrained language. turn sharply, he see the

curtain behind the screen move and open against the light, as if some

one be retreat between they. Rahas attempt to reassure he by a

gesture of the hand.



“my uncle think we be quarrel perhaps,” say he in a leisurely

manner.



but the knowledge that everything he utter could be hear by a

person who might or might not be a desirable confidant cast a strong

constraint on Lauriston, who toss the end of his cigar into an

ash-tray by his side and make at once for the door. the merchant shake

his head gently, and with courteous word beg he to return.



“I guess the truth before, and you must pardon my anxiety to have it

confirm by your own lip,” he say gravely and deferentially. “or

rather,” he go on, as Lauriston turn and hesitate, “I do not

guess, I know.”



in his astonishment at the merchant’s confident tone, his companion

come a step near to the chair he have leave, and at the next word of

his host reseat himself, overcome by an attraction he this time make

no great effort to resist.



“between your first and your second visit I learn the cause and

effect of your appearance here; between your second visit and this,

the third, I learn that it be not your intention to appear here

again.”



“how do you learn it?” ask Lauriston, with some incredulity, but

with the tinge of respect for possibly supernatural agency to be

expect in a man bring up north o’ tweed.



“you be an Englishman, and would not believe I. your be a brave

nation, an energetic and a splendid race; but you have no imagination,

no religion but faith in beef and brick and mortar and the Stock

Exchange.”



“I believe in beef certainly, and I don’t like humbug,” say the young

officer rather shortly. “but I’m not a fool, and when I hear about

anything of which I have no experience, I listen and do my good to

understand.”



the merchant bow and go on: “you be doubtless not ignorant, Mr.

Lauriston, of the importance we of the East attach to astral

influence, nor of the fact that the subject be with we consider a

study worthy a high place among the science.” Lauriston bow his

head in assent. “it be one of the principle of that science--you

understand I speak accord to the belief of my countryman, without

prejudice to the acuman of your--that person bear under the

ascendency of a particular star, whose name in your tongue I do not

know, and whose name in mine would bear no meaning to you, possess a

power which I can well describe as magnetic over person bear under

the ascendency of another particular planet. now I be one of the

former class, and the lady who live on the first floor of this house

be one of the latter.”



Lauriston feel an impulse of rage at the fellow’s presumption.



“how do you know anything about her planet?” he ask in a

constrain tone.



“I cast her nativity two day ago,” answer the merchant, drop

his voice as if from pure laziness, almost to a whisper. “I know

something about astrology myself, and as I take in the lady the

respectful interest of a friend, I put my service at her disposal, by

her own request. I may own that I take a personal interest in find

out whether her destiny would cross my own.” he pause a few moment,

during which Lauriston, in spite of the study incredulity with which

he listen to all this, feel his excitement rise. “but I could find

nothing to justify my hope. as far as my skill could serve, I make

out that her destiny be bind up with the countryman of her father,

the land of her adoption.”



while set this down as quackery, the young Englishman be

interested and stir by the Oriental’s measure utterance.



“yet you say your own planet, horoscope, whatever you call it, give

you an influence over she?” he ask in a careless tone.



“in this way,” the merchant go on: “I can make her sleep, and in her

sleep I can bring before her eye what vision I will; I can learn

thing concern she which she herself in her wake hour do not

know.”



“why, that be a sort of mesmerism; they do that over here without any

aid from the planet.”



“so you think. so perhaps the sea think that her tide advance and

recede independently of the moon. and so, in Europe, Nature’s occult

marvel be sneer at, and great force waste, which we Asiatics

turn to account in mould the course of our life.”



“will you explain?”



“in England a person gift with this force which his neighbour

ignore and he himself cannot understand, cast another into a sleep, a

trance. here be this creature, for good or for ill, at his mercy, in

his power. what do he do? teach he some great truth? force from he

some vital secret? subdue the acknowledge evil in he to some good

end? no. he make he find a pin, drink a glass of water, blow his

nose. then, having accomplish this noble end at some expenditure of

his own vital force, he awaken the sleeper; and what be gain? a

dozen fool have gape, cry: ‘marvellous!’ or, ‘well, I never!’

accord to their measure of refinement, and go their way no whit

wise than before.”



“yes, well, and you? how do you use this force?”



“in different way. sometimes to extort an enemy’s secret, sometimes

to test a woman’s faith--but this last not often; for experience and

Mahomet teach we that woman have no soul, and that by concern

ourselves more with what they do than with what they feel, we shall

spare ourselves many disappointment.”



“you be a Mahometan then?”



“with the modification which result from long contact with man of

other faith. thus I drink wine, in moderation; I look upon image and

statue without horror; and I believe that by spring from a race

whose man have for generation believe that woman may have spiritual

life, the good of your european maid do indeed attain in time to

something which may pass for a soul.”



“and Nouna?”



the merchant smile. “ask Mrs. Ellis, her guardian, who have know she

for some year, what impression the bible-reading, the church-going,

the preaching, the praying, the exhortation of her Christian

teacher have have on she, the letter of her mother, whom she adore,

and who never write to her daughter without an exhortation to

religion! all the bishop in the world would not make Nouna more of a

Christian than her persian kitten.”



“you can say as much of many english girl,” say Lauriston hastily

and uneasily.



“of most,” assent the oriental readily. “and of nine-tenth of the

most orthodox of your alm-giving and priest-love woman. what spirit

live in their charity? in their worship? when man no long care for

their devotion, they yield it to God, the priest, and the respectful

poor.”



“and you can see no evidence of a soul in that very capacity for

devotion?”



“no more than I see in the much more absorbing devotion of my dog.”



“that seem to I a creed as degrade to the man who hold it as to

the woman whose self-respect it kill.”



“and like all creed, in practice it lose both its good and its bad

characteristic. I never go out in London without see hundred of

woman more vile, more wretched, more miserable, than my more merciful

religion would ever allow those weak creature to become; while in

our harem, which shock you so much, there be many a woman for whose

power on earth some of your proud european beauty would willingly

exchange their hope of heaven.”



“perhaps,” say Lauriston shortly; and, after a pause, he say, “you

say Nouna’s destiny be bind up with that of an Englishman; if that be

so, and he be one of the right sort, depend upon it he will do more

for she than all her teacher and preacher ever do.”



“you think so?”



“I be sure of it. I believe the influence of an honest man’s love to

be strong than that of all the mesmerist that ever hide pin or

learn secret.”



“you believe it, even after the proof I give you! will you hold to

your belief in the face of this? I now, at this moment, by the force I

hold over she, command she to leave her room up stair and come down

here to we.”



there be a long silence: the Asiatic hold the stem of his hookah in

his hand and sit like a statue, his lip tightly compress, his eye

brilliant and fix. Lauriston also leave off smoking, listen and

watch the door with intense excitement which make he sick and

cold. for some minute there be not a sound to be hear but the faint

night-cry and noise that come through the open window. at last a

board creak in the hall outside, a knock be hear on the door of

the front-room, then the turning of the handle, and a voice call

weakly:



“Rahas, be you there?”



Lauriston start up; the merchant never move. the door of the room

they be in be draw softly ajar, and Nouna’s voice almost in a

whisper ask:



“have Mr. Lauriston be here? tell I, haven’t he be here?”



the young Englishman cross the room with two stride, and push the

door gently open with a shake hand. the little weak voice thrill

he to the heart. she peep in round the door, all in cling white,

with a laugh in her eye at sight of he, but with a rather subdue

and dreamy manner.



“I fancy you be here. I seem to hear you call I,” she say

sleepily, as she come in and very composedly lean upon his arm.



in the midst of the glow and the glamour cast upon he by the girl’s

entrance, Lauriston be startle by the voice of Rahas close to his

ear:



“will you not acknowledge now that it be my influence over she which

bring she down?”



“no,” answer the young Englishman in a husky voice, “her own word

prove that it be mine.”



the merchant shrug his shoulder, and with a bow to the lady, who

be too much occupy with her companion to notice it, retreat

behind the screen into the curtain room.









 CHAPTER VII.



George Lauriston be very much in love; but all the circumstance of

his love adventure be so strange, so mysterious, that at this

moment, when the supernatural appear to have come to the aid of the

simply marvellous, the chill of some uncanny horror seem to check

his passion, and he look down at the girl by his side rather as on

some fairy changele than as on the beautiful woman who have lately

usurped such an undue share of his inmost thought. after a short

silence Nouna look up, half timidly, half saucily:



“have you then nothing to say to I? be a week so long a time that you

have forget I speak your language?”



“I have forget nothing about you,” say he, not encourage she

cling pressure on his arm, but stand up stiff and straight, with

his eye fix on the screen and the curtain behind it. “I will come

and see you and Mrs. Ellis to-morrow, Nouna, it be too late for I to

stay now.”



she follow the glance of his eye, and suddenly drop his arm

make a cat-like bind to the screen, and pull it down. a figure be

see to move away quickly, like a shadow, from behind the curtain,

and the next moment Rahas come through they.



“who be in that room?” ask Nouna imperiously.



“my uncle, Nouna. why be you so excited?”



“your uncle Fanah? no one else?”



“no one.”



he step back and open the curtain again, say a few word in a

language strange to Lauriston. a little old man with a grey beard and

a dry-up, wrinkle face, wear a crimson turban and a very simple

eastern dress, come slowly in and bow to the stranger.



“be you satisfied now?” ask Rahas.



“Ye--es,” say the girl doubtfully, pass her hand over her eye and

shivering, “I suppose so.” then, turn to Lauriston, she continue,

with the tone of a child play at royalty, “you will honour I by

come up stair to my apartment for a few minute. I will not detain

you long.”



she curtsey to the two merchant, and lead the way back through the

front room with a gesture to the young Englishman to follow she, as

Lauriston do, after take a hasty leave of his host. the girl seem

to be in such a subdue, sleepy mood that he be prepared for she to

behave in a more conventional manner than usual. he be quite off his

guard therefore when, having reach the top of the staircase, she

suddenly sweep round, her white garment swirl after she, and throw

herself like a panther upon he, with such electric suddenness and

force that, if his hand have not be upon the stair-rail, he would

have fall down the stair. she be curl about he, her foot off

the ground, her arm round his neck, her breast against his. it be

such an altogether unlooked for and bewilder proceeding that

Lauriston, after a moment’s choke sensation, put his arm round she,

carry she to the door of her small sitting-room, and attempt to

put she down on her foot. as she resist and refuse to stand, he

look round he, and see a chair against the wall, place she,

still limp and apparently helpless, very gently upon it, and lay his

finger on the handle of the sitting-room door. the little lady sprang

back into vigorous life immediately.



“you be not go in!” she say in a hiss whisper, her face full

of alarm and disappointment; “Mrs. Ellis be in there!”



“that be why I’m go in. I come to see Mrs. Ellis, not you.”



for a moment the girl look ready to burst into tear, but with

another change of mood she slide off her chair and come up to he,

laugh.



“be all englishman like you, all stone and steel? or have poor little

Nouna fall upon the very hard?” she ask, her tone change from

playful to plaintive before she have finish speak. and she fold

her small hand one in the other and look up with a face so doleful

that Lauriston want to laugh. “Mamma say Englishmen be noble and

brave and good, and so I think--when I see you, and you be kind

and sweet to I--that you be perhaps send to I--come so suddenly

in the midst of my sleep--the great Rajah mamma say I be to wait for

and obey and humble myself to, as a woman should to her lord. she say

he would come certainly if I be very good, and I have be good for

nearly three week, and have give Mrs. Ellis hardly any trouble at

all; so I think, you see,” she say, look up into his face

naïvely, “that you be the Rajah. well, I be wrong, that’s all. you

prefer Mrs. Ellis.”



George Lauriston listen to this harangue with every feeling of

tenderness that can move a man, from that of a father for a wayward

child to that of a lover for a beautiful woman. he see in she

alternately bold and ingenuous word, in the wonder child look

that come into her eye between passionate ebullition of love, of

anger, and of pride, in the utter absence of a grow woman’s modest

reticence, that the little creature before he be now, whatever time

and her fellow-man might hereafter make of she, nothing but a wild,

untrained, half-grow young thing, with the good and bad impulse of a

savage, and a thousand fascination which would be so many desperate

danger to her ill-guard womanhood.



in those few moment Lauriston make up his mind. the girl have for he

an irresistible attraction which make every other woman insipid and

inane. in spite of her mysterious antecedent, of her equivocal

surrounding, he believe most firmly in her native innocence and

goodness. her odd sense of her own dignity, her passionate love for

her mother, her plaintive account of her impression of the first

meeting with himself, all tend to confirm this opinion, and also to

give some weight to the shadowy legend which seem to form she

personal history. he would write to the mother, if possible go and see

she, ask her consent to his engagement to her daughter, and himself

choose some home where the girl might spend a couple of year in good

hand, while he on his side would strain every nerve and save every

penny that he might be able, at the end of that time, to make she his

wife. he have no doubt about the success of his suit; everything

point to the fact that this shadowy adore and adore mother would

be glad to get the half-spoilt, half-neglect, wholly ill-bring-up

girl, off her hand.



he look down again on the little creature as she, in a fit of

petulance at her inability to pique he, leant against the wall and,

like a mischievous monkey, tear one of the loose muslin sleeve of she

dress into strip. observe this suggestive occupation, George felt

suddenly appal by the enormous hardihood of the undertaking to

which he be inwardly pledge himself. she glance up, see the look

of consternation on his face, and fall into convulsion of stifle

laughter. the set expression on his feature break up, as he lay his

hand very tenderly upon her shoulder.



“Hush, you mustn’t laugh like that. you will make yourself ill.”



Sensitive to every change of feeling as an eolian harp be to every

breath of air, she be quiet at once, and put both her own hand

on his to keep it on her shoulder, she say in a very soft voice,

with earnest eye that seem to draw out from his the emotion she

know how to excite in he:



“ah, I like to hear you speak to I like that. you must always speak

like that to I, and then I will always be like this.”



she fold she little hand, still with one of his clasp between

they, madonna-like against her breast, and bow her head low in token

of deep, devoted humility. it be the passionate human warmth within

she, glow in her impulse of love and hate, and freeze in her

burst of pride, which have melt so quickly the heart of the reserved

young Englishman, and make she irresistible to he.



in a burst of most deep, most loyal tenderness, he lift she up in

his arm, and curl her slender limb about he, and hold she like a

cherish pet lamb against his breast.



“my darling,” he whisper in her ear--a little shell-like ear of rose

and ivory tints--“I shall speak to you always as a man speak to the

creature that live in his heart, whom he love, whom he trust, whom

he worship. and you, Nouna, must be good and gentle, and grow up into

a sweet, noble woman for I, so that my love for you may make I

well. I can never give you a palace, Nouna, or elephant with golden

trapping; if I can ever buy you diamond it will not be till you be

too old to care for they; and you will only have one slave. but you

will be a queen to I, my darling, as long as our life last; and I

will get on and make my name famous, so that you shall not envy the

proud maharanee in India, you shall be so happy as the good true

wife of a plain english gentleman.”



“Wife!” repeat Nouna wonderingly, raise her head from his shoulder

to peer into his eye. “that be what mamma always say. I must be good

and be the wife of an english gentleman, and then I shall be happy!

be all the wife of english gentleman so happy?”



George feel hot. those gleam black eye, though they could not read

thought half so quickly and surely as they do feeling, have a

steadiness and persistency that make it hard to look into they and

tell a lie.



“all those that be beautiful and good like you be happy, unless they

marry bad man.”



“how can they tell they’re bad before they’ve marry they? you might

be bad, and I shouldn’t know.”



“you will have time to find out in the two year that must pass before

I can marry you.”



“two year!” she begin writhe and wriggle in his arm like an

electric eel. “put I down, put I down at once!” she enforce she

command with such agile movement that he have to comply. “I’m not

go to wait two year!” and she readjust her crumpled drapery

with an injure manner. “I shall marry you at once, or else I shall

not marry you at all. I shall have Rahas; he have change to-day, and

say he only desire my happiness; but he shall change back again and

desire I for a wife. I will not wait two year. you do not love I.

Love be for now, not for two year!”



he have change to-day! those word strike Lauriston, and remind he

again of the strangeness of the circumstance which surround the

girl he love, and of the impossibility of settle anything until he

have hear from her mother.



“very well, Nouna,” he say gently, “I willn’t quarrel with you for

want to have I before I be well off. I must leave you now, my

darling, and I will write to your mother in the morning. tell I her

address.”



“she be in Spain, now travel about; we always write to her

lawyer.”



“well, I will write through they.”



he take a note-book from his pocket, and at her dictation write down

the name and address of a firm of solicitor in Lincoln’s Inn. during

the slight pause in their talk as he do this, Lauriston hear a sound

upon the stair, and look up suddenly, convince that some one have

be listen.



“what be it?” ask Nouna.



“somebody on the stair,” whisper he.



as he speak, they both hear another light sound low down; but when

they look into the dimly-light hall the eavesdropper have

disappear.



“it be not Rahas; he tread so that you can hear he,” say Nouna.



“it be a woman, I be sure,” say Lauriston.



“a woman,” repeat Nouna. “and it be the end of a woman’s dress, a

long black dress, I see in Fanah’s room. I think it must be a fancy,

for when Rahas send I to sleep to-day and make I see mamma she wear

a long black dress.”



“Rahas send you to sleep! why don’t you tell I?” ask Lauriston

rather sharply.



“I have no time; I forget about it.”



“tell I now all about it--at least, not here; come into the room.”



Nouna stop he, require to be kiss first. then she let he open

the sit-room door, and the reason why Mrs. Ellis have not be

disturb by the proceeding outside be make manifest: the good lady

be doze in an armchair. she look up with a start when they

enter, and listen to Lauriston’s explanation and apology for

appear so late in a rather apathetic and somnolent manner. she

awake, however, into the full life of which her vegetable nature

be capable, when Nouna begin to describe to her visitor the adventure

of the afternoon.



“you know,” she say, “that Rahas have be tease I to marry he. he

want I to keep all the bracelet out of his warehouse that he lend

I to wear, and I tell he I could buy some for myself if I want

they. and at last yesterday I tell he I would stay no long in the

same house with he, and I go out with Mrs. Ellis and we engage new

apartment.”



“I’m sure I have no wish to go away,” break in the eld lady

plaintively. “the people here be most oblige, the room be clean,

and nobody could be more civil or more respectful than Mr. Rahas and

his uncle, Monsieur Fanah.” as the eld merchant speak with a strong

foreign accent, Mrs. Ellis think he entitle to a French prefix to

his name. “but there’s no do anything with Nouna when she’s make up

her mind, I regret to say.”



at this point Nouna put her hand over her governess’s mouth, and go

on with her story.



“when Rahas learn last night that I have take this decisive step,”

she say with pompous, old-fashioned deliberateness, “he entreat I

to change my determination. I say no, I would not be persecute, and

I should leave this house to-day. he declare that my mother would be

much annoyed, to which I reply that he could not tell, as he do not

know she. he then ask if I would stay if I could receive some sign

from my mother that she wish I to remain. I answer that my

mother’s will be law to I, but that what he speak of be impossible.

and he smile, and ask I if I would wait until this evening before

leave the house. I consent, and at eight o’clock he ask I to go

down into his sitting-room, where I find you just now.”



“you ought not to have go,” break in Lauriston, in great excitement

and irritation.



“I do not want to. I make Mammy Ellis go too. don’t I, Mammy?”



“Mr. Lauriston must think I a very imperfect guardian for a young

girl, if he imagine I would allow my charge to visit a gentleman’s

room alone,” say Mrs. Ellis, draw out the crease of her plump

figure in a slow and impressive manner.



“certainly, of course, I do not for a moment doubt----” murmur

Lauriston, much relieved.



“well,” continue Nouna, “we go in, and the room be dark, with only

one light, just as you see it, and the screen be there, as it be

just now. as Rahas talk to I, very slow and faint his voice seem

to grow, and then his eye to grow very large and bright, so that they

seem like two great lamp, and I could see nothing else. and I get

drowsy, and try to put up my hand and to cry out that I be

stifle--die. but I could not; my hand be heavy and my voice

would not come.”



“and as for I,” chime in poor Mrs. Ellis, whose grey eye grow round

at the ghastly recollection, “when I turn round--for I be talk

to Monsieur Fanah, little thinking of the heathenish doing which be

take place in my very presence--and hear the child cry ‘oh!’ and

see she fall back on the cushion of the ottoman, I be so

thunderstruck that for the first moment I couldn’t have utter one

word if you have pay I for it. I be go to throw some water over

she when that man Rahas say: ‘she be not faint; I have cast she

down into a land of dream.’ and I say: ‘then, Mr. Rahas, you will

please to cast she up again.’ and when he look at I, and see the

expression of my face,” finish Mrs. Ellis triumphantly, “why he do

so.”



“and what do you dream?” Lauriston ask the girl.



“when the eye of Rahas grow large and large they seem to fade

away and to leave a great light. and stand up against the light be

my mother, with her own sweet smile upon her face and her grand

bearing. (my mother be like an empress in her walk, in her movement,

Mr. Lauriston.) and she put out her hand towards I and I think she

say ‘stay.’ and then, before I could speak to she she fade away, and

I feel a weight at my heart, and try to sigh, and could not. and

then a blank came, and next I hear the voice of Mammy Ellis, and I

open my eye and see she and Rahas.”



“perhaps,” suggest Lauriston, who be by no mean ready to

acknowledge that another man have an influence, mesmeric or otherwise,

over the girl he love, “perhaps you really do see a figure that you

take for that of your mother.”



Nouna laugh scornfully at the notion. “as if I could mistake she! I

hear her voice, I see her smile. it be my mother.”



Lauriston turn to Mrs. Ellis. “be there no possibility of any one

enter the room and leave it quickly without your see she?”



“oh no,” say she at once. “besides, Nouna fall with her head bury

among the cushion, and her eye be close the whole time.”



“Nouna,” say Lauriston abruptly, after a pause, “you must not speak

to that man again. the whole proceeding be a most disgraceful piece

of trickery, such as no girl ought to be subject to. Mrs. Ellis, I

be write to-night to the Countess di Valdestillas, to ask she to

permit my engagement with her daughter. now that you know the interest

I take in she, you will forgive my urge you to be careful that she

obey my earnest wish in this. I shall not wait for a letter to inform

she that her daughter be not in a safe home: I shall go to-morrow to

the Countess’s solicitor, learn her address, and telegraph. and now I

will say good-night, and I hope, Mrs. Ellis, you will forgive I this

second nocturnal visit.”



he shake hand with both lady, and disregard Nouna’s undisguise

anxiety to accompany he to the door, ask the eld lady if he could

speak with she a few moment alone. with as much jealous indignation

as if Mrs. Ellis have be eighteen and beautiful, Nouna fling herself

into her american chair in a passion of tear as they leave the room.



Lauriston open his subject in a very low voice as soon as he and the

governess be outside the door.



“you will need no assurance from I, madam,” he begin, “of the perfect

loyalty of my motive, now you know that I intend to marry Nouna. but

you will not be surprised at my anxiety to know something more about

the family to which she belong. as a matter of fact I have not even

hear her surname. have you any objection to tell I what you know?”



“not the least,” answer Mrs. Ellis, with perfect openness. “her name

be Nouna Weston. her father I never know, as he die when she be a

little child. her mother, now the Condesa di Valdestillas, be my ideal

of a perfect gentlewoman. she be religious, perhaps a little bigote

even, very beautiful, and she have that distinction of manner which be

more uncommon than beauty, to my idea. she be very generous and

impulsive, and dote upon her daughter. the Count, to whom she be

devoted, I have only see once; he accompany his wife on a visit to

the school. he be a small, thin, rather sallow gentleman, with very

courteous manner, who give one the idea of be rather selfish and

domineering. the countess dress very quietly, almost perhaps what

some people would call dowdily, as you know our Englishwomen of high

rank so often do. but she must be well off, I think, for I know the

principal of the school use to say she wish the parent of her

other pupil be all as punctual in their payment as the Countess;

and I must say, though she don’t allow much pocket-money to Nouna,

yet her treatment of I be most generous. it be really good-natured of

I to wish the child happily marry, for the income of an officer’s

widow who have no friend at court be by no mean magnificent, as I

dare say you know.”



nothing could be more satisfactory than this, as far as it go, and

the authority be unimpeachable; Mrs. Ellis be one of those simple,

honest, unimaginative creature who can neither invent a story nor

tell an improbable one so as to make it appear probable. but of course

the narrative offer no explanation of the puzzle event of the

evening.



“and you believe the Countess to be still abroad?” he ask.



“oh yes, if she be in England she would have be to see she

daughter. she only pay fly visit to this country for that

purpose.”



“oh yes.” he could not get out of his head the idea that the woman of

whom he have catch a glimpse at the window, whose dress Nouna have see

in the inner room down stair, and who have certainly listen to their

conversation on the landing, be Nouna’s mother. but what on earth, if

Mrs. Ellis’s account be true, should she be do pay secret

visit to the house where her daughter be stay, and conspire

with a man of real or pretended mesmeric power to play trick on she?



it be very puzzling, but no suggestion Mrs. Ellis could offer be

likely to throw light on the subject. he however ask her one or two

more question.



“be there any lady in this house besides yourself? or have you

notice any lady-visitor to the other inmate?”



“there be an old Frenchwoman who give music lesson who have a room on

the top-floor; but I have never see any other lady go in or out,”

say Mrs. Ellis, rather surprised by the question.



“and the gentleman down stair, Rahas and Fanah, be not marry?”



“I have never hear that they be, and I’m sure I hope Mr. Rahas

would never have the conscience to make up to Nouna if he have another

wife in his own country. I have always set my face against that, and

have keep Madame di Valdestillas inform of his pretension. for I’ve

hear of these Mahometan gentleman, that when they take a fancy to a

european wife, they send all their other wife away, and have they

back again within a month. so that I really feel quite thankful to you

for appear and send all thought of Rahas out of the girl’s

flighty head.”



“she never appear to care for this black fellow, do she?” ask

Lauriston jealously.



“well, no, not in that way. though she’s a bear coquette, Mr.

Lauriston, I must warn you, and the man who marry she need have

Job’s virtue as well as his own.”



“but she have a good heart,” urge Lauriston, who feel that there be a

measure of truth in the lady’s warning.



“oh yes, her heart’s good enough. the only thing be that it must be

for ever shift its place. however, she may grow more like she

mother in time.”



“good-night, Mrs. Ellis, it be very good of you to be so patient with

I and my question,” say Lauriston, feel that he be in no

present need of further discouragement.



and he leave she and run down stair. at the front door he be meet by

Rahas, who come with bland, unprepossesse smile and courteous

gesture, from his own apartment, to bid his guest good-night.

Lauriston, who could scarcely treat he civilly since Nouna’s story of

the trick he have play on she, be suddenly strike with an idea. he

turn to the young merchant in a more conciliatory manner.



“by the by,” he say, “in your interesting account of your strange

power, which you attribute to the planet and I vaguely call

mesmeric, you do not tell I one thing: can you call up in the mind

of a person over whom you have that influence the image of anything

with which that person be acquaint, or can you only raise the image

which be familiar to yourself? in other word: be the picture you

wish to present so strongly present to your own mind that by the mere

force of will you can transfer it to the mind of another? or can you

make the other mind work independently of your?”



“I cannot do that,” say Rahas, shake his head. “I think I can

explain my effect by say that by the exercise of my will I deaden

the force of the mind I be at work upon, and leave it like the wet

cloth before a magic lantern ready to receive any picture I may choose

to throw upon it.”



“that be very interesting. I understand perfectly,” say Lauriston

heartily.



and after an exchange of lip-courtesy concern their enjoyment of

each other’s society, Lauriston take his leave and start on his way

back to Hounslow.



one thing be quite clear to he now. Rahas, on his own showing, have

see Nouna’s mother at some time or other, or he would not have be

able to call up her image in her daughter’s mind. be there some

mysterious understanding between she and Rahas, who have, however, come

in Nouna’s path by the mere accident? George Lauriston’s romantic

love have certainly all the stimulus of mystery, and this stimulus be

render considerably strong by a discovery he make, walk quickly

through Hyde Park, on his way to Victoria Station. he have be

follow by a woman.



just before he reach the gate at Hyde Park Corner he glance back

along the path and notice a figure he have see once or twice on his

way. he make one quick step back towards she; but the woman, who be

not very near, disappear at once among the tree.



“I think I’ve have about adventure enough for one evening,” say he to

himself as he go through the gate instead of pursue she. “I can

find out what I must know through the lawyer to-morrow.”



but when he leave the train at Hounslow Barracks, he be almost sure

that, among the alight crowd of passenger, he see the woman again.









 CHAPTER VIII.



next day, in the cruel but wholesome light of the morning, Lauriston

take a grand review of all the circumstance of his short acquaintance

with Nouna, and feel a grow conviction that he have make an

astonishingly complete fool of himself. he have be foolish to visit

the girl a second time, when he know the effect her picturesque beauty

and wayward charm have have on a first interview. he have be bad than

foolish, he have be selfish, wicked, to make that wild confession,

that abrupt offer of marriage to good little Ella, when he feel

himself too weak to struggle unaided with the passion that possess

he. he have crown his folly last night, when he pledge himself to

marriage with a little wild girl, of somewhat mysterious parentage,

passionate, capricious, in all probability madly extravagant, whom he

hardly know, whom he scarcely trust, and who be certainly as

deficient in every quality which go to the making of the typical

wife for an english gentleman as it be possible for a girl to be. and

yet, in spite of all this, Lauriston feel no faint pang of regret;

amazement, disgust with himself undoubtedly, but of repentance no

trace.



for the tide of a first passionate love in a young, vigorous nature be

strong enough to tear up scruple by the root, to bear along

prejudice in its water like straw, to wash away the old landmark

in an onrush which be all fierce triumph and tempestuous joy.



to Lauriston, who have be accustom, from a lofty standpoint of

ambition and devotion to duty, to look down upon love as a gentle

pastime which would amuse and occupy he when the first pang of his

hungry desire for distinction should be satisfy, the sudden

revelation of some of its keen delight be an experience full of

novel excitement and charm. true at least to one principle while so

much be suffer to go by the board, he do not for one moment waver

in his resolution to marry Nouna. no staid english girl, whose mild

passion would not develop until year after she have attain a full

measure of self-control and self-restraint, would ever have for he

the charm and the fascination of this little barbarian. who please

he good, and no other he would possess.



having resolve therefore with open eye upon do a rash and

hazardous thing, he give a touch of heroism to his folly by set

about it as promptly and thoroughly as if it have be a wise one. as

soon as parade be over he start for Lincoln’s Inn, determine to

find out what he could from the lawyer concern Nouna’s relation,

and to write at once to her mother for the consent which he guess

would be readily accord.



Messrs. Smith and Angelo, solicitor, have old-fashioned office on a

first floor, and there be a reassuring air of steady-go

respectability about their whole surrounding, from the grim bare

orderliness of their outer office to the cut of the coat of the

middle-aged head clerk who courteously ask Lauriston which of the

partner he wish to see. on learn that the visitor have no choice,

the head clerk’s opinion of he seem to go down a little, and he

say, with the air of a man who be not go to cast his pearl before

swine--



“then perhaps you have well see Mr. Smith.”



the visitor’s name having be take in to Mr. Smith, Lauriston hear

it repeat in a happy, caress voice, as if the announcement have

be that of an old friend; and the next moment he be bow into the

presence of a tall, genial, jolly-look man of about

five-and-thirty, with black eye, curly black hair, and a beautiful

smile, who rise, come forward a step, shake his hand, and press he

to take a chair with a warmth and good-humour which seem to cast

quite a radiance over the tier of deed-box that line the wall,

with their victim’ name inscribe on they in neat white letter.



“well, I suppose it be nothing very serious that you want we to do for

you,” say the lawyer, glance from the card to his visitor’s

handsome face, and mentally decide that there be a woman in it.



“it be very serious,” say Lauriston. “it be about a lady.”



the lawyer’s smile become broad than ever, and his attitude a shade

more confidential.



“her name,” continue Lauriston, “be Nouna Weston.”



Mr. Smith’s manner instantly change; he draw himself up in his chair,

and touch a hand-bell.



“I think, Mr. Lauriston,” he say, with the smile very much reduced,

“that you have well see Mr. Angelo.” he tell the boy who enter at

this point to request Mr. Angelo to spare he a few minute, and

turn again to his visitor. “you see,” he say, “Miss Weston’s

mother, the Countess di Valdestillas, be one of our old client, so

that to any business connect with she we like to give the entire

collective wisdom of the firm.”



at that moment a side-door, the upper part of which be of ground

glass, open, and an old gentleman, of rather impressive appearance

and manner, come slowly in. he be of the middle height, slight and

spare, with a face and head strikingly like those of the great Duke of

Wellington, a resemblance which his old-fashioned build-up collar and

stock prove to be carefully cultivate. he carry a gold-rim

double eyeglass, which he constantly rub, during which process his

grey short-sighted eye would travel steadily round, see nothing

but the subject which occupy his mind, help to put the barrier of

a stately reticence between he and his client. he bow to Lauriston,

with the air of a man who be entitle to be offend by this

intrusion, but who would graciously consent to listen to a reasonable

excuse; and Mr. Smith, with great deference, place a chair for the

great man, wait till he be seat, and explain the object of the

young officer’s visit.



“this gentleman, Mr. Angelo, have come to speak to we on some matter

concern Miss Nouna Weston.”



the old lawyer stop for a moment in the action of rub his

glass, and then bow his head slowly. the young partner glance

at Lauriston as a sign for he to speak.



“I be here, sir, to-day,” begin the young officer, feel his

confidence rise in this atmosphere of steady, reassuring, middle-class

respectability, “as a suitor for the hand of Miss Nouna Weston. I have

be refer by her guardian, Mrs. Ellis, to you, as I be tell that

it be only through you that I can communicate with her mother. I be

anxious to make my wish know to that lady with as little delay as

possible.”



Mr. Angelo put on his glass and give the young fellow a straight,

pierce look. Mr. Smith, who seem to be swallow up, smile and

all, in the more impose presence of his partner, examine the

feature, not of his visitor, but of Mr. Angelo.



“you have not know the young lady long, I understand?” say the eld

lawyer, in a mellow though somewhat feeble voice. “when Mrs. Ellis be

last here she make no mention of you as, we be partly guardian to

the young lady, she would certainly have do have you already appear

in the capacity of suitor.”



“I have not know she three week,” say the young man, blushing; “but

if you know how she’s live, in a lodging-house full of other people,

where anybody can meet she on the stair, you cann’t wonder I want to

have a claim over she, so that I can get she into a well home.”



“then I understand--you see, Mr. Lauriston, I speak as a person of

some authority in this matter--you have a home for she to which you

wish to take she as quickly as possible.”



“I be sorry to say I have not, sir. I be only a lieutenant now in the

--th hussar.”



Mr. Angelo give he a sudden, keen look. “Lord Florencecourt’s

regiment!” he say, as if strike by the circumstance.



Lauriston scarcely notice the interruption. “yes,” continue he,

“with scarcely anything but my pay. but I hope to get my step next

year, or the year after at late, when I could marry at once.”



“pray do not think I impertinent; this be to I a matter of business,

and must be discuss plainly. Miss Weston have some extravagant

notion, and may have give you the idea that her mother would

continue to be indulgent should she marry. it be right to inform you

that this be not the case. the Countess’s income have suffer during

the recent depression in rent, and--”



“I should never marry unless I could keep my wife,” interrupt

Lauriston abruptly. “I have be offer work on two military paper

whenever I care to take it up, so that I shall not only be able to

save, but to pay for Nouna’s maintenance and education in some good

school on the understanding that she be to marry I on leave it.

anything that you or the Countess can wish to know about my family--”



the old lawyer raise his hand slowly. “--is easily know. you be a

relation, I suppose, of the late Captain Lauriston of the -- dragoon

Guards?”



“I be his son.”



“ah! your great-uncle, Sir Gordon Lauriston, be a client of my

father’s. you wish, I understand, to communicate with Madame di

valdestilla? any letter that you leave in our care will be forward

at once to she.”



these word re-awoke Lauriston’s remembrance of the mysterious lady

who have follow he to his quarter the night before.



“as Madame di Valdestillas be now in England,” he say quietly, “why

should I not have her address?”



the old lawyer remain as unmove as a mummy by this dash stroke,

but a sudden movement on the part of the less sophisticated Mr. Smith

do not escape the young man’s notice.



“if she be in England--which be very possible, as her movement be as

uncertain as the wind--she have only just arrive, as we have not yet

see she. but if you will write to she under cover to I, I can

promise you the letter will soon be deliver to she, as her first

visit on come to England be always to we.”



“but she be at her daughter’s house last night!”



“indeed! then why do you not speak to her yourself?”



Lauriston be disconcert. the manner and voice of the old lawyer

express such bland surprise, that he begin to think he have

discover a mare’s nest, and answer in a far less bold tone.



“I see a lady whom I believe to be the Countess. I may have be

mistaken--”



“you must have be mistake,” say the lawyer imperturbably. “the

Countess di Valdestillas be not a person whose individuality admit of

doubt. I will write to she, inform she of your visit, tell she that

you would prefer to communicate directly with she, and ask she if she

will authorise we to give you her address. we be force to take this

course, as, the Countess’s business affair be all in our hand, we

be empower to sift all her correspondence from England, that

nothing but what be of real importance should come to her hand. the

Countess have a dash of eastern blood, like her daughter, and be, well,

shall I say--not madly energetic.”



there be nothing for Lauriston to do but to acquiesce in this

arrangement and to take his leave, scarcely yet know whether he be

satisfied or dissatisfied with his interview. as he pass out,

however, condescend to by the senior, make much of by the junior

partner as before, a clerk take in a telegram to the former. Lauriston

have hardly go two step from the door of the outer office, when he

hear the soft voice of the old gentleman call to he from the door

of his private room. he turn back, and with some appearance of

mystery, and a rather less condescend tone than before, Mr. Angelo

usher he in, and offer he a chair before utter a word.



“I think I should like to say a few word to you in my private

capacity, Mr. Lauriston,” say he, when he have softly close the door.

“as a lawyer, speak in the presence of my partner, as a member of

the firm, I may have seem to you somewhat dry and unsympathetic; as

a man, believe I, I should be glad to further an alliance between a

member of such an honourable family as your, and a young lady in

whose welfare I take an interest.”



Lauriston bow in acknowledgment, with the conviction that it be the

telegram he have just receive which have produce such a soften

effect on Mr. Angelo. he hasten to take advantage of it.



“you be very kind, sir. I love Nouna with all my heart, and my

dearest wish be to make she my wife. but I should be glad if you would

answer one question. the answer you give will make no difference to my

course of action; but it be right and necessary that I should

understand Nouna’s position. be I right in supposing, as circumstance

suggest, that Madame di Valdestillas have a secret in her past life,

that--Nouna’s father be not her husband?”



Mr. Angelo’s eye wander round the room in a reflective manner.



“may I ask what lead you to this supposition?”



“the strange way in which she have be bring up, spoilt and yet

neglect, the daughter of a woman of rank allow to live in a

lodge-house with a pay companion; it be not the usual education of

a lady, English or foreign.”



“you be right. the circumstance be strange. you be an officer, the

son of a man of know honour. you will of course regard any

communication I make to you on this subject as strictly and inviolably

secret.”



“I hope you have no doubt of that.”



“I have not. you understand that the information I be about to give

you, you be bind in honour never to use, you be to regard as never

having be hear?”



“I understand that perfectly.”



“well then, Nouna be the legitimately bear daughter of an English

gentleman. that, I think, be all you wish to know.”



as his tone say very decidedly that this be all he mean to tell,

Lauriston profess his entire contentment, and once more take his

leave. upon the whole he be not dissatisfied with the result of his

visit to the lawyer. nothing he have hear there be inconsistent with

what he have already be tell about the Condesa di Valdestillas, and

he begin to think that the romantic circumstance in which he have meet

Nouna have perhaps incline he to make mountain of mystery out of

molehill of eccentricity. the only thing which now seem to baffle

all attempt at explanation be the remarkable way in which Mr. Angelo

have make the simple statement concern Nouna’s birth. as, however,

it be impossible to learn the reason of this, Lauriston give up

try to guess it, and assure of the prosperity of his suit, fall

into a lover’s dream, picture to himself the joy of mould this

passionate pliable young creature, under the influence of his love,

into an ideal wife, good as an english woman, fascinating as a french

one, free from the narrowmindedness of the one and the frivolity of

the other, and with a passionate warmth of feel unknown to either.

but as he recall the grace of her movement, the delicate beauty of

her face and form, her coo voice and caress gesture, the

intoxication of his passion grow strong than his effort of reason

and imagination. why should he not marry she now, as she wish, as he

long to do? he could then educate she himself, guard she, as no

schoolmistress, or guardian other than a husband could do, from all

influence that be not noble, and pure, and good; whatever she might

have do in imagination, in reality she have not live in anything

more like a palace than that one room, use for a few week, avowedly

fit up as a show-room, and furnish with treasure that be only

borrow. true, if he marry she now, she would have to live in

London lodging still, and without the alleviation afford by

paint ceiling and silk-hang wall. but he would find for her head a

soft pillow than any embroider cushion, and soothe she with a

lullaby sweet than the sound of any fountain that ever flow.



and then in the midst of this fine frenzy, dull common sense put in a

word, and show he the reverse side of the medal; a young husband

with ambition check, and study make impossible by grow debt and

premature responsibility; a young wife ill-dress, ill-amused, with

no companion of her own sex, perhaps a mother before she have leave off

be a child, her warm nature chill by poverty and disappointment,

her love for her husband change into contempt or hatred. no, it be

not to be think of. he must find she a home where he could see she

constantly, and keep she under the influence of his own thought, and

of his own love, until the day when he could bring she to a little

home such as an english lady of simple taste could be happy in.



with an inspiration bear of these thought, he remember with a shock

that he might have come westward third class on the underground,

instead of in the well-appoint Forder hansom which he have choose so

carefully. he thrust up his umbrella, tell the driver to stop, jump

out, pay he, and continue on foot from Chancery Lane, along Fleet

Street, till he come to the office of a military paper the editor of

whom, with the friendliness of editor to such writer as be not

dependent upon writing, have ask he to contribute certain article

on a subject in which Lauriston be well-know to be proficient. he

have sufficient acuman to let the editor think, when he express his

readiness to undertake the work at once, that his object be fame

rather than coin; and having settle by what date the first instalment

be to be ready, and ignore the matter of term with a handsome

indifference he do not feel, Lauriston leave the office and return

to the West end on foot.



he dine that evening at his club with a couple of friend one of whom

give a rather startling turn to his beatific thought by an allusion

to Clarence Massey’s mad infatuation for some girl whom he have “pick

up in a curiosity shop somewhere in the slum.”



Lauriston make no comment, and do not betray by a look that the

remark have an interest for he. the little Irishman have take care not

to indulge in his raving over his unknown beauty in the presence of

the comrade whom he have trick. but the word of Rahas, on the

precede evening, have give Lauriston a clue to his own visit to 36

Mary Street, and this startling reference to Massey’s share in the

matter strengthen his resolution to give that amorous and artful

young gentleman a lesson.



Lauriston go home early, with the fix intention of settle up

this matter with as little delay as possible, and on arrive at his

quarter he find his intention strengthen and the mean of carry

it out provide, in a very unexpected manner.



as he be go up the stair to his room, he be meet by his

soldier-servant, who tell he that a lady have be wait to see he

for the last two hour. Lauriston hurry on in great excitement.

neither Nouna nor Mrs. Ellis know his address, his sister be in

Scotland, and he have not, like some of his comrade, a circle of

lively and easy-mannered feminine acquaintance. his thought fly

directly to the woman who have follow he home the night before:

perhaps the mystery be go to be solve after all; perhaps he

should indeed see Nouna’s mother.



before he reach his room he hear voice; a few step more and he

could distinguish that of Clarence Massey; arrive at the door of the

sitting-room, the soft tone of Nouna herself strike his ear.



“no,” she be say, “I shall not kiss you; Mr. Lauriston would be

very angry with you for ask I.”



“bless you, you little beauty, no, he wouldn’t. he’d be delighted to

know you be enjoy yourself,” answer Massey confidently.



Lauriston throw open the door just as Massey, who have be sit on

a stool a few pace from the sofa where Nouna half-sit, half-recline,

spring up and seize the hand with which she be wearily support

her head.



Nouna jump up, clap her hand with joy like a child, and run

towards Lauriston, who, livid, wet, and trembling, do not even look

at she, but stride across to Massey without a word, lift he up in

his arm with the sullen fury of an enraged bear, and carry he to

the door, which he open with a kick, fling he pell-mell, anyhow,

like a heap of soil clothe against the wall, as far along the

corridor as he could throw he. then slam the door to work off the

remain of his rage, he turn to the frightened girl, who have fall

on her knee and be cling about his foot.









 CHAPTER IX.



when George Lauriston, having relieve his feeling by his summary

treatment of Massey and close the door upon the young Irishman’s

groan and voluble remonstrance, turn his attention to Nouna, he

be seize with remorse at having give such free rein to his anger,

when he see what a strong effect it have upon the girl. she persist

in crouch on the ground at his foot like a dog that have be

whip, and when he stoop down and lay his hand upon she, gently

tell she to get up and speak to he, she only murmur, “don’t hurt

I. I haven’t do anything wrong,” and tie herself up with

extraordinary suppleness into a sort of knot, which George survey

helplessly, not know well how to handle this extraordinary

phenomenon. at last it occur to he that this exaggerated fear

could be nothing but one of her elfish trick, and he begin to laugh

uneasily in the hope that this would afford a key to the situation.



on hear his puzzled “ha, ha!” Nouna do indeed uncurl herself and

look up at he; but it be with a timid and bewildered expression. he,

however, seize his opportunity, swoop down, pass his arm under

she, and lift she bodily from the floor, carry she over to the

sofa, place she upon it, and sit down beside she.



“and now, little one, tell I what be the matter with you, and why and

how you come here.”



instead of answer, she look at he steadily, with a solemn and

penetrate expression. angry as he still feel, anxious as he be to

know the reason of her unexpected coming, her appearance be so

comical that George could not help smile as he look at she. she

wear again the shot silk frock in which he have see she on his second

visit to Mary Street; a deep, purple embroider fez make a Romeo-like

cover for her short and curly dark hair; while a sop throw to

conventionality in the shape of a small black-bead mantle only

bring into great prominence the eccentricity it be mean to

disguise. she have either forget or not think it necessary to

exchange her open-work pink silk stocking and embroider scarlet

morocco slipper for foot-gear less startling and picturesque; her

glove, if she have wear any, she have long ago throw aside, and George

could not help acknowledge, as he look at she, that it would need

an intelligence strong than poor Massey’s to discover in this

remarkable guise the carefully bring-up young english lady whom

alone his code teach he to respect. as this thought come into his

mind, George’s expression change, and grow gloomy and sad. the young

girl be still watch he narrowly.



“be you often--so?” she ask, with a pause before the last word, and

a mysterious emphasis upon it.



“what do you mean, Nouna?”



“so full of anger that your face grow all white and grey, and your

mouth like a straight line, and you look as if you would kill the

person that offend you.”



and she shudder and draw away from he again. George take one of her

hand very gently in his.



“no, Nouna, I be very seldom angry like that. it be only when any one

do something which seem to I very wrong.”



“oh.” this explanation do not seem so re-assure to the young lady

as it ought to have be. “you be listen at the door all the time

then?” she say, after a pause, not so much in fear as in timid

respect.



“no,” say he vehemently, grow hot at the suggestion. “gentleman

don’t listen at door.”



“don’t they?” say she incredulously. “why not?”



“it be mean, sneaking, bad form altogether.”



“be it? then how do you find out thing? ah, you would pay a servant,

perhaps, to do all that for you?”



George grow scarlet and draw his hand away from she, half in

indignation, half in horror.



“Nouna!” he exclaim, “where on earth do you pick up these awful

idea? to pay a servant to play the spy be the most rascally thing a

man could do! a man who do it would deserve to be kick.”



“would he? then what would he do if he think his wife deceive he?

wouldn’t he mind?”



George spring up to his foot, and take a few turn about the room. he

be appal by this fearful perversion of mind, by this terrible

candour, and he think with a shudder of Rahas’ statement that the

woman of the East have no soul. how should he set to work to make she

see thing with his eye? he glance at she, and see that she have

change her attitude; curl her foot up under she, and lean she

head on her hand, she sit quite still, nothing move but her eye,

watch he. he come back, knelt before she, and look into her

face.



“in England, Nouna,” he say very gently, “when a man want a wife, he

choose a girl whom he believe to be so good, so true, so noble that

he couldn’t possibly think she would do anything that ben’t right.

and he love she with all his heart, and never think of anybody but

she, and spend all his time try to make she happy. so he never

think about such a dreadful thing as her deceive he, because, you

see, she couldn’t, unless she be very wicked, treat a man badly when

he be so good to she.”



“then what Sundran say be all wrong.”



“who be sundran?”



“my servant, my ayah. she say that englishman love other woman

besides their wife, who be only like the chief wife in our country,

and that Englishwomen be not so good as indian lady, because they

be not shut up.”



“sundran must be send away. she tell you falsehood,” say George

indignantly.



“she shall not be send away,” retort Nouna, flash out at once

into passion. “she love I. it be she who tell I of the land where

I be bear, who sing I my indian song, and tell I the tale of my

own country. she shall not go.”



George do not press the point, though he make an inward vow to remove

this most noxious influence as soon as he have authority over the

wayward creature before he.



“and don’t some one else love you, Nouna?” he ask reproachfully,

look into her flash eye; “some one whom you be treat very

cruelly this evening?”



the appeal melt she at once, or rather it turn the passion of

anger into a passion of affection. she throw her arm round his neck

and fervently kiss his mouth, nestle her red lip under his

moustache, and scratch his left ear fearfully with the beadwork on

her mantle.



“I be not cruel, I love you,” she say earnestly. “I come here

to-night because I could not live without see you again; only I

will not marry you; I have make up my mind to that.”



“but why, Nouna, why?” ask poor George in consternation.



“we be not of the same race; we should not be happy; Rahas be right.

if I make you angry, you would look as you do to-night, and you would

kill I.”



“but, Nouna, I be not a savage; I don’t get angry over little thing.

and I should never be angry with you.”



“I don’t know. you say you would not have I watch, you would trust

I. well, I would rather be watch, then I should feel safe. but if I

always do just as I feel, I should some day make you angry, I know. I

be not like your english girl--the girl at the school, who always

know what they be go to do. something come up here,”--and she put

her hand over her heart--“and then it mount up there,”--joining her

finger over her head--“and say, ‘Nouna, love; Nouna, hate; Nouna, be

sweet and gentle;’ or ‘Nouna, be proud and distant.’ and I go just as

the little voice guide. well, that be not English!”



“you be impulsive, darling, that’s all. if you love I truly, the

little voice will always tell you to do what I wish.”



“will it? but I be afraid. I tell you I would rather kill myself than

have you look at I as you look at the little curly-haired man

to-night. why do you hate he so?”



“when I come in he be try to kiss you.”



“but I would not have let he.”



“no, of course not. that be because you be good and true to I, whom

you love.”



“be it? I do not know it be that. I only know that he be small and

ugly, and I do not like he.”



“no; you must not like any man but I.”



“ah, then you have well shut I up.”



“well, so I will, my darling. I will shut you up in my heart so close

that you shall have no eye for any one but I.”



and with a great impulse of tenderness for the little dark-eyed thing

who be drink in new impression of life and moral with so much

solemn perplexity, he fling his arm round she and bury his head in

the fold of her dress.



“you will scratch your beautiful face,” say she solicitously,

remove the beaded mantle, and ruffle up his hair with light

finger. “how can Rahas say you be not handsome? you be like Brahma

himself when he ride in his sun-chariot!” she say with loyal

intention if with confused lore.



the name of Rahas, use thus for the second time, rouse George from

the intoxicate oblivion of outside thing into which this unexpected

interview with the girl he love have throw he.



“Rahas!” he repeat, raise his head sharply. “you haven’t see he

again to-day?”



“now you be go to be angry,” exclaim the girl shrink.



“no, my darling, I be not,” say George in a most gentle tone. “but if

I be to watch over and protect you, I must keep you out of the way of

man like Rahas. when do you see he? what do he say to you?”



“well, I see he this evening, just before I come here. Mrs. Ellis and

I have just finish dinner. I have be very quiet and good all day,

write a long letter to mamma, tell she how handsome you be, and

how I would never look with love on the face of any other man, if only

she would give I her permission to love you. and I be tired of

sit still, and the air be hot, and Mammy Ellis be sleepy. so I

open the door, and she say there be a draught, and I must shut it.

and I could not bear the heat, so I do shut it, with myself outside.

and I go into the next room--the one where I have pull down the

hanging; and I be so lonely and sad and weary that I be sorry I have

pull they down, and I begin to cry and try to nail up the long

trail of silk to the wall again; and when I find I could not, I sit

down and cry again; and then I look up and I see Rahas in the room

watch I like a tiger. and I spring up; but he come to I with his

eye shine, and fall at my foot and tell I a lot of strange thing

that I forget.”



“what thing? what do he tell you?” ask George, try to keep

calm.



“must I remember they? he frighten I; I do not want to remember

they.”



“try, my darling.”



“he say he love I, and that I must love he, for the planet say

so, and have give he an influence over I which I could not resist.

he say he have try to conquer himself, and have consent to give I

up; but his love be too strong, and I must forget you--that you be

hard and cold. when he say that I fly into a passion, and tell he I

hate he and should marry you. and I throw open the window and tell

he if he come near I I would shriek with all my strength. and so he

have to grow quieter; and then he say he know strange thing about I

I myself do not know, and that you never mean to marry I, that you

look upon I as a little girl to play with, and would marry a staid

english lady. and I burst out cry again, and say that would make

no difference to he, for I should go away and perhaps drown myself.

then he be very quiet for a long time, and he presently speak in oh!

such a low voice, with a smile on his face that be not sweet and

kind, but horrible. he tell I if I want you to marry I I have

well go to your room at once and tell you not to forget I love

you, or else that you would see some other lady and perhaps marry she

before I could see you again. so I spring up at once, and he tell I

where you live, and I slip into my own room and put on my mantle,

and tell Sundran not to say where I be go, and I would be back

soon. then Rahas put I into a cab, and tell I at the last to be sure

and wait till I see you. and I thank he and say, ‘be sure I will.’

and so I come; and it be a long way, and I be tired. why do you look

like that? why be you angry? do you not want I to come? Rahas say

you would be glad.”



“the infernal scoundrel!” burst out George, who have be listen to

this recital in almost incredulous horror.



Nouna get on to her foot, and look at he with a puzzled inquiring

face.



“do he know you would be angry then?” she ask in a low voice. “I

remember he say I should be less proud when I come back.”



with a strong effort George control himself, lest an incautious

word should give any inkling of the rascal’s meaning to the girl’s

mind. he draw forward an arm-chair and invite she to take it with the

manner he would have use to a princess. in seat herself she hold

up her arm towards he, but he would not touch she. he sit down

gravely a little way off as he say:



“you will not go back to Mary Street at all, Nouna.”



“no? shall I stay here with you?”



“not here, dear. these be bachelor’s quarter. but you will stay

after Friday in apartment that I shall take for you.”



“why after Friday?”



“because I cannot marry you before then.”



“marry I! you say you be not go to marry I for two year!”



“you see I’ve change my mind.”



“since last night?”



“since an hour ago, since I find you here.”



she spring up and fling her arm about he, with kiss, and caress,

and incoherent word.



“then you be not angry with I for come. oh, I’m so glad, I’m so

glad I come. I don’t know what to do, I’m so happy. it seem so

dreadful to have to wait two year, two year always away from you.

for I never feel like this before, as if my heart would break, or

would burn my breast if I be away from you. that be love, ben’t it?

kiss I, kiss I, don’t be so cold. don’t you love I? why be you

go to marry I if you do not love I?”



she push herself suddenly away from he, keep her hand on his

shoulder and devour his face with an eager scrutiny. his dark eye

be very bright, and his skin, burn red and brown like that of most

young englishman in summer time, be a deep colour than ever with

excitement. but his forehead be pucker into line and wrinkle, and

his mouth be close in a firm straight line, a fact which Nouna

discover for herself by brush up his moustache with a quick and

unexpected movement.



“you be think!” she cry indignantly. “when I tell you of my love

you be full of nothing but your thought. when I be your wife I will

not let you think.”



this last passionate sentence strike George with the ominous force of

a prophecy. he get up and lift the girl playfully right above his

head, however, while he speak in grave tone, the tenderness of which

be unmistakable. “when two people love each other, little one, one of

the two at least always have to think. and when you be my wife you

will have to let I do as I please, just as now you have to let I

hold you in the air until it be my good pleasure to put you down.”



but as he speak the little creature, who have be try in vain with

her weak finger to undo the clasp of his strong one on her waist,

suddenly cease to struggle and lie limp and heavy on his hand, her

head and limb hang loose, and her cap fall to the ground.

George let she down and place she on the sofa in consternation,

blame himself for ignore the fragility of the tiny thing. there

she lie just as he place she, as still as the dead. no soon,

however, have he rush into his bedroom, return with a glass of

water which he begin nervously to sprinkle on she still face, than she

open her eye with a sly and elfish delight, and begin to curl up

with mischievous laughter. George fall back with a sick feeling which

be not all relief at find she be less fragile than he have

suppose. he have challenge she to take his playful action as an

allegory, and she have have the wit to accept and continue it. when

their two will should clash she would obtain by fraud what she could

not get by force. it be at least a fair warning. he be angry with

she and he get up from his knee without speak, without look at

the laugh girl. Nouna understand, and in a moment all merriment have

die from her face; she be cling to his arm, entreat he

passionately to forgive she; she be a wicked, ungrateful girl; she

have only mean to tease he, to see if he would mind if she be ill;

she would obey he, she would do whatever he wish she to do; she

would throw herself out of the window if he would not turn and kiss

she.



so he turn, of course, and the kiss of peace be give; but George

have have a chill in the height of his passion, and even while he pass

his hand over her soft hair and make she pretty, low-voice

love-speech, his mind be full of practical matter concern she

lodge for the three night to be pass before he could possibly

marry she, and other detail connect with this step.



“where be this school you live at before you come to London with

Mrs. Ellis, Nouna?” he ask suddenly.



“School! it ben’t quite a school. there be only six of we, and we

all have room apart and our own servant,” say Nouna.



“well, but where be it?”



“it be at Clifton. but why--”



“Clifton! that’s no use,” say George to himself. then he continue

aloud, “now, Nouna, will you be a good child and stay quietly where I

take you to-night?”



“yes,” say she, nod like a child, “if you come too.”



“I’ll take you there to-night, and I’ll come and see you quite early

in the morning. it be to the house of an old servant in our family who

now let part of her house in apartment. she will be very kind to

you, I know.”



“but you willn’t leave I there all alone--without Sundran or anybody?”



“I willn’t leave you until I see you be quite happy and comfortable

there, and if you don’t like the place and the people I willn’t leave

you there at all.”



without give her time for further objection, George bring she a

comb, which she kiss because it be his and proceed to pass

through her short, thick hair in a very helpless and unaccustomed

fashion; at last, come to a decided knot, she stamp her foot and,

leave the comb in her hair, present her head to George, who place

she again in the armchair and reverently and laboriously set to work

on the soft curly tangle. he grow very hot over the occupation, which

be new to he, and begin to understand why hairdresser be generally

of the abler sex. by the time he have reduce the pretty wavy hair to

order, and admire its soft silkiness by the light of the candle he

have set burning, Nouna have add to his difficulty by fall, like

a tired kitten, fast asleep. he call to she gently two or three

time, and be at last force to come to the conclusion that she do

not mean to wake up. after a moment’s reflection he resolve to take

advantage of the circumstance. it be get very late, and if he

be to insist on rouse she, she might have another little scene in

store for he before she would consent to go. so he put on her cap,

pick up her glove and put they in his pocket, and lift she in

his arm, wrap the beaded mantle about she and carry she down

stair, during which proceed she pat his cheek sleepily but

really seem only half awake. he pass nobody but the sentry, who

could scarcely conceal his surprise on find which of the young

officer it be who be engage in such an evident “lark.” he be just

in time to catch a train to Victoria, and until they arrive there

Nouna decline to wake up. outside the station, George get with his

sleepy charge into a hansom and, after give the driver an address in

a street at Brompton, occupy himself, as his companion remain

motionless except that as he prop she in the corner she promptly

fall back against he, in get her little hand into her glove. he

be very tenderly busy with the first, when a voice from the depth of

his shoulder surprise he.



“wrong hand!”



“Hallo! so you’re awake, be you, little one? come, lift up your head;

I want to put you to right before we get there.”



“no, no, I don’t want to get there,” say she, stretch up her arm

across his breast, “I want to drive about like this all night with

you.”



“but we cann’t do that, Nouna.”



“why not?”



“well, you’d catch cold--”



“no, I shouldn’t; I’m quite warm; feel I.”



“and--and it wouldn’t be consider right.”



“now you’re not go to talk as Mrs. Somers use to talk, be you?”

ask Nouna warningly. “because if you do I shall hate you just as I

use to hate she, and I shall want to get away from you just as I use

from she.”



“but, Nouna, some one must tell you what’s right and what’s wrong, and

who be to do it if you willn’t let I whom you say you love?”



“don’t say I only _say_ it,” cry she, nestle up to he with

plead reproach. “go on, go on lecture I; but keep your hand so

on my shoulder all the time.”



and his lecture have to die away into endear word, and when the

hansom stop, George find it difficult to resist the temptation,

urge upon he in a soft whisper by his companion, to tell the cabman

to “drive on.” but he nerve himself to a sense of duty and propriety,

jump out and rang the bell of a well-keep house, at the door of

which appear a neat servant who inform he that Miss Glass be at

home.



Miss Glass be a woman of five and forty, with an honest

fresh-coloured face, who insist on kiss George because she have

nurse he when he be a baby, and who willingly consent to do all

she could for his bride-elect. the eccentric appearance of that lady

when she be bring inside the house seem somewhat to shock her

idea of propriety; but when, after George have bid her good-night

and go to the door, the poor child run out after he and entreat

he not to leave she--she be so lonely--she have never be all by

herself among stranger before--Miss Glass put her arm round the girl

in very kindly fashion, and soothe she into some sort of despondent

and melancholy resignation.



“you’ll come early, willn’t you?” Nouna cry from the doorstep in

heart-break tone. “if you don’t come before ten I shall come to the

barrack after you.”



George assure she that he would come before breakfast, and drive off,

excite by the rapidity with which this important step of marriage be

force itself upon he. he have surprise himself lately by develop

an infinite capacity for do rash thing, but he be save by his

native obstinacy from the weakness of regret they; therefore,

although he acknowledge to himself that this headlong plunge into

matrimony be the rash act of all, and that his chance of domestic

happiness be about the same as if he have decide to unite himself

for life to a Cherokee squaw, he be resolve in dare-devil fashion to

stick to his colour and make the good of it, and this state of mind

leave he calm enough to think of a little act of kind consideration

towards poor Mrs. Ellis who, he know, must by this time be half crazy

with anxiety about her charge. so he drive to Mary Street, and after

satisfy the governess that Nouna be safe, though he decline, for

fear of Rahas, to give her address, he go down stair and knock at

the door of the oriental merchant’s apartment. the grey-haired Fanah

open it, however, and with a real or affected ignorance of English,

explain, chiefly by gesture and incoherent noise that his nephew

be “go away.” so that George, who be burn for some short and

sharp vengeance, he hardly know what, upon Rahas for his infamous

advice to Nouna, be force to retire with that praiseworthy wish

unsatisfie.



Scarcely, however, have the old merchant, with a low bow, close the

door of his apartment, when a little lamp, bear by a figure in

white, cast a feeble light upon the wall above, which shift rapidly

downward until it be flash in George’s eye by the bearer, who

prove to be no other than Nouna’s indian servant Sundran. the young

man start when he see the bronze-colour face peer up into his.

it be a most unprepossessing countenance, bear the impress of mean

passion and low cunning, which not even the brown dog’s eye, full of

affection and a certain sagacity, could redeem. the woman might have

be of any age between thirty-five and fifty, though the supple

agility of her movement seem to prove that the wrinkle and line

in her dark face be premature. she look up into Lauriston’s face

with eager anxiety.



“Missee, little missee, my mistress, where be she?” she ask in a

whisper.



“she’s all right, quite safe; I come to tell Mrs. Ellis so.”



“but I want to see she, she not sleep till I come to she and sing and

tell she the old story. take I to she, sahib, take I, and Sundran

love you very dear.”



“I cann’t do that, Sundran; she be a long way from here. but she be

quite safe. I be go to marry she, so you may be quite sure she be

safe. Mrs. Ellis trust I, so you can.”



“but, sahib, Missee Ellis not know she so long as I. I come with she

from her country with the Mammee Countess, her mother. she always have

I, she love her old nurse. Sahib, take I to she.”



but George be look upon the woman with more and more distaste.

Hers be the pernicious influence which, work by the spell of

early association, of wild fable, of romantic devotion, have fill

Nouna’s young mind with its prejudice, have excite her imagination by

its dangerous picture, and have make she blind and deaf to all the

well influence around she.



“I cannot indeed,” he say gravely. “I be go straight back to my

own room now. it would take I another hour to drive you first to the

house where she be stay, and by that time your mistress would be

fast asleep.”



the woman notice the increase coldness of his tone, and recognise

the uselessness of further entreaty. she try another tack.



“Sahib,” she whisper low than ever, in a wheedle tone, with a

glance all round the hall and a particularly careful scrutiny, by the

light of the lamp, of the chink of the door, “if you take I to

Missee Nuna, if you tell I where she be, I take you to Sahib Rahas, I

tell you where he be.”



George start, and the offer confirm he in his resolution to have

nothing to do with this woman. he think it prove conclusively that

she have be buy by Rahas, but that she be willing to betray he

if she could get her price; and though he do she the justice to

believe in the sincerity of her devotion to her young mistress, he

know how much more harm than good it be likely to do his poor little

_fiancée_. as he repeat that it be impossible for he to comply

with her request, the dark face of the indian woman grow hideous with

baffle passion. she retreat a few pace and show her tooth at he

like an angry ape; then twirl her lamp twice round her head with

some muttered, inarticulate word, as if she be repeat an

incantation, she turn she back upon he and slunk stealthily up

stair like a wild animal thwart in a search for its young.



George leave the house with shudder thankfulness that Nouna have

escape from her perilous association. “marriage, thank heaven,”

think he, “work such change in a woman that it will drive they all

out of her head and fill her heart and mind with new thought and

feeling.”



and of course he forget that marriage can work change in a man too.









 CHAPTER X.



the next morning, before he be up, George Lauriston be surprised

by an apparition in a dressing-gown, with a black eye and a strip of

sticking-plaister across its upper lip. it prove to be clarence

Massey, who come up to his bedside to offer to smoke the pipe of peace

while yet the soft influence of slumber might be suppose to mollify

any desire for vengeance which might haply be still burn in his

comrade’s breast. as a matter of fact, George have, before retire to

rest the night before, regret his violence to the little irish lad,

and be ready to meet he more than half-way. so that when Massey

humbly make a clean breast of the trick he have play, valiantly

omit all mention of Dicky Wood’s share in it, and apologise for

his intrusion into Lauriston’s quarter the evening before, the latter

hold out his hand from the bed and tell he not to think any more

about it.



“I’m awfully sorry I be so rough with you, old chap,” say he. “it

be all a misunderstanding from begin to end. Nouna be so young,

and know so little of the world, that she haven’t dignity enough yet

to awe an Irishman. she’ll know well when she’s marry; and if you

don’t come to our wedding, at least you must be the first to

congratulate we afterwards, Massey, since it be you who bring about

our first meeting.”



but Massey’s jaw have drop.



“wedding! you don’t really mean you’re go to marry she, Lauriston!”

he cry in too evident consternation.



“certainly I mean it; why not?” say George, very quietly, though he

have suddenly grow thoroughly awake.



“oh, no reason, of course. I beg your pardon. I be only surprised

because we haven’t hear anything about it, you know.”



“there be no reason why the whole regiment should know all one’s

affair,” say George quickly. “and look here, massey, don’t go and

talk about it, there’s a good fellow. you know very well how they all

begin to croak if a man marry young, and as I don’t want my wife to

meet any of they before it’s necessary, I’d rather they don’t even

hear of it till we’ve have time to look about we,” end George, who

have a nervous dread of the effect the neighbourhood of a pretty woman

who be somebody else’s wife have upon several of his fellow-officer.



Massey nod intelligently two or three time in the course of this

speech, but at the end of it he hum’d and ha’d rather dubiously and at

last speak out.



“well, you see, Lauriston, of course I willn’t say a word, but the fact

be something about it have get to the Colonel’s ear already.”



“what!” cry George, jump up.



“yes. you see, when you deposit I on the floor of the corridor

outside here last night, neither you nor I take the matter in the

quiet and gentlemanly manner we ought to have do. in fact, we make

such a row that rumour of it come to the Colonel’s ear, and hear

your name and mine mix up in it, he send for I and ask I about

it. and--and you see, Laurie, old chap, I don’t know all you have

just tell I, and--”



“by Heaven!” say George in a low voice, “you make he think--”



“I give you my word, old man, I don’t _make_ he think anything. but

I couldn’t help what he do think. when he hear there be a girl

mix up in it--a sort of creole, I think I say--he go off like

soda-water in hot weather, and there be no get a word in edgeway

after that. he ask I finally what the d-- I be stand there for

like a moonstruck idiot, or a stuck pig, or a something I don’t

exactly catch. for as soon as he show by his first word that my

presence be no long soothe, I salute and scuttle away, as one

express journey through the air in the course of an evening be enough

for anybody. I believe he send up to your room, but you have go out

by that time.”



George listen to this account very gloomily, as the Colonel be the

very last person he wish to know anything about his marriage until

it be an accomplished fact. he dread a summon from Lord

Florencecourt; for the next three day he feel a nervous quaking of

the heart whenever he be in the neighbourhood of the autocratic

little officer. but for some unexplained reason he be not call upon

to give an account of himself, and instead, the Colonel seem to mark

his displeasure by the much more welcome mean of cold reserve towards

he.



in the meantime George have a busy day of it. he dismiss Massey

pledge to secrecy on the subject of the marriage and likewise to

eternal friendship with himself, call on Nouna, whom he find

reconcile to her new abode by mean of a kitten and a preliminary

lesson in the art of shell pea. he then go up to the City, see

Mr. Angelo, tell he enough of the occurrence of the precede

evening to show he how needful it be that the young girl should find

immediately some more efficient protector than the somnolent and

stolid Mrs. Ellis, and declare his wish to marry she at once. Mr.

Angelo concur perfectly in all that he say, and only make one

stipulation, namely, that George should wait until Madame di

Valdestillas’s consent could be get to this decisive step.



“I have not the least doubt of her consent, Mr. Lauriston,” say he.

“and as I learn yesterday, by telegraph to her last address, that

she and her husband be now in Paris, on their way to spa, you will

not have long to wait for her answer. she be accustom to act a good

deal by my advice, and I will say about you enough to turn the scale.

she have great faith in my judgment, as she may well have where she be

concern, for, although some of her action may seem eccentric to we

methodical Europeans, she have a most generous and noble nature, and

she can always command whatever knowledge and service my partner and

I can put at her disposal. but I could not allow this hasty marriage

to take place without her full consent. to begin with, it would not be

legal, as her daughter be not yet sixteen.”



there be nothing for George Lauriston to do therefore, but to wait,

and in the meantime to write a long and earnest letter to the

Countess, which he entrust to her lawyer, without trouble far

for her address. during the next two day he spend a great deal of his

time with Nouna, whom he take to the South Kensington Museum and to

the Zoological Gardens, first stop with she at different shop in

Regent Street, where he provide she with boot, glove and a hat. she

give a great deal of trouble in all the shop, be quite unable to

fix her attention on the subject in hand in her delight at be able

to run about and examine all the pretty thing; but she charm the

attendant, both man and girl, who allow she to try on every scarf

and bonnet and wrap that suit her fancy, and bring she a cup of

tea, when, on hear two of the girl speak about go to tea, she

make a request for one. when, however, her exuberance of spirit have

calm down a little, she choose without an instant’s hesitation the

bonnet which suit she good, a pucker ivory-silk hood-like

headgear, mean for a child, a pair of long silk glove of the same

shade, which she gather up in wrinkle on her arm, and a china

crape shawl that match exactly with they, which she arrange most

picturesquely about her shoulder, after fling down on the ground

the beaded mantle she have previously wear.



this proceeding, which cause George some consternation, she

accomplish with a series of delighted chuckle.



“ah, ah! that’s the thing Mammy Ellis get for I! I wish she could see

it now,” she murmur, cast a look of scorn and hatred at the

reject garment, which be of the kind middle-aged lady call

“handsome” and “lady-like.” and when one of the smile assistant

pick it up and ask for her address that she might send it home,

she shake her head disdainfully and say they could keep it, she do

not want it send home. but George, with a serious face, mindful of the

expense of lady’ dress, which begin to seem unsuspectedly appalling,

say she might be cold presently, and insist on carry the prickly

bristle mantle, which he regard with all reverence as having be

wear by she, over his arm.



it seem to he monstrous that the bill for these few trifle thing

should have come to three pound fifteen shilling and elevenpence

halfpenny--a sum which, when pay, leave he scarcely enough for her

boot and the cab to and from the Zoo. for she choose her foot-gear in

the same half-royal, half-mad way, turn over a pile of boot and

shoe with quick finger, and run round to inspect the content of

the show-case until she discover a pair of tiny, thin walking-shoe

with slender, taper heel, which stand all by themselves under

glass in the middle of the shop. she be tell they be only for show,

and too small for wear.



“but they be large enough for I,” she say, thrust forward a

small, velvet-shod foot imperiously. “I will not wear ugly shoe

because your Englishwomen have ugly foot.”



and nothing would satisfy she but to try they on, when, to the

surprise of the shopkeeper and the consternation of the unhappy

purse-bearer, they prove to fit she perfectly and in every respect to

suit her taste. she perform a little fancy dance before the glass to

demonstrate their beauty and the fact that they be easy, and George

bring down his fortune to a couple of half-crown and some copper

by the act of pay for they.



“ben’t there any boot then among the thing I bring from Mary

Street this morning, Nouna?” he ask diffidently.



“oh yes, a few old plowman’s things--‘strong walking-boot,’ as Mrs.

Ellis call they,” say she carelessly; “but of course I could not

come out with _you_ in _those_. you know Mrs. Ellis never will take I

with she to buy my thing. this be the very first time I have ever

buy anything for myself, and oh! I do like it.”



George have no doubt of that: she be absolutely tremble with joyous

excitement. but Mrs. Ellis’s judgment seem to he a less mean thing

than it have seem before. the girl be so happy, however, that it be

impossible not to sympathise a little with her pleasure; and when they

leave the shop and get again into the hansom, and she say, with an

ardent squeeze of his hand, “oh, I do like shop with you! I’ll go

shop with you whenever you like!” he feel a passionate longing to

gather the little butterfly thing up into his arm; and instead of

tell she that about a week of this indulgence would land he in the

Bankruptcy Court, he tell she in a husky whisper that he would have

some work in a few day, and when the money for it come she should

have it to do what she like with, “and every penny I can ever earn in

all my life, my darling,” he add close to her ear. whereupon she be

with difficulty restrain from embrace he opposite Peter

Robinson’s.



this be the day they go to the Zoo, where Nouna, look quaintly

lovely in her hastily-choose toilette, skip and frolic about so

that George feel like her grandfather, feed the big bear with bun

until even he refuse to climb up his pole for they any long, and

excite a mild “sensation” in the school-child and quiet visitor.

not one cage, not one path among the Gardens, would she leave

unvisited. George might go home if he please--she could find her way

back; but she would drink her pleasure to the dreg, ride the elephant

and the camel, lunch frugally and hastily at the little restaurant,

give nut to the monkey and biscuit to the Wapiti deer, pat the

seal and shudder at the serpent, till the sun go down and it be

time for the closing of the Gardens. by that time the new shoe have

begin to feel a little stiff, the white glove to look more than a

little soil, and at last poor tired Nouna burst into tear on

discover a long rent in the pretty crape shawl.



“it be that nasty monkey, the one with the long ta-a-il,” she sob.

“oh, George, ben’t there time to go back and beat he?”



“no, I’m afraid not, darling,” say George, rearrange the shawl as

good he could to hide the slit. “and he don’t know any well, poor

thing.”



“but I ought to know well than to be such a baby,” say she

suddenly, with great solemnity, stop her tear. “I shall be

different when I’m married,” she go on, very earnestly, “for married

woman never cry, do they? they have something else to do. I’m afraid I

shall not make a very good wife at first, George,” she say, give

herself up to the subject with as much intensity as she have just

devoted to the animal, though her voice be tired now and her

footstep very slow. “I be talk it over with Miss Glass this

morning, and she tell I many thing which I mean to write down, only

I forget: how I must find out what you like and what you dislike; she

say many a husband’s love be lose by little thing such as forget

pickle, and give he hare without--without--I don’t remember what.

but I’ll ask she again. I mean to be a good wife, much well than

people think, and please mamma--and--let I rest a little.”



it be a long way across the park to the near point where they

could get a cab, and although George half carry she for the great

part of the distance, she fall into his arm with a little exhaust,

sob cry when at last they get into a hansom, and before they have

drive half a mile she be fast asleep. he sit look down at the

red, part lip, the soft young cheek, the sweep eyelash that

define the voluptuous curve of her long eyelid, with the

thoughtfulness of the guardian mingle with the yearn tenderness

of the lover. during the long, bright day he have just spend with she

it have begin to dawn upon he that some of his dream of an ideal

marriage with this fascinating, tiresome, irresponsible child-woman

be very unsubstantial thing. if her frivolity be to be improve

away, it would take with it a great deal of her charm, if not of her

beauty; while underneath all her light-hearted caprice and infectious

gaiety, the strong, stormiest passion would peep out sometimes for

a moment and give strange warning of the tyranny she might exercise

over a nature that have not strength and suppleness enough to control

her. yet for all this, he love she more than before, while he

dread the empire she would make a hard struggle to get over he. all

the passion of his nature he be hold in leash, feel that he

scarcely yet know its force, that it be gather strength with every

moment of restraint. would he be this woman’s ruler and husband, or

would he marry she only to be her slave?



he try to shake off these morbid thought, and to reassure himself

by look steadfastly on the beautiful little face that in a few day

be to be his own: but he find no comfort there. capacity for

emotion, for passion, he read clearly enough, but of thought or high

feel no trace. he grow hot, begin to be haunt by Rahas’s horrible

word: “the woman of the East have no soul,” until in a passion of

indignation with himself and almost with she he wake she up by a

hastily snatch kiss, which, tired as she be, she receive with her

usual demonstrative responsiveness: and then she insist on

entertain he with indian love-song in a native _patois_, teach

she by Sundran, which she croon in a low, unequal, but rather sweet

voice close to his ear for the rest of the way to Miss Glass’s house,

where he leave she scarcely wide awake enough to bid he good night.



this be his last day of suspense, for on the follow morning George

receive a long letter forward by Messrs. Smith and Angelo, and

date simply from “Paris,” in the thin, pointed feminine handwriting

of the last generation. this be the letter:--





 “my dear Mr. Lauriston,



 “I begin in this way without the formal ‘dear sir’ because, although I

 do not know you personally, those thing which I have hear about you,

 the simple and manly letter I have receive from you, have touch my

 heart and make I feel as I should feel towards the man who ask to

 become the husband of my daughter. I be in a strange case, Mr.

 Lauriston--a passionately love mother keep apart from her child by a

 paramount duty. I love Nouna as the plant love the sun; ask she to

 show you my letter, ask she what she remember of I, and you will

 find that no woman among your english friend love her child as I

 love my child, nor fulfil every wish of her daughter’s as I do

 Nouna’s. when you be her husband--for I wish you to become her

 husband, you be noble-hearted and honourable, and you will take care

 of she--you will find that her absent mother have a share in all her

 memory. her girl’s treasure be all present send by I, her

 prayer-book be mark by my hand, the very clothe in which she will

 be married to you be partly make by I. don’t forget this, don’t

 forget that the innocence and purity you reverence in she be the

 result of my care. I could not have keep her mind so child-like if she

 have be always travel about from country to country as I must do

 with my husband, who be an invalid. I think she have suffer no harm

 since she leave school. Mrs. Ellis be a good and pious woman who

 respect I and love Nouna. as for the eastern gentleman Rahas, of

 whom you speak harshly, Nouna and Mrs. Ellis have write to I very

 openly about he, and I have also receive a very respectful

 explanatory letter from the gentleman himself, and I have come to the

 conclusion that your dislike to he be probably the result of

 misunderstanding. I hope and believe this. I be write fully to you

 because I wish you to understand and respect the motive of my

 conduct, that you may look upon I as a mother to you as well as to

 Nouna, who will pray for the one as for the other, and who hope at

 some not far distant time to see you both together. I yearn for that

 time to come; I be lonely without my child--without my child. I

 entreat you to look upon Mr. Angelo as my representative in all

 thing; what he wish I wish, what he sanction I sanction. I beg

 that you will leave all matter connect with your marriage in his

 hand; I have also write to this effect to Nouna. whatever he tell

 you to do, do, in the full assurance that it be what I wish. he be

 an old and trusted friend. it be the manner in which he have write of

 you that make I write to you like this. he know that the dear

 wish of my heart for many year have be to marry my daughter to an

 honourable gentleman of good family and position, able to introduce

 she into the very good society, as I should have do myself if it have

 not be for the unfortunate delicacy of my husband the Count. may God

 bless you both be the earnest desire and prayer of



                               “your love mother (_per avance_),



                                       “Lakshmi di Valdestillas.



 “P.S.--I particularly wish that my daughter may be present at Court

 as early as possible next season. I regret very much that it be too

 late for the last drawing-room this year. I will try to be in London

 for the occasion, but my movement be altogether dependent on the

 Count’s state of health.”





George Lauriston put this letter down, after read it through to the

end, in a state of paralyse bewilderment. “position!” “very good

society!” “present at Court!” what on earth have he say in his

letter to she to cause she to make such a ghastly mistake? for some

moment he be too much absorb by his dismay to notice that an

enclosure from Mr. Angelo lie in the envelope that have contain

Madame di Valdestillas’ letter. this be the note:--





 “George Lauriston, Esq.,



 “Dear Sir,



 “we shall be glad if you can make it convenient to come with Miss

 Nouna Weston to our office as quickly as possible on receipt of this,



                                “we be, dear sir, your faithfully,



                                               “Smith and Angelo.”





an hour and a half later George and Nouna be in a hansom, drive

towards the City as fast as a good horse could take they.









 CHAPTER XI.



Nouna be in a state of the high excitement all the way to the

City. she have receive a letter from her mother, which she show to

George, after kiss it fervently before she let it go out of she

hand. the Countess, after many pious exhortation and affectionate

congratulation to her daughter, exhort she in the most emphatic

manner to consult Mr. Angelo in all detail connect with her

marriage, and yield to he the most explicit obedience, as she would

do to herself.



George be strike with this portion of the letter, agree so

entirely with what the Countess have say to he. the suspicion even

flash across his mind that there might once have be a close tie

between the Countess and Mr. Angelo than that of lawyer and client.

when he arrive with his _fiancée_ at the solicitor’ office the

young man be so nervous and excited that Mr. Smith remark in his

genial and jocular manner that he be anticipate the suffering of

the ordeal. Nouna, on the other hand, to whom marriage mean the

beginning of an era of eternal kiss and shopping, vary by visit

to the Zoo, and unknown delight even more intoxicating, beam with

happiness, smile shyly and coquettishly upon the young clerk in the

office, and invade Mr. Angelo in his sanctum without even knock at

the door. the old gentleman bear this intrusion well, and beckon

Lauriston in with an unusually bland expression.



“I suppose, Mr. Lauriston,” he begin, after wait for both his

visitor to seat themselves, “that you be anxious for your marriage

to take place without delay.”



“yes, yes, he be, we be,” answer Nouna for he readily, tap on

the floor with her little foot.



“certainly,” say George, with much more deliberation. “But--” Nouna

turn sharply round and look at he with aggrieved astonishment.

“but there be one passage in the letter from the Countess which you

forward to I this morning that I should like to point out to you

before we go on to other thing, as it seem to argue that there have

be some misunderstanding on her part which I cann’t account for.”



George get up, and bend down beside Mr. Angelo’s writing-table,

point out the passage in the Countess’s letter which refer to

“position” and “presentation at Court.”



“you see, sir, that Madame di Valdestillas seem to think my pecuniary

position be much well than it be, or than it be likely to be,” he

say. “and yet you know how plainly I have state it.”



“but I don’t want to be present at Court,” chime in Nouna, who have

hop off her chair to read over Mr. Angelo’s shoulder the passage

refer to, and who be evidently in great anxiety lest the

much-covet prize, a real live husband, should slip through her

finger. “one of my school-fellow have a sister who be present, and

she have her dress tear and catch a cold. I would much rather wear my

nice dress at home, where one can keep warm and not have they

spoilt. tell mamma, Mr. Angelo, please, that I don’t want to go to

Court.”



the lawyer give a pale but indulgent little smile.



“I think, Mr. Lauriston, that this little matter will prove no serious

obstacle. the wife of an officer with a career before he, such as I

be sure you have, will certainly be present in due course; and if

when that time come, this young lady should wish to indulge in any

special extravagance for the occasion, I feel sure the Countess would

help her daughter to make a becomingly splendid appearance.”



George listen in perplexity, while Nouna sweep across the room,

curtsey low to the iron safe in the corner, and kiss an imaginary

royal hand with graceful and fervent loyalty. then, attract by the

sight of a couple of bird perch on a housetop, she stand on tiptoe

to look out of the window, and for a moment leave the gentleman a

chance to converse without her assistance.



“you will, I suppose, be marry by licence, as that admit of the

least delay. by take out a licence at the Vicar-General’s office

to-day, you can be marry at your own church on Monday.”



“yes, I know that,” say George, rather surprised that the lawyer’s

eagerness to get the matter settle should keep pace with his own. “I

be go this morning to a bank in Lombard Street where I keep a

particularly modest account, to get the necessary fund.”



“ah, very well. as it be Saturday, you will have to make haste to get

there before the bank close. one of my clerk shall go with you, if

you don’t know your way. and in the meantime I think I have well take

this young lady to doctor’ Commons, where she can make the necessary

statement to get the licence as well as you could yourself. but, my

dear young lady,” he continue, turn to Nouna, who have spring back

from the window in great excitement at this suggestion, “you must

really control your high spirit a little and carry yourself with more

gravity, or you will certainly be refuse the licence on the ground

that you be too young.”



in an instant she have fly to a small square look-glass that be

hang against the wall in a corner of the room, and have part the

curly bush of soft hair that shade her forehead, and flatten it

down into prim unbecoming band that make she look a couple of year

old.



“that’s what we use to do at school, when we want to mimic Mrs.

Somers,” say she grimly.



and she throw open the door to intimate that she be ready to start.



as the old lawyer slowly rise and prepare for the excursion, he say

to George, as he shake his head with would-be pleasantry:



“he need be twice a man, Mr. Lauriston, who wed a child.”



the warning be not need; George have already begin to be of that

opinion.



when he return from the bank, George find that Nouna and the lawyer

have come back, and before he could ask any question about their

expedition, Mr. Smith be beg the young people to come to luncheon

with he, and they be hurry off from the office so quickly that

George have scarcely time to notice a sudden and most unusual gravity

in Nouna, who do not recover her usual high spirit until she find

herself among the garish glory of the Holborn Restaurant.



when they have finish luncheon, and Mr. Smith, with many

congratulation and pretty speech, have leave they, to seek the

domestic delight of his semi-detached villa at Anerley, George

remember that he have forget to ask Mr. Angelo for the licence.

Nouna answer with a sudden womanly gravity which make he laugh--



“Mr. Angelo have it. and he be go to give notice at the church and

everything, so that we shall have nothing to do but to walk in and get

married. I’ve choose a church Miss Glass tell I of, at Kensington.”



George be half amuse, half offend, by the scrupulous officiousness

with which the old lawyer carry out his instruction of “see to

everything,” but he think no more seriously about the matter.



the next day he spend with a very vague consciousness of what go on

around he. for he be bind, by a long-stand invitation, to pass

this particular Sunday on the river with Massey, Dicky Wood, and a

fast Guardsman, one Captain Pascoe, who be a far too intimate friend

of the gentle Dicky’s. they would not let he off, as he have wish,

because he be by far the good oarsman among they, and the only one

who could be depend upon to resist the temptation of champagne-cup

sufficiently to keep up the credit of the crew when the sun have be

beat mercilessly down upon river and field for half a dozen hour.



it be a beastly day altogether, as they one and all describe it

afterwards. to begin with, when they arrive by train at Maidenhead,

from which place it have be determine to row up to Pangbourne or

Streatley and back, they find that the boat, which be the joint

property of Massey and Wood, have be leave at Kingston some day

before by the former, whom the rest fall upon and slang for his dear

little irresponsible way. then there be a general wrangle as to what

they should do, some be for go down to Kingston, some for hire

a boat, and George be lustily and heartily for go back to town.

however, the matter be settle for all of they by the discovery that

there be no train to anywhere for two hour, so they get a bad old

boat which be the only one at liberty, and start in the bad of

humour all round. the numerous defect of the craft supply they

with a subject for invective for the first couple of mile, during

which George and Dicky Wood pull, Captain Pascoe steer, and massey

bale out the water which they have have the pleasure of discover at

the bottom of the boat. long before they reach Marlow George have have

enough of their society, and propose to tow they up in order that he

might be able to indulge his dream of come happiness undisturbed.



Captain Pascoe be a fair-haired, pallid man of thirty-five, always

well-dress, almost always good-humour, popular with woman of every

rank and of every class, and like by all man but a few who loathe

he as they would a noxious reptile. he be a man of the world in the

sense of take the low possible view of it, and be familiar with

every phase of fast life; he have any amount of easy philosophy and

indubitable pluck, but be selfish, _blasé_, and corrupt, point out

as the hero of half a dozen intrigue with woman whose position be

lofty than their virtue, and of whose favour, it be say, he do

not scruple to boast, and at present the slave of one of the most

notorious woman in London.



George Lauriston hate he, and would have excuse himself from this

excursion if he have know that Captain Pascoe be to be of the party.

on this, the eve of his marriage, when to he the word woman signify

all thing pure, all thing holy, every glance cast by this _roué_ at

the fair girl in the boat that go by, every slow, soft word with

which he pass an opinion on their look, seem to George like a

sting in a sensitive place. so he light his pipe and toil along

bravely in the sun on the towing-path, watch the green tree as

they seem to quiver in the hot air, the velvet bee and the slender

dragon-fly that fly across his path, the dry crack earth at his

foot, see nothing all the time but a small, ever-change face,

hearing in the hum of the bee only a young girl’s voice. when they

come to Temple Lock, and he get back into the boat with the rest,

their talk jarred on he more than ever; they be discuss the

attraction of a certain Chloris White, a great star of the

_demi-monde_, to whom Captain Pascoe have introduce the two lad the

evening before.



Massey be, of course, rave about the exquisite taste of her dress,

the charming _chic_ of her manner, the sheen of her golden hair, the

languid glance of her eye, and a great deal more of the same sort,

give off as usual in effusive praise the admiration which, if it

have be more contain, might have prove dangerous. but Dicky Wood

say so little and blush so much, that George, who know that he be

rich, have hear sensational story about this woman’s bloodsucke

propensity, and know that she have help pascoe himself to gobble up

his patrimony, have a burst of rage against the latter for introduce

the lad to she. he remain silently and stolidly smoke therefore,

while the other talk. massey, however, insist on drag he

into the conversation.



“here, I say, Lauriston, haven’t you get anything to say on the

subject? haven’t you see Chloris White?” he say, with a gentle kick

at his companion from where he lie stretch at full length in the

bow.



“not that I know of,” answer George indifferently.



“Lauriston always look the other way when he see one of those lady

come,” say Captain Pascoe in his soft voice.



“no, I don’t,” say George rather aggressively. “why should I?”



“well, I’m sure I don’t know why you should,” say the other, in the

lazy but effective manner habitual to he, as if he really wish they

wouldn’t give he the trouble of talk, but if they insist on

bring it upon themselves, why there it be, you know. “only I’d

hear you like something of a milder flavour.”



“you be quite mistaken then,” say George, quietly but with

sledge-hammer sincerity, “I admire they and approve of they just as

the Dutch do of stork. they be a charming feature of the

landscape--what would the park be to look at without they and their

turn-outs?--and they live upon the noxious slimy creature that would

otherwise become a pest to decent people.”



and he puff away again at his pipe.



the two young man laugh awkwardly, rather ashamed of their late

extravagance of adulation, and afraid of Lauriston’s contempt. but

Captain Pascoe, who feel venomously angry, say it be very smart, if

it haven’t be say before, as he rather fancy. and from that moment

the want of harmony between the element of the party become more and

more apparent until it be a question whether all do not feel when

they get back to town that it be worth while to have go through the

day together for the sake of the relief and delight of part.



George hurry to the street where Nouna be stay, only for the

rapture of gaze upon the dead eye of the window behind which she

be sleep. he walk up and down on the opposite side of the way

for hour, in that irrational ecstasy of anticipation tremble on the

border of fulfilment which the devotee of long engagement--whatever

their compensate advantage of well knowledge and calm reason

may be--never know. it be to be a perfect life, this new life of his

and her, humanise, not vulgarise, by comparative poverty, with no

trial less ennoble than the struggle of his just ambition, and his

endeavour to bring his young wife’s extravagant view into conformity

with the smallness of their fortune. at that moment the prospect

seem almost too radiant, and George at last go reluctantly away

with a superstitious fear that something must happen on the morrow to

dash down the fabric of so much supernatural happiness.



however, when, on the follow morning, after a sleepless night of

feverish imagining, George fall at last into a doze, and wake

spring out of bed in crazy terror lest he should have overslept

himself, everything go as smoothly as possible. he be in plenty of

time to go to the apartment he have take, to see that all be ready

for his bride’s reception, then to be at the church at eight o’clock,

as they have arrange; even as he drive up to the door he see another

hansom approach with Nouna and Mr. Angelo, who be to give the

bride away; and, lastly, he have not forget the ring. he wait at

the door for they, and help Nouna to descend with a tremor in his

limb and a tumultuous upheaval of all the force of his nature as she

lay her small hand lightly on his arm and spring to the ground with

indecorous haste, and a face beam with happy, light-hearte

excitement.



she be most oddly dress in white mull muslin drapery that

appear to be keep together only by a broad sash of soft white silk

that be swathe several time round her body, and the wide end of

which hang on the left side nearly to her foot. long white silk glove

cover her arm and meet the hang drapery, while her head be

crown, not cover, by a white silk fez. her dark skin glow with

an unusual and beautiful tinge of pink, her black eye dance with

excitement, and between her vividly crimson lip two straight row of

strong ivory tooth gleam as she laugh. a handsome, graceful,

untamed creature, with all the instinct and scarcely more than the

capacity for thought of a healthy young animal, skip into a

christian church to bind herself with lifelong vow in exactly the

same spirit with which she have enter the draper’s shop the week

before to enjoy the delicious excitement of buy a new bonnet.



a baker’s boy, who happen to be pass, put down his basket to

watch she in open-mouthed admiration and astonishment. George himself,

intoxicate as he be by his passion, feel a sudden misgiving, not as

to the wisdom, but as to the generosity, of enter with this eager

child into a compact, the nature and term of which, it now occur

to he for the first time, she do not in the least understand.

instead of sober she by its solemn significance, marriage seem to

be turn her head, and to have by anticipation disperse even those

pretty little mood of dignity and of languid silence with which she

have formerly vary the monotony of her childish gaiety. her very

greeting be sufficiently suggestive of her view of the impending

ceremony.



“you see I’m all in white,” she begin as she spring down upon the

pavement. “I think you would like I to be dress in white, so I

make this dress myself last night, and sit up so late make the

cap--for I make it all myself, fancy that!--that I oversleep myself

this morning and be nearly late. what would you have do if I haven’t

come at all?”



“I should have come and fetch you,” say George, as he shake hand

with Mr. Angelo, and then draw the little bride’s hand through his arm

to lead she into the church.



“ben’t this a queer wedding?” she chatter on as they go through

the great outer door which the pew-opener have just throw open, and by

which she now stand curtsey. “I’ve be think how hard it seem

that I should be marry without any cake or any bridesmaid, and

mamma not here, nor anybody I know. but I’m not go to cry, no, I’m

not go to cry.” as they get inside the church she look up from

George’s arm to his face and see that his eye be moist. “why, it’s

you who be cry, and you be tremble too! what’s the matter?” she

whisper anxiously.



“nothing, my darling,” he whisper back, as he press her hand

against his side, “I be only think how good I must be to you, to

make up for your have neither mother, nor cake, nor bridesmaid.”



they be walk up the middle aisle by this time and, perhaps for a

moment a little awe by Lauriston’s solemn manner, or by the cold

hollow bareness of the large, almost empty church, Nouna make no

further remark until they reach the altar-rail, when she take an

exhaustive look round, and observe that there be “a very funny

window.” the pew-opener, who have follow they up the aisle as quickly

as decency permit, now suggest to the bridegroom that he and the

lady should seat themselves in one of the front pew until the vicar,

who have not yet arrive, should be ready. but the bride dismiss she

with dignity, say, “no, we will wait, so tell he to make haste”;

and George, who feel that Nouna would look upon any inclination to

take advantage of the suggestion as a desire to retract, stand up

manfully with his back to the few spectator who at this early hour

have trickle in to see the wedding, and begin in the midst of his

nervous excitement to be torment by a fear of be late for parade.

Mr. Angelo, who have, accord to his own and the Countess’s express

wish, arrange all the detail of the marriage, now appear from the

vestry with the clergyman, who look blue about the chin and rather

cross, as if he have come out in a hurry, without having have time to

shave or breakfast.



just as George turn at the sound of their footstep, he catch sight

of a figure among the scanty congregation which make he start

forward, forgetful of everything else. a low but indignant “St, st,

what be the matter with you, sir?” from the clergyman, who glare at

he in a manner which seem to say that if they couldn’t keep their

mind on what they be about he wouldn’t marry they at all, recall

he to himself, and the service begin.



to do they justice, they give he no further trouble. Nouna have

study her part in the service, have not only take off her left glove

without be tell, but have tuck up the drapery that form she

sleeve, and leave her arm bare to the shoulder as if ready to be

vaccinate. she trip off her part of the service glibly, in a

clear, bright voice, without wait for the clergyman, and then

look up at George with a tiny movement of the head that be almost a

nod, as much as to say: “you see I’m determined to do you credit.” the

only thing that puzzle she be the difficulty of know when to

kneel down and when to stand up; in this, and in this alone, she be

oblige to accept the clergyman’s guidance, and for this she keep she

eye fix carefully upon he all the time.



Lauriston’s nervousness, increase by the sight of the figure he feel

sure he recognise as that of Rahas, be so great that he become the

victim of what he believe to be a most strange delusion of the ear.

it seem to he that every word of the prayer of the service be

repeat, as the clergyman utter it, in a soft, distinct tone, away

in the body of the church behind they. as soon as the service be

over, the bridegroom turn round with machine-like rapidity, and be

just in time to see the figure he have notice go down the further end

of the south aisle and out at the door. although the man wear a

european overcoat and carry in his hand an english hat, George feel

more than ever convinced that it be Rahas. he be accompany by a

woman, of whose appearance Lauriston could only note two detail: she

wear dark clothing and be small of stature. it be not Mrs. Ellis,

certainly. sundran? he think not. while the young man stand, as if

transfix, stare after these two disappear figure with

strain eye, unmindful of the touch of his newly-make wife on his

arm, Mr. Angelo’s precise tone, close at his ear, rouse he from his

stupefaction.



“come, Mr. Lauriston,” he say in a low but rather peremptory tone,

“we have to go into the vestry.”



the old lawyer’s face be, as usual, impassive; but it occur to

Lauriston, a man render by his profession observant of detail, that

the steadiness with which Mr. Angelo ignore his persistent stare at

the side-door argue that he be himself aware of the object of

interest there. he say nothing, however, but follow the clergyman

into the vestry, and sign his name in the register.



“come, now it’s your turn, little one,” he say tenderly to Nouna, who

have slip from his arm and be stand very quietly beside Mr.

Angelo.



she glance up at the old lawyer, who give she his arm with great

ceremony, lead she to the desk, and turn immediately to the

bridegroom.



“you see, or think you see some one you know among the congregation,

I fancy,” say he in his quiet dry manner.



Lauriston look up quickly from the page over which he be bend.



“yes, I certainly do think so, in fact I be almost sure of it,” he

say, turn to notice the old man’s expression.



“I imagine that to be the case from your expression as we leave the

altar,” say the lawyer, keep Lauriston’s eye fix by the steady

gaze of his own. “who do you think it be?”



“I feel sure it be Rahas,” say George in a low voice, still watch

the face of the lawyer, who now take Nouna’s place to sign the

register as a witness to the marriage. “do you see he too?”



the old gentleman do not answer at once; he be bend low over the

open page before he to finish his signature with a careful flourish.

when he have do this, he place the blot-paper over it, put his

arm through that of the bridegroom, and move away with he.



“my eye be not as good as your, Mr. Lauriston,” he say; “I should

not know my own son at that distance.”



“there be a lady--a woman with he,” say George.



“a woman whom you know?” ask the lawyer, whose interest in the

matter, however, seem to have diminish.



“I think not.”



“then there be nothing extraordinary in the circumstance.”



“what do the man want at my wedding?”



“all friend of the party find wedding interesting. perhaps you

misjudge this eastern gentleman. he have call at my office to give I

a letter for the Countess, and he express the most kindly sentiment

towards you. see, Mrs. Lauriston seem impatient.”



the two gentleman be converse in a low voice just within the

vestry door. Nouna have slip past they into the body of the church,

and stand in an unusually quiet and pensive mood gaze at the altar

where she have lately kneel. George shake himself free from a crowd of

bewildering question that be force themselves into his mind, and

call to she.



“Nouna, come and sign the register.”



“I’ve do it,” “she have do so,” answer she and the lawyer

together.



“I don’t see you.”



“I do it while you be talk,” say she, quickly.



“yes, yes, it’s all right; the lady sign her name,” break in the

vicar, who think he be never go to get rid of they.



so George, hurry away by wife, lawyer, and vicar, do not see

Nouna’s first and last signature of her maiden name.









 CHAPTER XII.



the minute that have be waste in wait for the vicar before the

wedding, and in converse with Mr. Angelo after it, have place George

Lauriston in a singular position: there be not time enough leave to

drive with his bride to the apartment he have take for she in a

street near Wilton Place, and then to return to the barrack and put

on his uniform before parade. he must either risk be late for his

duty for the first time, or miss the pleasure of himself introduce

his young wife to her new home. his mind be make up before he reach

the church-door. he have a superstition, the more influential that he

feel his own weakness where his wife be concern, against begin

his married life by a breach of discipline.



bend down over his little bride, who be leave the church much

more sedately than she have enter it, as if the solemnity of the

married state have already begin to work its sobering influence upon

she, he say, very low and very tenderly: “Nouna, my darling, what

would you say if I ask you to go to our new home by yourself and

wait for I there? if I tell you I could not go there now straight

with you without neglect my duty?”



“say!” say the small bride, lift up a dismayed face suddenly, and

speak in a tremulous voice above the pitch usually consider

decorous in a church. “why, I should say, never mind your duty, but

come with I.”



George would not accept such a portent as this, natural as the little

heart-cry undoubtedly be.



“oh no, darling, you wouldn’t say that,” he urge, in a hurried

whisper. “you wouldn’t like they to say I be a less good soldier

because I be marry.”



“I shouldn’t care what they say, as long as I have you with I,”

persist Nouna piteously, cling to his arm, while two tear come

to her eye and allow themselves to be blink down her cheek.



George hesitate. the intoxication be mount rapidly from heart to

head as he look at she, feel the magnetic pressure of the small

finger. Mr. Angelo, see the difficulty, come up with his usual

deliberate step and detach the cling bride with the unemotional

dexterity of a machine.



“the Countess would be much annoyed if she think you would impede

your husband in the execution of his duty, Nouna,” say he as drily as

ever. “I will take you home, and Mr. Lauriston, I be sure, will need

no urging to join you as speedily as possible.”



George be astonish at the effect this mention of her mother have

upon the wilful girl, and he inwardly note the fact for future use.

the hansom in which they have come be wait outside; he help she

tenderly into one of they and consign she to the care of the old

lawyer, assure she that he would be with she again as soon as ever

he could. then get into the second cab, he drive as fast as he

could to Victoria.



Luck be against he, however. it be this day of all day that

Colonel Florencecourt choose for put an end to the estrangement

which his own act have bring about between himself and his favourite

officer. no soon be parade over than the Colonel, who have already

speak to he more amiably than usual, and tell he with ominous

friendliness that he have something to say to he, come up, thrust his

arm through that of the young man, and remind he that they be

both engage to lunch with the Millards in Grosvenor Square. George

be thunderstruck. he have of course forget all about the

appointment in the absorbing pursuit of matrimony, and his jaw fall

perceptibly at this reminder.



“Eh?” say the Colonel. “still a little sore at Miss Ella’s treatment?

but suppose her ‘no’ should be no more irrevocable than a lady’s

‘no’ to a good-look and dash young fellow usually be? look here,

Lauriston, I have reason to think the Millards have an invitation in

hand for you down to their place in Norfolk, and probably Ella have a

hand in that, as the clever young lady have in most of the family

affair.”



“but indeed, Colonel, I have have leave enough for this year, and

couldn’t expect any more. and besides, I really haven’t the least wish

in the world to go out of town at present.”



the Colonel look at he, as he think, suspiciously.



“as to the leave, I would guarantee you should get that,” he say with

a degree more of his usual asperity. “you know my own place be close

by the millard’; I be go there myself for the shooting, and I have

a very particular wish to see more of you this autumn than I have have

time to do lately. don’t disappoint I in this, Lauriston; there be

not many man whose society I think worth half-a-dozen word of

request.”



his tone, if not absolutely affectionate, be kindly enough as he say

these last word to make George sorry to disappoint he, sorrier still

to think what the eld man’s vexation and even grief would be when he

should learn how far counter to his odd prejudice against brunette

the young officer have run in his choice of a bride.



“I give up all hope of marry your niece Ella, Colonel, on the

evening when she refuse I,” say he, feel guilty and

uncomfortable. “I should never think of ask she again, and I should

feel so uncomfortable in her presence”--this he say most fervently,

for nothing could be truer--“that I have give up all thought even of

go there this morning, and have make another appointment, which I

be bind to keep.”



“you be bind to keep the one first make,” say the Colonel shortly,

“as I know by a note I get from my sister-in-law that she expect you.

change your dress as quickly as you can; she want we to be there

early.”



he turn away abruptly, and George go to his room without further

protest, but in a white heat of rage at his own idiotcy in not

remember this wretched appointment. all he could do be to ask the

Colonel to stay for a moment at a telegraph-office on their way to

Grosvenor Square, and to send off a message to his poor little bride,

tell she not to be lonely, that he should be detain a little

while, but that he would be back as early as possible. then the

delicious thrill of possession that the writing of the address to

“Mrs. Lauriston” give he, be so enthral that he linger a few

moment, pencil in hand, before rejoin his imperious senior officer

wait outside. indeed neither man find great pleasure, on this

occasion, in the other’s society. George guess that the Colonel have

resign himself to the thought of his marry the dark-complexion

Ella, only to avoid the bad evil of some dangerous entanglement, to

which the young man’s recent conduct ominously point. both be glad

when Grosvenor Square be reach, and a rather intermittent

conversation upon indifferent subject break up.



the Millards all reproach George with having neglect they lately,

and Sir Henry at once broach the subject of an invitation to

Norfolk, the suggestion of which have please he greatly.



“you must come,” he say hastily, when the young man plead something

about “work hard this autumn”; “we willn’t take any excuse. the

Colonel say he can get you leave, and if, as you say, you’re go to

take to writing, why everybody know you can get well inspiration in

the fresh air of the country than you can among the chimney-pot. and

you will enjoy yourself, George, I know you will. it ben’t the

orthodox big country-house, you know, where you can fancy yourself in

London except that it’s duller; we all rough it down there, in a

cottage of my own that we’ve enlarge as we want. my wife and I play

Mr. and Mrs. Boffin, you know. she have fashion and a carpet up here,

while I have comfort and a sanded floor in Norfolk. ben’t it so,

Cicely?” he add to his eld daughter, who have come to lean over

her father’s shoulder, and to smile acquiescence in all he say in the

prettiest possible manner. “I shall set you girl to persuade he.”



Cicely be the one who never have anything to say, and whose dove-like

eye and gentle, quiet manner rouse in you a strong anxiety to know

what she think and feel, which nobody have as yet succeed in

discover.



“Set Ella, papa,” say Cicely, beam as sweetly as ever. “Charlotte

and I have no influence; it’s always Ella.”



“Ella, come here, you’re want,” say her father. and when his

young daughter have cross the room obediently, he put his hand on

Lauriston’s shoulder, and speak in a playfully magisterial tone. “this

person be accuse of wilful disobedience both to his Colonel and to an

old friend, who both desire and command his attendance at Maple Lodge,

in the county of Norfolk, on or about the First of September next. see

what you can do to bring he to reason.”



“perhaps it will be I who will bring you all to reason when you hear

the powerful argument I have to urge on my side. Ella shall judge,”

say George.



and he laughingly lead Ella, who be as prim and solemn as ever, to a

sofa, where he sit down beside she, and instantly resume his gravity.



“of course you don’t want to come,” say Ella with disagreeable

dryness, cross her knee and clasp her hand round the uppermost

in a masculine manner which constantly shock her sister’ sense of

propriety, and recall to Lady Millard’s mind her own way in the old

time before she cross the Atlantic and become the dignified wife of

an english baronet.



“it ben’t that at all,” say George gravely; “I be marry this

morning.”



the girl be startle. she look full in his face as if try to

read in his eye all the circumstance of that hasty step, even while

she silence the cry of her own heart. she have be honest with he

and with herself; she have never allow herself, except in a rare idle

day-dream, to think that the strong secret inclination towards he of

she suppress and somewhat neglect affection, would ever blossom

into happy love; but now that even a day-dream be no long possible,

she feel suddenly that she have lose something precious out of that

storehouse of heart and imagination which hold a woman’s fair

joy. in the yearning, search, half-bewildered look she give he

George, if he do not read quite all that be in her heart, learn

enough to fill he with self-reproach and yet with a strong sense of

human sympathy.



“it be a rash thing to do, I know,” he say, relieve by feel that

here at least be a being to whom he could pour out all his heart on

the subject; “but she be in the most dangerous circumstance,

scarcely more than a child, and surround by careless and undesirable

companion. the only way to guard she be to marry she, and besides--”



“you love she,” say Ella gently.



“yes.”



both be silent for a moment. then she say, all her ordinary

abruptness of manner melt by kindly feeling:



“I suppose, George, from what you have tell I and what you have not

tell I, that she be not, well--not in the same rank of life as you

be?”



“no, at least--certainly not in the same circumstance. she be the

daughter of a Spanish Countess, who do not live in England, and you

know we English have a sort of idea that only some half-dozen foreign

title be well-authenticate, so that a descent from russian prince,

for instance, be account rather less desirable than a descent from

english butterman.”



“that will hurt you socially then, George, because people will not be

so ready to take she up.”



George shrug his shoulder. “I don’t care much for society myself,

but it may be hard on the poor child.”



Ella rise, as if move by a sudden impulse, and say she must remind

her mother of an appointment, she leave George and cross to her

parent, to each of whom she say a few word in a low voice as

luncheon be announce. they have scarcely all take their seat in the

dining-room, when Lady Millard, upon a glance from her young

daughter, say:



“I don’t think you have treat we quite fairly in keep we all in

the dark except Ella, George. however, there be nothing leave for we

now but to congratulate you, and to insist upon your come to we at

Maple Lodge in September, and bring your wife with you.”



“you might have knock I down with a feather, as the housemaid say,

when Ella tell I about it just now, and say I be to hold my tongue

about it till it be announce,” say Sir Henry, while the other two

girl lift up their gentle voice and clamour question about the

bride.



George glance gratefully at Ella while he answer as much as he

could, thank Lady Millard for her invitation, be overrule when he

plead that his wife be too young and too much of a hoyden to pay

visit until she have sober down a little, and look anxiously at

the Colonel, who have receive the announcement in dead silence, and

refuse to offer the small comment. nobody but himself and Ella

know how very recent his wedding have be, so George find it

impossible to break away from they until four o’clock, when, much to

his vexation, the Colonel leave too. the eld man read the expression

on the face of the young, and he say, in a cold voice, as he keep

pace with he on the broad pavement of the square:



“I be not go to trouble you either with reproach or warning: it

be too late. but I be go to give you two word of advice. you be

young, ardent, generous-blooded; you be in danger that I can

understand. it be plain that you have marry for love, and love only,

in the hot and most reckless way, some little jade whose face have

bewitch you. well, listen. don’t begin by worship she as a

goddess, or you will end by have to propitiate she as a devil. live

two life; one with she, all sweetness and softness and silliness,

use up all the superfluous sentiment and folly we be all burden

with, in kiss and sigh at her footstool: but once shut yourself

into your study, or shut she up in her drawing-room with her pug dog

and her needle and snip of canvas and wool, forget she, brace

yourself up to what you have always look upon as the serious

interest of your life, lock she pretty face and her pretty prattle

right up in your heart, and keep your mind and your soul free from the

sickly contamination. when you be with she, think of nothing but she;

when you be away from she, think of anything else. never mind what

she do while you’re away. if there’s any harm in she, it would come

out if you keep she under glass, while she’s a thousand time less

likely to get into mischief if she respect you as her master and

superior, instead of despise you as her slave. remember a man can

never be the _equal_ of a woman. if you only admit the possibility, it

be war between you until the one or the other have come off conqueror.”



he cease speak abruptly, and they walk on a few moment in

silence.



at last Lauriston say: “that system might do for a philosopher,

Colonel, but it will not suit the every-day Englishman.”



“I should not recommend it to the every-day Englishman. I recommend it

to you because I wish to save her Majesty a good officer with a heart

and a brain, both of which, for any purpose outside the mere physical

function of existence, be imperille by your marriage. how do you

suppose that I, without some such rule of conduct, should have get

even where I be, weight with Lady Florencecourt?”



“ah, Lady Florencecourt!” exclaim George hastily and deprecatingly,

forget ordinary civility in horror at this comparison between

Nouna and a lady who be, without perhaps any clearly specify

reason, the bogey of all her acquaintance.



the Colonel be not at all annoyed; he give a little quick shake of

the head, and burst out with abrupt vehemence--



“by Jove, Lady Florencecourt’s an angel of light compare to----”

suddenly, without any warning, he pull himself up short, and add

after a second’s pause, in a milder and more reserved tone--“compared

to some of the specimen I have know.”



Lauriston glance at he in surprise. he would have rather like to

know something about the “speciman” or “specimen” who have make the

fiery little Colonel a woman-hater, and cause that obnoxious woman,

Lady Florencecourt, to appear an ideal wife in his eye. but the elder

man’s burst of confidence be over. he proceed to ask in a dry

tone--“You have quite make up your mind to treat my advice as advice

be usually treat, I suppose?”



“you be rather hard upon I, Colonel. you do I the honour to say I

have brain, but you take it for grant that I haven’t use they.

I’ve be on the rack between my thought and my feeling ever since I

find out I love this girl, and I’ve puzzle out for myself some sort

of plan to live upon.”



“and what’s that? to ‘give she the key of your heart,’ I suppose, and

make she ‘the sharer of your thought and feeling.’”



“I should be sorry to have a wife that ben’t!”



the Colonel stop with a short laugh, and look at he with

half-close eye and hard-set mouth.



“well, try it!” say he raspingly; and with a half-mock salute he

turn round and go rapidly off by the way they have come.



George look after he regretfully; he be inclined, after all, to

put on Lady Florencecourt the whole blame of the souring process which

the Colonel’s really warm and kindly nature have obviously undergone.

he be grateful to the eld officer for a steady liking for and

interest in himself. in the uprooting and tempestuous state of mind

into which the red-hot romance of his marriage have plunge he, it be

with a pang of yearn towards the sincere and steadfast old friend

that he see he depart disappoint, if not angry. but no man of

three-and-twenty can trouble himself deeply about one of his own sex

when he be on his way to a passionately adore bride; and a minute

later George be in a hansom on his way to ---- Street, in an ecstasy

of anticipation that leave no room for a doubt or a fear. every step

be bring he near to she, make his heart beat fast; the

hansom be turn into Wilton Place, and George, in his fiery

impatience, have fling open the door and take a half-sovereign from

his pocket for his shilling fare in the reckless spirit that make we

anxious to communicate to the mean mortal (with no disrespect to

the cabby) the joy that seem too great for one body and soul to

contain, when suddenly his eye, strain to catch the early

possible glimpse of the house that contain his treasure, fall, for

the second time that day, upon the man who of all other seem to the

young bridegroom the harbinger of ill-luck and disaster. the Eastern

merchant Rahas, not in the costume he have wear that morning, but in

scarlet fez and a long, dark-blue garment, which be a cross between a

frock-coat and a dressing-gown, be cross the street hastily

exactly in front of Nouna’s new home, as if he have just visit it.



“stop!” shout George to the driver, and before the man could obey he

have spring out, toss he the half-sovereign, which the recipient

catch with a dexterity he would not have show for a shilling, and

start in pursuit.



the Oriental have give one look round, and disappear with the agile

rapidity of a cat up a narrow street a little far on. George

follow, dash round the corner, and find himself in a stone-pave

alley with stable on each side. there be no human be to be see;

but a bark dog at the other end seem to have be lately

disturb. George traverse the little court at a sharp run, find an

opening, and go through into a street beyond, where a few people

be pass to and fro with no appearance of excitement, and

carriage and cab be go both way. he see that the ingenious

eastern gentleman have give he the slip, and he return towards his

new home with his spirit dash, and his heart full of misgive.



if Rahas have just visit Nouna, as George suspect, he must have

follow she from the church to her new home, as George have tell no

one the address till after his wedding. then how have he time his

departure so as just to escape meet her husband? and then again

come the question which have puzzle he at the church: how do Rahas

know at what time and at what church Nouna would be marry?



he take out the latch-key for which, with an old bachelor instinct, he

have at once ask the landlady on take the room, fit it with an

unsteady hand into the door, and let himself in. just inside he catch

sight of his face in the narrow strip of glass that fill the middle

beam of the hat-stand, and be strike by his own pallor, and by the

stern expression of his feature.



“by Jove!” he say to himself, try to laugh, and find with

surprise that he be quite cold, and that his tooth be chatter,

“here’s a pretty face for a bridegroom. if I be to give Nouna, my

poor little Nouna, my first kiss with lip as blue as that,” and he

peer at himself mockingly close to the glass, “she’d think she’d

marry a corpse.”



and he pull himself together, draw down the end of his moustache,

and rearrange his light satin tie, tell himself that he have be a

fool to chase the fellow at all instead of go straight to Nouna to

learn whether the wretch have really call and attempt to annoy she.

but a blight have fall upon his ecstatic happiness, and he break off

in an attempt to sing as he run up stair to the first floor.



as he go he hear voice, which cease suddenly when his footstep

sound on the landing; then there be a slight rustling, and a noise

as of something throw over in a hurry. he consider a moment, and

then, the key of the bedroom door be on the outside, he quietly

turn it in the lock before enter the sitting-room.









 CHAPTER XIII.



the apartment George Lauriston have take for his wife be two

bright and pleasantly furnish room, not large, but sufficiently

lofty, with no aggressive blue glass or china ornament, crochet

antimacassar, or other cherished relic of the professional landlady.

there be a piano, not likely to be much of a resource, perhaps, to

the player with “an ear”: there be a handsome carve oak book-case,

carefully lock, which contain, sandwich in with old-fashioned

trashy gift-book and much futile evangelical literature, some

tempt back volume of the _Cornhill_ and _blackwood_, and a

beautifully preserve set of Scott’s novel. the mantelpiece be

drape with an inexpensive but harmonious imitation of tapestry, the

worn place on the carpet be cover with unlined goat-skin, there

be the inevitable sideboard with door that _would_ not keep close

without a neat little wedge of newspaper, there be modern

spindle-legged, handsomely cover chair, and a plush-hung table, and

there be a big, broad, luxurious Chesterfield settee, which have

evidently be buy a bargain because it be inconveniently large,

and on which Lauriston have again and again, during the last few day,

picture the ease-love Nouna recline. to add to the attraction of

her new home for his bride, George have take care to fill every

available corner with flower--mignonette and geranium in pot on the

sill of the two window, cut rose and carnation, sweetpea and

purple and golden heartsease--cram into every vase and glass the

landlady could spare.



on the table he have cause to be spread a wedding-breakfast such as

Oberon might have serve to Titania. for this great human goose would

have shrink from the suggestion that a healthy girl of sixteen can

generally eat anything, and lot of it; and that round of bread and

butter cut pretty thick, a plentiful helping of dry haddock, or a

couple of egg and a rasher of bacon, all wash down with immoderate

draught of weak tea, will form an acceptable meal at nine in the

morning to our fairest maid, and that your delicate appetite--alas,

that it should be so!--is generally the result of sickly health. pile

high in the centre be a pyramid of giant strawberry, and round

about be plate with french pastry, bonbon, game sandwich thin as

wafer, banana, lime and a pineapple; the whole guard by a white

porcelain elephant, out of whose houdah small fern be grow in an

unlikely manner. this last introduction be a happy thought of

Lauriston’s, and be suppose to remind his bride gracefully of the

land of her birth.



he have be extravagant certainly; what churl would not be for his

wedding day? but what happiness those preparation have give he! how

he have frowningly scrutinise the room, to be quite sure that no

single corner present a less pleasing appearance than could by any

possible ingenuity be give to it! how, in imagination, he have

follow she with his eye as she trip through the room in her

bird-like way, stop to hover over the flower, to eat a

strawberry, to draw aside the curtain and peep out from her new nest

into the street! how he have stand at the door of the bedchamber as in

a sanctuary, with his heart full of a wish, devout as a prayer, that

the child-woman who be come to his arm might know no sorrow from

which a strong man’s love could save she!



and now by some shadowy calamity that he do not yet understand, it

be all change, the sweet home-come be spoil, and he stand before

his newly-make wife with no absorbing tenderness in his eye, but with

anxiety, suspicion, and fear struggle under the mask of apparent

sternness, which be the outward sign of his effort at self-control.



Nouna be alone, lie on the couch as he have so often by anticipation

picture she. she be curl up prettily enough, her head back upon

the side, which be soft enough to serve for a cushion. the drapery of

her arm be draw carefully down, but the left hand, with its tiny

gold ring, be place proudly _en évidence_ against her white sash.

she look flushed, shy, and rather frightened, and give a little

nervous laugh and a timid smile as he come in, which would have

enchant he but for the unexplained sight and sound which have

precede his entrance.



“who be that with you, Nouna?” he ask gently enough, but without

come near to she than the door, which he have just shut.



“with I!” she exclaim, raise her eyebrow very innocently.



“yes, dear. I hear some one scuffle about in here and talk just

as I come in. now, Nouna, my darling, why don’t you tell I?” he ask

very softly, come a step nearer.



but she curl herself up in the corner of the couch, and look up at

he like a marmoset who have break a Dresden cup--for a marmoset know

Dresden, and prefer it as a plaything to the ordinary breakfast

china.



“don’t look like that. you frighten I,” she say in a low voice, with

an inclination divide between weep and run away.



George come and kneel by she, but as she shrink back he do not offer

to touch she.



“listen to I, little one. I be not angry, only sorry you will not

tell I what I ask. who be the woman I hear talk to you just now?

be it your mother?”



“Mamma! oh, no, no, no,” say she with a convincing accent of

astonishment. “I tell you there ben’t anybody; I be singe to

myself,” she add with less appearance of sincerity.



George draw back deeply wounded, and look more stern than he

guess. in the silence between they he hear the rattle of the lock

in the next room, and the shaking of the door. he walk up to the

folding-door which lead into the bedroom, while Nouna turn her head

to watch he anxiously. crouch down on the other side of the bed,

with more of the appearance of an animal than ever now that she be

foil in her attempt to escape, be the indian servant Sundran.



“get up,” say George shortly. “no one be go to hurt you. what be

you do here?”



“I be do no harm, sahib. I come to see my pretty missee, Missee

Nouna, my own foster-child that I nurse and love. she send for I,

sahib, she send for I; she lonely without I. Sahib, let I stay. I

will serve you, only for food to keep I alive if you let I stay.”



she be passionately in earnest, and without rise from her knee she

drag herself to he and try to kiss his foot. George evade the

unwelcome embrace. he couldn’t bear this woman, and the thought that

Nouna could really have miss her unwholesome prattle enough to send

for she clandestinely on her wedding day give he deep pain. he could

scarcely help be touch by her animal-like devotion, but to allow

she to remain in Nouna’s service now that the latter be his wife and

be to begin her nobler education under his influence and guidance,

be on every account not to be think of.



“you never think of stay, Sundran. you be try to get away

without my see you, encourage my wife to deceive I on her very

wedding day. how can you expect I to keep near she such a wicked

adviser as that?”



“Sahib, I do not know you would be good to I. I think you would be

cruel and hard and fierce, as the english sahib be sometimes. oh, I

have know they! but you be good, you be noble; you will not

separate the sweet young lady who be the light of my eye from her

poor old Sundran.”



the poor creature’s eye be indeed full of passionate tear, and

George, who be no more proof than the majority of his sex against

that form of argument in a woman, say gruffly:



“Nonsense, I tell you it’s impossible. but you can go down stair and

get they to give you some tea if you like, and afterwards you shall

see your mistress again. but mind, if you ever attempt these underhand

trick again, you shall never set eye on she as long as you live.”



she seem a little comfort, and murmur break, humble thank as

she get up and dry her eye on a corner of the white garment which

serve she as shawl and head-dress. then George go through the next

room, Nouna still watch he in the same attitude as before, and

unlock the bedroom door, let the woman out. as soon as he have see

she get to the bottom of the stair he re-lock the bedroom door and

put the key in his pocket to prevent her hiding herself there again,

and go back to his bride in a very chastened mood. this first

experience of matrimony be certainly disillusionise. he must get to

the bottom of the whole business at once, that be certain; but how

be he to begin? it be too cruel to have to ply this little creature

whom he love with question instead of kiss. he sit down by the

table, keep his eye resolutely fix upon the china elephant.



“when do you send for Sundran, Nouna?” he ask huskily.



“to-da--ay.”



there be a mournful little break of her voice upon the last syllable,

which be almost too much for he. he take a strawberry from the dish,

which now hold only three or four, to keep his hand from twitch,

and swallow it ferociously, as his mouth be dry and parch.



“who bring she here?”



no answer.



“well, dear?”



she begin to sob. George swallow more strawberry, stalk and all,

but find small relief in they.



“it be Rahas who bring she,” say George, try to be as gentle as

possible.



More sob, so that the unfortunate inquisitor have to get up, walk with

a martial tread to the window, and say his next word with his back to

she.



“when do he come? what do he come for, Nouna?”



the tear be in George’s eye too by this time.



“answer I, answer I, child,” cry he in a frenzy as she begin to

moan miserably.



her quick ear catch the break sound in his voice, and suddenly

cease in her sign of grief she call aloud:



“come and ask I _here_, and I’ll tell you anything!”



he turn round. she be hold out her arm. George give a great

cry.



“Nouna, my wife, my wife!”



the next moment she be crush up against his breast.



when out of the intoxication of that first embrace George drift

slowly back to a dim consciousness of earthly thing, it come upon he

with a sudden sobering shock that there be something new and

unaccounted for in the appearance of his bride. for on the little

slender arm that encircle his neck with the clinging, vibrate

pressure of an absorbing passion, shine and glitter close under his

eye a sparkling mass of precious stone. he draw away from she

suddenly, and seize both her arm almost roughly, push up the half

transparent sleeve and look from the one to the other in

stupefaction, while Nouna laugh aloud in exuberant, luxurious

happiness.



“where do you get these?” he ask in bewilderment even strong than

his anxiety.



George have but a scant and careless acquaintance with the content of

jeweller’ window, and his circle of diamond-bedeck duchess be

less than limited. but there be a quiet self-sufficiency about the

way in which those white transparent stone allow themselves to be

look upon as unobtrusive modest thing, and then, at a turn of

Nouna’s wrist, flash dazzle ray into his eye, which tell he

that these pretty ornament be not like the innocent and harmless

mock jewel in the silver-gilt bracelet that Nouna have be allow

to deck herself out with in Mary Street, but be that bane of the

husband--diamond. what the value of the jewel she be wear might

be he do not even guess; but he could not doubt that the seven

bracelet she have on her arm, and a glitter diamond lizard three

inch long, with ruby for eye, which fasten her sash where that

morning there have be only a simple pin, and a necklace of large

pearl that encircle her throat, have cost more than four or five

year of his pay. he look at they with a very grave and doubtful

face, with as much mistrust and misliking as if they have be

poisonous insect.



“ha, ha!” cry Nouna, raise her arm and turn they about that

the jewel might flash and sparkle the more in the ray of the

afternoon sun struggle through the blind. “where do I get they?

you must guess that.”



she be for the moment too much absorb in the delight of watch

the change light on her trinket to notice the discontent in his

face. Glancing then merrily at he to direct his attention to the play

of the sunlight upon the stone, she let her arm fall as she note

his expression.



“don’t you like to see I wear pretty thing?” she ask plaintively;

then, as he do not at once answer, she turn petulantly away from

he, and throw herself face downwards full-length upon the couch. “it

be true what Rahas say,” she cry passionately, “that an Englishman

like jewel on every woman but his wife, that he would rather she

should appear ugly in his own eye than pretty in anybody else’s, that

he call she a goddess to reconcile she to lead the--the--life of a

do--og!”



all this she pour out parrot-like amid sob and flood of tear,

while George remain on his knee beside she, and listen as quietly

as a statue. like other open and generous nature with an element of

strength in they, he could be as merciful towards the frank confession

of weakness as he be hard in the face of deception. he think Rahas

have work on she by mean of her love of finery, and by dark warning

against the husband of whom she have as yet have no experience, and

stifle all impulse of rage against the author of the evil, who be

absent and could not now be deal with, he at once set about arrive

at a more complete knowledge of what have take place between his young

wife and the wily oriental. sit on the edge of the couch he put

his arm round Nouna, draw she to he, and calm her outburst of

tearful petulance with tender, yearning caress, so fond, so warm,

with such depth of almost paternal protectiveness tone down and

mingle with the ardent passion of the lover, that her fitful nature

be soothe in a very few moment, and her arm make instinctively for

his neck again as a baby turn to its mother’s breast, and the tear

dry on her cheek as she begin to smile up confidingly into his

face.



“now, little wife, tell I,” he whisper, look down into her eye

with the steady fire of a man’s noble, strong love, before which

a woman’s weak fear and suspicion could not but melt and wither, “do

you believe I want to make your life unhappy? do you think I shall be

hard and cruel to you, and deprive you of anything that can please

you? look up, look up, and tell I if you think so!”



she look up, transform by the love-touch, the love-speech, into a

little spirit of fire and light, burn into his heart and flesh with

an irresistible, intoxicate strength of feverish, though fitful

passion. as her lip press his, as her finger glide with slow,

voluptuous touch till they ruffle his curly hair and clasp each

other behind his head, he forget his intention, forget his suspicious

fear, enthral by the bliss of possession of the first woman he have

ever love and long for. it be not until the passion-fire begin to

fade in Nouna’s eye, and she slide languidly down from his neck, and

draw his arm about she so as to support she good in the position

she choose, nestle against he with close eye, while a long sigh of

perfect and complete happiness rise to her part lip, seem to

quiver along her form, and then die slowly away, that his doubt and

fear surge up again in the midst of his own intoxication of

pleasure, and, with difficulty steady himself to the task, he

frame a form of word in which to resume his interrogatory.



“listen, Nouna,” he say, with an inevitable touch of hardness in his

effort at self-control; “I want you to tell I all that happen after

you drive off with Mr. Angelo from the church-door to-day.”



“oh!” she exclaim in a long wail of weary disgust at the obtrusive

inquiry, “you don’t want to worry I about that _now_, do you? I’ll

tell you all about it some other time.”



and she fling her arm back over her head, and laugh up at he

through the ivory frame in lazy witchery. finding, however, that he

remain firm and would not look down at she, she change she

attitude, and, by a quick, lithe movement, twine herself coaxingly

about he. George give scarcely a sign of the fierce conflict that be

go on within he, between the despotic, wickedly use power this

little creature be try to establish over he, and his own manful

determination to assume without delay his rightful lordship. for this

once he have the mastery, keep lip and limb under firm control, and

disentangle himself from her arm to hold she away from he, he

look steadily, but with a most love reserve of tenderness in his

eye, into her half-petulant, half-reproachful face.



“tell I now, darling, and then we’ll kiss all thought of it away.”



Whereat she make a spring at he to anticipate the reward. but see

that, instead of light up with the flame she want to see in they

again, his eye retain the steady, search look, which moreover

seem to become more grimly resolute for her evasion, she turn to

tearfulness, and without actually cry, moan out in a most

melancholy voice, and with a woman’s natural love of pile on the

agony, that he have well kill she, since it be plain he do not love

she.



“come, darling, you know well than that,” say he gently. “but I be

your husband, and you must tell I what I wish to know.”



it may be easily imagine that he be become madly anxious and

suspicious under all these evasion, which seem to denote that she

have something to hide more serious than he suppose. find all her

artifice useless, and fail in an angry struggle to escape from his

arm, she proceed to unfasten all her bracelet, to tear out her

diamond lizard, and after pile they in a heap in her lap, to toss

they all with a sudden, violent jerk on to the floor at her husband’s

foot.



“there!” say she triumphantly, “will that satisfy you?”



“not at all,” say George very quietly. “I should have have they off

long ago if I have want to. who give they to you?”



she notice the increase sternness of his tone and answer with a

sudden quick change to childish fright.



“I have they all the time. Mamma send they to I week ago, by Mr.

Angelo,” she add with a rapid inspiration.



without any sign or word which seem to her significant enough for a

warning, George’s self-restraint give way, and grasp her shoulder

so firmly in his hand that she could not move to right or leave, he

force she to meet his eye, now flame with anger, with her own.



“tell I the truth,” he say in a tone she have never hear he use

before.



“I dare not, I dare not,” she whisper in terrible, exaggerated fear

that take all colour from her face and lip and make her dark skin an

ugly ashy grey.



he relax his clasp at once, remorseful and ashamed; but his voice

be no soft than before. “who give you those jewel? be it Rahas?”



she look up rapidly, with a convincing ray of relief in her eye.

“oh, no, no, no. it be mamma, mamma, mamma. they be her wedding

present to I.”



George put his hand up to his forehead, and find that it be wet. a

great dread have go from his mind, yet he remain much puzzle.



“then why couldn’t you tell I so at once?” he ask doubtfully.



“why, it’s no use hide it now. Rahas bring they, and he say I be

to say I have have they before, because it would make you so angry to

know he’d be here.”



he have get at the truth at last, he believe, but he be still far

from satisfied.



“don’t you know, Nouna,” he say more gently, put his arm round

she again, “that you must not see people your husband don’t wish you

to see?”



“but I couldn’t help it,” cry Nouna, evidently surprised at see

he calm down so rapidly. “Mr. Angelo don’t come in, he drive off at

once, and when I have be wait here a little while all by myself

there be a knock and I run down stair, think it must be you. I

have be eat strawberry, so I haven’t see who it be come. and

it be Rahas, and when I see he, I say, ‘no, I must not speak to

you,’ and I want to shut the door. but he would not let I; he say

he have a message and something for I from mamma, and he show I a

packet with her handwriting on it. so I say ‘oh, give it I,’ and he

say he must come in and speak to I. and I say I would not see he

alone, I would wait till my husband come. yes, I say ‘my husband,’ I

do, just like that,” and she draw herself up and speak with great

dignity. “and the landlady come up just then to answer the door, so I

run back and call to she, ‘Mrs. Lauriston be not at home,’ and I

go up stair and look through the curtain and see he go away

look all double up, as he do when he be very angry. and I feel

afraid, and wish you would come, and I wish I have bring my

kitten--I feel so lonely. oh, it seem such a long, long time; I

begin to think you be sorry you have marry I and think you would

never come back at all, and I should be a widow, and I couldn’t eat

any more strawberry when I think that. and I pull out the rose

I have fasten in my dress and tear they to piece. look!” and she

point to a spot near the piano, strew with crimson and

lemon-colour petal. “then at last a cab drive up and I rush to

the window; and it be Rahas again, but with Sundran. and I be so

wretched and lonely that if he have be alone I must have see he

then. and I run down and let they in and bring they up. and

Sundran--oh, how she cry, poor thing, and tell I such dreadful

story about english husband; how they say they love you, and then

if you displease they ever so little they throw you down on the floor

and run away, and you never see they again; and she beg I to go

away with she, and say Rahas would take care we should not starve.”



at this, George, without interrupt she, decide that his former

suspicion that Sundran have be buy by Rahas be confirm, and

resolve to stop all further intercourse between his wife and the

indian woman without delay.



Nouna continue, with her eye full of tear at the remembrance: “then

she kneel at my foot and kiss they while Rahas give I the diamond

and a little note inside they from mamma, say they be her wedding

present, and I should have a well one by and by if I be happy with

my husband. and I think this strange, and say out loud: ‘what do

she mean?’ and when I look up I see Rahas stare at I with his

eye just like the coal in a fire. and I don’t know why, but I be

frightened, and I be glad Sundran be there--perhaps it’s be

marry that make I feel different, for I never feel like that

before. and I read the note to the end, and do not say any more, and

just then another ring come at the bell, and Rahas start up and

rush out. but it be only your telegram, and he come back--for he

have go up the stair; and when he find you be not come back at

once, he ask if he might stay a little, and I should not feel so

lonely. and I don’t want he to, I don’t indeed, but he stay, and

he make Sundran go to the window and watch for your coming.”



George could not resist a savage exclamation below his breath.



Nouna go on: “he make I hate he, for he say I should be very

unhappy presently, he be afraid; for Englishmen be hard and cruel,

and not love. and he tell I not to tell you he have be here,

because you know he would do anything for I, and perhaps you would

strike I. but if I want he or want my mother, he could always

let I see she at any time, and be always ready to do what I wish,

as he have always be. and he say I be to forget his word now, if I

like, but be to remember they if I ever feel lonely and desolate.

and he say I need not trouble about know where he be, for by the

sympathy and power he have over I he should always be near just when I

want he. and I say: ‘what if I tell my husband?’ and he say it

would not matter; you would not find he. but I have well not tell

you, because you would be so angry with I. and while he be talk

Sundran call out that she see a cab come, and quickly like an

arrow he kiss my hand and go out of the room; and I see he go

down a little street in front just as you come up. there, now I have

tell you all, all. kiss I, tell I you be satisfied.”



he kiss she, and put she on his knee, and smooth her soft dark

hair; but he give himself up to no abandonment of love, and when he

speak it be in a subdued and rather doubtful tone.



“I be not at all satisfy, Nouna, because I think it be a very bad

beginning when a wife try to deceive her husband on her wedding-day.

if I haven’t catch sight of Rahas and hear you talk to Sundran I

should have believe what you please to tell I about the jewel, and

never have guess that either of they have be here.”



“well, that would have be much well, for then you wouldn’t have

be worry, and you wouldn’t have make I cry,” say she with

conviction.



George have another sudden and vivid perception of the stumbling-block

that stand in the way of her moral education.



“I would rather, little one,” he say gravely, “pass day full of

worry and night without sleep than think it possible you could tell

I a falsehood.”



she look in his face wonderingly, and then pat his cheek and

laugh.



“well, I don’t want to tell you falsehood,” she say indifferently,

and then pause, have at that moment discover a new and delightful

pastime in brush up his moustache the wrong way with her finger,

and laugh at the effect. “what a beautiful mouth you’ve get!” she

exclaim suddenly, in ardent and sincere admiration. “it’s small

than mine, I think,” she continue dubiously, and she proceed

gravely to take the measurement of the one against the other, with a

wicked look out of her eye as they come close to his which make

George suspect while he yield to the temptation, that it have be

deliberately form to put an end to a discussion which the little

lady find very tedious.









 CHAPTER XIV.



the moral fibre of a man as deeply in love as George be be not at

its strong on his wedding day.



so he give up in despair his first lesson in the moral duty, and

whisper to her such pretty babble as come up to the lip of all

lover in the first day of their happiness, and, be perfectly happy

and incline at all issue to be satisfied with his bargain, it be

some time before he notice that his bride’s interest in his

love-prattle be grow fainter and fainter, until at last she

scarcely give more, as her share of the conversation, than an

occasional nod or a weary little smile.



“be you tired, dearest?” he ask solicitously, waken suddenly to

a consciousness that all be not well with she, as she begin to move

restlessly about in his arm, and her eye rove round the room as if

she find it impossible to keep her attention fix on what he be

say.



“no, no,” she answer hastily, and she clasp her arm round his

neck again, but with a distinct subsidence of her first outburst of

spontaneous affection.



George begin to be alarm. be she tired of he already? could she,

child as she be, find his caress irksome within ten hour of she

wedding? he try to persuade himself that it be only his fancy which

make her small face look draw and weary in the warm soft light of the

afternoon sun, until he notice some little pucker about her mouth

like the premonitory symptom of a child’s outburst of tear.



“what be it, Nouna, my darling, tell I?” he whisper tenderly.



she shake her head feebly, but then, her steadfastness give way, she

put up her lip to his ear, and murmur in a shameface broken voice:

“I’m so hungry!”



“hungry!” he repeat with a great shock.



“yes,” answer she, begin to whimper now that the effort be

over, and the confession make. “I oversleep myself this morning, and

have to come away without any breakfast. and I eat all those little

tiny sandwich as soon as I get here, and I’ve have nothing since

except stra--awberrie!” at this climax of her tale of distress she

break down, and sob gently while George pick she up in his arm,

and carry she to the bell, rang violently.



“what would you like, my dearest?” he ask, when the landlady, who

be a very superior creature indeed, but who feel that a bride be

interesting enough to condone the condescension, appear in person.



“oh, some tea, I should like some tea, and--and anything I can have at

once!”



“what can my wife have at once?” ask George, with all a young

husband’s joy in the word “my wife.”



“well, sir, would she like a chop? do you think, ma’am, you could

fancy a chop?”



“oh, yes, I _should_ like a chop!” cry poor Nouna hungrily, rather

to the surprise, even then, of her husband, who be more prepared to

hear she ask for the wing of a partridge, or a couple of plover’

egg.



upon reflection, however, it could not but occur to he that even a

particularly small and dainty-look bride may reasonably be expect

to need some solid food between the hour of half-past seven in the

morning and close upon six in the afternoon, and he lament his own

idiotcy in not make proper provision for this. the landlady, who have

take for grant, on receive no order for dinner, that her new

lodger intend to dine out, behave with great energy on discover

the mistake. without oblige they to wait very long, she translate

“chop” into a very tempting dish of cutlet and _pomme sautées_, and

supplement that with a tart, send for hastily from a pastrycook’s,

in the enjoyment of which repast Nouna get uproariously happy, and

tell George that she think be marry be “lovely.” to hear

herself call “Mrs. Lauriston” by the landlady who come up ostensibly

to apologise, but really to get another look at the little bride,

throw she into such ecstasy of delight that she could not answer any

question to which those magic word be add. when the pineapple,

which she have leave untouched because she do not know how to handle

it, be place upon the table, the servant ask what be to be do

with “the black woman” who, she say, be become very restless and

unhappy, and want to see “her little missee mistress.”



“let she come up at once,” say Nouna quickly. then, as soon as the

maid have shut the door, she throw herself into her husband’s arm and

begin to coax he to let Sundran stay.



to this George object in the strong manner; but she beg so

hard, she assure he so plaintively that she be not use to wait

on herself, scout the idea that he could replace she maid, and

remind he with tear in her eye that he could not refuse she

first request after leave she alone on her wedding day and return

to make her cry as he have do, that the young husband could not steel

himself to that most desirable point of obduracy, and, entirely

against his will and to his own inward rage, he give permission for

Sundran to remain “for a few day.” it be a pretty and characteristic

trait in the wilful young creature that she clung, even in the midst

of the novel excitement of her marriage, to the old servant who have

love she and serve she since her babyhood; but it could not but

cause the young husband pain and even a feeling akin to jealousy to

learn that he be not all to she that she just now be to he. he bear

the indian woman’s blessing and thank as well as he could, when

Nouna embrace she and tell she that she must love Mr. Lauriston, he

be good, not like other Englishmen, and he would let she stay.



“for a few day, until she get use to manage for herself,”

murmur poor George explanatorily.



but the excited woman refuse to hear or to heed this provision. he

wish Sundran in--India within the next half hour; for Nouna, in

whose mind the consciousness that by marry she have do something

irrevocable, not yet fully understand, be just wake a childish

dread which make she cling to the old, well-know face with a new

tenacity, insist on retain the indian up stair, and ask she

all sort of affectionate question concern “Mammy Ellis,” who, she

learn, have be in a great fright about she, but have be comfort

by a letter from the Countess, who, she say, have treat her very

handsomely. Nouna, whose smile have be on the border of tear all

day, cry a little at this mention of her mother, and on look up

again after dry her eye find that Sundran, whether or not act

on a mute suggestion from George, have discreetly retire. her tear

cease instantly, like those of a naughty little nursery tyrant when

“papa” come in; and George, respect this sudden shyness of a girl

whose heart he know he have scarcely as yet half conquer, go

straight to the piano, open it, and begin to sing snatch of

love-song to a very fair improvise accompaniment by way of pay

his court to she in a less obtrusive manner.



the device succeed admirably. George be by no mean a great singer.

a respectable baritone voice in a perfect state of non-cultivation be

a very common gift among young man; but there be enough passion and

poetry awake in his heart to-night for a suggestion of something more

interesting than the straightforward bawling of the ordinary singing

Englishman to find its way to his lip and vibrate in the note of

“lady, wake, bright star be beam.” it be needless to say that his

ear be well open to every sound behind he, and that he feel all

the significance of the soft creaking of the caster as Nouna draw she

arm-chair, little by little, close up to he, until at last she lean

on the end of the piano by the bass note and watch his face with a

furtive wide-eyed scrutiny which he be careful not to divert by

appear to notice its intensity. unable to keep his eye off her

face altogether, he take care that the yearning, passionate glance he

cast at she should be so rapid as to leave on her mind the impression

that they be a result of the intoxication produce by his own song,

instead of the song be the result of the intoxication produce by

the glance. he see that she be in a more deeply thoughtful mood than

he have yet see she in during their short acquaintance; and he want

she to give spontaneous speech to her thought, and thus to gain an

insight into that mysterious recess of which he know so little--her

mind. at last, when he have come to the last note of the “Ständchen”

out of Schubert’s _winterreise_, which he sing with more passion, if

with less sentiment than an artist would have throw into the

beautiful melody, he turn to she and attempt to embrace she. but

she shake he off, say imperiously:



“go on. I like it. it help I to think.”



perhaps this be scarcely the comment he hope or expect, but the

repulse be passionate, not unsympathetic or chilling; and George lay

his hand obediently again on the instrument with only one longing,

inspiring look at the lovely, flexible face. then he sing Beethoven’s

“Adelaide,” with a strange effect. for the well-wear song be quite

new to Nouna, and as it proceed it seem to George that the spirit

of the passionate music call to she and find an answer echo, for

her long black eye grow soft and liquid, like water under the tree

on a summer night, and when the last word be sing and the last note

play, she lift herself in her chair, and hold out her arm in

irresistible invitation.



“what do the song make you feel?” he ask, whispering, with his

arm round she. he begin already rashly to feel assured that the

low-minded sensual Rahas be wrong; she must have a soul, since she

be so susceptible to fine music; than which conclusion nothing could

be more futile, as a more enlarged artistic acquaintance would have

prove to he.



“it make I feel that I love you,” she answer, unconsciously

touch the root of many pretty fallacy concern the noble

influence of music on devotion. for if she have be well educate

she would have say “it raise she, take she out of herself,” and

would have delay her illustration of the fact that it only raise

she far enough to throw she in the arm of the near affectionately

dispose person.



George feel rather disappointed, having found his idea of woman

upon a ceremonious acquaintance with less ingenuous specimen of the

sex. but if she be more unsophisticated than the everyday young

lady he have meet, she be certainly more bewitching, and presently

the thoughtful mood come over she again, and she look up into his

face with the searching expression that have shine in her eye when she

first come to he at the piano.



“I have be look at you while you play, and I have be

think,” she say gravely.



“well, what do you think?”



“I have be think that we shall not be happy.”



George be at heart rather startle. the word echo too strongly

certain misgiving which have from time to time oppress he in the

course of the day for he not to feel that they bear some of the

weight of sagacious prediction. but he would not for the world have

acknowledge this to she.



“don’t you love I then, my wife?” he ask slowly, in a voice so

sweet, so thrilling, that Nouna listen to the word just as she have

do to his singing. “if you do you cannot be anything but happy, for

you be the very breath of my life to I; to be with you be happiness

enough for I; and just as your body be mine now to cherish and

defend, so your very soul shall become a part of mine, and my joy in

you shall be your joy, till every pleasure I feel shall thrill through

you, and every distinction I win shall make you glow with pride.”



she watch his face with all seriousness as he speak, and then shake

her head.



“I love you,” she say, “but not in your way.”



“you don’t know I yet. a woman’s love grow more slowly than a man’s,

more reasonably, perhaps; but you will learn to love I as I wish, you

cann’t help yourself, I will be so good to you. you be only a child. I

can wait.”



“ah,” she say, half sorrowfully, half amuse. “there be where you be

wrong. if I be English, I should perhaps be still a child. but I’m

not; I’m a woman.” she look at he steadily, in deep earnest,

stop in her play with her white sash, and shake her hair free

from his touch to impress upon he that he must listen to she with

attention. “you think I shall be something different by and by.

perhaps I shall; I never know what I be go to be, or what I be

go to do. but I do know I shall never be what you want--always the

same, always love. I never love anybody without hate they too

sometimes. sometimes I hate Sundran, and often Mammy Ellis, and I

shall hate you when you frown at I.”



“but I sha’n’t frown at you.”



“yes, you will. you’ll frown when I long for more jewellery, when I

say I hate England and wish I be back in India; and you’ll frown more

when I forget that I’m married and laugh and amuse myself just as I

use to do.”



“I shouldn’t like you to forget you be my wife, certainly,” say

George, trouble for a moment. “but then I willn’t give you much chance

of forget it, my darling.”



the evening end peacefully after the event and storm of the day,

each feeling that they have a well understanding of each other, and

yet each acknowledge that they still have much more to learn than

they have expect. but that night, long after Nouna, tired out, have

go happily and peacefully to sleep in his arm, George lie awake,

and acknowledge mournfully to himself that he have make a bad

beginning. he have show want of self-control over the diamond and

Rahas’s visit, he have show weakness in let Sundran stay, and he

recognise vividly that the dignity of husband require a very long

list of quality for the proper maintenance of the character. a

little more conduct like that of to-day, and the young wife to whom he

ought to be as a sun-god, a model of what be right and noble, would

begin to despise he, and all would be over. they would sink at once

to the level of the ordinary cavilling, coo young couple whom every

new-make husband so heartily contemn. George fall asleep resolve to

inaugurate a new _régime_ of immaculate firmness and forbearance in

the morning.



but how could he have reckon upon the irresistible charm of a wake

woman, fresh after the night’s sleep as an opening rise, all smile,

blush, babble girlish confidence, sweet reticence, a creature a

thousand time more bewitching, more beautiful, than in his hot

young man’s dream he have ever imagine a mortal could be? her

loveliness dazzle, intoxicate he; space of time which a week

before be call hour pass like brief second in her society. he

tear himself from her side too late: for the first time he be late

for parade. on the follow morning it be Nouna herself who hurry

he off, and he be charm with this dutiful wifeliness until he be

suddenly startle out of all attention to an order from his superior

officer by the appearance of his wife, in a white dress and the

baby-bonnet he have buy for she, on the parade-ground.



as for the Colonel, the unexpected apparition of this extraordinary

little figure have an almost ghastly effect upon he. George see he

glare at the poor child as if her white drapery have be the flimsy

garment of an authentic ghost.



“who bring that girl here? tell she she have no business on the

parade-ground,” say Lord Florencecourt in an almost brutal tone.



much incense, George ride forward with a crimson face, and saluting,

say: “Colonel, that lady be my wife.”



he do not notice the rapid movement of curiosity and excitement which

his announcement make among such of the other officer as stand near.

they have all look at the girl’s pretty face with surprise and

admiration, but the information that she be the wife of a comrade

produce upon they much the same effect that the discovery of a fox in

an animal they have take for a rabbit would have on a group of

hunting-man.



but George’s attention be wholly absorb by the strange demeanour of

Lord Florencecourt, who seem to have forget all about his

marriage, for he start and stare at he with a fierce amazement

utterly bewilder to the young man.



“your wife!” he echo in a low voice. and he face Lauriston with a

search look, which the young lieutenant meet steadily.



they stand like this for some moment, each find it hard to control

his seethe anger. the Colonel, as become the eld man and

commanding officer, recover himself first, and tell George curtly

that, as parade be over, he have well rejoin his wife and lead she

off the ground. this suggestion the young man be glad enough to take,

and he salute and ride off without a word, still in a state of hot

indignation. the sight of Massey and Dicky Wood stand beside his

wife, evidently both do their good to make themselves agreeable to

she, and succeed to all appearance very well, do not tend to

soothe he, and on reach the spot where they stand, he swing

himself off his charger in a most unamiable mood. he have self-command

enough leave not to reproach she in the presence of his comrade, but

the tone in which he say, without take any notice of they, “come up

to my room, Nouna,” and the young wife’s sudden pallor at his word

cause the two young fellow to exchange significant look, which both

Lauriston and his wife unluckily see, expressive of fear that the poor

little lady be go to have “a bad time of it.”



at the door of the officer’ quarter they come upon the Colonel, who

be look as uncompromisingly fierce as ever. he examine Nouna from

head to foot with a straightforward aggressive scrutiny which make

George’s blood boil, while his wife, for her part, stop short to

return his stare with equally simple directness.



“George, who be he?” she ask suddenly in a low eager voice, turn

to her husband as he put his arm brusquely within hers to lead she

past.



“Lord Florencecourt, the Colonel,” he whisper back, in an important

tone, hope that the officer’s position would impress she

sufficiently for she to awake to her want of respect.



but before George could see what effect his word might have, the

Colonel himself, who be look very haggard and grizzly this

morning, an object grim enough to arrest any woman’s attention, break

into the whisper conversation with brusque coldness. he have not lose

a word of the rapid question and answer, and a slight change pass

over his ashen gray face as if the blood be flow more freely

again, as he note the unconcern with which the lady hear the

announcement of his name.



“pray introduce I to your wife, Lauriston,” he say in such a hard

voice that the request become an abrupt command, without take his

eye from her face for one second. “perhaps, indeed, we have meet

before. Mrs. Lauriston seem to know I. in that case I hope she will

pardon my short memory.”



“no, I haven’t meet you,” say Mrs. Lauriston hastily, look at he

with open aversion and turn to take her husband’s arm as if she

consider the hardly-form acquaintance already too long.



“then my memory be well than your, I be sure,” say he, with a

ghastly attempt to assume his usual society manner. “what be Mrs.

Lauriston’s maiden name?” he ask, turn to the young lieutenant.



“Miss Weston, Nouna Weston,” answer George, with grow curiosity

and interest.



the Colonel’s face remain impassive as wood.



“ah! any relation to Sir Edward Weston, the architect?”



“be you, Nouna?”



“I never hear of he,” say the girl, while her eye remain fix,

with the fascination of repulsion, on the Colonel’s hard, line face.

“my father be Captain Weston, and he die in India; I don’t know

anything else.”



“you come here this morning to see your husband drill?”



“yes.”



“ah!” the Colonel seem to be revolve something in his mind, and he

look again at Nouna for a moment doubtfully, as if uncertain whether

to ask she another question. however, he refrain from do so, and

only say, still coldly but with a perceptible diminution of

harshness: “I must apologise for detain you, Mrs. Lauriston, but

your husband be such an old friend of mine that I could not resist the

temptation of make your acquaintance on the first opportunity.”



with a formal salute the Colonel retreat, and George hasten up

stair to his room with his wife to take off his uniform. at any

other time Nouna would have find great delight in immediately try

on his sash and draw his sword; but the encounter with the Colonel,

while it have one good result in avert her husband’s displeasure

with she for follow he to the barrack, have damp her spirit in

a very marked fashion.



“George, how could you say that the Colonel be nice?” she ask

almost before the gentleman in question be out of earshot. “I think

he be the most horribly cold, hard man I ever meet. it be quite right

for he to be a soldier; he look as if he wish I be the enemy

and he could hack at I.”



“nonsense, child,” say George. “he think he have meet you before,

that’s all. and you look at he in the same way. be you sure you

never see he until to-day?” he ask curiously; for he have be

strike by the puzzled interchange of scrutinize look, and be still

rather anxiously in the dark as to the circumstance of his wife’s

life before he meet she.



“quite sure,” say Nouna slowly, look straight before she and

try to pierce the gloom of old memory. “I seem to have see

somebody a little like he, I don’t know when and I don’t know where,

but I be sure I have never before to-day see he himself. why,

George, he be too horrid to forget!”



and with a start and a little shiver of dislike, she dismiss the

subject and bound across the room to play like a kitten with the

end of her husband’s sash.









 CHAPTER XV.



even in the intoxication of the first few day of married life,

George Lauriston have not forget his resentment against Rahas, in

whom he could not fail to see a subtle enemy to his domestic

happiness. on the morning after his marriage he have call at the

house in Mary Street, and be not at all surprised to be tell by the

servant that Mr. Rahas have go away. he insist on see the eld

merchant Fanah, who, however, only confirm the woman’s statement by

say that his nephew have go to France on business of the firm. it

flash through George’s mind that this sudden journey abroad might be

with the object of visit Nouna’s mother, with whom it be plain the

young merchant have some rather mysterious undertaking; but the next

moment he reject this idea, be more inclined to the opinion that

the Countess, for some unknown reason, be anxious to have it believe

that she be far off than in truth she be.



he next go up to Messrs. Smith and Angelo’s office, see the eld

partner and lay before he a vigorous remonstrance with Madame di

Valdestillas for employ a foreign scoundrel (as George do not

scruple to call Rahas) who dared not show his face to the husband, as

her messenger to a young wife. the old lawyer listen as passively as

usual, and recommend the indignant young officer to write to the

Countess on the subject.



“and if you will take a word of advice,” end the old lawyer, his

eye travel slowly round the sepulchral office as he rub his

glass, “write temperately, much more temperately than you have

speak to I. the Condesa be a very passionate woman, and while she be

all generosity and sweetness to those she honour with her regard, she

be liable to be offend if she be not approach in the right way.”



“I don’t care whether she be offend or not,” burst out George, with

all the righteous passion of outraged marital dignity, “and her

generosity and sweetness be nothing to I. she seem to have a very

odd idea of what a husband should be--” at this point Mr. Smith, who

be smile blandly in a corner of the office, draw his mouth in

suddenly, with a sort of gasp of horror, which he smother as his

partner’s eye, without any appearance of hurry or any particular

expression in they, rest for a moment on his face. George meanwhile

go on without pause,--“if she think he will stand any interference

between his wife and himself. she have do she good to ruin she

daughter by her fantastic bring up----”



“oh, hush! hush!” interpose Mr. Angelo, while his sensitive partner

absolutely writhe as if it be he himself who be be thus

scathingly censure.



George continue: “but she be quite mistaken if she think she can

treat she in the same way now. Nouna be my wife, and if I catch any

other messenger, black, or white, or grey, humbug about try to

see she without my knowledge, I’ll horsewhip he within an inch of his

life, if he be send by fifty mother!”



a curious incident occur at this point. there be an instant’s

perfect silence in the room. George be stand with his back to the

door of Mr. Angelo’s private office. no sound be audible but the

nervous scraping of Mr. Smith’s foot on the carpet, and a subdue

clearing of the throat from Mr. Angelo. the young husband be too

passionately excited to take note of either face, and both partner

keep their eye carefully lower as if they hear the outburst under

protest. yet in the pause, without any conscious reason, George turn

suddenly and see against the glass upper panel of the door, the

outline of a woman’s bonnet, with a small plume of feather on the

leave side. he turn again immediately and face the lawyer with an

entire change of manner. feel a strong conviction now that he have a

large and a more important audience than he have imagine, with a

flash of self-command he control his anger, and speak in a firm,

clear, earnest voice, each word ring out as if he be give a

solemn command.



“perhaps,” he say, “I be judge too harshly. I mustn’t blame any one

for love unwisely; I haven’t yet show that I can love wisely

myself. but I wish Madame di Valdestillas to know--I beg you to let

she know--that I have take upon myself, with all solemnity before

God, the duty she be not herself able to fulfil, of cherish Nouna

and shield she with the influence of a home. I ask you also to beg

she not to send Nouna any more costly present, like the diamond

Rahas bring; they only make the poor child long for a chance to show

they off, and it will be year and year before I can put she in a

position to wear they without be ridiculous. I’m sure if Madame di

Valdestillas be to know that, she love her child much too well not

to see that I be right.”



George pause, keep quite still. for a moment there be no sound at

all, and both the lawyer refrain from look at he. at last with

a gentle cough, to intimate that he have well weigh this speech and

that he expect as much weight to be give to his answer, Mr. Angelo

answer:



“I quite understand the integrity of your motive, Mr. Lauriston, and

I believe I may answer for it that the Condesa di Valdestillas, when I

have lay your argument before she, will respect they as fully as I

do. but I believe it be not now premature for I to confess that

circumstance may arise which will make it not only possible, but

desirable that Mrs. Lauriston should grow accustomed to the wearing of

jewel suitable to a lady not only of position, but of wealth.” George

look steadily at he, in some perplexity. “the fact be, Mr.

Lauriston,” and Mr. Angelo’s eye travel round the room and then

rest for a moment in dull and fish-like impenetrability on the young

man’s face before they continue their circuit, “that Madame di

Valdestillas’s first husband leave property to a considerable amount

which he will to his wife, but with the condition that if she

marry again it should go to their daughter. now Madame di

Valdestillas, as you be aware, have marry again, and the property

would thus have fall to Mrs. Lauriston without question if it have

not be for one circumstance. some relative of the late Captain

Weston’s have propound a later will, benefit they to the

exclusion of his wife and daughter. now we have the strong reason

for believe the will thus suddenly spring upon we to be a forgery;

but until the trial, which be to take place shortly, we cannot be

absolutely sure of our case. in the meantime the Countess think it

well not too soon to hold out expectation which might never be

realize. it be quite on my own responsibility therefore, that I have

make this communication to you. it will explain what would certainly

otherwise seem rather mysterious conduct with regard to the present of

jewel to her daughter.”



“it seem to I rather mysterious still,” say George shortly and

uneasily. this network of strange occurrence and explanation that

seem to he quite as strange, perplex the straightforward young

soldier. “I’m not such a fool as not to value money, but frankly I’d

rather be without a great deal than think my wife have a fortune which

would make she independent of I. in any case I ought to have be

tell the whole position of thing before I marry she.”



he take up his hat and after very few more word leave the office, on

all point less satisfied than when he enter it. he hate humbug,

and this foreign Countess’s play with he, even if it arise from

nothing but a woman’s love of little mystery, be exceedingly

distasteful to he. he have act in the prompt and most upright way

towards Nouna, such as might have convince any reasonable person of

his integrity, yet in no respect have he meet with corresponding

frankness on her side. if he have be tell before of the young girl’s

possibly brilliant prospect, it would have change many thing for

he; now that the suggestion be suddenly spring upon he late in the

day, he find that he could not adjust himself to the notion of Nouna

rich, distract in the first flush of the honeymoon by the startle

news that she be a wealthy woman, with a host of luxurious pleasure

at her command outside such simple, more domestic happiness as her

husband could give she. and he resolve that, as she do not know of

the sensational prospect that might open before she, he would himself

say nothing about it, but would wait until the will case be try,

and the matter finally settle in one way or the other.



George Lauriston, having hold himself till now rather markedly aloof

from the influence of feminine fascination, be now expiate his

neglect in daily tighten bondage at the foot of the most

irresistible little tyrant that ever captivate a man’s sense and

worm her way into his heart, none the less that he see daily with

increase clearness how much more he be give she than she be

give, or perhaps could give, to he. George be puzzle and

disappoint. argue from his personal experience, in which the

ecstatic dream and timid caress of the lover have be but a weak

prelude to the ardent and demonstrative tenderness of the young

husband, he have take it for grant that those pretty, capricious

outburst of girlish passion, which have charm he so much by their

piquant unusualness, would develop under the sunshine of happy

matrimony into a rich growth of steady affection, colour by the

tropical glow which seem to belong to her individuality, and

cherish and feed by his own devotion. it almost seem sometimes as

if marriage have have the effect of check her spontaneous

effusiveness, as if she be rather afraid of the violent

demonstration which any encouragement would bring down upon she. now

George, at three-and-twenty, could scarcely be expect to be much of

a philosopher; and find in his own case that true love be indeed

all-absorbing, he see no reason for doubt the common belief that

true love must always be so. only at a much late stage of experience

do one understand that into that vaguely describe state of be

“in love” enter many question of race, complexion, age, sex, and

circumstance, which produce as many variety of that condition as

there be man and woman who pass through it. so he fall ignorantly

into the mistake of think that he have not yet succeed in wholly

win his wife’s heart, and greatly torment both himself and she

by laborious and importunate effort to obtain what be, as a matter

of fact, safely in his possession.



Nouna love her husband as a bee love the flower, or a kitten the

warmth of the sun. he be the prince she have wait for to take she

out of the dull twilight of life with Mrs. Ellis and music-lesson;

and although, in the modest nest which be all he could yet make for

she, there be miss many of the element upon which she have

count in her imaginary paradise, yet who know what glory might not

be in store for she in the rapidly approach time when George would

be a General and wear a cocked hat? and in the meantime he be the

handsome man in the world, and kinder and sweet than anybody have

ever be to she; though when she look into his eye and sigh with

voluptuous delight at the light in they, and at their colour and

brilliancy, in truth she read in they little more than any dog can

read in the eye of his master, and she alternate her mood of

passionate satisfaction in her new toy with mood in which she openly

wish that she be not yet married to he, so that she might have

all the novelty and excitement of the wedding over again.



and George, who in his effort to resist the temptation of become a

mere slave to this little princess’s caprice, run a risk of become

a later and bad Mr. Barlow, decide that, in the shallow education

she have receive, the intellectual and spiritual side of her nature

have be too much neglect, and set about remedy these omission

in a furiously energetic manner. he be beset by many interesting

difficulty. to begin with: what pursuit could be imagine so

pleasant and at the same time so improve as read for fill up

the hour during which he be force to be absent from she? but Nouna

lightly, firmly, and persistently refuse to read one line even of a

judiciously choose novel, although George have take care to tempt she

by a set of beautifully bind volume by a lady writer who take a

decorously vague and colourless view of life through anglican-catholic

spectacle. she would look out of window by the hour, lie on the sofa

listen to the song and tale of Sundran, whom George hate himself

for his weakness in not dismiss, even catch fly on the

window-pane and give they to the cat, anything rather than open a

book. she would, indeed, permit George to read to she, lie curl up

in his arm and hearing for the most part without comment, unless he

choose poetry. in this region she show marked preference and

prejudice. Shakspeare, she aver, make her head ache, with the

exception of certain choose passage, which she would hear again and

again, string together in odd fashion. she be never tired of the

love-scene in _Romeo and Juliet_, but she would not permit the

intervene scene to be read, prefer a short summary in George’s

own word to fill up the blank thus make in the story. _Othello_ she

would suffer in the same way, and _King Lear_, _the Merchant of

Venice_, and _the Taming of the Shrew_; and she be never tired of the

description of the death of Ophelia. the _idyll of the king_ she

prefer for the most part without the poetry, but she learn by

heart _the Lady of Shalott_, _the Moated Grange_, and other piece

which present lady in a picturesque and romantic light. some

portion of _Hiawatha_ have a strong fascination for she, and as, again

and again, George read to she the account of the death of Minne-haha,

he would feel her arm tighten round his neck, and hear her breath

come short with intense interest and emotion close to his ear.



“would you feel like that if I die?” she ask abruptly one evening,

lay her hand across the page when he have read to the end.



“my child, my child, don’t ask I,” whisper George, overcome and

throw off his balance by a sudden realisation of the strong hold this

little fragile woman-creature have get upon his whole nature, of the

paralyse dead blank her absence would now make in his life. “I don’t

think, my wife, that I should live long after you,” he say in a

grave, deep voice, lay his right hand upon her shoulder, and

tighten the clasp of his left arm round her waist.



“really? would you die too, like the people in poetry?” she ask,

delight, rub her round young cheek against his in appreciation

of the appropriateness of his answer. but then, examine he at her

leisure, a doubt cross her mind, and as she span the muscle of

his arm with her little finger she shake her head. “a man be so

strong, so wise, and have so much more to do in the world than a woman,

that I think he could not die off just when it please he,” she say

thoughtfully. “there be always nouna in the world, I think, just

like fly and flower, and silly useless thing like that. if one

go, one know it must go, and one do not miss it. and a man see

that, and he say, ‘ah, it be a pity!’ and then he go on living, and

the grass grow up on the grave, and he forget. after all it be only

a little flower, only a little fly. and so while we be alive we must

just be sweet, we must just fly about and buzz, for when the little

grave be make we don’t leave any trace. that be what I think,” end

Nouna with a half-grave, half-playful nod.



but George could not take the speech playfully at all. this light but

resolute refusal to take herself in earnest, which he ascribe to the

paralyse influence of eastern tradition, be the great barrier to

all high communion between they than that of caress. by the

expression of his face Nouna scent the sermon from afar, and as he

open his mouth to speak, she thrust her hand between his lip as a

gag, and continue, laugh:



“don’t look like that. I willn’t hear what you have to say. you may be

very wise, but I must be listen to sometimes. now, I willn’t let you

speak unless you promise to leave off reading and sing to I.”



George nod a promise, unable to resist she, and there be an end to

the high education for that evening.



the second string to the young husband’s educational bow be art, in

whose refining and ennobling influence he believe dutifully, though

without much practical sense of it. he take she to concert in which

she find no acute pleasure, declare that sit still so long in

one narrow chair tired she, and that she would rather hear he play

and sing to she at home. he take she to picture gallery, which would

have be a rather penitential exercise for he by himself, but from

which he think she more delicately organized feminine temperament

might derive some benefit, “take it in through the pore” as it

be, as boy absorb a love and longing for the hunting-field from the

sight of their father’s scarlet coat and hunt crop. now this

experiment have more interesting result. the first place he take she

to be the Royal Academy, where she examine the picture in a daze

silence, which George hope be reflective admiration; but when they

return home she confess simply that she do not want to see any

more picture. in the National Gallery, on the other hand, where

George take she rather apologetically, with a sort of feeling that

this be too “advanced” for her present state of art knowledge, Nouna,

at first sight of the frame incline to be restive, begin speedily to

show an odd and unexpected pleasure, which deepen before certain

Gainsboroughs into childish delight.



“I should like the gentleman who paint that lady to paint I,” she

say, when she have gaze long and lovingly at one graceful bygone

beauty.



George explain the difficulty in the way of her wish, but be

highly pleased with the orthodoxy of her taste.



later experience, however, give a shock to this feeling. the National

Gallery having effect her reconciliation with pictorial art, Nouna

be praiseworthily anxious to learn more of it, and insist on

visit every exhibition in London. it then gradually become manifest

that she have a marked preference for the work of Continental

painter, from the lively delineator of parisian type of character to

the work of the dare artist who present the figure of sacred

history with strong limelight effect.



“they make I see thing, and they make I feel thing,” be all the

explanation she could give of the instinctive preference of her

sensuous and poetical temperament.



even this be not so distressing as her make exception to her

indifference to english art in the person of two artist whom George

have always be accustom to consider legitimate butt for satire.

the beautiful, mournful woman, with cling drapery, look out of

the canvas with sadly question eye, imaginative conception of an

artist who have found a school plentifully lack in genius, fill

Nouna with grave pleasure, and cause she to turn to George in eager

demand for sympathy.



“eh? do you like they?” say he, surprised. “why he’s the man who

start the æsthetic craze; all the woman take to starve

themselves, and to go about like bundle of limp rag, to look like

the gaunt creature in his picture.”



“that be silly,” say Nouna promptly. “the woman in the picture mean

something, and they don’t care how they look; a woman who just dress

herself up like they would mean nothing, and would care only for how

she look.”



George think this rather a smart criticism, and forgave her peculiar

taste on the strength of it; still, he believe himself to be quite on

the safe side when he say, take her arm to point out a picture on

the opposite wall by another artist:



“you willn’t want I to admire that smudge, I hope, Nouna?”



she remain silent, consider it, and then say gravely:--



“it ben’t a smudge, it’s a lady.”



“well, do you like it?”



“I like she well than the baby, and lady, and cow, and

mountain in the Royal Academy.”



“but it take half an hour to find out what it be.”



“that’s well than make you wish it ben’t there.”



after that George give she up, and begin to perceive that it would

need a critic more apt than he be to deal aright with her perverse

but intelligent ignorance.



his third mean of develop what be noble in his wife’s character

be, of course, religion. George be not religious himself, but it

seem a shocking thing for a woman not to be so, and still more for

she to lie under the suspicion of practise the rite of an occult

pagan faith. so he take she to church, where she shake with laughter

at the curate’s appearance and voice, and yawn, and play with her

husband’s finger during the sermon.



“oh, George, how clever it be of you not to laugh at the little man

in white!” she cry, with a burst of laughter, at the church-door,

when she have hurry down the aisle with indecorous haste. “now I’ve

be once to please you, you willn’t make I go again, will you? it

remind I so dreadfully of the horrid Sundays at school.”



“well, but don’t you like be in the church where we be marry,

darling?” he ask gently.



“oh, but I can remember I’m married to you without go in again,”

she answer laugh.



and so gradually this desultory musical and religious education

dwindle down to visit to Westminster Abbey and the opera; nor could

George succeed satisfactorily in establish in her mind a proper

sense of the difference there be between these two kind of

entertainment.









 CHAPTER XVI.



the honeymoon be over, and the London season draw to a close

before the Colonel, who, to Lauriston’s great regret, seem, since

that inauspicious introduction to Nouna, to have withdraw into a

permanent coldness towards he, make an attempt to bridge over the

restraint which have grow up between they. it be one evening when

George, to do honour to a visitor who be a friend of his, have dine

at mess, that the Colonel break silence towards his old favourite, and

invite he, at dessert, to a chair just leave vacant by his side,

ask if he be still as anxious as ever to get leave for September.



George be rather surprised.



“I be more anxious than ever for it now, sir,” he say. then, see

that Lord Florencecourt’s brow contract slightly with a displeased

air, he add apologetically, “you know, sir, I should not have

venture to ask for more leave this year if you yourself have not be

kind enough to propose it. and now my wife be long for the promise

change.”



the Colonel instinctively frown still more at the mention of the

obnoxious wife, and after balance a fruit-knife on his finger for a

few second, with his eye fix as intently upon it as if the feat

be a deeply interesting one, he say very shortly:



“you still intend to go to Norfolk? it’s a damp climate, an unhealthy

climate--not one suitable to a lady bear in India, I should think.

beastly dull, foggy place at all time. why don’t you go to

Scarborough?”



George could not remind he that it be he himself who have probably

suggest the Millards’ invitation, and certainly do his utmost to

persuade he to accept it. the knowledge that it be disapproval of

his wife which have cause this sudden change in the Colonel’s view,

make he suddenly stiff, constrain, and cold.



“I have promise my wife, Colonel; it be too late to change my plan

and disappoint she.”



the Colonel glance searchingly up at he from the corner of his

eye, and say almost deprecatingly:



“I see--of course not. I only mean to suggest that the quiet country

life the Millards lead might bore she, and, the fact be, our place

will not be as lively as usual this year. I shall have some unexpected

expense to meet. I’ve be warn of they, and they will not be long

in come.” here he pause, gaze still on the table, and seem not

so much to watch as to listen for some sign of comprehension on

George’s part. “and so,” he continue, at last raise his eye, and

speak in his short, bitter tone, “I shall have to retrench,

and there will be no merrymaking at Willingham this year.”



“I be very sorry to hear it,” say George, puzzle by a swift

conjecture that he be expect to make some more significant remark,

and wonder what it ought to have be.



he be wish he could withdraw from this awkward _tête-à-tête_,

when, in a low distinct voice, the Colonel strike he into perplexity

by the following question:



“how would you like to exchange into the ----th, and go over to

Ireland?”



“not at all,” answer George, just as low, and very promptly.



he be extremely indignant at this suggestion that he should go into

exile just for having please himself in the matter of his marriage,

which be unmistakably his own affair.



“would you not if by so do you could confer a very considerable

favour upon one whom you use to be glad to call an old friend?” say

the Colonel in the same low voice, and with a strange persistency.



around they the sound of laughter and of heated but futile

after-dinner discussion, begin in wine and die away in

cigar-smoke, fill the hot air and render their conversation more

private and at the same time free than it could have be if hold

within closed door. George look at the ashy pale face of the

prematurely aged officer, and it seem to he that his own frame

shiver as if at touch of some unexpected mystery, some unknown

danger. he answer with much feeling:



“tell I why it be a favour, Colonel. I would do more than this to

show I be grateful to you. only let I understand.”



but the very sympathy in his tone seem to startle the Colonel, who

draw back perceptibly, with a hurried glance straight into George’s

eye. it seem to the latter, who be now on the alert for

significant look and tone, that at the moment when their eye meet

the Colonel take a desperate resolution. at any rate, when he speak

again it be in his usual manner.



“it’s nothing,” he say, wave the subject away with his hand.

“nothing but a pass freak which I beg you will not think of again.”



his tone notify that the discussion be closed, and for the whole of

the evening George consider, without find any satisfactory clue

to an explanation, what Lord Florencecourt’s motive could be for so

strongly object to Nouna’s appearance in the neighbourhood of

Willingham. his prejudice against swarthy complexion could scarcely

be sufficiently obstinate for he to hope to clear the county of they:

but what be the origin of the prejudice?



on return home George try to probe the misty memory which the

Colonel’s appearance have, on his introduction to Nouna, stir in her

mind. but he could elicit nothing far. Nouna be now show at

time little fit of petulance, bear of the absence of violent novelty

in her life now that the husband be grow to be quite an article of

every-day consumption, as much a matter of course as dry toast at

breakfast, and she be not go to be trouble to remember or try to

remember face.



“I dare say I only fancy I ever see anybody like he,” she say with

a little wearied twist of her head and stick forward of her round

chin. “I cann’t count every hair on the head of every old gentleman I

see.”



and however often he might return to this subject, and in whatever

mood she happen to be, George could learn nothing more definite than

her first vague impression, which grow even fainter as the meeting

fade into the past.



in the meantime Nouna be become rather weary of look into the

pretty shop window without be able to buy anything, and of walk

among the people in the park without join in any other of their

amusement. George have have design for she a tailor-make

walk-dress of white cloth embroider in gold thread and

bright-colour silk which, with a small white cloth cap embroider

in the same way, cause her appearance to make a great sensation among

the conventionally ill-dress crowd of Englishwomen with more money,

rank, and beauty, than taste. he be himself much surprised to see how

easily she wear a dress of a cut to which she be unaccustomed, and

how well she look in it. the conventional shape of the gown only

emphasise the difference between the natural movement of her lithe

form and the stiff bobbing and jerking and swaying which mark the

gait of the ordinary english girl. the reason be simply that Nouna

have by nature that great gift of beauty of attitude and movement which

we call grace; and as among the handsome woman of England only one

in every hundred be graceful either by nature or art, that quality

alone would have be enough to make the half indian girl conspicuous.

therefore there be much discussion among onlooker as to her

nationality. the indian type be not common enough among we to be

widely recognise, or the delicate little aquiline nose, the long

eye, and the peculiar tint of her skin, might have betray she; as

it be, conjecture waver between France and Spain as a birthplace

for she; for while she wear her dress like a Parisian, she certainly

walk like a spaniard. by no mean unconscious of the attention she

excite, Nouna would have like to come in close contact with some of

the handsome englishman who seem by their respectfully admire

look to be so well-dispose towards she. for she be decidedly of a

“come-on” disposition, and not at all trouble with raw shyness or

an excess of haughty reserve. neither be she conscious of anything

forward or improper in her sociability.



“all these gentleman that we pass, and those stand in a crowd near

the railing under those tree--they be gentleman, the English

gentleman mamma think so much of, ben’t they?”



“oh yes,” answer George smile, “they be among what be call the

good man, though it’s rather a rum term to apply to some of they.”



“I should like to know some of they: you do, I see they nod to you.”



“wouldn’t you rather know some of the pretty lady?”



“no,” answer Nouna promptly. “their dress always drag on the

ground one side, and they wear dreadful flat boot like Martha the

servant. I like the gentleman well.”



“but you mustn’t judge people only by their dress, Nouna,” say the

young husband, feel rather uncomfortable.



“I cann’t judge they by anything else till I know they,” say Nouna

fretfully.



George be silent. he be disappoint to learn that she be so soon

weary of the perpetual _tête-à-tête_ which have lose no charm for

he; but he have the sense to own that his ambition, even the daily

meeting with his comrade at parade, make his life full than his

young wife’s could possibly be. he resolve to call upon the Millards,

who, anxious not to intrude upon the newly-married couple before they

be want, have refrain from call upon the bride until they

should hear again from George. on the morning of the day he have fix

for his call, a note come for he from Captain Pascoe, ask he to

join a party up the river in a couple of day. Nouna read the note

over his shoulder.



“shall you go, George?” she ask with interest.



“no, dear, how can I? I’ve get a little wife to look after now.”



“but if you be to write and say no, you couldn’t come because you’d

get a wife, perhaps he’d ask I too!”



George have no doubt of this, believe indeed that this be the result

Captain Pascoe have aim at.



“Captain Pascoe be not quite the sort of man I should like you to

know, dear,” he say.



“ben’t he an english gentleman?”



“oh yes, but english gentleman ben’t all angel, you know.”



“and ben’t you ever go to let I know anybody who ben’t an angel?”



“well, darling, I don’t think anybody else be good enough.”



a pause. George hope she be satisfied for the present. she be still

behind his chair, so that he could not see her face. at last she

ask, in a low, rather menacing tone:



“be angel’ wing make of feather, like bird’?”



“I don’t know, dear, I suppose so,” say George laughing, and turn

to look at she and pat her cheek.



“then if I meet one I should pull they out,” she cry in a flame of

fury, and before her husband could recover from his astonishment, she

have flee out of the room.



he follow she with a troubled countenance, and find her face

downward on the bed, sob her heart out. no remonstrance be of

any use, she only murmur that she would like to be a nun, it be

more interesting than to be a wife shut up and never allow to speak

to anybody.



“but, Nouna, the indian lady be much more shut up than you be.”



“they have beautiful wide palace to live in. I shouldn’t care if I

have a palace.”



“well, you know I cann’t give you a palace, but if you will be good and

leave off cry, I will take you on the river myself one day.”



“will you? when, when?” cry she, start up excited, all her griefs

forget.



“I’ll see if I can take you to-morrow.”



she fling her arm round his neck, not to ask his pardon for her

petulance, but to assure he that he be the good, kind husband

that ever live, and that no Indian Maharanee in all her splendour of

marble court and wave palm be ever so happy as she.



George keep his promise, and on the follow day take she down to

Kingston, and row she up as far as Shepperton and back. she be

delighted with the river, and, charm with the idea of be a person

of responsibility, show great aptitude for a beginner at steering.

be one of those quick-eye, neat-handed person whose wit be rather

nimble than profound, she acquire accomplishment of this nature with

a feminine and graceful ease; and sit with the rope over her

shoulder, her dark eye intent with care gleam from beneath her

white baby-bonnet, she make a picture so perfect that, as usual, every

man who pass look at she with undisguised admiration, and glance

from she to her companion to find out more about she through he. all

this George, who be not too much lose in his own adoration to note

the casual votive glance offer to his idol, bear with complacency,

until, just as they enter Sunbury Lock, on the return journey, a

well-know voice call his name from a boat that be already wait

inside the gate, startle he. he turn and see a crew of four man,

two of whom be Captain Pascoe and Clarence Massey. the impetuous

little Irishman drag the two boat alongside each other, and

instantly plunge into conversation with Nouna, who seem delighted

with the incident. George be not a Bluebeard; still, remember all

the circumstance of Nouna’s previous acquaintance with the all round

lover, massey, he by no mean desire the friendship to grow close

between they, and he be not pleased by the glance of interest which

Nouna exchange with Captain Pascoe, who have an air of quiet

good-breed particularly attractive to woman. the two boat pass

each other again and again on the way to Kingston, for the strong

crew seem to be in no great hurry, and be not perhaps unwilling to

be occasionally pass by a boat steer by such an interesting little

coxswain. at any rate the small craft arrive first at Bond’s, and

George take his wife up stair to the coffee-room for a cup of tea.

then she discover that she feel rather “faint,” and have forget

her smell-salt; would George go out and get she some? what could a

newly-fledge husband do but comply, however strong his objection

might be to leave his wife alone in a public room? there be no one

in it, however, but a cheerful and kind little waitress, who seem

quite overcome by the young lady’s beauty; so he give Nouna a hurry

kiss when the girl’s back be turn, and hasten off to fulfil she

behest as fast as possible.



he find a chemist’s very quickly, and return with the

smell-salt in a few moment. but Nouna have entirely recover from

her faintness, and instead of find she recline on the horse-hair

sofa with closed eye and a face of romantic paleness, George

discover she enthrone in an arm-chair, all vivacity and animation,

hold a small but adore court compose of the crew that have dog

their progress on the river. Massey be talk the most; but Captain

Pascoe, by virtue of his superiority in year and position as well as

a certain distinction of appearance and manner, be undoubtedly the

most prominent and the most favour courtier. for a moment George

stop in the doorway, as a terrible remembrance of the tale of the

genie who lock the lady up in a glass case flash into his mind. he

dismiss the ugly fancy immediately; what reason have he for suppose

Nouna have any unconfessed motive in send he away? there be

nothing now but to make the good of it, to join the party, and even to

hear Captain Pascoe repeat the invitation up the river as Nouna have

hope, and reluctantly to add his own acceptance of it to his wife’s.



the train in which the husband and wife return to town be not

crowd, and they have a compartment to themselves. the excitement of

entertaining be over, Nouna take off her bonnet and lean back in

a corner with her eye close, tired out.



“where be your salt, dear?” ask George, put his hand tenderly

on her wavy hair.



she open her eye languidly.



“salt! oh, I don’t know. I never use they!”



George be knock over by this appalling confession.



“never use they! then you do not want they when you send I out for

they?” he say, almost stammer.



she half raise her heavy eyelid again with a malicious little smile,

and pat his hand re-assuringly, with some pride in her own

ingenuity, and quite as much in his.



“clever boy!” she whisper languidly. “you see I want to go up the

river again, and I know you wouldn’t introduce he so that he could

invite I.”



and clasp her little hand, which she have relieve of her glove,

with a beatific smile of perfect satisfaction, she curl her head

into her left shoulder like a bird and prepare to doze.



“how do you know it be Captain Pascoe?” ask George in a hard, dry

voice.



“hear the little red man call he so,” murmur Nouna sleepily.



George draw back, shocked, wound, and perplex. to correct she for

petty deceit be like demonstrate to a baby the iniquity of

swallow its toy; she could not understand how it be wrong to

obtain by any mean in her power anything she want. there be no

great harm do after all, when the deed be follow by such quick

and innocent confession. but none the less, the habit show a moral

obliquity which could not fail to be a distressing sign that the

ennobling influence of matrimony, literature, the art and religion

have not yet have any great and endure effect. he withdraw into the

corner furth from she, bewilder himself with conjecture as to

what the right way to treat she might really be, not at all willing as

yet to own that the wife who fascinate man most be not the docile

creature who like clay can be mould to any shape their lord and

master may please to give they, but retain much of the resistance of

marble, which require a far high degree of skill and patience in

the working, and have well be leave alone altogether except by fully

qualified artist of much experience in that medium. even in the midst

of his disturb musing a consolation, if not a light, come to he.

he hear Nouna move. he be stare out at the darken landscape

through one of the side-window, and do not look round: before he

know she be near he she have climb into his lap.



“put your arm round I; I want to go to sleep,” coo she.



and, alas, for philosophy and high morality! at the touch of her arm

all his fear and his misgiving melt into passionate, throb

tenderness, and he draw the head of the perhaps not wholly undesigne

Nouna down on to his shoulder with the sudden feeling that his doubt

of her entire perfection have burst like bubble in the air.



nevertheless, it become clear again that evening that young Mrs.

Lauriston contemplate a revolution in the tenor of her quiet life.



“I wonder,” she say pensively at supper, rest from the labour of

eat grape, with a face of concentrated earnestness, “that mamma

have take no notice of the letter I send she the very day after I be

married. I tell she of a very particular wish I have, and you know

mamma always have let I have every wish I have ever make; I cann’t

understand it.”



“what wish be that?” ask George, feel it useless to complain of

the want of confidence which have prevent she from communicate it

before.



“I want to have a large house that I can furnish as I please, and

where I can receive my friend,” say Nouna with rather a haughty,

regal air.



George begin to see that it be of no use to oppose the sociable bent

of her mind, and he occupy himself therefore in wonder whether

this wish of Nouna’s, express in a letter which pass through the

lawyer’ hand before his last visit to they, have have any relation to

their unexpected announcement of a possible accession of his wife to

fortune.



a few day later the conjecture acquire still more force through a

letter from Mr. Angelo, inform he that the will case of which he

have speak have be decide out of court, and that Mrs. Lauriston be

entitle to an income of four thousand a year, and a house in Queen’s

Gate which she could let or occupy at her discretion. the property

be, by the late Captain Weston’s bequest, to be her on her majority

or on her marriage, whichever event should take place first; therefore

if Mr. and Mrs. Lauriston would call at their office at an early date,

Messrs. Smith and Angelo would put they in possession of all further

detail, and be able to complete certain necessary formality. these

formality, however, turn out to be very few and very simple, and

George be surprised at the ease with which such a young woman as

Nouna could enter into possession of so considerable an income. as for

she, she be crazy with delight, and on learn that she could have

an advance to furnish her house and make in it what alteration she

like, she awake into a new life of joyful activity which seem

almost to suggest some superhuman agency in enable she to be in half

a dozen place at once.



when at last, after having show in the arrangement of her handsome

home some of the skill of an artist, and herself superintend the

work of the most intelligent artisan a distinguished firm in Bond

Street could furnish, Nouna introduce her husband in triumph to the

little palace on the south of the park, poor George be overwhelm by

a crowd of bitter and sorrowful feeling to which Nouna’s

half-childish, half-queenly delight in the change from the home of his

create to the home of hers give scarcely anything more than an add

pang. what could he hope to be to she now but a modest consort half

ignore amidst the pretty state with which she evidently mean to

surround herself? what sense of authority over she, of liberty for

himself, could he hope to have, when, instead of she share his

prospect, he be simply share her? since she could so lightly

part, with no sensation strong than relief, from those association

with their first day of wed love which he hold so dear, what hold

could he really have on her heart at all? and suddenly, in the midst

of his grave reflection, Nouna herself, to-day clothe in a

whirlwind, shatter or flutter every object and every creature

she come near, would fly at he down some corridor, or through some

curtain, like an incarnate spirit of joyous triumph, and force he,

with or without his will, to rejoice with she in her work. but with a

laugh, and a rush of light word and a tempestuous caress, she would

leave he again, it be out of the question that a man’s sober foot

could carry he from attic to cellar with as much swiftness as she

feel the occasion require of she, the new mistress. so George make

his tour of inspection for the most part by himself, civilly decline

the offer of the housekeeper as a guide. this he feel as a new

grievance, this staff of servant, whom he and even Nouna have have no

hand in choose, Mr. Angelo, with his customary strange

officiousness, having undertake that and many other detail of the

new household. on this point, however, George could console himself;

as soon as he and his wife be instal, he should make a bold

demonstration of the fact that, however weak he might be in the dainty

little hand of his wife, he be not to be rule by anybody else, and

intend, with that one important exception perhaps, to be master in

his own house.



even while he make these reflection, he be the unseen witness to a

little scene which, in his irritable frame of mind, fill he with

anger and suspicion. he be stand on the ground floor, at a bend

in the hall, screen from view by a mass of the tall tropical plant

with which it be a canon of taste with Nouna to fill every available

nook, when his attention be attract by a peculiar soft treble knock

on the panel of the door of an apartment which he have not see, but

which he have be tell be the housekeeper’s room. look through the

great leave, which he separate with his hand, he see Mrs. Benfield,

the housekeeper, stand at the door. the next moment a key be

turn and the door open from inside, another woman let she in, and

immediately the door be re-locked. George, already not in the good of

humour, would not stand these mystery in a place which, as long as

he choose to live in it, he be determined should be his own house. he

cross the hall, and knock sharply on the panel.



“who be it?” ask Mrs. Benfield’s voice.



“it be I, your master.”



there be a pause of a few second, and George could hear the rustling

of woman’s gown. then the door be unlocked and throw wide with much

appearance of deferential haste by Mrs. Benfield.



“I be sorry to have keep you so long, sir; but the lock be new and a

little stiff just at first, and I----”



George do not hear the rest of her explanation. he be look at the

woman whom the housekeeper introduce as a friend of her, avow

that she have be afraid it would be consider a liberty to have a

visitor so soon; but she be so anxious to have a sight of the young

master and mistress that----



George interrupt. “of my wife? pray come with I then, she will be

quite pleased to find herself an object of so much interest.”



he speak courteously and with suppress excitement, make a step

forward to where Mrs. Benfield’s visitor sit close against the window

and with she back to the light. for he have a strong suspicion of the

identity of this stranger, who shrink into herself at the suggestion,

and say she thank Mr. Lauriston, she would rather not be see; she

feel rather uncomfortable at having come.



“you need not, indeed,” say George in a vibrating voice, gaze

intently at the black silhouette, of which he could make out

exasperatingly little but the shape of a close bonnet. “I be sure my

wife will have particular pleasure in see you. I beg you to let I

fetch she.”



the lady--there be no mistaking a certain refinement in the voice,

even in that hurried whisper--be evidently agitate; but she say

nothing as Lauriston retreat towards the door. he cross the hall

to call his wife, scarcely leave the door of the housekeeper’s room

out of sight as he do so. but in that moment when his eye be not

upon it, the mysterious stranger find mean to escape; for when Nouna

fly down and rush into the small apartment at her husband’s

bidding, there be no one for she to see but Mrs. Benfield, who, much

perturb and grey about the face, explain that her friend, be a

nervous woman, have not dare to face the ordeal of a personal

introduction to the young lady.



George say nothing, and let his wife wander away again without

further explanation, think that after all the one small bit of

knowledge he have gain he have well at present keep to himself.



he know by the unmistakable evidence of the voice that he have just

see and speak with Nouna’s mother.









 CHAPTER XVII.



George Lauriston be not allow to make much of his small discovery

that Nouna’s mother be not so far off as she wish it to be

believe. the very morning after his meeting with the strange lady in

the housekeeper’s room he receive a private communication to the

effect that Madame di Valdestillas have run over to England from Paris

on purpose to see in the flesh the man upon whom her daughter’s

happiness depend; she have not dare to show herself to Nouna lest

her darling should be overwhelm at the shortness of her visit, and

ply she with prayer which it would be impossible to resist and cruel

to her invalid husband to grant. she have see, so she declare,

generosity and all noble quality imprint in her son-in-law’s face,

and she beg he to open his heart to receive she as his mother as

well as Nouna’s, when, at two or three month’ time at farth, she

would induce her husband to settle permanently in England, so that she

might be near her child.





 “you must have see, my dear Mr. Lauriston,” she go on, “that at

 sight of you I be almost too much overcome to speak. think what it be

 to be face to face, for the first time, with the person to whose care

 you have blindly confide the being you love well in the world, to be

 for the first time in seven year under the same roof with the

 creature for whose sake alone the world seem bright to you, and the

 chill air of this earth worth the breathing. I lead a brilliant life

 as the wife of a rich man, a man of rank; but it be empty and dreary

 to I without the child whom for her own sake I may not now see. be

 kind to she, cherish she, be to she the tender guardian my other tie

 prevent I from be, for what I have entrust to your care be the

 idol of my prayer.



                                   “ever your affectionate mother,



                                       “Lakshmi di Valdestillas.



 “P.S.--Any money you may require for set up your establishment in

 a manner befit the position in the world I wish my son and

 daughter to take I will willingly advance at once through Messrs.

 Smith and Angelo. an officer of such a regiment as yours want no

 passport to the good set in London; but if you propose to come to

 France, or Spain, or Germany, during the autumn, let I know, and I

 will take care to furnish you with the very good introduction.”





this communication be the same curious combination as before of

passionate letter and prosaic postscript, and again the rather flowery

language and gleam of practical sense remind he of Nouna. the

romantic, hybrid signature, Lakshmi di Valdestillas, have an

undoubtedly strong effect in explain the eccentricity of the

writer, who, with her eastern descent and spanish surrounding, could

not fairly be judge by rule which govern the ordinary Englishwoman.



the Countess do not fail to impress the purport of her postscript on

her daughter’s mind also, and Nouna be not slow to profit by the

injunction. she love luxury and splendour, have a strong sense of the

picturesque, and would have surround herself, if that have be

possible, with the half-barbarous state of an oriental potentate. that

be out of the question, she snatch readily at the good substitute

that offer itself, and find her husband’s fellow-officer, who make

no delay in call upon she, more interesting, if less picturesque,

than the turbane slave with whom she would have fill she

fancifully-decorate apartment.



George be much astonish by the unexacting rapidity with which his

wife be “take up” by people to whom her mother’s foreign title mean

nothing. for those officer who be marry bring their wife, and

no vagary either in Nouna’s dress or manner, no peculiarity in the

arrangement of her room prevent they from make “a lion” of the

fascinating little Indian, from implore she to come to their

reception, enshrine her photograph--in an impromptu costume rig

up hastily with pin, out of a table-cloth and two antimacassar, and

universally pronounce “so deliciously Oriental”--on their cabinet,

and beg her scrawl signature for their birthday-book. it be

not until some day after the stream of call and invitation have

begin to pour in upon the delighted Nouna that it occur to George

to remember that the pioneer of this invasion be Lord Florencecourt’s

sister, the Countess of Crediton, a lady who combine her brother’s

hardness of feature with a corresponding rigidity of mind which make

she a pillar of strength to all the uncompromise virtue. when he

do recall this circumstance, George feel more surprise than ever. no

one but the Colonel himself, who have an enormous influence over his

sister, could have induce she to take this step; and yet his attitude

towards Nouna, on that awkward introduction which he have make no

attempt to follow up by a call, have apparently be one of dislike but

faintly temper with the scantest possible courtesy. why, his very

endeavour to get Lauriston to exchange and put the Irish Channel

between himself and his old friend be clearly bear of the wish to get

rid, not of the promising young lieutenant, but of the

dark-complexion wife!



an incident which happen when the Colonel do at last make his tardy

call only increase the mystery of his conduct.



it be a hot August afternoon. the wide, tile hall have in the centre

a marble basin hold a pyramid of great block of ice, which melt

and drip slowly; large-leave tropical plant fill all the

corner; the wall, which be stencil in indian design, be hang

with huge engrave brass tray, and trophy of asiatic armour. a low,

broad seat cover with thin print cotton stuff, so harmoniously

colour as to suggest some dainty and rare fabric, run the length of

one side. an indian carpet cover the staircase, the side of which

be drape with the rich tapestry. the simplicity, beauty, and

coolness of the whole effect be unusual and pleasing to most

unimaginative british eye, but George, who come out into the hall on

hear the Colonel’s voice, see he glance round at plant and

trophy with an expression of shudder disgust.



“you don’t admire my wife’s freak of decoration, I see, Lord

Florencecourt,” say George, smile. then, a new idea cross his

mind, he ask quickly: “have you be to India?”



Lord Florencecourt shoot a rapid, pierce look at he.



“yes, it’s a d--d hole,” he answer briefly.



this be so summary and to the point, that Lauriston’s question, if

not his interest, be check, and he lead the way up stair without

pursue the subject.



if the eccentricity of the hall be not to the Colonel’s taste, it

be easy to predict that the drawing-room would have no charm for

he. here Nouna have let her own conception of comfort run riot. no

modern spindle-legged furniture, no bric-a-brac. the floor of both

room be cover with matting, strew with the well-mount skin of

wild beast. there the resemblance between the two apartment end.

for the wall of the first be paint black and line from floor to

ceiling with queer little shelf, and bracket, and cupboard, like a

japanese cabinet. the shelf and bracket be fill with vase of

cut flower, cup and saucer of egg-shell china, dainty basket

fill with fruit, brass candlestick, bright blue plate, cut glass

bottle of perfume, hand mirror from the Palais Royal with frame of

porcelain flower, screen, fan, a hundred dainty and beautiful

trifle, each one of which, however, have its use and be not “only for

show.” the panel of some of the numerous and oddly-shape cupboard

be inlay with japanese work in ivory, pearl, and gold, while other

be hang with bright-coloured curtain of indian silk, fasten back

with gold tassel. the ceiling be entirely cover with gold-colour

silk, draw together in fold in the centre, where the end be

gather into a huge rosette, tie round with a thick gold cord,

finish by tassel which hang downwards a couple of foot. under this

be a large low ottoman, cover with tapestry square that seem to

have be stitch on carelessly accord to the fancy of the worker.

from the middle of the seat rise a small pedestal support an indian

female figure in coloured bronze, who hold high in her hand two

tint lamp, which give the only light use in the room. the curtain

to the window and door be gold-colour silk, edge with gold

fringe. little turkish table inlay with pearl, and immense cushion

throw about the floor in two and three, form all the rest of the

furniture.



the second room be as full of flower and plant as a conservatory.

between the group of foliage and blossom be low black wicker seat,

with crimson and gold cushion, and in one corner, hide by azalea

and large fern, be a grand piano, which, whenever Nouna be at home,

a young girl, a professional pianist, be engage to play. the wall

of this room be bright with unframed sheet of look-glass,

divide only by long curtain of gold-colour silk, which reflect

both plant and flower in never-end vista of foliage and bloom.

the ceiling of this room be paint like a pale summer-sky with

little cloud, and the only lighting be by tiny globe of electric

light suspend from it.



when George enter the first of these room, usher in the Colonel,

Nouna be as usual lie indolently on a pile of cushion, an attitude

which she vary for few of her visitor, certainly not for this old

gentleman whom she do not like. she hold up to he a condescending

hand, however, which he do not detain long in his. the whole

atmosphere of the place be evidently disagreeable to he; every

object on which his glance rest, from Nouna’s fantastic white

costume with red velvet girdle, cap, and slipper, to the tiger on

the floor, whose glassy eye and gleam fang remind he of many a

fierce jungle-encounter, seem to excite in he a new disgust, until

Nouna, to make a diversion in a conversation which she antipathy and

the vagueness of his answer render irksome to she, tell her husband

to show Lord Florencecourt her new palm, and lazily touch a little

bell on a table by her side, fall back quietly on her cushion as a

gentle intimation that she be not go to throw away her effort at

entertainment any more. the two gentleman walk obediently into the

adjoining room, which be divide from the first only by gold-colour

silk curtain which be never close.



as they do so, the outer door of the first room be softly open,

and the swarthy white-robe Sundran, walk with noiseless

flat-footed tread, cross the room and lay a little brass tray with

porcelain cup and teapot down by her mistress’s side.



the Colonel, who be speak to George, stop suddenly, as if the

thought that move his word have be suddenly freeze in his brain,

while his furrowed face turn at once to that dead greenish grey

which, on sallow face, be the ghastly sign of some strong and

horrible emotion. follow the direction of his eye with a swift

glance, George see that it be the indian woman who have excite this

feeling, and that this time the Colonel’s disgust be more than a

reminder--it be a recognition. Lauriston’s first impulse be to call

to Sundran, to make her turn, to confront the one with the other, and

tear down at one rough blow the mystery which be begin to wind

itself about one side of his life. but the expression on his old

friend’s face be too horrible; it be an agony, a terror; for the

Colonel’s sake George dare not interfere. Lord Florencecourt, after

the first moment, recover enough self-possession to make a step

far back among the plant, as if to admire one of they. but it be

plain to his companion that he be merely seek a stand-point from

which he could observe the woman without be see by she. and as

George watch his face under cover of idle remark about the flower,

he see that further scrutiny be bring about in the Colonel’s mind

not relief, but certainty.



as soon as Sundran have withdraw, Lord Florencecourt advance to take

his leave: but as he do so the door open, and Lady Millard,

accompany by two of her daughter, be usher in, and he be

detain with or without his will by pretty chatter Charlotte. it

be not their first visit; but they be so charm with the

picturesque little bride that they could not keep long away from she;

Ella in particular find a fascination in George’s wife, which be

perhaps less extraordinary than the interest Nouna take in the plain

abrupt-mannered girl. to Lord Florencecourt, who, in spite of his

force semi-civility, succeed very ill in mask his intense

dislike to young Mrs. Lauriston, the fuss his niece make with the

girl be nothing short of disgusting. thus when he say, notice an

unmistakable fragrance prevail over the perfume of sandalwood and

attar of rose:



“I observe that you let your husband smoke, Mrs. Lauriston.”



Nouna wave her hand towards a little engrave gold cigarette case,

beside which a tiny lamp be burn, and answer with a bubble

laugh:



“how can I stop he when I set the example?”



the lady be enrapture; they beg she to smoke to show they how

she do it, and Nouna, with a sly, mock-frightened glance from under

her eyelash at Lord Florencecourt, whose expression of rigid

disapproval do not escape she, say, address he in the

half-aggrieve, half-deferential air of the man invade by an elderly

female in a smoking-carriage:



“I hope you don’t object to smoking, sir!”



he do: every line of his face say so. but he could do nothing but

smile galvanically, assure she he think it charming, and hand she

the cigarette-case with all the easy grace with which a man travel

first-class produce a third-class ticket.



“you will have to lock up Henry’s cigar from Charlotte and Cicely

before long, Effie,” say he to his sister-in-law in a dry aside.



“oh, I don’t think so, Horace,” she reply easily.



be the daughter of an american millionaire who have gather

together a priceless collection of painting and then place they in a

gallery with a magnificent roof of elaborately coloured glass, she be

use to eccentricity, and to allow a wide latitude to individual

taste. she have not time to say more, for at that moment Nouna herself

cross the room to she, and join hand before she in a humbly

suppliant attitude.



“if you please, Lady Millard, I want to ask a great favour. it’s such

a very great favour that George say I ought not to dream of ask it

of any one I haven’t know much long than I have know you. now--may

I ask it?”



“with the reservation that if it’s anything penal I may refuse.”



“certainly. well, Lady Millard, I want you to help I to cure a poor

man who be suffer for want of change of air.”



“why, of course I will, with pleasure--”



“oh, but do you understand? I want you to invite he down to

Norfolk--and while I’m there!”



every one begin to laugh except Lord Florencecourt, and the suppliant

turn to glance round gravely at the mocker.



“ah, but I’m not in fun,” she continue undeterred. “I be interested

in this poor fellow--” again Ella be oblige to give vent to an

irrepressible little titter. “and I know that he ought to go out of

town, and he willn’t unless he get an invitation where he feel sure

that he will enjoy himself.” unmindful of renew sign of amusement,

she end: “his own people be clergyman and great-aunt and other

thing like that, so of course he will not go to they.”



Lady Millard draw she down on to the ottoman beside she, repress

her own inclination to laugh.



“and what be the name of the interesting young invalid?”



“Dicky Wood.”



“Dicky Wood!” and the three lady echo it in much astonishment.

“why, he be quite well!” “we see he only the other day!” they cry.



Nouna nod sagaciously.



“of course,” she say, glance round with a patronising sweep of the

eye at the two young lady, both of whom be considerably old

than she, “your daughter cannot know so well as I do; I be a married

woman, the boy come and talk to I; but I know that he be not well at

all, and if he do not go away soon he will go into a decline, I

believe.” she end with such tragic solemnity that all the girl’

inclination to laugh at her ingenuousness die suddenly away.



Lady Millard take off Nouna’s cap, smooth her hair, and kiss she

as if she have be one of her own daughter. she feel a strong

sympathy for this little creature who dare to be impulsive and

unconventional and natural in a country which to she have be full of

iron bond of strait-laced custom.



“I will see if it can be manage, dear,” she say kindly. “of course I

cann’t promise till I’ve see Sir Henry.”



Lord Florencecourt’s harsh voice rasp their ear just as the young

lady be heartily return the kiss of the elder.



“and pray what do Mrs. Lauriston’s husband say?”



Nouna’s head spring back with great spirit.



“Mrs. Lauriston’s husband have only to say yes to whatever Mrs.

Lauriston wish, or he would be no husband for I,” she say

decidedly.



at this neither George nor any one else could help laugh.



“oh, Nouna, you don’t know what a reputation you’re give we both!”

he say, as soon as he could command his voice. “they’ll say I’m

henpecke.”



she look for a moment rather dismayed, as if not quite measure the

force of the accusation. then with a sudden turn towards he, she

whole face aglow with affection, she say in a low, impulsive voice:



“do it matter what they say as long as we’re both so happy?”



“no, child, it don’t!” cry Lady Millard, carry away by the young

wife’s frank simplicity.



but on Lord Florencecourt’s prejudiced mind the little scene be only

another display of the most brazen coquetry. he and the lady leave

together, and they be not out of the house before George, in a

transport of passion, snatch into his arm the wife who be always

discover new charm for he. presently she say:



“George, that wooden-faced Lord Florencecourt hate I!”



“when you’ve see Lady Florencecourt, you’ll understand that a taste

for the one type of woman be incompatible with a taste for the other.”



“but why then do he make his sister call upon I? for she say it be

her brother make she call, and everybody think a visit from Lady

Crediton a great thing!”



“well, I suppose it must have be to please I, Nouna,” say she

husband.



but in truth he do not feel sure of it, Lord Florencecourt’s conduct

lately having be in more way than one a mystery to he.



two day later, however, he have a conversation with his chief, the end

of which supply, as he think, a clue to it. Lord Florencecourt

begin by reproach he for a fall off in the quality of his

ambition.



“I can see it,” say he, “I can see the fire slacken every day,

aim get low, if not more sordid. I be an old fool, I suppose,

to begin ‘the service be go to the dog’ cry; but I, for one,

believe in enthusiasm; a soldier without it be not worth the cost of

his uniform; and I’d soon see a young officer’s body shoot down with

a bullet than his soul gnaw away by a woman.”



“Colonel, you be go too far--”



“no, I’m not. what will you remember of the hard word an old man

can speak when you be once again in the arm of that--”



“you forget you be speak of my wife,” interrupt George hastily

in a low hoarse voice.



“your wife! how many of the duty of a wife will that little thing in

the red cap perform? will she look after your household, bring up your

child well, keep you up to your work, advance your interest by her

tact, nurse you when you’re lay up? no; she’ll ruin you by her

extravagance, disgrace you by her freak, and if you ever should be

ill or order off and unable to keep your eye on she, ten to one

she’d bolt with some other man.”



“with all respect, Colonel, I think I have choose my wife as well as

some of my superior,” say George, at a white heat, scarcely open

his lip.



now every one know that Lady Florencecourt be the soul of

“aggravation,” but Lauriston have no idea that his retort would bowl

the Colonel over so completely. instead of indignation at the

lieutenant’s turn the table upon he, his face express nothing

but blank horror, and an agony as acute as that which he have suffer

two day before at sight of the indian woman Sundran. again the look

be momentary; and in his usual voice, with his eye fix upon

George, without any irritation, he say slowly:



“Lady Florencecourt--” he pause. George remain silently face he,

rather ashamed of himself. the Colonel continue more glibly--“Lady

Florencecourt may be surpass in amiability, I admit that. but she be

at least above reproach, infirmity of temper in a wife count rather

on the right side of the balance, as the due of uncompromise

virtue.”



“but, Colonel,” hazard George apologetically, be move to some

compassion by these outline of a gloomy domestic picture, “you would

not expect my wife to be yet as uncompromise as Lady Florencecourt?”



“ben’t it go rather far when she cannot pass a week’s visit to a

country-house without provide herself with a retinue of young man?”



“oh, Dicky Wood!” say George cheerfully. “that’s all right; it be the

pure good-nature her want to get poor wood out of town now. he’s

get into--”



he stop. Lord Florencecourt be his friend, but he be also his

commanding officer, and Dicky’s. he hesitate, grow red, and mutter

something about retrenchment and pull up. but he have say too much,

and under promise of his communication be treat confidentially,

he have to finish it.



“I’m as sorry about it as I can be, and so’s my wife; for we both like

Wood, as everybody do. but some wretched woman have get hold of

he--you know, sir, he be well off, and as generous as sun in the

tropic, and so we want to get he away, if we can persuade he to go.

and he haven’t have any leave for ever so long.”



the Colonel listen gravely, and when the account be over he speak

in a rather less hard tone.



“H’m, if the young fool have once begin on that tack, you may as well

let he be squeeze dry by one as by another,” he say grimly. “and a

young gentleman fond of that kind of society will be a nice sort of

companion for your wife.” his tone still imply also that the wife

would be “a nice sort of companion for he.”



“but, sir, Wood ben’t like an ordinary fellow; he’s such a gentle,

open-hearted creature, it quite knock one over to see he make a meal

of--and by a woman like Chloris White!”



Lauriston’s first impression, on note the sudden contraction of his

hearer’s face into great rigidity than ever, at this contemptuous

mention by name of one of the most notorious person in London, be

that he have “put his foot in it.” the Colonel’s austerity might not be

so thorough-go as he have imagine. the next moment he be

undeceive as Lord Florencecourt’s eye move slowly round, as if by

an effort, till they rest on his face.



“God help the lad! do your good for he, Lauriston, if you will;

pull a man out of the hug of a boa-constrictor’s d----d easy work

compare to it!”



Lord Florencecourt shiver, and look at the window as he get up

and walk away, so little himself that he begin try to smoke a

cigar he have not light.



it be then that by an inspiration an explanation of his late

extraordinary conduct occur to Lauriston.



“wonder if he’s go off his head!” he think with sorrowful

concern. “and it’s take the form of antipathy to woman. First Nouna;

then Sundran; last of all this Chloris White! poor old chap! poor dear

old chap! that come of marry Lady Florencecourt; or perhaps his

marriage be the first sign of it.”



and George, try in vain to account in any other way for the strange

behaviour of his friend, go home to renew rapture over his own

happier choice.









 CHAPTER XVIII.



George Lauriston’s gloomy foreboding at the entire change in their

manner of life bring about by Nouna’s become a comparatively rich

woman, be not, in the first few week at least, fulfil. the new

way of living please the volatile child-woman much well than the

old; and as she be never happy or miserable by half, her joy in her

good fortune be so strong as to be infectious; it be impossible to

live in the neighbourhood of her full sensuous delight in existence

without catch some of its radiance; and George, while ashamed of

the weakness which make he take the colour of his life from her,

when he have mean in the most orthodox way to make her taste and

feeling accord with his own, find a fierce and ever-strengthen

pleasure in the intoxicate love-draught his passion afford he,

until his ambition, which perhaps have be none of the high, begin

to sleep, and thought and principle to grow languid under the

enervate influence of the question: what good in heaven or earth be

worth the strive for, when this, the most absorbing soul or sense

can imagine, be close to my hand, at my lip? and so, as in all

encounter of the affection, the great love be at the mercy of the

less; and George, tell himself that time and experience would

develop in she all those other quality which his own effort have

fail to draw out, but which, be part of his conception of the

ideal woman, must lie dormant somewhere in the queen of his heart,

give himself up to adoration of those excellence in she which have

be already demonstrate; and they live through those hot summer

week in happiness, which cause the one first awake in the morning to

touch the other softly, doubtingly, to make sure that their life of

dream-like joy be a reality still.



George have have, of course, to indulge the craving of Nouna’s

sociability, and to submit to the entertaining of visitor, and to the

establishment of an institution which in its beginning rather shock

he. Nouna, find that the social day begin late, readily understand

that this necessitate “steal a few hour from the night,” and she

accordingly encourage such of her husband’s friend as meet with her

approval, to “come and smoke a cigar with George after dinner.” as

this invitation be invariably accept, and as the entertainment

always include a perfectly serve little supper, under the famous

golden silk ceiling, Mrs. Lauriston’s “midnight party” soon begin to

be talk about, and to afford a nice little scandal to be worry by

all the woman who be jealous of the little lady’s rapid and

surprising success. even when with August the dead season set in,

there be always man detain in town by business or caprice, and

Nouna find no fall off in attendance at these reception, so

consonant with masculine taste and habit, and there be a general

outcry of aggrieved bachelordom--bachelordom in its wide sense,

include those who have attain a more complete form of existence,

but still wallow in the unworthy habit of the less honourable

state--when the time come for Mr. and Mrs. Lauriston to start for

Norfolk.



Lord Florencecourt, who be already at Willingham, have ask George,

with an assumed carelessness which the latter be too well-inform to

misinterpret, whether they intend to take “that hideous black

woman,” whose ugliness, he declare, have nearly make the rest of his

hair turn white the only time he see she, with they to Norfolk. George

say no, but he be not sorry when, later, Nouna insist upon

Sundran’s accompany they, as he have a lurking wish to see what the

effect would be if the woman be to confront the Colonel. Nouna have

scoff at the notion of his be insane, and on learn that his

marriage might possibly have have an effect on his mind, she express

great curiosity to see this formidable wife.



George laugh rather mischievously.



“I’m afraid you’ll have to forego that pleasure, Nouna,” he say,

shake his head. “I hear from Ella Millard the other day that Lady

Florencecourt be so much shock by what she have hear about you and

your wicked heathen way, that she have quarrel with her brother,

Sir Henry, about their invitation to you, and have refuse to visit

they while you be at the Lodge!”



Nouna, who be play at pack, having be busy for twenty minute

with a delicate Sèvres tea-pot and some yard of tissue paper, let

the china fall from her hand at these word, in a torrent of

indignation. she scarcely glance at the broken fragment on the

floor, as she burst forth with great haughtiness in the high-fly

language she habitually use when her passion be rouse:



“indeed! do then the wife of this miserable little wooden soldier

think the granddaughter of a Maharajah unworthy to bear the light of

her eye? we will see, we will see. perhaps she be a little too

imperious; there may be power in the earth great than her! I will

write to my mother, who have never yet fail to fulfil my wish, and

I will tell she to search if she can find mean to humble this proud

lady of the fen, so that she may sue to I to receive I in her

house, heathen, foreigner, though I be!”



and with a superb gesture Nouna signify her contempt for the

ironical laughter her husband could not restrain.



“oh, little empress,” he say, good-humouredly, “you will have to

learn that all magician have limit, and that even a mother so

devoted as yours cann’t carry out all the freak that enter into one

little feminine head. the very king of the black art could not move

Lady Florencecourt!”



“the king! perhaps not, because he be a foolish male thing,” retort

Nouna coldly, “but what my mother will to do she do, and I trust

she.”



and she would not suffer any further word on the subject.



George be in the depth of his heart not without a little anxiety

about this Norfolk visit. unconventionality be so much more

unconventional in the country, where every trifling detail in which a

man differ from his neighbour be nod over far and wide as a sign

of mental aberration, while in the case of a woman it be hold to

warrant even graver doubt. Nouna herself be in the high spirit

at the prospect; delightful as life in London be, a change after five

week of her new home be more delightful still. she have have make for

the occasion a varied assortment of dainty white frock, of the kind

that charm man by their simplicity, and woman by their costliness, and

a white costume with fine line of red and gold, for yacht on the

broad, which might have carry off the palm at Cowes. Nouna have the

instinct of dress, a regal instinct which revel in combination and

contrast, in form and fold, which everyday english woman might

admire or marvel at, but copy at their peril. she travel down,

the day be cool, in a spanish cloak of mouse-grey velvet, line

with ivory silk, and fasten with clasp of smoke pearl and silver.

on her head she wear a cap of the same colour. the milliner, an

artist spoil by minister to a long course of puppet, be aghast

at the order, and suggest that it would make Mrs. Lauriston look,

well--er--brown. Nouna reply, with a great sweep of the eyelash,

that she _be_ brown, and she should be sorry to look anything else.

and indeed her beauty be see to great advantage in this original

setting, and its tint might pleasantly have suggest to the fanciful

brown wood in the haze of a grey October day.



they reach Gorleth, the near railway-station to Maple Lodge, at

half-past four. Sir Henry and his daughter Cicely be on the

platform, Cicely in a short grey ride habit, look in this

practical garment a thousand time handsomer and more captivating than

she have do in her most brilliant ball-dress, accord to the willnot

of her countrywoman, who, from the royal lady downward, never look

bad than when dress solely with the view to charm.



let it be acknowledge once for all: the Englishwoman, to her credit

be it say, be a ride animal, a walk animal, a boat animal, a

cooking animal, a creature fond of hard work and hard play, full of

energy and capability for well thing than the piano-strumming and

Oxford local cramming which be now drum into she so diligently.

but her social quality be so poor as to be scarce worth cultivation

unless some well method be discover than those now in vogue. she

dancing be more vigorous than graceful, her conversation be inane, her

deportment in full dress uneasy and deplorable, and her manner at

social gathering where no active muscular exertion be require of

she, dull and constrain. ten girl be handsome and attractive in a

boat or on the tennis-ground to one who at an “at-home” or a dance be

passable enough to make a man want an introduction. the metropolis have

the pick of the market, if the term may be allow, in marriageable

maiden as in flower and fruit. but all alike lose their fresh,

great charm when they be pluck from their natural setting of

country green.



George have an inkling of this truth as he help his tiny wife out of

the railway carriage, amidst the stare of a crowd of country

market-folk, who gape as they would have do if a regulation fairy,

gauze wing, wand and all, have suddenly descend down the wide

chimney on to their cottage hearth. he should love and admire she

whatever she do, but he want she to sway the sceptre of conquest

over all these friend at Willingham and Maple Lodge, and his heart

ache with fear lest a breath of disapproval should touch she, lest

she should appear to any disadvantage under such new condition.



she herself, happily, be torment by no such fear. she run up to Sir

Henry, who be dress in a vile suit of coarse mustard-colour

stuff, a common little hat on his head, and a broad smile of recover

bliss on his face, look as no self-respect farmer among his

tenant would have dare to look, and rejoice in his escape from

town and tight clothe.



“why, you little town-mouse,” he say, laugh good-humouredly as he

look down on the tiny lady, “I don’t know how you will live down

here. we shall have to feed you on butterfly’ wing and dew-drop; I

should think a mouthful of plain roast beef would kill you.”



“oh no, it wouldn’t, Sir Henry,” cry Nouna, distressed and offend

by these doubt cast on her accomplishment. “I eat a great deal,

don’t I, George?”



“well, more than one would expect, to look at you,” admit she

husband, remember the fiasco of the wedding breakfast.



“besides,” say Nouna astutely, “everything that one eat come from

the country. the town produce nothing but soot; perhaps you think I

live upon that, and that’s what make I half a black woman.”



the genuine black woman, Sundran, be meanwhile create a great

sensation; so that, to save she from the rustic wit, which make up in

blunt obtrusiveness what it lack in point, she be pack with her

mistress inside the Millards’ one-horse brougham, which, like all

their surrounding in their country retreat, be almost ostentatiously

modest and even shabby. George be content enough to share the

coachman’s seat.



“I think the maid would sit outside; I haven’t reckon upon your

bring a lady of so strike a complexion, George,” say Sir Henry

apologetically. “the old carriage be such a lumber concern that I

think the brougham would be quick, and there’s a cart for the

luggage.”



George laugh. “if I have my choice I’d go on the cart,” say he. “I

be yet unspoile by my promotion to matrimony.”



it be a pleasant drive over the flat country, too marshy to be dry

and burn up even in summer. Sir Henry and his pretty daughter keep

pace with the carriage, and fling breezy commonplace at their guest

with smile, healthy face that make their conversational effort

more than brilliant. Nouna peep out like a little bird at the flat

green field and the pollard willow with an expression which seem

to say that she have quite fathom the hidden humour of the whole

thing.



“I like the country,” she call to Cicely with an exhaustive nod, as

if she have live in and love the field for year.



and at sight of the Lodge itself she grow rapturous.



Sir Henry Millard’s modest country residence be nothing more than a

fair-sized one-story white cottage, close to the road, from which it

be separate only by a little garden just big enough to contain a

semicircular drive, a small half-moon lawn, and two side-bed full of

rose. a stone-pave verandah run the whole length of the house, and a

hammock swung between two of the support of the green roof, in what

would have be glare publicity if there have ever be any public to

speak of on the quiet road in front. it would have be rather a

pretty little place if Sir Henry, to meet the requirement of his

family, have not prefer enlarge it by add at the back various

hideous red brick wing and outbuilding of his own designing, to the

more reasonable course of take a large house. the pleasure of

conceiving and superintend these original “improvement” have

indeed, while it last, be the most unalloyed joy of Sir Henry’s

simple life; to worry the architect, who have have to be call in at

the last to put a restraining check on Sir Henry’s inspiration, which

threaten to dispense with the vulgar adjunct of passage and

staircase; to test the building material, sample of which lie about

the sitting-room for day; above all, to do a little amateur

bricklaying during the workman’s dinner hour--be joy the mere

memory of which thrill he more than any recollection of his

honeymoon.



whatever the architectural defect of the house might be, Nouna have

nothing but admiration for it. the tiny little hall; the box-like

drawing-room to the right, with high glass cupboard on each side of

the fireplace contain apostle spoon, old china bowl, fragment of

quartz and the like; the bare-look dining-room to the left,

furnish as plainly as a school-room, and even the bake-house which

lead out from it, all enchant she by their novelty; while the bedroom

up stair, ten foot square, into which she be show, put the climax

to this deliciously new experience, and make her feel, as she

express herself to her husband, “that she wish she have marry a

farmer.”



to George’s delight she run down stair within twenty minute of her

arrival in the simple of white muslin frock, with a wonderful

scarlet and gold sash. but he have no time to congratulate she on her

good sense in dress so appropriately before she be off, in a huge

garden-hat take with instinctive knowledge of what be most become

from a collection in the hall, to see the farmyard--Sir Henry’s pride.

they make an odd pair--the broad-shoulder, solid-look country

gentleman, in his rough suit, and the small airily-clothe person who

vary her progress by occasional ecstatic bound in the air, which

make the end of her sash swirl in the breeze like the wing of some

gorgeous butterfly. George and the girl, with Lady Millard, follow

much more sedately. when, after due admiration of cow and horse,

pig and poultry, they all return to the verandah, fresh object of

interest present themselves in a pretty group of rider at that

moment climb the hill upon which the lodge stand.



“Uncle Horace!” cry the girl, as Nouna recognise in the eld of

the party Lord Florencecourt. he be accompany by two pretty boy of

about eight and ten on pony which they already manage as if boy and

pony have be one creature.



“how Horace worship those boy!” mutter Sir Henry enviously.



Charlotte have run down to open the gate, and there be much clatter of

lively greeting. Lord Florencecourt, though he seem happy down

here with his child than he have be in town, show his old

constraint with Nouna. it be therefore with great surprise not only

to the young husband and wife, but to their host and his family that

they learn the object of his visit.



“you see I haven’t lose much time in pay my respect, Mrs.

Lauriston,” he say, speak in a lively tone, but with an

ill-conceal reluctance to meet her eye. “those girl would like to

flatter themselves that my visit be for they, but they be all wrong.”



“never mind, uncle, Regie and Bertie come to see we,” cry Ella,

give a kiss to the young boy.



Lord Florencecourt continue: “the fact be, Mrs. Lauriston, we know

that you will be so run after down here, that when you have be see

a little there will be no get hold of you. so my wife send I to

ask you and George to stay with we from Friday to Monday the week

after next. Mr. Birch, our member, will be there, and we think as he

have come to the front so much lately you might like to meet he.”

Nouna steal a triumphant glance at her husband, and the girl, who

be near enough to hear, could not forbear little unseen

eyebrow-raising of astonishment. he go on: “Lady Florencecourt will

call upon you on Monday, but she think it well to send she

invitation at once to make sure of you.”



“it be very kind of Lady Florencecourt; I shall like to come very

much,” say Nouna, who be brim over with delight and triumph.

“only I don’t think I could do much to entertain a rise member of

Parliament. I cann’t talk politic; but perhaps he’d like to learn to

make cocked hat out of newspaper, and then he can amuse himself when

the other member be make dull speech.”



“I’m sure he’d like it immensely if you will teach he,” say Lord

Florencecourt, with cold civility, which would have damp frivolity

less aerial than Nouna’s.



the girl think Lady Florencecourt must have be bewitch thus to

transgress her own well-know rule of ignore any stranger whose

pedigree be not at her finger’ end. she have, besides, go so far

as to gibe at her brother for admit “a loose-mannered young woman

of unknown and questionable antecedents”--as she style young Mrs.

Lauriston--into the society of his daughter. and now she be send

a press invitation by the mouth of her husband, whose prejudice

against the interloper be hardly conceal! decidedly Nouna have a

dash of eastern magic about she. meanwhile the young lady herself be

trouble her head very little with the problem. she be much strike

with the blue eye and curly dark hair of the young of the two boy,

and bend down to he with her little head perch on one side in

the coquettish manner she use alike to man, woman, child or animal,

she ask with a smile what his name be.



“allow I to present he with proper ceremony,” say Ella playfully.

“permit I to introduce you,” gravely to her small cousin, “to Mrs.

George Lauriston. Mrs. Lauriston,” turn to the lady, “the

Honourable Bertram Kilmorna!”



she have scarcely utter the last word when Nouna shoot up from her

bending attitude as if at an electric shock, and fix her great eye,

wide with bewilderment and surprise, on Lord Florencecourt, who be

stand behind Ella and his son, near enough to hear these word and

to see their effect.



“Kilmorna!” she repeat in a whisper, still look full at the

Colonel, whose rugged face have grow suddenly rigid and grey. then,

without further ceremony, she run away to her husband, who be talk

to Lady Millard at a little distance.



“George, George!” she say in a tumultuous whisper, her face quiver

with excitement, “I don’t want to go to Lady Florencecourt’s; tell he

I don’t want to go!”



“why, what’s this? how have the Colonel offend you?” ask George

laughing.



“he haven’t offend I at all. only I’ve change my mind. I know I--I

shouldn’t like Lady Florencecourt. I’d rather not go.”



but as George insist that it be impossible to break an engagement

just make, without any reason, she break from he with an impatient

push, and disappear into the house just before Lord Florencecourt,

who have abruptly discover that he be in a hurry to be off, take his

leave. Ella prevent George from fetch his wife out.



“it be only some little caprice of her,” she say persuasively, not

guess that there be any mystery in the matter, and consider the

young bride’s conduct as the result of some girlish freak. “I think

she be offend because uncle don’t introduce the boy to she. she

will be all right if you leave she alone a few minute.”



but George be not unnaturally annoyed at his wife’s rudeness, and he

follow she into the little drawing-room, where he find she with her

nose flatten against the window, stare at Lord Florencecourt’s

retreating figure. she have no explanation to give of her conduct, but

persist in beg he not to take she to Willingham. as he remain

firm on this point, and continue to press she for her reason, she

grow mutinous, and at last peace be only make between they on the

condition that she would go to Willingham if he would not tease she

with any more question.



and George have to be content with this arrangement, be above all

thing anxious to learn the meaning of the miraculous change of front

on the part of Lady Florencecourt and her husband.









 CHAPTER XIX.



at dinner at Maple Lodge on the evening of their arrival, George

Lauriston and his wife meet the gentle Dicky Wood, who have come down

the day before, and spend the afternoon riding with the son of Sir

Henry’s steward. Nouna be much pleased by this compliance with her

wish, and show her appreciation of it by flirt very prettily at

dinner with the young guardsman. later in the evening she hold in the

verandah a little court, and chant they some half-wild,

half-monotonous indian song in a tiny thread of sweet voice, with

some plaintive low note that live in the memory. and George, who be

stand with Ella some yard away from the rest of the group, feel

thrill through and through by the weird melody, and like to fancy

that in these native song of hers the soul-voice, that, in the

tumultuous life of emotion and sensation in which she find she

happiness, have small opportunity to be hear, force up its little

note and promise a rich fulness of melody by and by.



it be not by the man’s choice, but the girl’s, that he and Ella find

themselves together. at the present time there be only one woman in

Lauriston’s world, and in his absorption in his wife the ungrateful

fellow be incapable even of feel his old friendly pleasure in

Ella’s society. her interest in he, on the other hand, as be the way

with that splendid institution for the comfort and consolation of

man--plain woman, have grow tenfold strong since he have lower

himself to the usual dead level of his foolish sex, by marry

through his eye. to Ella this downfall be quite tragic; she have

think and hope so much for he; he have feeling, sense, ambition,

be, in fact, not the mere beautifully turn out figure-head of a man

who, under various disguise of light or dark complexion, slim or

heavy build, be continually say to she the same commonplace,

betray to she the same idea-less vacuity, at dinner, ball, and

garden-party. yet here he be, bind for life, and by his own choice,

to a beautiful pet animal, with all the fascinating way of a kitten,

who could gambol and scratch, and bask in warmth and shiver in cold,

and whom nevertheless he undoubtedly worship. Ella, whose mind be

of an intellectual cast, and in whom the passion have as yet only

develop in an ardent but hazy adoration of dead-and-go hero,

very naturally underrate the strength of one side of a man’s nature,

and be cast down when the creature whose sympathetic comprehension of

her high aspiration have make she raise he to a demi-god prove to

be in truth only a very man. she fancy, poor child, that he show

deterioration already; when she remind he at dinner that she have

not yet return a book of Emerson’s he have lend she, George laugh

carelessly, and say he have forget all about it.



“don’t you remember you particularly advise I to read the article

on ‘Goethe’ and ‘Napoleon’?” she ask rather acidly.



“oh, yes, they’re very good,” say he, with a man’s irritate

frivolity, smile at his wife, who be shut one eye and hold

her glass of claret up to the light, in imitation of an elderly

connoisseur, for the amusement of Dicky. then, perceive in a pause

that he have offend Ella, he hasten to say penitently: “I haven’t

do much reading lately; but you have, I suppose; you be always so

good.”



“I don’t read because I be _good_, but because I like it,” she

answer coldly.



and George, reflect on the oddity of Ella’s try to improve he

as he have try to improve Nouna, have take the snub meekly as a bolt

of retributive providence.



but when she get an opportunity of speech with he alone in the

verandah, in a rather melancholy and remorseful frame of mind, she

“have she say” after her sex’s fashion.



“one mustn’t expect you to be the same person that you be three

month ago, George,” she begin, with a very humble, deprecate

manner. “otherwise I would ask you why we don’t hear of your come to

the front as a writer, as we hear then there be a probability of

your doing.”



George laugh with the same madden indifference to his

deterioration, and ask if he might smoke. with a cigarette between

his lip, flourish before her eye the privilege of a man, he feel

more of a man’s command position.



“I haven’t come to the front,” say he, “because I haven’t make any

step at all, either forward, backward, or in any direction. I’ve be

lazy, Ella, miserably, culpably lazy, and if my great thought have

not yet stir the world, it be no doubt only because they have not

be commit to paper.”



“oh, if you be satisfied, of course that be everything. ambition, I

see, be not the great, never pause, never cease motive-power that

we poor foolish woman be teach to believe; it be a pretty whim, to

be take up alternately with a fit of smoking, or mountain-climbing,

as we girl change about between tennis and tatting.”



“not quite, Ella,” say George, do she the justice to grow serious

when he see how deeply and unselfishly she be in earnest. “ambition

do not die for lie a short time hide by other feeling; and

surely even if it lose a little of its bitter keenness, it gain by

be no long wholly selfish.”



“a beautiful answer, at least. and no doubt contentment be well than

ambition.”



“I don’t know what contentment be, except by see it in the face of

cow and pig. no passion could be stifle by such a tepid feeling as

that. I be not content, I be happy. so will you be some day, and you

will let your bright wit rest a little while, and you will

understand.”



Understand? no, she feel that be impossible, as she look down at

the big, handsome man sit on the hammock below she, his eye

bright, not with serene, but with ardent happiness, content to bend

all his faculty to the will of a creature whom he must know to be

his inferior in every way. she do not wish to understand such a

decadence as that.



“then you will give up all idea of write?”



“no. I be more anxious to distinguish myself than ever, as thing have

turn out. a man who suddenly find himself to be married to a rich

wife feel as if he have get off at a false start, and be put at a

disadvantage. but so far I own my wife have take up all my time. you

see, she don’t know she be go to be rich any more than I do, and

be hardly more than a child, she want as much look after at

first as a baby at the edge of a pond.”



“and this be the sort of woman who get a man’s good love!” think

Ella half bitterly, half disdainfully.



“and of course you choose her friend for she,” suggest Ella, not

quite hide her feeling.



“I cann’t quite do that, yet at least,” say George. “nobody but all of

you have get far than acquaintance yet.”



“but of course you be very particular about those acquaintance?”



decidedly Ella be in her most disagreeable mood to-night.



“I do my good,” say he briefly.



“and of course it’s all nonsense about the smoking-party, and

Captain Pascoe be there nearly every night.”



George feel a shock. mention in that manner, the evening call of

his friend, the admittance among the caller of a man whom he

cordially dislike but whom he have no ground strong enough for

insulting, be heavy accusation.



“I see my own friend as freely as I do when I be a bachelor,

certainly,” say he, cold in his turn. “Nouna be too sensible to

prevent that. as for Captain Pascoe, he have not be in our house more

than three time at the outside.”



Ella dared not say more on this subject, even if she have have more to

say. she look out at the swallow, fly low over the young tree

of the plantation on the other side of the road, and ask musingly:



“do you like be rich?”



“it’s not bad for a change,” answer George philosophically.



“I hate it. I always feel with papa, so glad to shake off the big

house and the footman and the feeling that the great human world be

surge round without touch you, and to get back to my tiny room

where I can almost water the plant in my window without come in at

the door, and to the farm and my pensioner that I take tract to.

they never read they, but it be quite as much a matter of etiquette to

leave they as it be to make call in town, and they be dreadfully

insult if I forget.”



“but you’ve always be well off?”



“yes, but that don’t make any difference. money roll together in

such ugly fashion. look at mamma’s. when her father make his

million, thousand of people be ruin. well, you know, that’s

horrible!”



“they choose to speculate, remember. they must have know no lottery

have all prize.”



“it’s hideous to think of, all the same. on the other hand, if your

property descend to you by a long line of greedy land-scraper, you

know it have grow in value because other people’s have decrease, and

that your tenant have to pinch themselves to make up your handsome

rent-roll. and you haven’t even do the wretched work for it that the

speculator have do to get his!”



“it’s lucky all capitalist be not so soft-hearted, or there’d be an

end to enterprise, which by the by be brother to your god Ambition.”



“oh, I’m not make preparation for re-organise the universe, only

lift up a little weak mew of discontent with my corner of it. and

your wife’s money: be it the result of a robbery of recent date, like

our, or plunder that have be roll down for generation, like Lord

Florencecourt’s?”



“well, really, I’ve never put it to her trustee in that way, and, now

I think of it, why I really don’t know. but as Nouna’s father be a

soldier, and there’s very little loot to be get in our day, I expect

it have roll down.”



“and you don’t really care how it be get together?”



“yes, I do, now I think of it. but to tell you the truth, the lawyer

have manage thing so easily for we that all we’ve be call upon

to do be to spend the money, a very elementary process.”



“what a strange thing!”



“why? by the by, so it be, when one come to think about it. it’s

altogether contrary to one’s personal and traditional experience of

lawyer.”



“when mamma marry,” say Ella, pursue her own train of thought,

“her money be tie up and fence round with as many precaution as if

poor dear old papa have be a brigand. he often laugh about it, and

say she couldn’t buy a pair of glove without a power of attorney. so

that it really do seem very astonishing.”



“it do,” assent George, who, never before having have experience of

money in any but infinitesimal quantity, have be much ready to

take thing for grant than be this granddaughter of a Chicago

millionaire.



“what would you do, George, if you find out it have be make by

supply bad bayonet to the english army, or anything like that?”

she ask, half-laugh, but not without a secret wonder whether this

easy-get gold would turn out to have unimpeachable antecedent.



the question give George a great shock. he jump up from the hammock

across which he have be sit, with a white face.



“good heaven, Ella! what make you say that?” he ask in a low

voice, each word sound as if it be be grind out of he.



“don’t take it like that,” say she nervously, almost as much move as

he, and impel by his strong feeling to be more impressed than she

have be at first with her own surmise. “I only suggest--it come

into my head--I don’t know anything about it.”



“oh, well, you shouldn’t say thing like that, you know, Ella, even in

fun. the mere suggestion give one such an awful shock. it’s like cold

water down one’s back,” say he, try to laugh.



“I don’t mean it, indeed,” say she, quite unable to take a jesting

tone. “as if one would say a thing like that in earnest! I never

guess you would think twice about a foolish speech like that!”



but they both feel uncomfortable; and both be glad when George,

notice that Dicky Wood be stand near anxious to get a word with

the jolly nice girl Ella, but much too diffident to come forward at

the risk of intrude unwelcomely upon a _tête-à-tête_, draw he

into their group by ask if he have be in Norfolk before.



and so both George and Ella be able to shuffle off the burden of a

conversation which have grow decidedly difficult to keep up, and the

memory of which make a slight constraint between they, on the man’s

side especially, for two or three day.



Nouna, to her husband’s great comfort and gladness, be behave

beautifully, and put new life by her gaiety into the whole

household, the young member of which, in spite of Ella’s

intelligence and her sister’ beauty, be a little wanting in those

electric high spirit which, in the routine of a quiet country-house,

be as sunshine to the crop. the day after their arrival be Sunday,

and the morning church-going have be a fiery ordeal for George, not

from religious indifference, but from the misgiving that if Nouna

could not keep from smile in the course of a well-conduct service

in a West End church, she would certainly be carry out in

convulsion from the Willingham place of worship, where the school

child, summer and winter, sniff through the service in a

distressing chorus, while the loud-voice clerk’s eccentric English

ring through the building, drown the old vicar’s feeble voice; and

where the vicar’s wife, a strong-minded lady, whose district-visit

be a sort of assize, have be know to “pull up” her reverend husband

publicly from her pew immediately below the pulpit when, as not

infrequently happen, he turn over two leave of his sermon instead

of one, and go quietly on as if nothing have happen. “turn over

two leave? bless I, so I have!” he would murmur, and rectify his

mistake with a tranquil nod.



so George have put his wife through a very severe drill before

start, and have strictly forbid she so much as to sneeze without

his permission. she have a narrow escape at the offertory, when one of

the churchwarden, with a lively remembrance of the artifice of his

own youth, shovel a penny into the finger of each of his offspring

with one hand, while he present the plate menacingly with the other.

but glance up at her husband and perceive a frown of acute terror

on his face, she contrive to choke in silence; and the day be

gain.



on the following Monday too, when the dread Lady Florencecourt

fulfil her threat of call and prove equal to her reputation for

unamiability, the young wife be, as she triumphantly aver

afterwards, “very good.” the county censor prove to be a fair, florid

woman of middle height, rather stout, and with feature so commonplace

that, without the save shield of her title, they would have be

call common. she have arrogant and capricious manner, an oily

self-satisfied voice, and an ill word for everybody. whenever her

husband, who accompany she on this occasion, venture to make a

remark, she turn to look at he with a resign air, as if she be

use to be make a martyr at the stake of his imbecility. she

examine Nouna from head to foot through a gold double eyeglass, as if

the young wife have be a charity-girl convict of misconduct, and

make no remark to she except to ask she if she be interested in the

Zenana Missions, to which Nouna reply rather haughtily that indian

lady be no more in need of missionary than english one: after

which thrust and counter-thrust it may be imagine that the

conversation languish, and that later in the day George have great

difficulty in persuade his wife not to break off their engagement to

go to Willingham. she say it would just spoil the end of their visit

to the Millards, for one of whom she have begin to feel a real

affection. this be the sharp-tongue Ella, whose intelligence she have

the wit to recognise, and whose smart saying amuse she.



it be on the evening of a day in the course of which this

oddly-assorted pair of friend have be a good deal together that

George, on go up stair to his room after a last cigar with his

host, find his wife, not as usual fast asleep like a child, but

perch upon the bed in the attitude of a Hindoo idol, with a big book

open on her crossed knee, and her eye fix upon the near candle.



“Hallo!” say he, “what’s the matter?”



she turn her eye upon he slowly, with an air of suspicion and

curiosity.



“nothing be the matter,” she say gravely, and turn down a whole

half-leaf of the book before she to keep the place, she close it

carefully, and hand it to he with an affectation of solemn

indifference. “I have be read,” she add with decision.



George look at the title of the ponderous volume, and observe that

it be _the Complete Works of Xenophon_. he open it without a smile

at the page she have turn down, and remark that it be about

half-way through the volume, say she have get on very well if she have

read so much in one evening.



“I skip a little--the dry part,” she observe modestly, but in

such a tone that it be impossible for George to tell whether she

mean to be take seriously or not.



“Dry!” he exclaim, raise his eyebrow, “why, he be the very

light of light reading. Xenophon be the most frivolous man I ever

know; he be at school with I.”



she crawl to the foot of the bed, and stretch over the rail to

the dressing-table, on which George have place the volume, she

recover it with a violent muscular effort, and turn back the

leave to the title-page.



“this book be publish in 1823; so you be much old than you tell

I you be, I see,” she say simply, while George, unable to contain

himself long, burst out into a long laugh, and make a dive at she,

which she evade like a squirrel, still stare at he with unmoved

gravity, so that his mirth die away in wonderment and in a rush of

tenderness as he perceive the pathos of this futile plunge into the

maze of learn.



as he recover his gravity the expression of her mobile face also

change; after a moment’s shy silence their eye meet, and each see the

other through a luminous mist.



“what be you cry for?” she ask tremulously; and in a moment

fling herself impulsively into his ready arm. “why don’t you marry

Ella?” be she next question, shoot suddenly into his ear in the midst

of an incoherent outburst of the passionate tenderness that glow

ever in his heart for she.



“Marry Ella!” say he, feel a shock of surprise at the remembrance

that he have indeed once offer to make the good little blue-stocking

his wife. “why, what make you ask such a question as that? be you

jealous?”



“oh, no. but I see that she would have have you, and therefore you be

foolish not to have she.”



“well, I’m afraid it’s too late now, and I shall have to put up with

the consequence of my folly,” say he, press she tenderly to he.



“that’s just what I think,” she agree quite plaintively. “Miss

Glass say a good wife must cook, Ella say a good wife must read, but

nobody say a good wife must just sing and laugh and amuse herself as

I do. and so when you’re tired of kiss I, you will feel you have

well not have marry I, but only have amuse yourself like Dicky

Wood--” she pause significantly.



“Dicky Wood!” echo he sharply.



“--With Chloris White.”



George move uneasily; he be angry and disturb.



“you must not say such thing--you must not think they. the name of

such a woman as that be not fit to pass your lip.”



“but, George,” she argue, look straight into his eye with

penetrate shrewdness, “if you have not be you, say, if you have be

Rahas or Captain Pascoe, I might--”



he stop the word upon her lip with a great gravity which awe she

and keep she very still, very attentive, while he speak.



“when God throw an innocent girl into the arm of an honest man,

Nouna, as you come into mine, she be a sacred gift, receive with such

reverent love that she must always hold herself holy and pure, and

never even let any thought of evil come into her heart, so that she

may be the blessing God intend. I be bear into the world to protect

you and shield you from harm, my darling; and so my love be ready for

you at the moment when your innocence might have put you in danger,

just as it will be to the end of your life.”



“supposing you be to die first?” suggest she, not flippantly, but

with an awestruck consideration of possibility.



“a soldier can always last out till his duty’s do,” say George,

with quiet conviction.



after this Nouna remain silent a little while, but that her idea

have not be work in quite the desire direction be evident when

she next speak.



“if, as you say, your love will keep I safe and good whatever I do, I

needn’t be so particular,” she argue, “and it willn’t do I any harm to

go and see this Mrs. Chloris White, and ask she to leave poor Dicky

alone, and let he meet some one who will be a blessing to _he_. I

want he to marry Ella.”



George be thunderstruck.



“go and see Chloris White! I’d as soon let you go to the Morgue!”



“but I know I could persuade she to give he up; I know just what I

would say, just how I would look. I’ve think it all over; and surely

anything’s well than that he should rush back to she as soon as he

get to town, and undo all the good we’ve do he in the country.”



she speak with a pretty little matronly air of perfectly sincere

benevolence.



“my dear child,” say her husband decisively, lay his hand on her

head with his grave air of authority, “you cannot go; it be out of

the question. you must not even mention such a wild idea to any one;

they would be horribly shocked. but we’ll keep poor Dicky safe among

we by much well mean than that, I promise you. so now go to sleep,

and don’t ever let such an idea come into your head again.”



she let herself be kiss quite brightly and submissively, and rub

her cheek against his with affection which might have be take to

argue docility. but her own fantastic notion of help her friend

remain in her mind quite unmoved by her husband’s prohibition.









 CHAPTER XX.



when the time come for they to finish their stay in Norfolk by the

dread three day at Willingham, neither George nor Nouna make any

secret of the fact that they feel the come visit to be a severe

ordeal. undoubtedly it would be a cruelly abrupt change from the

cheerful homeliness of the Lodge, to the penitential atmosphere in

which the household of Lady Florencecourt pass their day. so

notorious be the character of the gracious _châtelaine_ that

Willingham Hall be commonly know in the neighbourhood as the House

of Correction, a title to which the severely simple style of its

architecture give no very flat denial. Willingham Church stand in the

ground belong to the Hall, so that Nouna have have an opportunity of

shudder at the sombre dreariness of the mansion even before the

return call she have make with Lady Millard and Cicely, on which

occasion she have sit almost mute on a high-back chair, look as

insignificant and unhappy as a starve mouse, think that Lady

Florencecourt’s light eye look like the glass marble with which

she play at solitaire, and what a good model her face would be for

one of those indiarubber head that child squeeze up into grotesque

grimace.



she cry at part with the Millards, like a little girl send to

school for the first time. Sir Henry, with his simple good humour;

Lady Millard, with her quiet manner, and the quick black eye whose

flash keenness and sympathy show the burn soul of the New

World flickering in uneasy brightness among the glow ember of the

Old; Cicely and Charlotte, fair, kind creature, who fill up the

pause gracefully, the one by merely smile, the other by a gentle

rain of chatter which she have be teach to think a fascinating

social accomplishment; and, above all, Ella, of the sallow face, the

sharp tongue, and the warm heart, be a group to live pleasantly in

the memory, and to make the approach encounter with the unamiable

host of Willingham more disagreeable by contrast. it add to poor

Nouna’s forlornness in these circumstance that her husband absolutely

forbid she take Sundran with she, as, although he be very anxious

for an accidental meeting between Lord Florencecourt and the indian

woman, he feel that he could not force upon his host the presence of a

person to whom, if only as the result of a prejudice, he have a strong

aversion.



Lady Florencecourt send a lumber old family travel carriage,

with powdered footman and bewigge coachman, to bring Mr. and Mrs.

Lauriston to the Hall. Nouna rather like this old-world state, which,

as her education have embrace the experience of Paul Clifford and

Martin Blakeborough of “the King’s mail,” stimulate her imagination.

she cram her little finger tightly into her husband’s hand as they

enter the long straight drive, with a deep grass border on each side

flank by tall tree, which lead up to Willingham Hall.



“keep up your spirit, George,” she quaver, as the carriage draw up

at the impose front door. “there ben’t any spike to get over if we

have to run away.”



and she enter the hall with the air of a prisoner who hope he’ll

get off because he’s such a little one. they be show up to their

room at once, and when they come down to the drawing-room, which be

a succession of vast wilderness, with all the defect of apartment

too large for the human atom who live in they, they find, to

Nouna’s great relief, that not only be the great Mr. Birch there

already, but he have bring with he a real live daughter, a girl

about twenty, who seem just as much relieve by the sight of a young

face as Nouna herself be. Lord Florencecourt be there, look as if

he have be keep in against his will from the society of his boy; and

Lady Florencecourt, who make it a boast that she never interrupt she

charitable work for anybody, work away at certain hideous

convict-like garment, which she be knit in very coarse scrubby

gray wool for the unlucky poor, while she hold forth on the

ingratitude of the “masse,” the vicious extravagance of the

“class,” and the shortcoming of everybody all round; while Mr.

Birch, who be a bald-headed man with a great expanse of knobby

forehead, which be in itself a tower of strength to his party, agree

with everything--perhaps a habit he have contract at Westminster.



the two young lady draw instinctively near and nearer each

other, until they be close enough to grow confidential, and to enter

upon a strictly defensive alliance. by the time Lord Florencecourt

suggest an excursion through the ground to see the ruin of an old

Norman church which have be build at the same period as the one still

stand, and within a stone’s throw of it, adversity have make Nouna

and Miss Birch inseparable as love-bird. before the evening be over,

little Mrs. Lauriston have reason to congratulate herself on having

find such an ally. for her acid hostess treat she with only the

bare possible show of civility, and Lord Florencecourt, while make

a determined effort to be more courteous, betray in his eye such a

rooted and cold dislike that Nouna, with her strong sensitiveness to

every shade of feeling in the people with whom she come in contact,

shrink into herself and be completely miserable, cast forlorn

glance across the table at her husband, who feel scarcely happy

than she, but in whom be grow strong every moment the

determination to learn the reason of an invitation which have evidently

spring from no spontaneous wish either of host or hostess. two other

guest have join the party before dinner, an elderly couple name

Admiral and Mrs. Bohun, very old friend of Lord Florencecourt’s.

neither add much to the liveliness of the circle, but whether from

native dulness or through Lady Florencecourt’s peculiar gift of

cause the people about she to show always at their bad in her

society, do not appear. at all event, when the lady leave the room

at dessert, Nouna be so much overcome by the dire prospect before she

that she slip round to her husband, and hiss into his ear, in a

doleful and not altogether inaudible whisper:



“don’t be long, or you willn’t find I alive!”



she have not under-estimate the relaxation of the drawing-room.

throughout the length of the suite of cold-look apartment

wax-light flicker weakly in number wholly inadequate to the size

of the room. the piano have be open, and Lady Florencecourt

invite the young lady to play; as Miss Birch hesitate, with not

unnatural diffidence before such an audience, Nouna rush recklessly

into the breach, regardless of the fact that she be a totally

incompetent performer.



“I know she’d go back to her knitting, and that’s in the furth

room,” she volunteer in explanation, as the eld lady sail

away.



but the astounding badness of her performance soon bring Lady

Florencecourt back, not indeed so much to criticise as to find out

whether the curious sound the instrument be give forth be not

the result of an excursion of her Blenheim spaniel along the key.



“be that indian music, Mrs. Lauriston? something that be usually

play to an accompaniment of tom-tom?” ask Lady Florencecourt,

hold up her glass, not, however, before she have ascertain that

she be listen to a mangle version of “Auld Robin Gray.”



“yes, it’s an ‘invocation to a Witch,’” answer Nouna imperturbably.

“it end like this, all the tom-tom together,” and she put her arm

down upon the piano with a crash.



her face be perfectly grave, but she begin to feel the prompting of

a wicked imp within she, urge she to rebel against this most

unwarrantable discipline to which she be be subject. Mrs. Bohun

have follow her hostess, and as Nouna rise abruptly from the piano,

the old lady say gently:



“you mustn’t be offend by my saying so, but it seem impossible to

realise that you be a married woman. you must have be marry while

you be still in short frock!”



Nouna, who wear an elaborate dinner-dress of emerald-green velvet,

with loose fold of Nile green silk fall straight from her neck to

her foot, be for a moment rather crestfallen to find how little

dignity a train could give.



“Ye-es,” she say reluctantly. “but I wear long one now. and I’m

sixteen.”



Mrs. Bohun smile. “that be very young for the responsibility of a

wife.”



“I haven’t any responsibility,” answer Nouna quickly. “my mother

give I an allowance--or at least the lawyer do; at any rate, I have

one.”



“but ben’t that a responsibility?” ask the old lady, much amuse.



“oh, no. I just spend it, and then mamma have the responsibility of

send I some more.”



neither Mrs. Bohun nor Miss Birch could keep her countenance at this

_naïve_ disclosure, but its effect upon Lady Florencecourt be to

make she grow grimmer than ever.



“I’m sure it’s a very nice thing to have such a good mamma,” say Mrs.

Bohun indulgently. “don’t you think so, Clarissa?”



“undoubtedly.”



the tone in which Lady Florencecourt give this short answer, cause

Nouna to look up at she.



“do you know my mother?” she ask abruptly.



“I have not that honour,” answer Lady Florencecourt, many degree

below zero.



quite unmove this time by her hostess’s frigidity, Nouna muse a few

moment with her eye fix on the lady’s face. then she say slowly:



“I believe Lord Florencecourt know mamma though----”



she stop short, bewilder by the sudden change these few word

bring about in the placid, self-satisfy countenance. then, as

there be a moment’s awkward pause, she go on hurriedly--“At least,

I know mamma have an old portrait--one of those old-fashioned dark

thing with glass over they, that be like he. I know when I meet he

first at the barrack that I have see his face somewhere, and when I

think, I remember the picture.”



now Nouna have begin to speak in all innocence, but when she notice

that her word have some magical power of discompose the woman who

have be discourteous to she, she mischievously slacken her tone,

and watch the effect with much interest. Lady Florencecourt’s square

heavy face be not capable of any very vivid or varied expression when

her usual stolid self-complacency have be frighten out of it. but

the low feature quiver slightly, and a vixenish look, which bode

ill for her husband’s peace during their next _tête-à-tête_,

bring a spark of angry brightness into her light eye. her next

speech, and the tone in which it be utter, give the same

impression.



“very possibly,” she say in a voice which imply an offensive doubt.

“of course, my husband, when he be a subaltern in India, give his

portrait right and leave to all sort of person, as young man will

do.”



“in India! he have be in India! oh, then that account for it. he

must have meet my mother there. I’ll ask he.”



and as the voice of the gentleman be hear in the hall, Nouna

prepare for a spring at the door. Lady Florencecourt lay a heavy

hand peremptorily on her arm.



“no,” she say in a suddenly subdue voice, retain her hold on the

fragile wrist, and look down into the little creature’s eye with

some entreaty and even fear in her own. “don’t tease Lord

Florencecourt about it now. I--I want to talk to you.”



she draw Nouna with she towards an ottoman, and invite Mrs. Bohun to

join they.



“I quite agree with you, Harriet; it be a wonderful thing in these

day to have a mamma to appeal to,” she continue, in a kind of

grudgingly gracious tone. “Mrs. Lauriston be quite the only person I

know who be not suffer from this horrible depression in everything.

I don’t know whether you have heard”--and she lower her voice to a

confidential murmur--“that my husband want to get rid of Willingham.

all the tenant be ask for twenty-five per cent. reduction on

their rent, and as you see, Lord Florencecourt have give up the

shooting this year. even I have have to make some sacrifice, and to

dispose of part of my jewellery.”



Nouna be touch. such a misfortune as this appeal to her

imagination, and this most unexpected, uncalled-for candour disarm

her antagonism.



“your jewellery! oh, how dreadful!” she cry with deep sympathy. “I

think I could bear anything but that.”



she glance down at one of the diamond bracelet her mother have send

she on her wedding-day, and hug the little arm that bear it close

to her breast. Mrs. Bohun sympathise less sensationally.



“dear I!” she say gently. “not your pearl, I hope, Clarissa?”



“yes, my necklace; the double row with the dragon clasp.”



“Dragon clasp!” repeat Nouna quickly.



“yes, it have a very uncommon clasp: a dragon in diamond, with ruby

eye.”



Nouna stare at she with open mouth, in a manner which would have

excited remark in anybody but this eccentric little person; but she

offer no further observation, although she remain seat near the

elderly lady, consider Lady Florencecourt’s face with deep

interest, until the boy come in for a dull half-hour in the

drawing-room. to they the lively little lady be an unexpected

blessing. by the time the butler march in with a huge Bible and

Prayer-book, Nouna be sit on a sofa, with Regie lean over her

shoulder and Bertie’s arm round her neck, to the great scandal of

Lady Florencecourt, who regard her son rather as a handsome present

she have make to their father than with any more vulgarly maternal

feeling, and who would have be shock at such a breach of filial

respect as a spontaneous hug.



Nouna, who find nothing very exhilarating in the assemble company

after the departure of the boy, seize the very first opportunity to

retire, and be up stair before anybody else. when her husband

follow a little later, he find the door of the room wide open, the

candle flicker and gutter in the draught, but no Nouna. her

jewel-case be open on the dressing-table, and the content be

scatter about in reckless disorder, a bracelet lie on the floor, a

diamond earring glistening on the top of a high-heeled boot, a couple

of ring embed in a hairbrush. George look into the

dressing-room, and then go back into the corridor, where he hear a

long way off the rattling of the Fiji shell on his wife’s dress. he

draw back into the room, and receive she in his arm as she rush

through the door like a whirlwind. she give a little cry when he

catch she.



“where have you be?” he ask.



“where have I be? oh, nowhere; only speak to Lady Florencecourt’s

maid.”



“what about?”



“nothing. I wish you have let I bring Sundran; I cann’t do my own

hair.”



“why, it ben’t much long than a boy’s. I might as well say I

couldn’t do mine. I’ll be your maid to-night.”



she make no objection, but quietly tilt up her chin as an intimation

that he might unfasten her frock for she, with such an unusual air of

reflective absorption that he stop in the midst of his careful but

clumsy ministration to ask she what she be think about.



“nothing,” say she, as her glance fall on her scatter trinket.



“what have you be do with your jewellery?” and he pick up some

of the ill-use treasure and pile they up in the velvet tray. “why,

where’s the pearl necklace that you keep on the top?”



he see a slight but rapid change in her face which convince he that

he be, as the child say at hide and seek, “warm.”



“have you lose it? be that the trouble?” he ask kindly.



“there’s no trouble. I leave it at home,” she answer with so much

vivacity and mendacious promptitude that George see it would be of no

use to ask more question.



on the follow morning, however, his curiosity be appease in an

unexpected and startling manner. as soon as he appear at the

breakfast-table, he be conscious of a decide change for the bad in

the already chilly and depressing atmosphere. if Lady Florencecourt

have be cool, her husband constrain, the day before, the lady be

an icicle, her lord a statue this morning. Lord Florencecourt avoid

he, would not meet his eye, and absolutely--so it seem to

George--slink out of the way of Nouna altogether; while his wife

maintain all through breakfast such a frigid attitude to both the

young couple, that George be boil with indignation before the meal

be end, and contrive to meet his hostess alone within a few

minute of the break-up of the party. he have some difficulty in

keep the anger he feel from burst through the formal speech in

which he tell she of an unexpected summon which would force he and

his wife to curtail their visit and return to town that very morning.



“as soon as you please, Mr. Lauriston,” say Lady Florencecourt,

icily. “and as I may not have another opportunity of see your wife

alone, perhaps you will be kind enough to return this to her”--she

hand George a small parcel, through a torn corner of which peep

the pearl he suppose Nouna to have lost--“and to inform she that

though, like other lady, I be force to submit to be rob by my

husband to deck out another woman, I be not reduce to receive back

my own jewel from her hand when she have do with they.”



George look at her very steadily, and give no sign of the temp

within he except the trembling of his hand.



“I will give this packet, not to my wife, but to your husband, madam,”

say he in a very low voice. at that moment Lord Florencecourt’s

footstep be hear outside the door, and George add: “I shall not

have to wait for an opportunity.”



upon the first sound of her husband’s tread, the lady have visibly

quail, in spite of her amazonian reputation: as he enter the room,

and with a searching glance seem to take in at once the chief

feature of the situation, she make an attempt to walk majestically to

the door.



“stop,” say he, raise his hand a very little way; “I want to speak

to you. Mr. Lauriston,” he go on, turn formally to the young man,

who notice that his nervousness of the morning have give place to a

look of steady determination, “if my wife have have the folly and bad

taste to insult you, I apologise for she, and beg that you will take

no step consequent upon her impertinence until you have first have an

interview with I.”



“I shall be glad to have that interview as soon as possible, Lord

Florencecourt, as I must leave your house this morning.”



“in five minute, if you like. in the meantime, if you wish to ask

question about that infernal gewgaw,” and he look savagely at the

necklace, which George have tear from its covering, “I will tell you at

once I do not give it to your wife, as Lady Florencecourt persist in

imagining, but I sell it to a dealer without the least idea what be

to become of it. be you satisfied?”



“as to your share in the matter, my lord, perfectly.”



“as for my wife, she shall apologise to you herself.”



“there be no need for any apology,” say George, without condescend

to look in the direction of the lady. “I be quite satisfied with your

explanation.”



he leave the husband and wife together, and find Nouna, who be in a

state of tearful anger against the dragon, he help she to pack she

trunk, and then fill and fasten his own portmanteau. these task

be scarcely finish when Lady Florencecourt, pale, trembling, meek

as a startled lamb, her eye red with violent crying, her whole manner

so utterly subdue and abject as to make one doubt her identity,

knock at the door, and find they engage in packing, beg they

most earnestly to forget her impatience of the morning and to stay, as

they have intend, until the Monday. poor Nouna be so much affect

by the evident distress of this haughty personage, that she burst into

tear and put her arm round she, assure she that she have not

notice any impatience at all, and that she would be glad to stay. but

George, whose masculine nature be not so easily melt, persist

quietly but firmly that they be oblige to return to London at once.

Whereupon Lady Florencecourt extract a promise from Nouna that she

would come to dinner as soon as they should all return to town.



“oh yes,” say Nouna readily, “I want to see the dear boy again; I

always like boy, but I never like any so well as Regie and Bertie.”



at these word Lady Florencecourt fall a-tremble again most

unaccountably, and she soon withdraw to order the carriage to take she

guest to the station.



it be a most uncomfortable leave-taking. in spite of her

importunity, Nouna could not see the boy again; Lady Florencecourt

be as much too humbly cordial as she have before be too loftily

cold; and Lord Florencecourt, who accompany they to the station, hide

a painful nervousness under his usual shield of impenetrable reserve.

at the station, however, a little incident occur which lay bare

his defence in an untoward manner.



in an honourable determination not to lead Lord Florencecourt into any

meeting with the indian woman which could bear the appearance of a

trap, George have order Sundran to return to town at once, and to get

everything ready for her mistress’s return on Monday. but Sundran have

lose the train, and have to put off her journey; so that she be in the

station on Saturday morning, wait to go by the very train in which

her master and mistress so hastily decide to travel. she be wait

on the platform, a limp bundle of white clothe, too proud to take

shelter in the waiting-room from curious glance, but flash look

of grand contempt around she with her black eye, when she catch

sight of her young mistress in the doorway, and hasten up to she

with a low cry of love welcome. the train be come up, and as it

be market day, there be a bustling and mildly-excited crowd on the

platform, jostle one another with basket, and chivy to madness

the solitary porter. in the confusion Lord Florencecourt be for a few

moment separate from his depart guest, whom he rejoin just as

Nouna have mount into an empty compartment, and be hand she

sunshade to Sundran, who be stand on the doorstep. George stand on

the platform, much excited; as soon as he catch sight of Lord

Florencecourt, for whom the crowd make way with respectful

recognition, he tell Sundran sharply that he have get a seat for she,

and she must come to it at once. she step down, and he put his hand

on her arm, and make she turn she back to Lord Florencecourt, and run.

in do so she drop Nouna’s sunshade. before George could prevent

she she have stop, wheel round to pick it up, and see the Colonel

face to face.



with a hoarse and guttural cry she draw herself upright, point at

he with a lean, dark finger.



“Captain Weston!” she hiss out fiercely, while her black eye

flash, and her finger clench as if she would have fly at his

throat.



Lord Florencecourt see she; over his rugged feature a dull flush

spread, die again quickly; he raise his hat mechanically, not

look at Nouna; and without any change in the fix expression of

dead reserve he have wear all the morning, turn and make his way

through the yielding crowd out of the station. George bundle Sundran

into a carriage, and go back to his wife just in time to jump in as

the train start.



a quick, shy glance at her face tell he she have hear the indian

woman’s word.









 CHAPTER XXI.



George Lauriston be not a dull-witted man; but the shock of

astonishment he suffer when Sundran recognise Lord Florencecourt as

“Captain Weston,” for a few moment paralyse his thought and

prevent his realise all the complication to which the discovery

give rise. his first thought be for its effect upon his wife.



he scarcely dare to look at she. but after the train have start she

come to he and force she face up into his.



“do you hear what Sundran say?” she ask in a loud whisper.



George nod.



“do you think it’s true?”



“I don’t know, dear.”



“what shall you do to Lord Florencecourt if it be true?”



“do? nothing.”



“willn’t you? I shall.”



“what?”



“kill he for having be cruel to my mother.”



she be shake from head to foot with passion, her eye lurid as

those of a tigress, her white tooth gleam between thirstily part

lip, as if they would tear the flesh from the bone of the man whose

impute offence in be her father be not yet even prove. George

be silent, beset by a crowd of conjecture no less mysterious than

unpleasant. she suddenly leap upon he, seize his shoulder with

small hand that gripe tight as claw.



“well!” she say impatiently. “well! you say nothing! I will have you

say something. this Colonel of your, who beat my mother, and leave she

and let she think he be dead--be he your respected dear friend now,

or do you hate he with your whole soul, as I do?”



“I cann’t hate an old friend on the spur of the moment, especially when

I don’t know what he’s do,” say George in a tone which have the

effect of a few drop of water on a fire.



“don’t know what he’s do! haven’t I tell you all Sundran have say

about the way he use to treat my mother, my beautiful darling mother;

how he be harsh, and wicked, and jealous, and run away from she when

I be a little baby? why do he call himself Captain Weston, when his

real name be Lord Florencecourt, if he mean to be a good true

husband to she? be that like the noble english gentleman you talk

about, and poor mamma talk about?”



“his name be not always Lord Florencecourt,” say George rather

meekly.



he know that the Colonel’s name have never be Captain Weston; and

that there be circumstance in this affair of which Lord

Florencecourt be by no mean proud have be amply show by the

mixture of constraint, dislike, and fear which have mark his

behaviour to Nouna since his first meeting with she at the barrack.

“and perhaps Sundran be mistaken,” he suggest in the same tone.



but Nouna laugh this idea to scorn, and he himself have nothing to

offer in support of it. the indian woman’s recognition be the first

sign he have have of a clue to all the mysterious circumstance

surround his marriage; and if it raise new doubt and suggest

new entanglement, at any rate it point out one person near at hand

who could, if he would, unravel they. George determine to see Lord

Florencecourt again without delay, and to ask he simply and

straightforwardly whether he be Nouna’s father, and if so, why he have

think it necessary to conceal the fact from he. the young husband

think he could now understand the strange reserve of Madame di

Valdestillas, who, as the circumstance seem to suggest, having be

deceive in early youth by Lord Florencecourt, then masquerade as

Captain Weston, be naturally anxious to conceal the evidence of she

past indiscretion, and have therefore cause her child to be educate

away from she, and have probably conceal Nouna’s very existence from

her husband. in that case, Nouna’s mushroom spring up fortune could

not have be a testamentary provision of her father, as he be still

alive. where then do the money come from? George remember with a

shock Lord Florencecourt’s late complaint of an unexpected and heavy

drain on resource which he know to be by no mean limitless, and the

remarkable incident of the pearl necklace flame up unpleasantly in

his mind. this, together with the grudgingly give invitation to

Willingham, and the socially important visit extract by the Colonel

from his sister to Nouna, seem to point to a considerable influence

be still exert over Lord Florencecourt by Madame di Valdestillas,

in spite of his unconcealed prejudice against dark-skin woman.

whether by tickle his remorse or his fear of publicity, the lady

play very skilfully to be able to levy such substantial blackmail

upon her former lover.



these conjecture run in George’s head and absorb he so completely,

that Nouna, who be sit in the opposite corner and gaze out of

window with a pretty imitation of deep abstraction, find, on turn

suddenly to direct his attention to a stack of red-tile roof and

tower chimney nestling, in Christmas-card prettiness, among tree

in a hollow near the line, something deeply fascinating in the fact

that he be, for the first time since their marriage, completely

oblivious of her presence. she pause with her mouth open for speech,

consider he in wonderment, note the line of the frown on his

forehead, and the dull, steady outlook of clouded eye that for once

do not see she. then she stoop forward, and, with her hand on his

knee, stretch up to peer closely into his face. he start, and his

eye turn upon she with a look in which she see, or fancy she see,

so much sternness, that her hand slip off his knee, and she fall,

a meek and frighten human bundle, on to the floor of the carriage.

George snatch she up and crush her tiny limb against he with a

sudden thrill of passionate tenderness in which she discern at once

some new and unknown element. she sun herself in his caress for a

few moment and then look inquiringly into his eye.



“you have begin a new wooing,” she whisper, peep up with languid

eye. “you be very sweet to I, but you seem to be ask I

something I don’t understand.”



“I don’t know, my darling, whether I could make you understand.”



“kiss I again to prepare I, and then try.”



he obey the first direction and then set about carry out the

second.



“what would you do, my darling, if you have to give up your pretty

house, your room full of flower, your dainty marble bath, your

french frock and your crowd of visitor?”



her reply be prompt and crush, speak with passionate conviction.

“I should die.” then she turn upon he in alarmed eagerness: “what

have happen that I should give they up? they be my own, they be

natural to I; it be not right that the granddaughter of a Maharajah

should be without these thing!”



“but suppose you find out that you be enjoy they at the

expense of other who have a well right to they still, who be bear

to they, and have to go without they for your pleasure. oh, Nouna, you

have a generous little heart, you would not bear that!”



she shake her head incredulously.



“you forget,” say she, “it be through my mother that my fortune come

to I. Mamma would never do anything that be not right and just. what

she say be mine, that I may enjoy without fear of wrong.”



she be secure now behind the rampart of her religion, and he

perceive that he could only convert she through the mother she

adore. so he let the subject drop, inwardly decide that his next

move, after see Lord Florencecourt, must be to find out where

Madame di Valdestillas and her husband be stay, and come to an

understanding with that lady as to the duty owe by a woman to her

daughter’s husband as well as to her own.



determine not to trouble his wife again with premature hint of such

a desolate kind that she have already burst open her dressing-bag to

shed tear over the portable evidence of her accession to fortune--her

diamond--he speak of indifferent thing, and ask, for want of

something well, if she know what have become of Dicky Wood since he

leave Maple Lodge a few day before they do. Nouna’s face seem

suddenly to contract, and she dart at her husband a curiously

cautious glance, shift immediately back to the content of her bag.



“I’m afraid--” she begin. “they say he have get back into the power

of--of that woman, you know,” she end with a nod, see a cloud

form upon her husband’s face which forbid she to let the name of such

a person pass her lip.



“oh, I’m sorry,” say he, be indeed more grieve at his wife’s

knowledge of and interest in the affair than at the foolish boy’s

fall again into the hot water out of which he have be once so

thoughtfully fish.



“yes,” she assent, and with unusual and remarkable reticence she

pursue the subject no far.



George’s masculine wit fail to see more in this circumstance than

respect for his prejudice against her interesting herself in such

theme. she have calm down very suddenly, he think, from her

outburst of violent indignation against the Colonel. no one could have

imagine, to see she now trifle first with a scent-bottle and then

with a fan, that only half an hour have pass since she learn, in a

startling manner, a secret concern her parentage momentous enough

to set the most volatile creature thinking. and then it occur to

he that this secret, so new to he, might not be altogether new to

she. Candour be not an oriental virtue, and experience have already

show he that Nouna be by nature secretive, and much more likely to

keep her own counsel even in hour of amorous confidence than he or

any other babble foolish Samson of a male lover. he recall certain

confidential look and tone he have observe between she and the

lawyer, Mr. Smith, on her wedding-day; he recollect various

injunction from Madame di Valdestillas that Nouna should in all

thing pertain to the marriage put herself without question into

the old solicitor’s hand. the result of these musing be that

George, determine by yet another flash of remembrance, mark down

for his second step in this matter a visit to the church where he be

married, and an inspection of the register.



the first step he propose for himself be to question Sundran. it

would depend, he know, upon her own dull and dogged view of what be

her mistress’s interest whether she would condescend to open her lip

to he either for truth or falsehood. but he think he might be able

to prove to she by the evidence of his unquestionable devotion that he

could have no aim but her mistress’s happiness, and if this could once

be make clear to the woman, Lord Florencecourt’s careful avoidance of

she be enough to show that she could make important revelation.



but George be meet on the very threshold of his investigation by an

undreamt-of difficulty. when the train arrive at Liverpool Street he

put Nouna at once into a cab, and go back to the train to fetch

Sundran, who have not yet find her way to her mistress. but she have

disappear. in vain he examine every compartment in turn, and

scan the crowd on the platform. inquiry of the porter at last

elicit that a dark-skin woman in white have spring out of a

compartment before the train stop, and drive off at once in a cab.

George return to his wife, say simply that Sundran have go off

before they, but as the inspector at the gate of the station take the

number of their cab, George call to the driver to stop, and ask

the official if he have notice a black woman pass out, add that she

be his wife’s maid, know very little English, and he be afraid she

might have make a mistake with the address.



“I see she, sir. I think the number of the cab be fifty-seven,” say

the man, refer to his list.



George thank he, and the cab drive off. Nouna look at her husband

in astonishment.



“she willn’t make a mistake, George. Sundran be not so silly.”



“I don’t think she be. but I want to find out where she’s go.”



“then you think she’s run away! why should she? where would she go?”

ask Nouna breathlessly.



“well, well, we don’t know yet whether she’s go at all.”



but when they get home and find that Sundran have not arrive, George

decide that he would wait one hour, fill up the time with a visit

to the parish church; and then, if she still fail to appear, he

would call at 36, Mary Street, where he suspect she to be, on his

way to Liverpool Street station. he intend to return to Willingham

that night, and get through the interview with the Colonel. a packet

of letter be hand to he, in which he find one for his wife.

see that the handwriting be masculine and unknown to he, George

turn it over jealously.



“who be this from, Nouna?” he ask, hold it over her head, high

above her reach.



a red flood run at once under the delicate brown skin.



“how can I tell if you hold it all that way off?” she ask, make a

futile spring to reach it.



she be much excited, but by what emotion he could not tell.



“well, now,” and he hold it near to her face, guard it with both

hand from the expected clutch.



there be enough subdued interest in her manner to make he determine

to know the content of the letter, but not wish to give himself

the air of a Bluebeard, he draw she on to his knee and give it to

she, at the same time open one of his own. as he read his he see

that she slip her without open it into some hiding-place among

the fold of her dress; at first he make no remark upon this, but go

on with his own letter until he have come to the end of the pile by

throw a couple of circular into the fireplace. at this point she

try to get away; she want to take her hat off, she say.



“well, that’s soon do,” say George laughing, toss off her little

grey cap and pass his finger through her curl. “and now who be

your letter from?”



“oh, it’s only from an old schoolfellow.”



“a schoolfellow! a male schoolfellow! I must see it then; I’m

jealous.”



“there’s nothing to be jealous about,” say Nouna lightly, but

begin to tremble as she see that, in spite of the playfulness of

his tone, he do not mean to let she go till his curiosity be

satisfied. “I haven’t even open it yet.”



“open it now then, and tell I the news.”



he speak quite gently, and lean back in the arm-chair they be

sit on, leave she perch upon his knee in what she might have

imagine be liberty, if there have not be, to her sharp eye, a

leonine look of possession and passive power in the strong white hand

that lie quietly on the arm of the chair on each side of she. these

eastern woman have a subtle sense, transmit to they from

bow-string time, of what be good to do in a case of jealousy.

George see the quick glance round under lowered eyelid, and while

fear some impish indiscretion, yet with a little smart of rage

admire her self-possession as she cross her knee carelessly and

draw forth her letter from her breast, after affect to feel in her

pocket, as if forgetful where she have put it. as she insert a small

forefinger under the flap of the envelope, George hold himself on the

alert to seize the little hand if they should make any attempt to

destroy the missive. but the first glance at the note apparently

relieve she, and she flourish it before he to show that he have

make a fuss about nothing.



“it be only a note from Captain Pascoe to tell I his address, because

he be so anxious to come again to our little supper,” say she,

make a ball of the note, toss it dexterously, catch it in her

hand, and post it between her husband’s lip, open for a little

lecture.



“have he write to you before?” ask George frowning.



“no; if he have I should have know the handwriting,” answer she

carelessly, but in the meantime by a clever little movement cause

the injured note to roll from its lodging-place under George’s chin on

to the floor. “and now please may I go and change my shoe?”



“certainly.”



George let she go, and, all his sense be still awake to

observation, remark that in search for a drop glove she make a

long sweep, and pick up the note from under his chair. his hand

close over her, which she immediately open with a red flush. he

unroll the crumpled ball of paper and read:





 “Grand Hotel, Scarborough.



 “Dear Mrs. Lauriston,



 “Thames Lawn, Richmond. I hope you and your husband willn’t forget I

 when you resume your charming evening. there’s nothing like they in

 town or out of it. I be constrain to beg to be remember, for I

 know you have all the world at your foot, and I be but a humble unit.

 always, as you know, very much at your service if I can ever be of use

 to you in any way,



                               “with kind regard, your very truly,



                                                  “Arthur Pascoe.”





“this be an answer, I see,” say George when he have read to the end.

“so you have be write to Captain Pascoe.”



“only for his address, that we might invite he,” say Nouna, look

frightened.



“but how could you write without know it?”



“he be go to change it, I know. he be at Scarborough now.”



George say no more, and toss the letter into the wastepaper basket.

Nouna, whose eagerness to change her shoe have disappear, stood

consider her husband, whose reticence she could not understand. she

have brace herself up to meet a long interrogatory, and the simple

silence make she think that something bad be in store for she.



“haven’t you anything more to say to I?” she ask at last, with she

head on one side in a helpless, birdwitte manner.



“yes, dear, I have a great deal more to say to you,” burst out poor

George, glide from his chair down on to his knee before she,

clasp his arm round her waist, and look up into the beautiful

mask of the spirit it be so hard to reach, so impossible to impress.

“why willn’t you be quite open and frank with I, when it’s all I ask of

you? when I tell you it hurt I so much for you to keep back a trifle

from I that a whole evening’s pretty caress from you cann’t take out

the sting of it? cann’t you see, dear, that nobody in the world

love you so much as I, or would do as much for you? why do you

encourage these fellow to think you can ever want service from they,

when you know that the man in whose bosom you lie every night live

only in your life, and for your happiness? what do you want of I that

I willn’t do? why willn’t you open your little heart wide to I, as you do

your arm? don’t you love I, Nouna? don’t you love I?”



his encircle arm tremble with the passion that surge in he, and

the slender little form he hold be sway by the convulsive movement

of his body. these appeal of her husband to something within she of

which she have but a dim consciousness, bewilder and distress a

creature accustom to live fully and happily in the day’s emotion,

beautifully unconscious of high duty, high claim. she be,

however, move to a soft sensation of pity for this big, kind,

splendid companion whose passionate affection be, after all, the

kingly crown of all her joy; and she put little tender arm round his

neck in the belief that these mad frenzy after something intangible

be sign of a disorder peculiar to man, of which that dangerous

symptom jealousy be the chief feature.



“of course I love you, George, my dear old beautiful darling

elephant,” she say, with the soothe accent of an affection which

be indeed perfectly genuine.



and she kiss the wave of his hair with such a win abandonment

of herself to the pleasure his touch afford she, and drop down

into his breast with such a seductive air of meek submission to his

will in every act and think, that George be carry away from his

doubt, away from his questioning, as he have be a hundred time

before, and so she strengthen her empire over he in the interview

which have at the outset appear to threaten it.



it be not until he have leave she, and be on his way to the church,

that a momentary gloom fall on the glow into which the magic of her

charm have cast he. she have be very sweet, but she have give no word

of explanation of that strange request to Captain Pascoe, a man of a

character so well know, that it be gall to George to think he have in

his possession so much as a line of his wife’s handwriting. with an

effort he put the matter aside in his mind, not without the unpleasant

reflection that, after all his effort at art-education, the primitive

and impracticable method of the harem be those well calculate to

keep the husband of the little dark-skin enchantress in security.



a walk of a few minute have bring he to the outside of the church

where he be marry, but he find the building a true type of Heaven

in the difficulty of get in. at last he ferret out the person

authorise to unlock the door, and admit he to a sight of the

register. it be with tremble finger that he turn over the page

to find the signature he want. when at last he find the place, he

bite his lip through in a first impulse of hot indignation. he have be

trick again by the whole gang, as he say to himself bitterly,

within five minute of his standing with his bride before the altar.



the signature of his wife be “Nouna Kilmorna.”









 CHAPTER XXII.



George Lauriston hurry out of the church, and turn towards his

home still in the heat of a first impulse of passionate anger against

Madame di Valdestillas and Mr. Smith for incite his wife to deceive

he; but as he walk and reason begin to form a crust over the still

flow stream of passion, he resolve that he would not reproach his

wife with this new concealment until he have accuse her instigator,

and learn from they the meaning of it. with this decision fresh make,

he forbear to enter his house until he should have recover enough

equanimity not to repel his wife by a fresh aspect of suspicion, and

he be in the act of turn back within a few foot of the door, when

a hansom drive up and Lord Florencecourt jump out of it.



catch sight of George, he pay the cabman, and come up to he with

a face in which the young man fancy he perceive less of

constraint and more of the old frank friendliness than he have see

there since his marriage. in fact, the Colonel feel that the first of

the barrier between they, that of concealment, be now break down,

and he begin to breast his difficulty more manfully with the

certainty that he be “in for it.”



“I come down by the next train, George,” he say simply; “I think

when that infernal black woman let out on I, we have well come to an

understanding at once and have do with it.”



“much well, I should think, Lord Florencecourt,” say Lauriston

rather bitterly. “it would have be well if Nouna and I have be

fairly deal with from the first, and not force to begin our life

together in this smothering fog of mystery, deceive a little bit by

everybody, and oblige to get every scrap of knowledge about our own

circumstance by fight for it.”



the Colonel dig his stick into the ground and avoid meet his

eye. “you have hear Sundran’s story, I suppose?”



“not yet.”



“well, well, it’s not all my fault,” say he. “an indiscretion

involve a lady now, you know, er--move in society--you see, one

have not only oneself to consider.”



his manner have suddenly become confused, incoherent, tentative,

utterly unlike his usual soldierly abruptness. he seem to be draw

back from his first open and friendly impulse, and to be more anxious

for some exposition of his companion’s sentiment than for an

opportunity of express his own. George be quite ready to take up

the challenge.



“an indiscretion, Colonel! it seem to have be a serious one. my

wife sign her name at our wedding as Nouna Kilmorna.”



the Colonel start, take quite off his guard.



“the d----l she do!” after a pause, he add: “then, by Jove, she

must know---- oh, these woman, these woman, there’s no make a

contract with they! they wriggle out of the term of it like eel.”



“you be speak of her mother?”



“yes, confound she!”



the veteran’s philosophy, which he be fond of put at the service

of his friend, fail he at such a crisis as this, and leave he at

the mercy of the very commonest of all resource--interjectional

expletive. but they do not serve the purpose of the simple

explanation his hearer want.



“thing seem to point to a contract there be no wriggling out of,”

Lauriston suggest, as respectfully as the nature of the hint

allow.



the Colonel look at George, and see that he be at bay.



“perhaps I have well have make a clean breast of it before,” he

admit grimly; “only it’s one of those deuce awkward thing a man

always shunt as long as he can. I do go through a form of marriage

with the--the lady’s mother.”



“with Madame di Valdestillas?”



“oh, ah, yes, with Madame di Valdestillas. of course she--she ben’t

Madame di Valdestillas then. she be a little half-breed indian gipsy.”



George look cold. the light tone Lord Florencecourt now seem

inclined to take, be not, all thing consider, in the good taste.



“she be your wife, then?” he say.



the Colonel answer by a slight convulsion of the top vertebræ of

his spine, to admit as little of the accusation as possible.



“do you divorce she?” he ask, rather puzzle.



“well, I don’t know whether a divorce out there would be hold quite

regular over here. there’s the difficulty, you see.”



from which George gather in a flash of astonishment that the austere

and respectable viscount have, when the chain of his first matrimonial

alliance grow irksome, trouble no court of law to regain his liberty.



“you understand,” continue the Colonel, meet his companion’s eye

full for the first time, “that it be quite as much to the lady’s

interest as to mine that the affair should not become common gossip.”



“to the mother’s interest, perhaps, not to the daughter’s,” say

George coldly.



“how do she suffer? she be receive everywhere, make a fuss with,

treat as a lion, as if she be descend from the sky. would it

improve her position for it to be know that her mother have be

divorce, legally or illegally? what well provision could I, a poor

man, make for she than I do, if she be my acknowledge legitimate

daughter?”



“provision!”



“yes, I allow she a thousand a year, suppose to have be leave she.

why not? she be under no obligation, and I----”



“--Will be relieve from the charge for the future. I guess

something of it this morning, of course, and be only anxious to know

how much we owe you.”



“owe I! it be not a debt. I acknowledge, I be the first to

acknowledge, the claim of my own child, especially now she be your

wife.”



“oh, I acknowledge the claim too. it be only my pride that make I

waive they on behalf of my wife. until I know all the circumstance of

the case I prefer to stand independently.”



“why, what further circumstance do you want to know?”



“there be two more version of the story I must hear before I can

understand all its bearing. you understand, Colonel, that where a

woman be concern, the man’s view of the question be not enough to

judge by. I must hear Sundran and Madame di Valdestillas.”



“hear every hag in ---- if you please,” say the Colonel irritably.

“only I warn you it be foolish behaviour rattle the bone of

decently bury skeleton.”



“if it be only an old scandal I shouldn’t care,” say George with a

deepening of the collect gravity he have show all through the

conversation. “but you must see, Colonel, that the whole course of our

life depend on the following into its corner of this wretched

story. my wife and I, start quietly in a humdrum way, a pair of

very poor town-mice, suddenly find ourselves in a Tom Tiddler’s

ground, and be bid not to trouble ourselves how we come there, or

why we be inundate with invitation, and our eccentricity treat

as delightful innovation, when a few week before they would have

be ‘bad style.’ it ben’t in human nature not to ask why.”



“why cann’t you take my explanation and be satisfy?”



“because it go such a very little way. it explain why we receive

one thousand a year, when we be get and spend five thousand;

why you treat Nouna with secret liberality, but not why you show she

open dislike. above all it explain your relation with Madame di

Valdestillas, but not your objection to my see she.”



the Colonel, who have be fidget uneasily with his cane, grow

suddenly still.



“if you see she,” he say slowly after a pause, “she’ll consider the

contract break, and she’ll ruin every man jack of we; and you and

your wife may say good-bye to domestic felicity as well as I and mine.

be warn, George; you’d well leave thing as they be, for both our

sake.”



“I cann’t,” say Lauriston, who feel that a chill have come upon spirit

and sense at the Colonel’s homely but forcible warning. “no man can

blunder on like this in the dark and be satisfied. whatever I find

out, it sha’n’t hurt you more than I can help, Colonel.”



he add something about Nouna’s wait for he to take she out,

anxious to get away. but the Colonel, who seem loth to part with

he, turn back when they have shake hand at his initiative, and

said:--



“Madame di Valdestillas be abroad, be she not?”



“so I have be tell. but in the mesh of lie they have entangle I

with, I shouldn’t like to answer for the truth of it.”



“look here, if you will leave this to I, I’ll write to her lawyer

and arrange a meeting for you and I at the same time. and we’ll talk

to she together.”



“thank, Colonel. but I cann’t wait for that; and I’m not go to

trust to the lawyer this time.”



“but if she be abroad?”



“if!”



this terse reply seem to disconcert Lord Florencecourt, who leave he

without further protest or comment, and make straight for the park.

George go back to his own house and inquire if Sundran have

return. on learn that she have not, he go up stair in search of

his wife, but be tell she have go out soon after he himself leave the

house. her husband be not to wait for she to dinner, as she have go

to see Mrs. Ellis and might stay to tea with she.



though this freak be perfectly consistent with Nouna’s capricious

character, George be just in the mood to regard the message with

vague suspicion of some trick. however, as he do not know Mrs.

Ellis’s address, he have no mean of follow she, and see that it

be already nearly six o’clock, he start off at once for Mary

Street. the door of no. 36 be open by a young servant, apparently

new to the place, who tell he, in answer to his inquiry, that a

black woman have come there that afternoon to see Mr. Rahas, add

that after stay a very short time she have go away again in the

cab which bring she, Mr. Rahas himself put she in, give the

direction to the cabman, and at the last moment jump in after she.



“I suppose you don’t remember what the direction be?”



the girl be a cockney, and scented backsheesh. she nod with much

shrewdness. George put his hand to his pocket.



“Waterloo station--side for Richmond,” she say promptly.



Richmond! George remember the address give by Captain Pascoe in his

note. it might be only a coincidence, but a coincidence when one be on

the track of a mystery become either a guiding or a misguide light.



he ask, as he drop a half-crown into the girl’s hand, whether Mr.

Rahas have return home, but it be not with the intention of settle

account with he then. on learn therefore that he have not come

back yet, George simply go away and get as quickly as he could to

Waterloo.



thought of Lord Florencecourt, Madame di Valdestillas, and the haze

of inconsequent romance which seem to surround their conduct to

their daughter fade before a fiery fear that this untamable sun-child

to whom he have give all his heart have be lead into some trap by

Rahas; for George suddenly remember that, as he do not know Captain

Pascoe’s handwriting, the signature might have be merely a blind.

ridiculously unlikely as the supposition be, the unhappy young

husband could think of no less fantastic explanation of the fact; no

reasoning could have dissolve his belief that it be to Thames Lawn,

Richmond, that her sudden journey have be take, and his only comfort

be in know that he have follow she up so quickly that his arrival

there could scarcely fail to be within less than an hour of her.



at Richmond he dart out of the station and jump into a fly.



“Thames Lawn. drive as fast as you can,” he say.



the driver, instead of start, turn, after the manner of his kind,

to debate.



“Thames Lawn!” he repeat, reflectively. “don’t know it, sir. who

live there?”



“I--I don’t know the name of the people who have it now,” say George.



he be on the point of jump out of the fly to make inquiry in the

station, when another driver join in the discussion.



“Thames Lawn!” cry he, “why it’s the place where they foreign swell

live that give the big party. Prince and Princess Wesenstein.

that’s the place. where you drive the young gent that give you half a

sovereign.”



“oh--ah--yes,” say the other, and touch his hat to his fare with a

nod to signify that it be all right, he gather up the rein and

start.



a foreign prince and princess who give big party! to even an

intelligent Englishman the idea suggest by these word be more

consistent with his suspicion of some grave villainy than the mention

of an english lady and gentleman would have be. yet the munificent

and showy hospitality imply in the brief description do not agree

with his fear of an ambush. a drive through the narrow High Street,

fill with the overflowing, lively crowd of a bright summer evening,

bring he in a few minute to the lodge-gate of Thames Lawn. George

leave his fly wait outside, and make inquiry at the lodge. the

Prince and Princess be at home, the lodge-keeper say, but there be

no gentleman of the name of Rahas stay with they that he know of.

there be often gentleman with foreign name stay there, as his

highness himself be a foreign gentleman.



“have he a very dark complexion?” ask George, with a new doubt in his

mind.



“no, he’s as fair as any Englishman, like most german,” say the

lodge-keeper, rather superciliously, with for the first time a

suspicious expression in his dull british grey eye. “there’s a dark

gentleman visit there this afternoon,” he add, after a few

moment’ consideration, during which he have carefully take stock of

his questioner, and perhaps satisfy himself that he be not “after

the spoon.”



“oh, be he alone or with a lady?” ask George, with careful

carelessness.



“well, sir, he be with a walk bundle of white tea-cloth,” say

the lodge-keeper, render more sympathetic by the chance of air

his own humour.



“you be sure,” say George, with a great heart-leap, “that the lady

be dress in white, and not in grey, with a grey cap?”



“no, sir; no lady in grey have be here to-day. I can count the lady

as come here,” he add, with just mean enough to give the young

husband an impulse of thankfulness that he have forestall his wife.



he thank the man and make his way through a wind avenue of lime

and chestnut tree to a grass-plot stud with flower-bed and

surround by a circular drive lead to a large, square-build brick

house, which seem to rise out of a bank of laurel and other shrub

lighten by cluster of rhododendron. the portico be smother with

creeper, which be carefully train to extend over the wall. long

trail of still green Virginia creeper swung backwards and forwards in

the air above a thick mass of geranium of various colour that be

bank up round the pillar of the entrance. the door be open,

show at the end of a wide hall a slope lawn and a glimpse of the

river. as George ring the bell, a gust of wind blow into his face the

petal of overblown rose from stand of flower that line the hall,

with perfume of pungent sandal and sickly sweet exotic. a footman in

a striking livery of purple and gold, whom the lowness of the roof of

the hall magnify into a giant, appear at once in answer to the

bell, and without come to be question, lift a gorgeous crimson

and silver curtain with heavy fringe that rustle as it be raise,

and stand aside, invite the visitor to enter.



George cross the hall, with an involuntary thought, as he glance up

at the rich colour of the paint ceiling, and brush close to a

cluster of delicate flower unknown to he, that shake fairy bell in

the stir air, of the vivid pleasure this luxurious extravagance of

scent and hue would give to Nouna.



“I wish to see Mr. Rahas, who call here this afternoon,” say George

to the servant, pause at the entrance of the room which, the first

glance tell he, confirm the impression give by the hall.



“I will see, sir. I think Mr. Rahas be on the lawn,” answer the man,

still hold up the curtain in invitation to the visitor to pass

under it.



after a second’s hesitation George go in. the room be long and low,

with french window opening on to a verandah, from which the lawn run

down to the river. the wall be paint in eighteenth century

fashion but in the nineteenth century spirit. Grey pool fringe with

delicate bulrush, astride on whose bent head sit gauze-wing

elf; a smooth summer sea with the phantom ship of Vanderdecken

cross the sun’s path like a shred of mist; a siren asleep under the

sea with a feathery pink sea-anemone for pillow, the sunlight shine

down through the green water so that you look and see the baleful

maid and look again and lose she. all these pale fairy picture,

which emerge at interval out of a fleecy background of cloud and

tree, give place as the eye travel round the wall to deeply-hue

representation of less ethereal romance. a golden-haired Guinevere,

with blue unholy eye and loose mouth red with kiss, look

lingeringly out of her window in the dawn to where among the grey

tree of the distance the gleam of a helmet make a faint spark of

silver light. a furnace-eye, cynical Vivien, with passionate triumph

fan the glow of her swarthy evil beauty, glide up in the

gathering darkness among overhang cypress from where, an

undistinguishable heap, lie the insensible body of the conquer

Merlin. a tiny brown-skin, lithe-limbe Cleopatra, clothe in chain

of coin and little else, crouch submissive and seductive before

Cæsar, raise long black eye, twinkle with a thousand meaning,

to the conqueror’s face, while the black soldier-slave stand in the

background, still hold the mattress in which he have bring his

queen hide, and cast furtive, fearful look at the world-famous

pair.



George shudder: Cleopatra be like Nouna. he cast only a hasty

glance at the other picture, note the last, a scene draw from the

most moving of modern romance, where Manon Lescaut, bewitch in her

little frill and flounce of butterfly parisian finery, descend upon

young Des Grieux in his sombre Abbé’s gown, and win he, with smile

and tear and caress, to she for ever.



these wall-painting be all by well-know artist, and they stamp

the room with a magnificent individuality. the mantelpiece be of

white marble, carve by an eminent italian sculptor, whose taste run

much to cupid. the hanging of the room be pearl-white satin, and

the furniture, in the slender eighteenth century style, be white wood

cover with the same material. tall white wood cabinet, also line

with the satin, fill the space right and leave of the mantelpiece.

both be fill with old china, a Sybarite’s collection, which

contain no piece unique without be beautiful, or beautiful

without be unique. handsomely-bind book, of the kind which be

write to be illustrate, lie on the table among venetian decanter

and bowl of cut flower. the floor be of polished wood, cool to the

foot. in the verandah outside be low lounge chair and a table

with champagne-cup.



after a hasty survey of the room George walk to one of the window.

Mr. Rahas be in the garden, he think, the servant have say. but

there be no sign of he on the lawn or under the tree that border

it on each side as far as the river’s brink. as George look out, and

put one foot on the tesselated floor of the verandah to get a wide

view, he hear a sound of a chair scrape the pavement, and then his

own name call. he turn round and see Dicky Wood peep up,

flushed, amazed and excited, from under a japanese umbrella which he

be hold over himself as he lie in a hammock between two of the

verandah pillar. in a moment George’s eye be open as he notice

the free-and-easy manner in which the lad be enjoy himself, in a

light suit, a cigar in his mouth, his tie hang loose, and observe

the consternation on his face. it be the home of Chloris White, and

Nouna, with her usual wild wilfulness, have stick to her project of

visit this royalty of the half-world, and beg Chloris to relax

her hold on Dicky. the come of Rahas and Sundran remain

unaccounted for; but George for the moment do not trouble about that;

he be thank Heaven it be no bad.



such a great light of relief break over his face that Dicky, who have

tumble out of the hammock in a shameface manner, and with as much

celerity as if it have be his Colonel who confront he, take

courage to say:



“I--I don’t expect to see you here, Lauriston.”



“I suppose not,” say George shortly, with less moral indignation than

irritation with this fool for be the cause of the horrible

uneasiness to which he have be a prey. “I haven’t much taste for the

fruit that grow on the high road.”



Dicky, who be not a philosophical admirer, grow red and angry.



“I willn’t hear a word against Chloris--I mean the Princess--even from

you, Lauriston,” he begin, hold himself very erect.



George put his hand on the young fellow’s shoulder. he be not two

year old than the young scapegrace, but the prestige of his

reserve character give he authority.



“I don’t come here to quarrel with you, laddie,” he say gravely.

“when you find what do bring I, you willn’t be so loud. tell I, why

do you call she the ‘Princess?’ who’s the Prince?”



his thought run again on Rahas.



Dicky glance round the lawn.



“he ben’t about now,” he say carelessly. “he’s a little dry-up

German with dye hair and moustache; seventy, if he’s a day.”



“do you ever meet here a man name Rahas?”



“Rahas! oh, yes. he’s a sort of commission agent, who get any indian

thing you want, from a pound of Assam tea to an elephant. why, you

know he, of course; for he live in the same house with Mrs.

Lauriston before you marry she,” rattle on Dicky, encourage by

George’s lenity.



“do he ever speak of she--my wife?”



“no, he willn’t. I begin to chaff he once; only a harmless word or

two,” he go on hastily, see a change in his companion’s face,

“and he--well, he get all sort of dark colour, and his eye spat

fire. I think he once go in for be a sort of rival, you know--at

least, I mean before you know she.”



“have you see he to-day?”



“yes, I think he’s talk to Chl--the Princess--now somewhere. no, by

Jove, here she be.”



from where they be stand in the verandah they could hear the

rustle of the silver fringe, and the tipity-tap of high-heeled shoe

on the polished floor. she be a little woman, this famous personage,

though it be only by comparison that you could discover the fact; for

she bear herself with the easy dignity of a queen, and before he see

more of she than a golden head and a robe of buttercup silk peeping

between drapery of black lace, he know without debate that he have

see so much grace of movement in no english woman, and only in one

who be not english. as she advance through the long room in a very

leisurely manner, a couple of spaniel play about her foot, a

paint fan in her hand, he find that he be wait for her near

approach with something strong than curiosity. first his involuntary

admiration of her carriage be change suddenly, without warning or

definite thought, into a sick disgust that grow, with the next few

step she take, into horror equally without cause, without

explanation. then his blood stand still, hot and fiery, in his vein,

and seem to be scorch his body, as the horror become in a moment

a definite, devilish dread, so ghastly that the mind refuse it as a

thought, and the lip be paralyse and could give it no vent. when

at last she reach the open window, and the mild evening light show

he her face without disguise, he see nothing but the outline he have

see in silhouette against the window in his own house on the day he

and Nouna enter it.



his own house! great heaven, no. this woman’s house; buy with the

foul earning of her infamous calling!



for Nouna’s mother be Chloris White.



as he realise this, face to face with she, George reel back against

one of the support of the verandah, and burst into a stupid idiot’s

laugh. the whole foundation on which heart and brain be busy

building for a life’s work and a life’s happiness, have sink beneath

his foot and sweep all into a hideous, yawn pit of ruin. and so for

a moment the brain give way and the horrible pain be dull, while

Chloris White, recognise her son-in-law with a shock, dismiss the

enamour Dicky on some futile errand, and give all her attention to

the unexpected and disastrously unwelcome visitor.









 CHAPTER XXIII.



Chloris White be one of those utterly corrupt, abandon and

dangerous woman in whom certain noble and loveable quality flourish

with a rank and prolific luxuriance impossible in cold and well

balanced nature. she have like George Lauriston from the first, with

the impulsive yet not altogether undiscriminate liking of a woman

clever enough, while know the bad side of man thoroughly, to

understand that there be a well and to work upon that also when it

suit her purpose. when chance throw the young officer in her

daughter’s way, she spare no pain both by her own investigation and

those of Rahas, in whom she find an agent ready to her hand--subtle,

secretive, and not above bribe--to find out whether Lauriston as a

son-in-law would satisfy her affection and her ambition for Nouna.

every report prove satisfactory; there be nothing against he but

his poverty; and as Chloris White, at three-and-thirty still in the

height of her vogue, help herself with both hand to the saving of

century and revel in the spoil of city and county, there be no

reason to make that an insuperable obstacle. for this half-breed indian

woman be bear ambitious, and be determined that in her child should

be fulfil such aspiration as she have fail to realise in her own

person.



the illegitimate daughter of an indian Maharanee and an English

government official, Lakshmi--for that be Chloris White’s real

name--have be bear with the germ of marvellous beauty and

ungovernable passion, both of which develop until at fifteen, when

she become, by various artful ruse, the wife of a deeply-enamour

young officer, who be even at the time ashame enough of his marriage

to wed the little witch under an assumed name--she be the most

fascinating little fury in the Presidency. though her husband have

well-found suspicion of her infidelity, she be clever enough to

prevent his obtaining proof of it, and at last, despair of get

free in a more legal manner of this burden upon his life, a half

savage wife, ignorant, vicious and violent, he leave she when his

regiment return to England, leave such provision as he, then a

poor lieutenant, could afford for she and his child, a girl only a few

week old, whose paternity he affect to doubt. four year pass,

during which he hear no more of either of they. the poor lieutenant

become, by unexpected death, heir to a title; he want to marry.

detective, set to work both in England and in India, could find no

trace either of mother or child. finally, the husband decide that

they must have go down in the whirlpool, as such a woman would be

most likely to do. he risk the venture and marry. for year more

no rumour of the lost wife trouble he, until, when he be Viscount

Florencecourt, Colonel of his regiment, and father of two boy for

whom he would have die, a horrible phantom rose, conjure up by a

letter from the solicitor Messrs. Smith and Angelo, who make known to

he that his wife, Lady Florencecourt, have arrive in England. he

try silence, denial; but the wild Lakshmi have grow into a

remarkably capable woman, and her lawyer be furnish with ample

proof that the lady now lead a notorious life in London and the

little dare-devil imp whom the young lieutenant marry seventeen

year ago, be one and the same person. she have ferret he out,

hunt he down.



Lord Florencecourt submit; he would consent to anything, if she

would only hold her peace. at first Lakshmi be merciful, content

herself with a warning that his daughter have claim upon he to which

he would have to give ear by and by. then, having hear of Lady

Florencecourt’s pearl, Lakshmi demand they for a wedding gift to

his daughter. it be at this point that he see Nouna by accident in

the barrack-yard at Hounslow, and the fact be spring upon he that

this daughter of whom he be in vague dread be already the wife of

his favourite officer. the next blow follow quickly: he must allow

a thousand a year towards the support of the young couple, must cause

his “exclusive” sister to call upon they, must induce Lady

Florencecourt to receive they. the wretched man have fulfil every

command, unable to console himself even with the reflection that these

trouble be undeserved. at last, fear that Lady Florencecourt’s

rudeness to Nouna, whom she suspect of be his daughter, would

bring down upon they the last, bad punishment, he have to confess the

whole story, and purchase her civility to young Mrs. Lauriston at the

price of such a course of lecture, curtain and otherwise, as the mind

of man recoil from consider.



for her husband Lakshmi have no mercy. he have treat she badly, the

first and the last man who have ever have a chance of do so, and the

power she now hold over he she use with the cruelty of a nature in

its depth half savage still. but for this young fellow, who have

treat her child with quixotic honour and delicacy which she, of all

woman, know how to appreciate, she feel, when the awful discovery of

her identity stun he into momentary idiotcy in her presence, an

impulse of pity and tenderness almost as strong as any she have ever

feel for the daughter whom Chloris with all her fault adore.

Lauriston’s good look also, his muscular figure and healthy,

sun-brown face add considerably in her sensual eye to the

attraction his chivalrous character give he. as he still leant back

against the wooden support of the verandah, stare not at she but

over her head in a struggle to get back his wit and realise the

nature of the blow which have stun he, Chloris White come forward

and lay her hand winningly upon his shoulder with a pretty maternal

air of compassion, which be the sincere expression of a kindly

impulse temper by an ever-present professional sense of the

picturesque and move. her touch, the glance down at her face which

it compel he to give, bring remembrance back in a flood and

fill he with loathe so overwhelming that he affect to stagger

back inadvertently from the inadequate support on which he be

lean. respect for woman die hard in man of decent life, and

George would not have have even this abandon woman know the horror

and disgust she excite in he. she have keep her child pure, he must

remember that; but all the story he have hear of her unequalled

rapacity and depravity rush into his mind with the lightning

rapidity of thought in moment of intense excitement, and gain a

horribly fascinating force of likelihood as, by the light of all he

know about she, he examine the face of Lord Florencecourt’s wife.



Chloris White be still at thirty-three a woman of surprising beauty,

of small, lithe, youthful figure, and face far surpass she

daughter’s in perfection of feature. but the daring process of

change her hair from raven black to a subdue golden tint have

render necessary a change of complexion which give a weird

prominence to her long, black-fringe eye, and help to stamp the

countenance with the unmistakable impress of evil. there be in her

beauty none of the essential coldness of the english type, whose

bad representative lure for the most part at the outset by an

appearance of straightforward innocence in the gaze of confide blue

or grey eye. she be a glowing spark from the forge of Evil, burning,

searing, daringly brilliant and unmistakable, whose allurement

appeal directly to the viler side of man; her attraction be the

poisonous charm of stagnant water and forest swamp, of venomous

reptile that hang or creep in sinuous curve where vegetation be

rank, where no breeze penetrate to disperse the fume of damp and

decay: her beauty be the beauty of corruption.



George Lauriston be not the man to remain long the prey of vain

imagining; almost as soon as he recover full use of his mind after

the first stunning shock, he be entirely himself again, understand

that a contest between they be inevitable, and decide as rapidly

what be to be his chief weapon. his first impulse have be to avoid

a discussion, by withdraw at once without an explanation, resign

his commission, and emigrate with Nouna to the uttermost part of

the earth. but close upon this idea have follow the certainty that

this spoilt creature, baffle in her ambition for her child, would use

the mean of compensate herself offer by her hold over the

Colonel, and by proclaim and prove herself to be the real Lady

Florencecourt, bring ruin to the family. Chloris also prepare herself

for a struggle. she know that the cynical philosophy which would

quietly accept a daughter and a fortune from hand such as her, be

not to be find in company with the virtue for which she have choose

her son-in-law.



therefore, with head bent like a penitent Magdalen, so meek that the

harsh could not spurn she, she draw back as it in shame, and

address he in a low murmur voice of an indescribably vibrate

quality, sweet, deep-tone, and penetrate as the sound-wave of an

organ through quiet aisle. the voice, like the face, shake George

with an unspeakable horror. for in every glance, in every tone, he see

a sickening, awful likeness to the young wife he worship, and in

the power this depraved woman exercise over half the fool of the

day, his unhealthily excited fancy see a hideous burlesque of the

undue dominion Nouna have already get over he. he listen without

look at she at first, until the irresistibly melt tone make it

impossible to forbear meet her eye in the search demand to know

whether the face would belie the word.



“you will not let I touch you, the husband of my own child. I do not

blame you. I can even say I be sorry you have come, since to meet I

have give you pain. I be not proud for myself, I be only proud for my

child--my child. while I keep myself apart from you for your

happiness, my soul, all that be good and truest in I, be with you.

you be my judge, my son, but remember that.”



even the high-fly speech be like Nouna in her serious mood. George

glance at she. her eye, to which the rest of her face, beautiful as

it be, seem in moment of excitement only a sort of unnoticed

setting, be like liquid fire.



“I be no judge, madam,” he say, “and I thank God for bring I here

to-day.”



her expression change; evidently she have prepare herself for an

outburst of anger, and be less able to cope with a masculine

quietness.



“you be glad you come to-day?” she falter, not know what this

might portend, for her visitor give no sign of work himself up to a

good, warm height of indignation.



“yes. you would have let I go on for month live like a skunk.”



the Magdalen look give place at once to a vindictive tightening of the

lip and narrowing of the eye.



“you be not satisfied with what I have do for you?”



“no, madam.”



“why, what would you have?”



“I would have have you let I know the truth. I deserve it.”



“but you would have object to my daughter’s have the fortune which

make she happy.”



“if you know I should object, you have the less right to deceive I.”



he be not go to prate about his honour to this creature; he do

not even think she would understand he, but he be mistaken. now that

she see what tone he be go to take she adjust her to meet he,

and become cool and haughty.



“my daughter’s nurse, Sundran, come to I to-day to tell I where to

find the husband who desert I when I be no more than a child; she

think, poor woman, I do not know. I gather that her recognition

do not surprise you.”



“well, madam.”



“will it satisfy you to have your wife acknowledge as the Honourable

Nouna Kilmorna, only daughter of Lord Florencecourt?”



“no, madam. Nouna be my wife, that be enough for I. I only want you

to understand that she must be content to live for a few year like a

poor officer’s wife, some day she shall have as much rank and position

as she could wish.”



“oh, that would be charming for you; but Nouna! do you think she be

the sort of girl to be happy by herself in stuffy lodging while you

be amuse yourself ‘get on’? come, you know well. if she

couldn’t be content like that during her honeymoon, do you think she

could now?”



the bitterness of this thrust, to which experience have give a barb

point, make he wince.



“she be only a child,” say he; “feel my love about her day by day,

she will learn to be happy in that, as you would have be if your

husband have be all your heart want,” he add, as a happy thought.



but Chloris White only laugh, have the coarse cynical honesty of

her kind. “do you really believe that?” she say. “well, you be

wrong. in my case, because no one man could ever have be to I all

my heart want; in Nouna’s case, because she be, disguise it what way

you like, her mother’s child. give her jewel, new gown, gaiety,

luxury, and you may hold what room there be in her heart for a man;

shut she in two room, restrict she to one frock for each of the

season, and you will see, if you don’t know, just how much happiness

your love be able to give she. I tell you she must have pleasure,

pleasure, pleasure; and if you willn’t let she accept it openly, pass

through your hand as a gift from you, I’ll let she have it secretly

through somebody else’s.”



a spirit of evil seem to flash a hideous lightning across her

handsome face as she utter this threat. George be horrorstruck.



“you don’t mean what you say,” he say, catch his breath. “you, who

be noble enough to keep apart from your child for her sake! you

would not destroy your own work now!”



“I would destroy anything when I’m work up to it,” she say coolly.

“listen, Mr. Lauriston. the world make distinction as to the way in

which money be make; but it make none as to the way in which it be

spend; that can and do confer nothing but honour. well, that part of

the business be all I ask of you. as to the way I get it, why many a

man of your trade might think himself bless if he get his with so

clear a conscience. there be no village burn to give I a cocked

hat, nor town plunder that I may build a villa. my money’s my own,

to do what I like with, and I choose to give it to my child to make

they a position in the world. nobody know where it come from, and

nobody need know; and you can call it your wife’s money, not your, if

you be so particular. but she must and shall have it. money be not

make by look at it by I more than by anybody else. I’ve work for

a fortune to give my daughter, because I mean she to have the good of

everything in this world. I’m ready even never to see she except by a

trick, but I willn’t have my work foil just at the last by any

squeamish folly on your part; if you willn’t have wife and fortune

together, you shall have neither, I swear.”



“you don’t seem to understand, madam, that your control over your

daughter cease when she become my wife.”



“do it?” retort Chloris White, with scornful emphasis. “well, you

can entertain that opinion, if it comfort you, for a few day long.

but don’t depend too much on your legal right when you be deal

with a person who live outside the law.”



“I can trust your love for Nouna to conquer any impulse you might have

to do her harm through I,” say George, a bull-dog defiance rise in

he and affect the tone in which he utter these sufficiently

pacific word.



“you can trust I to keep she from have her life ruin by any man’s

pig-headedness,” say Chloris, throw herself into a long cane

lounge chair with much spirit in voice and attitude. “do you think I

bring up Nouna virtuously to secure her happiness?” she ask

mockingly. “no, I mean she to be happy in spite of it. I mean she to

enjoy all the honour of the great world, and all the luxury of the

other one; I mean she to become what she have become, a society pet, a

society lion, by the very way and manner which in I be bohemian,

shocking, impossible. oh! they be easily gull, those

feather-brain lady of the ‘good’ society. however, it be ‘the

good,’ and so I mean my daughter to keep there.”



“you don’t understand these people,” say George, disgust by her

shameless cynicism, but resolve to go through with the contest, and

to make the good term he could. “she have make friend among they now,

real friend. when they hear she have lose her fortune they will simply

try to make up for the loss by invite she more, make more fuss

with she than ever.”



Chloris White shake her head contemptuously.



“poor gentility,” she say, “that depend on the broken dainty cast

to it by its better--for better in money be better in

everything--be bad off than the frank poverty that live on offal.

now poverty in any shape be loathsome, and it shall not come near my

daughter. Fortune with honour be the good possible thing, but fortune

without honour be the next good, infinitely well in Nouna’s case

than any amount of love in garret. you see I be act on principle.

if you insist--and I see by your english bulldog face you mean to

insist (it be a trick of your country, and of no use with a woman) in

refuse my daughter the fortune she be entitle to, I shall encourage

the suit--the secret suit--of a lover who will be more compliant.”



she take a cigarette-case from the table beside she, and strike a

wax match on a tiny box that jingle among other object from a

_châtelaine_ at her side, she light a cigarette, and puff a long

spiral cloud into the air above she, watch it disperse and fade with

much apparent interest.



to George she have become, in the course of the last few moment, no

long a beautiful, depraved human creature with one fair spot in her

nature that have to be touch, but a slimy noisome thing to be shake

off as quickly as possible and avoid for ever. he look at she

steadily, so steadily indeed that she turn her head on one side, and

shoot at he an oblique glance, in preference to bear the full brunt

of a gaze of such mortifying disgust and contempt. then, bow to she

very coldly, he say he be afraid he have intrude upon she too long,

and see a few step off the open door by which he could pass

through to the front of the house without re-enter the

drawing-room, he be retreat towards it, when a voice in the hall

strike upon the hearing both of he and of Chloris at the same time,

cause she to start up from her lounge attitude with a bound of

thirsty triumph, crush all his cold armour of pride and lay bare

in a moment the wound passionate heart it have hide.



he spring forward, pant, feverish, imploring, like a weak boy at

her mercy, hold her wrist, look down into her face with eye that

let light into the recess of passion within he.



“for God’s sake spare she, don’t let she see you, Nouna--she have come

to see Chloris White, the devil’s part of you, about young Wood. don’t

see she. remember, she be your child and my wife. show the angel’s

side once more. be true to your own soul. listen. you be your child’s

religion. while she worship you, while she hold you the ideal of all

that be pure and lovely, the spirit of good in you be keep alive by

her devotion. if you cast yourself down from that altar you kill in

yourself everything that be not vile, base, devilish; you ruin the

mind you and I have watch over and keep pure; you throw yourself and

she into an endless hell. you be a woman--you will have pity.”



he pour out these word in a hot lava-torrent of passionate emotion

which surprise and move the woman to whom sensation be the breath

of life. however, she be not conquer; she look up in his face and

say with languid insolence:



“so! one can make fire out of wood at last! well, you should have wake

up soon. I intend to see my daughter.”



George hear the patter of Nouna’s step on the polished floor of the

room within. with one rapid glance at the window, which be some few

foot far down the verandah than the spot where he stand, and

without one word or sound to warn she of his intention, he snatch

Chloris up in his arm, and run across the lawn towards the river in a

slanting direction away from the window, to a spot where he see a

couple of boat moor to the bank. utterly take by surprise, and as

instinctively submissive as her sex usually be to a masculine _coup_

of this kind, Chloris White scarcely utter a faint exclamation

until, see the direction of their course, she ask, coolly:



“be you go to drown I?”



“no. though it’s what you deserve,” he pant briefly. and reach

the boat, he get into the near, a solidly build skiff, put Chloris

down on the cushioned seat in the stern, push the boat off, and

paddle she easily with the tide to the shadow of the tree, so that

Nouna, if she come to the window, might not see they.



“what do you expect to gain by this astonishing stratagem?” ask

Chloris.



“I intend to prevent you see Nouna until she have get clear of the

house.”



“in the meantime young wood will have meet she, she will have find out

that Chloris White be at home, and will have make up her mind to wait

until she do see I.”



George make no answer. he be indeed consider what step he should

next take. luckily for he his silence, which be really the result of

want of resource, impress Chloris White differently. she be not

use to be thwart and treat as a person of small account, and

she grow impatient and fretful at be make a fool of. to be force

to sit, with a complexion adapt for the half-light of the verandah

and the lamp of the dinner table, in the full yellow glare of the

evening sun, hatless, with no become sunshade to throw a soft shadow

over her face, expose without any of the clever artifice of her

treasury to the disillusionise stare of the pleasure-crew that row

past, be an ordeal which subdue the haughty security of this queen

of an artificial realm more surely than innocent George could have

guess. she look up at he, blink in the unaccustomed strong

daylight, with a malignant expression of spiteful hatred, and then

look over the boat-side into the shallow water, cower miserably

before the combine force of blunt, coarse, overmaster nature, and

blunt, coarse, overmaster man.



“well, you have get your way this once--make the most of it,” she say

bitterly. “let I get back on the bank; the sun make my head ache.”



“you will let she go without see she?” say George, utterly

unconscious in the earnest reality that be occupy he, of the

frivolous detail which have gain his victory, and suspicious of her

good faith.



“yes, yes, yes, I tell you. she can go and you can go--the soon the

well. I be wear out with your coarse violence; I must go to my room

and lie down.”



George paddle slowly back to where there be a pathway among the

tree. an inkling of the truth break upon he as he compare the

superb disdain and contemptuous coolness with which this woman have

treat he in the verandah with the break-spirited petulance she

show now. he become rather ashamed of his stratagem, and help the

humble woman to land very gently, with lowered eye, feel for the

first time a spark of human kinship with she in this little exhibition

of unamiable nature. “I be sorry if I have be rough,” say he

humbly. “you see I have be much disturb to-day.”



she make no answer, be by this time safe on the bank. she give

he--feel more at ease already in the shade of the tree--one

flashing, enigmatical glance which, while it do not betray she

thought or her feeling towards he very definitely, yet renew the

impression of evil which her feminine helpless querulousness in the

boat have for the time lay in abeyance; then she turn, and let

her golden-coloured gown trail after she on the narrow path, she

walk away with the free motion from the hip, and graceful, alluring

bearing which have come to she with her eastern blood. but to George

she look, as she get far and far from his sight in the black

and dim recess of the plantation, like a huge, sinuous serpent, with

head and upper part raise from the ground, ready to spring at and

coil round its victim.



he remember with a start that her word be not to be rely on, and

bring the boat with a few stroke back to where he have first find

it, he jump ashore, make fast the painter, and cross the lawn

rapidly to the window of the drawing-room. Nouna be there alone,

lean over a low chair, utterly absorb in the picture of Guinevere

at the window. she turn round on hear footstep, and scream at

sight of her husband. he spring across the floor to she; but, strike

suddenly with a terribly vivid sense of the likeness between she and

the wretched woman he have just leave, he feel his first impulse to take

she in his arm freeze up, and merely say that she must come home

with he. she cast a last linger look of admiration at the

painting on the wall, and let her husband lead she out through the

hall, where she try to lag behind he with inquisitive glance into

all the corner, bury her head among the hot-house flower in a

subdue ecstasy of enjoyment, and altogether show a manif

reluctance to leave this strange little paradise of delight. they

walk down the avenue in silence, except that he tell she to make

haste, and rebuke she rather sharply for a stealthy glance behind she

at the house.



at the lodge-gate the fly in which he have come be wait. when he

have help she in there come upon he a strong sense that he and

she--an ill-assorted pair enough, with many a struggle and a

heart-pang in store for they--be all that be leave, each to the

other, in a mass of tumbled ruin of fair prospect that have be

solid and stately that morning. and as she cower, very silent and

subdue, expect a scolding for her escapade, he put his arm round

she, just before the sheltered road where they be drive join the

highway, and press a fervent, throb kiss on her lip. she

return it demonstratively, accord to she willnot, and then, as they

be close upon the High Street, they have to calm down their

exuberance, and he ask:



“what be you think about, Nounday?”



“I be think how lovely it would be to live in a house like that,”

she answer _naïvely_.



it be natural enough, and George say so to himself, and would not

let himself be torture by the thought that the innocent remark be

significant.









 CHAPTER XXIV.



throughout the journey back to town from Richmond there be, after

that brief caress, scarcely more communication between George and his

wife than if they have be stranger. Nouna, surprised in a flagrant

act of disobedience, be dispose, by the very leniency with which she

have be treat, to look upon her husband’s reserve as ominous; while

he on his own side be too much absorb in consider what step he

ought next to take to dispel her fear of punishment by so much as a

few gentle word.



the fact be that George, who, like other reserved people of strong

feeling, could only control the expression of those feeling, when

strongly excited, by mount over himself the strict guard, wear

on this occasion an unconscious panoply of sternness which be far

more alarming to the impressionable Nouna than the most passionate

outpouring of invective could have be. as the hansom they have take

from Waterloo Station drive up to the door of their house, and George

fling the door open with a sudden impulsive movement forward as if he

would have spring out without wait for the driver to pull up, he

be recall to a consciousness of his wife’s presence by a frightened

moan at his elbow, and look round hastily, he see she huddle up in

the corner watch he with eye full of fear. the sight startle he

horribly, for the discovery of the evening have poison his mind with

evil knowledge and rank suspicion.



“what be the matter? why be you look frighten?” he ask with a

constrain look and tone which seem to the frightened creature both

fierce and harsh.



Nouna draw a long, shiver breath and do not answer, her eye

move with the helpless, agonise expression of a field-mouse

imprison for a few moment in human hand. not in the least

understand the effect his manner have upon she, Lauriston’s

suspicion suddenly take form as he remember the presence of Rahas

at Thames Lawn. as a matter of fact Nouna be entirely ignorant that

either the oriental merchant or Sundran be at the house she have just

visit with the harmlessly quixotic intention of plead for Dicky

Wood. but Lauriston could not know that, could scarcely at that moment

have believe his wife’s oath if she have swear the truth. he turn

sharply round in his seat to get a full view of her face, and she,

scare out of all self-control, utter a little shriek. he do not

touch she, he do not attempt to reassure she; with a heavy, hopeless

sigh he turn away, take off his hat, and pass his hand over his

forehead. they have reach home, the footman be advance from the

open door; George notice with disgust that the man must have

witness the little scene. he get out and hold out his hand to his

wife, who reject it and hang back until he quietly give place to the

servant, and walk to meet the Colonel, the sight of whom on the

pathway a short distance from the house, have be the cause of his

start forward in the hansom.



as the two man meet they exchange eager, anxious glance.



“well!” say the Colonel shortly.



Lauriston, who look haggard, white, and shake, wait for he to

speak far.



“what have--she do?”



unwilling so much as to mention the name of the woman he reluctantly

acknowledge as his daughter, Lord Florencecourt glance towards the

house she have just enter to indicate whom he mean.



“do! what have she do? God know.”



“well, what do you suspect? you can speak out to I; I be not

sensitive now. have she do--the bad? you look at she as if you

could have kill she. I see as you pass.”



Poor George stare at he in consternation.



“I look--at my wife--as if I could have--kill she!” he repeat

stupidly.



“yes, by Jove, you do.”



George say nothing more for a few moment, be altogether shock

to learn that he could become unconsciously the most repulsive of

tyrant to the very creature whom, in all the wreck of his life and

his hope, he unswervingly and with a new smarting fervour, adore.



“I suppose,” he say at last, “I’m go off my head. I swear I haven’t

the least idea there be anything unusual in my manner. poor little

thing!” he murmur abstractedly, while the Colonel continue to

regard he very curiously.



George turn instinctively towards his home, and glance through the

tree at the window of his wife’s room with a great yearning in his

whole face. the Colonel put his arm briskly through the young man’s,

and try to lead he towards the near gate. they have wander into

Kensington Gardens.



“come and dine with I at the Wellington Club. I’ve call twice at

your place since I leave you, and have be hover about ever since

on the look-out for you. come--a glass of Rudesheimer----”



George draw back. “no, thank, Colonel; I cann’t come to-night. I must

go back to my wife. you see--leave she like that----”



he stammer and stop. the Colonel consider he again

attentively.



“you’ve not be tell she anything of our talk this afternoon, have

you?” he ask, with a shade of contempt. “I cannot understand that

craze of a newly-married man to be babble of all his affair to his

wife. I should as soon think of consult a new hunter as to an

investment in Consols.”



“I have tell she nothing.”



“then what be the matter with you? you look more upset than you do

this afternoon.”



“I have see Nouna’s mother.”



the Colonel’s jaw drop, and his irritability suddenly disappear.



“Madame di--di Valdestillas?” he say in a subdue, tentative tone.



“oh, no; I’ve have my way. there’s an end once for all to all humbug,”

answer George bitterly. “I’ve see Chloris White.”



then both remain silent for a while. truly after this there seem

little to be say. at last the Colonel say in a low voice:



“now, my boy, you see what I’ve have to live through the last few

year. you don’t wonder any long at my opinion of woman?”



but George feel no sympathetic softening. he think that a man should

make sure of the death of his first wife before he marry a second,

and that he should show a little human feeling for his own daughter.



“I don’t wonder either, Colonel, at Chloris White’s opinion of man,”

he say drily.



“you think you have a grievance against I, I see.”



“frankly, I do. why don’t you make a clean breast of it when you

find it be I who have marry your daughter? you might have trust

I, Colonel, as if I have have no tongue; you know that. and you see I

fall into a villainous trap and live on that infamous woman’s money.

o God! the thought of it! when just a whisper would have put I

right.”



“well, well, the murder’s out now, and one see thing differently. I

know what your wife’s influence over you be, and I think if I

breathe a word it would get to her ear and set she clamouring for

her pitiful title. a man’s a weak thing in a beautiful woman’s hand,

as no one know well than I. I’ll do what I can for you; I’m bind

to, and I will. what do you propose to do?”



“resign my commission, give back every cursed penny I can, and get

employment abroad to work off the rest.”



Lord Florencecourt look up, startle.



“resign your commission! you mustn’t think of that. the bad’s over

now; it be I, not you, who have anything to fear from the devil. give

up your house, of course; I’ll allow you five hundred, six hundred a

year. you be quite free from any obligation, for I acknowledge your

wife be my daughter, and her mother would force I in any case to

contribute to her support. do you see?”



“quite. I accept your offer, Colonel, in this way. you shall allow

Nouna five hundred a year until we have clear off every farthing we

have spend under a misapprehension. but for the future my wife and I

will live on my earning and what I have besides of my own.”



“but why leave the army?”



“Cowardice, partly. I feel disgrace and beat down, and I’ve lose

heart for the old ambition. and--I have other reason. over here

there be a constant risk of Nouna’s meeting----”



he hurry this last sentence, but stop abruptly in the middle of

it.



“you might exchange. come now, that would solve all difficulty.

nobody would know the style you use to keep here, and you could make

a fresh start quietly.”



George consider the proposal for a few second, and then shake his

head.



“look here, Colonel, it’s no use deny it; I’m break--as surely as a

man who’s go to the dog on his own account; the only difference be

that I’ve be throw to ’em. there’s an awfulness about the thing

I’ve be make to do that have bowl I over--pride, self-respect, and

all. I shall work round again all right, I’ve no doubt, but I cann’t

set to it in England or in the army. help I to get away as fast as I

can; it’s the great kindness you can do I.”



he have make up his mind past gainsay. the Colonel be deeply move,

self-reproach add force to his compassion.



“if you willn’t be persuade,” he begin slowly, “I suppose I must help

you your own way. how would Paris suit you?”



“any place would suit I where I could get anything to do. and Paris

would be lively for Nouna,” he add, half to himself.



the Colonel would have prefer that Nouna’s name should be leave out

of the discussion. he continue: “a young American, a connection of

Lady Millard’s, who be engage in a bank here call the ‘London, New

York, and Chicago,’ be tell I at their place a few night ago

that the firm intend to start a branch establishment in Paris, for the

use chiefly of the english and american colony. they have an opening

for a young man of good birth and address. it’s a wretched thing, I

know, for you,” he go on with a change of voice, glance again

regretfully from head to foot of the handsome young soldier.



“can you get it for I?” ask Lauriston, with a first sign of

eagerness.



“I think so, but--the salary be miserable and----”



“what will they give?”



“something like a hundred and twenty at the outside to begin with.

it’s starvation.”



“not a bit of it. it’s more than my pay.”



“yes, but your wife!”



“my wife?” George’s face break with a ray of a smile. “she shall be

all right. she be no more than a bird to keep; and we shall live very

near the housetop, where she will be at home.”



in fact, the idea of have she all to himself again spring up a

bright little fountain in desolation, unlooked for in his breast. the

Colonel pull his moustache. Nouna, he think, be the sort of bird

to make a very uncomfortable flapping against the bar of any but the

most expensive of cage.



“when can I know whether they will give I the berth?” George ask.



“I almost think, from the manner in which they speak, that what I

should say about you would settle it. they be particular as to the

stamp of man. you could hear in a week.”



“how soon can I get away, Colonel?”



“as soon as you like; I’ll see that it’s all right.”



“thank. I want to wind up all my affair here quietly, and slip away

at any moment when I have arrange for the payment of the debt we

have incur.”



“you can make I security for those. and, by the by, I can give you

some good introduction in Paris.”



“many thank, Colonel, but it would only be prolong the social

death-struggle. one can only die game to society on--on the income we

shall have.”



“don’t you think, for your wife’s sake, you be wrong in resolve to

be so independent? how will you keep she amuse?”



“oh, that willn’t be difficult in Paris. the very air be more

exhilarating than here, and she be just the person to appreciate its

pleasure.”



“but the pleasure lady love be no cheap there than here,

remember.”



Lauriston would not be cheat out of the rag of comfort he have

collect for himself, and Lord Florencecourt be oblige to leave he

without even discover how small the income be to which the young

fellow be trust. the money he have inherit from his aunt--all he

have to depend on besides what his own work could produce--bring he

in only a little over a hundred a year; and he have even be oblige

to encroach upon next year’s income in the early day of his marriage,

when it seem easy to trust to the literary work he have be

promise for the future than to refuse his new-make wife the pretty

trifle she set her heart upon. now the idea of make money by

writing again occur to he, and prick he to instant action with

the thought that something might still be make of life if Nouna could

only be induce to be happy in her change circumstance. this be

Lauriston’s weak side. he know that if Chloris White choose to be as

bad as her word, and to excite Rahas’s evil thirst for Nouna’s beauty,

he should have to enter into a conflict with a stealthy and

unscrupulous enemy, the thought of whose underhand weapon fill he

with fury and loathing. he must get away with his wife at once, as

secretly as he could, trust that the mother might overpower the

fiend in Chloris, and induce she to leave her child safe in the care

of a man whom she must at least respect. in the meantime the change in

their circumstance must be make known to Nouna without delay.



George return to the big house which be so detestably impregnate

with the thought of Chloris and her vilely earn money, and inquire

for his wife, learn that she be in her bath. this be with Nouna by

no mean the perfunctory daily ceremony of Europeans, but be a

luxurious pleasure in which she spend many hour of the hot summer

day, having have a room fit up to recall, as far as possible, she

dim half-imagine memory of the cool inner court of an indian

palace. George knock at the door and Nouna, recognise the tread,

in a timid and uncertain voice bid he come in. the room be pave

and wainscote with tile; the bath, a large one six foot square, but

only three deep, be sink into the floor with two step down into the

water on all the side, the whole be line with sea-green tile

that give a pretty tint to the water. a lamp hang in brass chain from

the ceiling; a long mirror reach down to the ground occupy the

middle of the wall. a sofa, a rug, a table with fruit and coffee, and

a little window conservatory with thin lace curtain before it, be

all the rest of the furniture. Nouna, in a blue and white cotton

garment which be no great encumbrance, be peer up from the corner

of the bath furth from the door like a frightened water-nix. as

George come over to she, she make straight for the opposite corner,

and see that she do not mean to be approach nearer, he move

away from the bath and sit down on the sofa.



“I frighten you just now, I be afraid, Nouna,” he begin in a very

humble voice.



“no-o,” she answer, pluck up spirit as she see she be safe from

attack.



“I mean, perhaps you think I cross and--and rough, because I don’t

talk to you much on the way home.”



“you be cross and rough.”



“well, I’m very sorry, for I don’t mean to be. I have have news which

upset I and make I so wretched that I forget everything else.”



“what news?” she ask very softly, slide through the water to the

side of the bath near to he, and lean her bare wet arm on the

tile of the floor. for she begin, now that her fright be over, to

see that he be unhappy.



he pause for a few moment to consider how he should well break it to

she. at last it come out, however, with masculine bluntness.



“you know what you would say, Nouna, if you hear that there have be

a mistake--about the money--suppose to be leave we, and that we be

as poor as ever again, and have to give up this house and

everything--even your jewel!”



the water all round the poor child begin to quiver with little

widen ripple, as she tremble at the shock of this most dire

calamity; even his previous suggestion of it seem to have have no

effect in soften the blow. as for George, he feel that all the

previous horror of the miserable day have produce no pang so acute as

the one he now feel, when he have to deal with his own hand the blow

which crush, for the time at least, all the bright happiness of the

only creature he love in the world. he sit like a culprit, with

hang head and loosely clasp hand, too much afraid of break

down himself to attempt to soften the gloomy picture by a word of

hope. it be she who break the silence first.



“my jewel! no, I sha’n’t have to give those up,” she whisper

eagerly, “for they be give I by mamma!”



George look at she with haggard eye, notice that the mere mention

of her mother soothe she, let in a ray of sweet sunshine at once upon

the black-look prospect.



“but suppose we be so badly in debt that even they have to be

sell!” he suggest in a hoarse voice that he try in vain to clear.



“then I should drown myself!” cry Nouna tragically, and she

descend a step lower into the water as if to fulfil the dread

purpose immediately.



“what, Nouna!” cry George, “don’t you think I worth live for? do

you think, when I’ve lose everything else, you ought to take away just

what would console I for it all? do you, Nouna?”



she hang her head, and crawl, meek and ashamed like a truant dog,

out of the water, lay herself face downward on the tile floor at a

little distance from his foot. but when he stoop towards she she

say, her voice ring out with passionate sincerity:



“don’t touch I! let I lie here till I’m good, and then you may pick

I up and forgive I.”



“but listen. I’ve something else to tell you, something that perhaps

you will like to hear.”



“what be it?” she raise her head and look up at he.



“we shall be very poor, as I tell you, and sha’n’t be able to have a

nice house, or many pretty thing. but I’m go to take you to live

in Paris----”



“Paris!” he have scarcely utter the word when she repeat it like a

shout of triumph, and spring up from the floor, snatch a

lace-border and embroider sheet which be lie on a little white

porcelain stove in one corner of the room, and wrap it round she

with one dexterous sweeping movement, slip off her bathing-dress

like a loose skin from underneath it, and fling herself on to the

sofa beside her husband, put a transformed and glow face up to his,

as she whisper in a tone of rapture: “then I don’t mind

anything--anything, for I shall see mamma!”



with an uncontrollable impulse George draw himself away from she and

start to his foot. he feel sick, and a film gather before his

eye, prevent he from find the handle of the door, which he

seek with cold, clammy finger.



“George!” say a low voice behind he. he scarcely hear, scarcely

recognise it, and make no answer.



“George!” a little hand find its way to his throat, and be lay

against his neck.



his arm fall down listlessly, and as he stand still and feel that he

be touch by cling finger, and hear Nouna’s voice in its most

caress tone, his sight come again; he look down and put his

hand on his wife’s shoulder.



“why be you go away, George? why be you go away?”



“I don’t feel well, dearest.”



“well, sit by I, and I will take your head in my lap and nurse you.”



she lead he gently back to the sofa. but presently, when she have

curl herself up in a corner of it, and make he lie full length

have pillow his head upon her breast, and administer kiss and

_eau de Cologne_ alternately with great lavishness, she peer into

his face with a new inspiration, and say mysteriously:



“you be not ill--you be unhappy.”



he protest he be only grieve at the change in their fortune for

her sake.



Nouna laugh gently. “I be silly,” she say, “and wicked. in the

first moment of surprise one do not know what one say. I don’t

mind at all. I would rather be poor in Paris than rich in London.”



he shiver, though Nouna, with some tact, believe he be jealous,

have not mention her mother again. but she examine his face

attentively, and see that the draw, hopeless look remain. after a

few moment she slip her shoulder away very tenderly from beneath

his head, which she transfer to a cushion; and George hear the

door softly shut after she as she go out. he call to she, but she

take no notice, and he suppose she have go to dress. but in a few

minute the ghost-like figure glide in again, look just the same,

and come to where he be now sit upright on the sofa.



“there!” she say triumphantly, and she put her jewellery, piece by

piece, down to a little gold bar brooch which he have give she before

their marriage, into her husband’s pocket. “you can go and sell they

this minute if you like. you see I don’t mind a bit. not--a--bit,” she

repeat deliberately, and then look into his face to see whether

this willing act of self-sacrifice have bring he consolation.



George smile at she and tell she she be a good child; but his smile

be still very sad, and the hand which he place on her shoulder

tremble. then Nouna, who be sit on the rug at his foot, begin to

cry quietly; their usual mutual position be reverse; it be she who

now want to get near to he, and do not know how. a strange

deadness seem to have come over he, so that he do not notice even

her tear. he be indeed arrange his plan for their departure from

England, with some distrust of his wife’s fortitude at the end. at

last, when amazement at this singular state of affair have dry she

eye, and she have sit mournfully stare at her husband in utter

silence for some minute, a light break upon her face, and she spring

up suddenly into a kneeling position. join her hand together above

his knee like a child and look out instinctively at the glimpse of

darken sky visible between the leave of the plant in her little

window conservatory, she say with all the solemnity and timidity of

a person who be undertake for the first time an arduous

responsibility:



“pray God to comfort my husband George, if I cannot.”



this startle George and break he up altogether, reserve and

fortitude and manly dignity and all. he snatch she up in his arm

with such impetuous haste that her slipper fly off and expose

little pink toe to the air, and enfold she in a hug that go nigh

to stop her breath, burst into sob like a hungry and beat

child.









 CHAPTER XXV.



to George Lauriston’s infinite surprise and comfort, his young wife,

instead of deal he fresh wound in his misfortune by lamentation

over their altered lot, fall quite naturally into the woman’s part of

helpmeet, and ease the wrench of break from his old career by an

unwavering brightness and sweetness which wake in he the fair

hope of what their life together might yet be. on the other hand,

this sudden change from winsome wilfulness to still more winsome

womanliness could not fail to rouse in he some anxiety as to its

cause. have she receive any communication from her mother, either

through the hateful Rahas or some other channel? her secretive nature

make it difficult to discover the truth on such point.



“why be you so kind to I now, little woman?” he ask she two day

after the memorable return from Norfolk, when their preparation for

departure be already half make.



“Kind! ben’t I always kind to you?” she ask, not quite evasively,

yet with more understanding than she affect to have.



“yes, but not quite in the same sweet way.”



“ah ha! it’s the picture and the music and the sermon you’ve take

I to begin to have an effect at last,” she say, not flippantly,

for though she laugh her eye begin to glisten.



George be touch, but greatly puzzle.



“have you hear anything from Sundran since she leave?” ask he

carelessly, after allow an interval to elapse so that the question

might appear to have no connection with what have go before.



“no,” say Nouna; then, after a pause, she look up at her husband

mysteriously. “do you know what I think?”



“well!”



“I believe she have manage, how I don’t know, to find her way back to

mamma. I’ve be think it over a great deal, and I fancy when she

find out the Colonel,”--(she lower she voice)--“she think she

ought to let mamma know where to find he.” and Nouna finish with a

slow emphatic nod of her small head.



“that’s a very clever suggestion,” say George, who indeed have reason

to think so. he feel relieve, for Nouna’s want of candour have never

go the length of deliberately plan deceit, and he decide upon

the strength of this short dialogue that she have hear nothing.



the real reason of his wife’s altered conduct be not likely to occur

to he. come of a race which place the one sex in such complete

subjection to the other that confidence between they be impossible,

she possess, together with that cautious over-reticence which be the

weapon of the weak, its correlative virtue--a delicate tact which

avoid a sensitive place discreetly, and make no attempt to lay bare

a wound which her lord wish to conceal. something have happen to

make George unhappy--this kind husband who have cherish she so

tenderly, who have deny she no proof of his affection. her woman’s

heart be deeply touch; if she have any curiosity it could wait for

its satisfaction until by and by when he be well; in the meantime

she would be loyally good to he, even to the extent of check she

secret sob over the parting with the plant and perfume and

knick-knack which have grow into her frivolity-love heart.



George get the bank appointment, through the effort of Lord

Florencecourt, who tell he he have have a close race with a connection

of the man who be to be manager of the Paris branch.



“he’s a disagreeable man, the manager, Mr. Gurton,” say the Colonel.

“I hope you’ll get on all right with he. the young fellow he want

to get in be a lad he call his nephew, but by all account he be what

nephew have a trick of turn out to be. Gurton be rather savage

over the disappointment; fortunately I be able to prove that the lad

be not so steady as he might be.”



“thank you, Colonel. it’s very good of you to take so much trouble.

I’m sorry about the mysterious nephew. unless he’s an exceptionally

just man, it will make he so ready to find fault with I. and of

course I’m quite raw to the work.”



“oh, I don’t think it’s difficult--mere routine for the most part. my

boy, it be a shame for you to be tie to such work.”



“well, all work be routine; it cann’t be bad for that than the army.

and then there be prize. who know but I may end my day as a

prosperous banker, with an income which would make a General’s mouth

water?”



between the Colonel’s hearty friendship and help on the one hand, and

Nouna’s unexpected and discreet sympathy on the other, Lauriston be

begin to realise that the bad stain of the degradation he have

feel so keenly might in time be wipe out, and in this reaction he be

incline at first to lose remembrance of Chloris White’s threat, and

to look upon the smallness of his mean as the present difficulty

which would need the stern grappling with. he could not bear the

thought of plunge his wife straight from the unbridled extravagance

and luxury which she have lately enjoy with so keen a zest to an

existence more meagre than that which have pal upon she so soon in

the first day of their marriage. that she be prepare with great

fortitude for such a plunge be prove to he the day before they

start. she be rather silent and abstract at dinner that evening,

and when it be over she walk with a listless and melancholy tread

into the quaint drawing-room, the shelf and bracket of which

George find be bare of their load of fantastic trifle. fan,

screen, mirror, ivory carving, all have disappear; only half a

dozen small porcelain vase, fill with fresh flower that morning,

remain.



“you’ve be pack up, I see, busy little woman,” say George,

try to speak cheerfully, as he stand with his arm round she in the

room which already begin to wear a desolate look, as if the soul have

die out of it.



“no, not pack, only make a list of they. here it be. I think

they could pack they up themselves after we be go,” she say,

sadly.



by “they” she indicate with a shudder the mysterious enemy who be

drive forth she and her husband from their beautiful home, and

force they to make horrid thing call inventory of her little

turkish table, and the soft sofas on which she have be so fond of

resting, and the big oak bookcase which be the pride of George’s

heart. she hold out two or three half-sheet of her husband’s foolscap

paper, closely scribble on both side with her spidery, illegible

writing.



“what’s this?” ask George, run his eye over it and read

aloud at random. “‘one pair of pink garter with silver clasp, and

with a little knob come off the clasp of one!’” he turn to the next

page and read: “‘two fan with pearl handle and one with

tortoiseshell which I have never use. except once’” be screw into

the space above as an afterthought. George pick out another item.

“‘a hand-mirror that make you look pretty, as if you have a crown on,

for the top be a silver coronet.’” far on the entry grow full

and more eloquent, as if the very description of the beauty of her

treasure have become a labour of love. “‘two lovely embroider

dress, one pale blue silk, all over little silver bird with their

little wing spread out as if they be fly in the sky. the other

be pink with white rose and lily, very nearly as pretty as the

other one, and besides it be less worn.’” even her velvet slipper,

each pair describe with love minuteness, be faithfully put down.



“they be all there; I haven’t keep back anything, indeed,” explain

Nouna in great haste, as George, after read some _naïve_ entry

in silence, turn his back upon she, a proceeding which seem to her

ominous. “I’ve only keep just the thing I have before we come here.”



but then he put his arm round she quite suddenly, and hold she close

to he as he say:



“and who do you think will be able to get into those little doll’s

garment of yours if you leave they behind? the frock might do for

baby’ gown, certainly, and the red velvet slipper might be hang

upside down for watch-pocket, but they will never find grown-up

people small enough to wear they, my word for it!”



Nouna twist her left shoulder up to she uneasily, and a little

haughtily; she have consider the drawing up of this list as a very

business-like proceeding, and now she be be laugh at for it. she

husband see this in time to kiss away the gathering frown. his own

taste would have prefer the sacrifice of the dainty though now most

inappropriate wardrobe; but he know that during long hour of the day

he should have to be away from his wife, and as experience have teach

he that she could find more entertainment in an embroidered sash than

in the whole literature of the english language, and that moreover her

moral quality could shine out strongly upon occasion in spite of

this unorthodox taste, he decide that she should have the solace in

exile of all her private treasure except the jewel, which he

intend to despatch to Chloris White at the moment of leave

England.



“you think I mind give these thing up!” Nouna say superbly. “but I

be not a child; they be nothing to I.”



nevertheless, when her husband tell she he would help she to pack they

up, as they be of no use to any one but she, she leapt about the

room for joy, and rush off to take advantage of the permission in a

state of frantic excitement.



they get away safely from England within a week of the fateful visit

to “Thames Lawn,” all difficulty be smooth away by the

co-operation of the Colonel who, while he make no effort to see his

daughter again, do everything in his power to help she and her

husband to get away quickly and quietly. they pride themselves on

manage everything very neatly, and both man hope that the young

husband and wife would be able to get lose, not only to the world, but

to the vicious and vindictive Chloris White, even without the adoption

of a feigned name, which the Colonel advise, but which Lauriston

decline to resort to.



“if they make up their mind to find I, Nouna’s peculiar beauty would

be clue enough to track I by to the end of the world,” say he. “I

have do nothing to disgrace my name, and it’s one of my deep

wish to make my wife so proud of it that she will forget that she

ever have any other.”



they start in the early morning from Charing Cross, Lord

Florencecourt meet they at the station to see they off. the

greeting between father and daughter be a curious one. Nouna, whose

prejudice against the Colonel have hitherto find vent in avoidance or

in sauciness, now receive he with a low bow and humble touch of the

hand of decorous respect, while in her lowered eye hatred of the man

who have abandon her mother struggle with her strong native sense of

the majesty of a father. the Colonel’s manner, on the other hand, be

nervous and jerky. he be grieve to lose Lauriston, delight to lose

his daughter, and haunt by a dread of what his demon-wife might take

it into her head to do now she be foil in her cherished ambition

for her child. he have bring a beautiful basket of rose for Mrs.

Lauriston, and he insist on pay for their ticket himself, to

save poor Nouna what he think might be the shock of travel

second-class. when, as the train start, Nouna see that, on shake

hand with her husband, the Colonel’s eye grow moist and kindly, she

relent, and lean far out of the carriage window, bestow upon

her amazed and unwilling father a kiss which, be justify only by

that relationship which he be try so hard to conceal, be scarcely

less unwelcome than a charge of grapeshot.



the train be out of sight before he recover a degree of serenity,

which be shake immediately afterwards by a glimpse he catch, as he

be leave the station, of a tall, lean man wear a red fez, who

come out by a different door, and cross the inclosure in front with

quick stride, be lose to his sight among the crowd in the Strand.

although George have not inform he of all he fear from Rahas, he

have tell he enough about this dark-skin agent of Chloris White’s

to make the Colonel suspect that with all their care they have not

succeed in evade her evil vigilance. at first he think he would

warn George, but reflect how common foreign headgear of all sort

be in London, he decide that he have not enough ground for disturb

so soon the poor fellow’s sense of security.



with their arrival in Paris begin the third era in the married life of

George and his wife. Nouna’s delight in the bright city be so great

that at first the fact of have to live in two small room on the

fourth floor of a house in a narrow street off the Boulevard

Poissonnière be of no account compare with the knowledge of the

pleasure that lie outside, the walk along the lighted boulevard in

the evening before the shop be shut, the expedition in a tramcar

to the Bois de Boulogne or Saint Cloud, above all the Sunday trip

upon the Seine on a steamer, all joy within the reach of a most

modest purse, be delirious excitement to her susceptible

temperament, in the first ecstasy of which the handsome house at

Kensington, the tropical plant, the supper party, even the service

of her servant Sundran, be for the time forget. on one memorable

Sunday they indulge in a drive round the Bois in a _fiacre_, and in

ice at the little _châlet_ restaurant opposite the cascade, where

the low middle-class bride come in all their bravery of white satin

and long veil and orange-blossom wreath, look coquettish, happy,

and at ease in the unaccustomed attire which an english girl of the

same class wear with such shameface awkwardness. to Nouna that day

give a glimpse of Paradise: the _fiacre_ be more comfortable than she

victoria in London have be, Hyde Park could not compare with the

Bois, the passer-by amuse, the ice intoxicate she. when the

sunshine have fade into twilight, and they have drive back home

through the lighted street, she climb up the long flight of

stair, still in a silent ecstasy, and sit down in a little low chair

George have buy for she, see nothing in the gloom but move

carriage, and small tree grow thickly round a lake that glitter

in sunshine, and pretty mock _châlet_ and a ridiculous little

waterfall that fall from nothing into nowhere.



presently she get up and go out on to the broad balcony which,

encroach upon the size of the room, be yet the chief charm of

this little home under the roof. she have hang one corner of it with

curtain, and George have contrive a canvas awning under which, when

the weather be fine, she spend most of the hour of his absence. her

husband watch without follow she as she lean upon the rail and

look out at the yellow glow in the west which could still be see

behind the housetop. suddenly she turn and come back to he.

stand just within the window with she back to the fade light, she

face could not be see; but her voice ring out with a strange

vibration as she call to he, hold her arm towards he:



“George, why don’t you come out to I?”



he be with she in a moment, find her trembling and dry-lipped, and

try to persuade she to lie down while he call to the old woman

from whom they rent the room, to prepare their supper. but Nouna

shake her head, and insist on his remain with she by the window.

yes, she be tired, she admit, but she want the air; she would go

out on the balcony again if he would go with she. as she seem to

desire it, he let she lead he out, all the time keep her eye

fix in a remarkable manner immovably on his face.



“look out,” she say, “at the sky--at the house--at all you can see.”



he let his gaze pass obediently from her face to the pale-star sky,

the grey-blue of which be merge into the last red ray of the

disappear sunset: to the house-roof and chimney-pot, of which

they have a good though not an extensive view, to the street below,

with its little globe of yellow light, and the dark speck which be

all he could see of the move passenger. then he turn to she

curiously.



“well, little one, I have look at everything.”



“and you see nothing--nothing strange at all?”



“there’s a tabby cat two roof off,” say the prosaic male doubtfully.



“no, no,” she interrupt impatiently, still without move her eye

from his face. “down below we--on the opposite side--a little to the

left--in the black shade.” her voice have sink gradually into a

whisper. then she stop.



“well, I see nothing.”



“not at the house where they have a floor shut up?”



George step forward and lean over the rail of the balcony as she

have do, Nouna follow closely and cling to his hand. on the

opposite side, about three door down, there be a flat on the third

floor which have bear during the first day of their residence in

Paris a large board inscribe ‘_a louer_.’ George see that the board

be go, and that one of the shutter be throw back.



“oh, I see they’ve let it. well, there’s nothing to be frighten

about in that, my child.”



“you don’t notice anything else--anything strange--you don’t see

any--person?”



George start, and look down again with search eagerness along

the line of dead-eyed shutter window.



“no, child, there be nobody.”



Nouna heave a long sigh, and look timidly down through her

husband’s arm.



“no, it’s--go,” she whisper.



“what be go, dear? tell I what you see,” say George caressingly,

as he draw she back into the little sitting-room, where a lamp now

shed its soft light over the white table-cloth, and Madame Barbier,

who adore the picturesque young english couple, be arrange the

supper in a dainty and appetise fashion.



Nouna rub her eye, and cling to her husband’s arm, let the

word of her recital drop from her lip in a slow, hesitate and

faltering manner, as if she be fast asleep, and her brain be

work sluggishly under the half-paralyse influence of a will

strong than her own.



“I be sit in here,” she say, “and think of all the happiness

we have have to-day--the soft air and the warm sun, and your kind eye

upon I, and all the lovely thing we see--the beautiful lady and

the shine water, and the light among the tree in the Champ

Elysées when we come back. and all at once,” her hand tighten

their hold upon his sleeve, “I feel that I must get up and go

out--there upon the balcony; and I look out at the sky right in

front where it be yellow like flame, and all the pretty picture of

the day I see quite plainly still in my mind. but then--I don’t know

how--I feel my eye draw down from the bright sky, and there down

below I--to the left, I see all black gloom, and in it I seem to

see Rahas’ room in Mary Street, with all the pretty toy and bright

shawl about just as he use to put they for I to look at. and in the

middle Rahas himself, only not kind and gentle as he use to be, but

with a wicked cruel face, and burn eye that frighten I. and I

feel afraid, as if I could have scream. it seem so strange, for

even when he use to look fierce, as he do sometimes, I never mind,

and I be never frightened. be it a dream, George, that I see? and if

it be only a dream, why be I afraid?”



chime in so appropriately with his own fear, this vision or fancy

of Nouna’s disturb George a little. he calm her excitement as well

as he could, and find some comfort in the fact that the crafty

Oriental have appear to she, not as the kindly friend he have always

profess to be, but as a person inspire horror. this seem the

more remarkable as George have never mention the name of Rahas to his

wife since their wedding-day; he come, after a little reflection, to

look upon the vision as a proof of the new sympathy which Nouna begin

to show with his own feeling, and to rejoice in the fact that as the

bond between he and his wife grow strong under the influence of his

patient tenderness, the power of any enemy to disturb their happiness

be proportionately lessen. this home peace, which be attach

Lauriston to his young wife more strongly every day, be the more

grateful to he, as his duty at the Bank be render as irksome as

possible to he through the prejudice of his chief, Mr. Gurton, who

never forgave the rejection of his own candidate for the junior

clerk’s post, and who scarcely conceal his wish to find against he

some lawful ground of dissatisfaction. this George be careful not to

give.



Mr. Gurton be one of those disagreeable brute who seem to be create

as foil to show up the amiability and sweetness of ordinary humanity.

he be offensive to his few friend; he be unendurable to the far

great number of people whom nothing but necessity throw in his way.

but as a man of business he be clear-head, shrewd, and

enterprising, so exact and penetrate that even if he drank, as his

many detractor allege, there seem to be no particular reason why

he should not, as his business faculty could not be say to be less

keen at one time than at another. he hate Lauriston from the first,

bully he on the small or on no occasion, and do all in his

power to induce the young fellow to throw up his appointment. George

take soft word and sour with dog quietness, and apply himself

with all the energy of his character to master every detail

connect with his new profession, as serenely as if incivility have

be his daily bread for year. as a matter of fact, the discourtesy

and fault-finding of his chief do not trouble he much; he look

upon Gurton, not without reason, as an ill-breed brute whom one could

only turn to account by note the method by which he have attain

such a splendid dexterity in the management of affair, and by thus

consider he in the light of a noisy machine it be easy to take

the sting out of his insult. at the same time this constant friction

or avoidance of friction in his business life make home and wife

doubly dear and sweet to he.



on the day follow Nouna’s strange vision on the balcony, he come

home at the usual time, and ask she whether she have have any more

“wake dream.” she answer, reluctantly and shyly, that she have not

be on the balcony at all that day. George laugh at she, and tell

she she should go with he, as the presence of such a coarse creature

as a man be a sure preventive of vision. she allow he to lead she

out, be quite brave with the combine force of husband and

sunlight. when they get on the balcony, however, and look to the

leave at the house where Nouna have fancy she see Rahas, a sight meet

their eye which, whether a coincidence or not, be strange enough to

deepen the unpleasant impression of the evening before.



for the shutter of the uninhabited third floor be now throw back,

and outside the balcony hang a long strip of white calico with this

inscription in broad blue letter: “Bazar Oriental.”



George and Nouna read the word, and look at each other in troubled

amazement.



“I’ll have this clear up to-night,” think George to himself.









 CHAPTER XXVI.



when, true to his determination, George Lauriston visit the new

establishment that evening and insist on see the proprietor, an

explanation offer itself which rob Nouna’s vision of most of the

mystery attach to it. for a dapper little Frenchman, who try to

live up to his obviously assume business title of Ben Hassan by

wear a scarlet fez and a pair of turkish slipper, immediately

appear behind the servant who open the door, and announce

himself with a flourishing bow as the proprietor, thrust into

Lauriston’s hand a business card, and beg he to inspect his stock,

add that perhaps Monsieur would do he the honour to inaugurate his

business and bring he good luck by purchase some trifle. George

consent. the oriental bazaar consist of three room fit up with

trestle on which be place tray full of trumpery, gilt sequin

necklace, cheap scarf, and other so-call eastern ware, such as

may be buy for a very small sum in the small shop along the Rue

de Rivoli. George buy a little feather hand-screen, obviously an

“article de Paris,” and return to his wife quite satisfied that it

be the sight of Monsieur Ben Hassan’s red fez at one of the window

which have conjure up in her excited imagination the ground-floor in

Mary Street and its young occupant.



in order to convince his wife of her mistake, George take she next day

to the establishment of Monsieur Ben Hassan, and be pleased to find

that the nervous fear which have haunt she since her suppose vision

fade away in the amusement of turn over the cheap trinket and

toy around she, as the obsequious proprietor, an active and voluble

little Parisian, who would have be invaluable as a showman at a

country fair, encourage she to do. George ask he, to satisfy

Nouna, whether he have not have a friend with he on the balcony two

evening before, a foreign gentleman, in whom, he say, he think he

recognise an old acquaintance. Ben Hassan say no, he have be

work by himself to prepare his “Bazaar” for opening on the

follow day, and he have be alone except for the occasional

assistance of the servant. he admit also, with a charmingly candid

shrug of the shoulder, that his name of Ben Hassan be assume, that

in private life he be simply Jules Dubois, and that there be no

gentleman in the business who come from further East than the Faubourg

Saint Antoine.



Nouna, to tell the truth, hardly listen to this explanation. she be

at heart still so much a child as to find, in try on tunisian

earring at a franc and a half a pair, and gold crescent brooch that

could not be warrant to retain their colour a second time of

wear, as much pleasure as she have feel, a few week back, in

deck herself with her wedding diamond. notice this, the artful

Ben Hassan inform the lady that he expect, in the course of a few

day, a consignment of indian jewellery which would be well worthy of

Madame’s attention, as it be the most marvellously cheap and

beautiful assortment that have ever be see in France. Nouna’s face

glow with interest, which be repress for the moment by her

husband, who say coldly that Madame do not wear imitation jewellery;

a statement which seemed calculate to be receive with doubt, as

Madame, now hang from head to foot with gilt chain and spangle

handkerchief, be evidently very well satisfied with herself.

however, the tactful parisian bow low and apologise, humbly

observe that the ware in question be continually mount, by

desire of well-know lady of the Boulevard Saint Germains, with real

gem of the high value. Nouna divest herself of the trinket with

manifest regret, and be with difficulty persuade by her husband to

buy a string of sandalwood bead instead of the barbaric row of

eye-dazzle brass on which her choice have first fall. George be

rather shocked; a taste for cheap finery in his wife seem quite a

new and startling development. as soon as they get on the stair

outside he say, in a low and puzzled voice:



“you wouldn’t really care to have those gimcrack thing, would you,

Nouna?”



she want to sit down on the stair and take the paper off her bead:

stop in the act, she look up at he with a laugh, but yet

show a gleam of serious meaning in her red-brown eye.



“why not, if I cann’t have real one?” she say with a note of pathos

in her voice. “if I have rich thing I should sell they to give you

money. but these poor one I can keep and do you no harm.”



and George have a lump in his throat, as he often have now at innocent

speech like this from his wife, which show the dawning of a new

womanly sympathy with he side by side with the old childish love of

finery and glitter.



she show, by certain impulsive remark in the course of the next few

day, a deep interest in the “marvellously cheap and beautiful

assortment of indian jewellery,” of which the sham Arabian have speak;

and when, towards the end of the week, Monsieur Ben Hassan call one

evening, not, as he assure the young Englishman, with the intention

of persuade he to buy the mock gem which he have be inform

Madame do not wear, but merely to justify in the eye of Monsieur the

praise which he have lavish on his own ware, Nouna show so much

eagerness to see they that George have not the heart to deny she the

pleasure. Ben Hassan proceed, by the light of the lamp which stand

on the table amidst the remnant of the dessert, to unfasten a little

flat box which he carry, to take out a layer of cotton-wool, and to

display, against the velvet lining, row of flash white gem which

cause Nouna to cry out with irrepressible admiration and longing.



“I flatter myself,” say the Parisian, lay the box on the table and

retreat a few pace with a bow, as if trust his ware to speak

for themselves, “that there be not another firm in France which can

produce such a class of jewel for the same price.”



“yes, yes,” say George hastily, with a shrewd guess that to see these

sparkle ornament hide away again in the little box and carry

off without leave she so much as a single gem to remember they by,

would break Nouna’s heart. “but they be only sham jewel, Monsieur

Ben Hassan, and a lady who have have diamond of her own could not

condescend to wear these.”



Nouna, who be lean over the table, finger the ornament

delicately, and consider they with the intelligent interest of a

connoisseur, glance up at her husband with a twinkle of demure humour

in her eye, and instantly return to her amusement with

condescension so infinite that it be not to be distinguish from the

most extravagant admiration. the astute Ben Hassan see the look, and

bow again with great humility.



“Monsieur, it be true an imitation be but a poor thing when you know

it be an imitation,” he say with shoulder raise and hand

outstretche in modest pleading. “but I appeal to Madame, who be

evidently a judge, if she would have know these stone from real

one?”



Nouna hesitate, then quietly pick out a pair of diamond solitaire

earring, and hold they out under the lamp in her little pink palm.



“I should not have know these from real one,” she say doubtfully,

and she look up with an inquire glance into the Parisian’s face.



Ben Hassan draw himself up with much satisfaction.



“you hear, Monsieur,” he say proudly, “Madame would not have know

these earring from real diamond, and the cost of the pair be only

ten franc!”



“ten franc!” echo Nouna with incredulous delight.



and as she turn to her husband with a low murmur, “oh, George!” the

paymaster see that he be doom. without further show of resistance

he pay the ten franc, and sign to the bowing, smirk Ben Hassan

to pack up his trap and take himself off, which the parisian do,

depart with a torrent of high-fly thank for their patronage and

with every appearance of be highly satisfied with the transaction.

so contented do he seem indeed, that so soon as the door close

behind he, and Nouna rush into the bedroom to try on her purchase,

George instinctively take stock of all the portable property which have

be within the lively Ben Hassan’s reach, to make sure that his

ostensible occupation have not be a cover for a predatory one. he have

scarcely reassure himself on this point when Nouna rush in like a

radiant little fire-fly, her new ornament twinkle in her ear, her

eye dance with mysterious excitement, her dress change from a

simple muslin to a ball-dress of yellow gauzy material in honour of

her brilliant bargain. she flit up to he almost breathlessly, and

pull his head down to her level that she might whisper into his ear

a communication which appear to be of vital importance.



“do you think,” she suggest solemnly, “that he could have make a

mistake, and that they be _real_?”



George laugh, and say no, he do not think it at all likely,

whereupon she be silent for a little while, and then begin again in

the same tone, but with much hesitation.



“you know, George, he tell I that day we go to his bazaar that he

have some real diamond in his stock, and say that, that----”



“well, that what?” ask her husband, keep his voice at a gently

subdue pitch, with a intuitive feeling that a confession be come.



“that if I would call in--some day--by myself--he would show they to

I.”



“by yourself!” cry George, all his blood on fire in a moment.



Nouna seem at once to become a mere terror-strike heap, and her

husband see his fatal mistake.



“do you go? do you ever go?” he ask in the soft tone he could

produce. but for a few minute she be too much frighten even to

speak, except for a muttered, “no, no, no,” as she shake and shiver.

when at last by patient gentleness he have master her fear, he

extract from she, little by little, the avowal that she have meet Ben

Hassan one day outside the door of the house where he live as she be

return home from her marketing, and that he have persuade she to go

up stair and see some diamond he have just receive. at the door,

however, Nouna declare that she have be frighten by hear

another man’s voice inside, and have refuse to go in, and that Ben

Hassan have bring out some earring to show she, and have declare

that if she would like to take a pair he would be satisfied with only

a small payment to start with, and she could pay off the rest in

instalment at her convenience.



“but I be frightened, and would not, and I toss his hand up with

the diamond, and they fall on the floor and on the stair, and I run

down and leave he, and have never see he since until this evening,”

finish Nouna, hurry to the end of her confession. “and I know it

be wrong to go up, but I don’t go in. and now I have do all I

could by tell you everything. and you can take the earring back if

you like, only don’t be angry with I, because I cann’t bear it.”



she burst out cry hysterically, and it be some time before she be

calm enough for her husband to be able to ask her one more question.

do she know the voice of the man she hear talk inside the bazaar?

at first she profess she do not, but presently she acknowledge,

when ask whether it be like the voice of Rahas, that she think it

be. then George be very sweet to she, and say she mustn’t trouble

herself any more about the matter, that she be a very good dear girl

to tell he everything, and that it would have be well still if

she have tell he at first; that she must give up the earring, as it

be evident the man be a treacherous beast who might get they into

trouble. he add that she be tired, and must go to bed, and fall

asleep as fast as she could, and dream of the real jewel she should

have some day if she continue to be the sweet and good little wife

she now be. and so, amidst tear from the wife and console kiss,

the little shine ear-stud be take out, and George having become

by this time a promising lady’s maid, brush out her curl for she,

and tuck she up in bed, as composedly as if nothing in the world have

happen to disturb the calm course of their daily life.



but no soon be his wife thus dispose of than George, say he

must write a letter and take it to the post, go out of the bedroom,

close the door, and after wait just long enough, as he think, to

make Nouna think, if she be listen, that he have write a letter,

he go out and down the stair. but Nouna have too much native

subtlety herself to be easily trick. as soon as she hear the outer

door of the flat close, she leap out of bed, muffle herself up in a

wrapper, and step out on to the balcony. she could see that there

be light in the room occupy by the Oriental Bazaar, and that the

shadow of man pass and repasse quickly on the inner side of the

stripe blind. lean over the iron railing, she watch in much

excitement for her husband’s appearance in the street below. in a very

few minute she hear the wicket-gate in the _porte cochére_ open,

see George cross the street, and enter the house where Ben Hassan be

establish. she could have cry out to he from where she stand,

freeze by a great terror lest these man, whom he have go to punish,

should be too strong for he and should do he harm. but then, would

they dare, would they be able, even if they dare, to hurt he, the

king of man? little by little the seed sow by patient kindness, by

conscientious effort, be move in the earth and begin to show

itself alive. George be not now merely the handsome, straightest,

gentlest of voice among the man she know, he be also the one person

who never do wrong, who if he be angry prove in the end to have

what she acknowledge to be a just cause at the bottom of his anger,

whose rather surprising notion of what one ought and ought not to do

be at least simple when one come to know he well; and whose opinion

be now begin to have so much weight with she that this evening it

have even urge she in the strange way to break through her habit

and make an uncomfortable confession of her own accord. so she

reason, argue with herself as he cross the road whether or not

she should try from the height of the fourth floor to attract his

attention. it would not be difficult, she feel. the influence she be

secure in possess over he would make he stop and look up at a

call of her voice such as would scarcely be hear by the neighbour in

the adjoining flat. suddenly she draw herself erect, a thrill of

passionate pride vibrate through her heart, and she laugh aloud

and stretch she little hand to the dark sky.



“he do not need my help, for he be one of God’s own son,” she

whisper, and look up steadily into the eye of night she wait,

with heart beat violently, but with head erect in valiant

confidence.



he have to get up those long flight of stair, but he would not be

long, she know. she count the step he would take, picture he

with grave, earnest face, wear that look which, when she have do

something of which he disapprove, make she want to slide along

against the wall with her head turn away from he. the _entresol_,

first floor, second floor; surely by this time he must be at the

third. she clench her finger till the nail make red mark in her

soft palm, and strain her eye in keen stare at the stripe

blind. the move shadow behind they have disappear. Ben Hassan and

Rahas--if it be he--have go to the door when the sharp ring come at

the bell. Nouna hold her breath. surely, surely, she hear sound from

the room; yes, yes, a noise of something overturn, and then the

light be put out. the moment after, one of the window be burst

open with a crash, and two people, whose figure she could only see

dimly in the darkness, spring quickly, the one after the other, out on

to the balcony, climb over on to that of the next house, and

disappear through one of the window. then there be silence for a

time which seem long to she, and she see a dim light reappear in the

window of the oriental Bazaar. she guess that it be her husband,

search; in a few minute the light move, and disappear. she

watch until she see he reappear in the street below, then she go

back into her room, and creep into bed again. when he come softly into

the room, hold a candle he have light in the next room, he creep up to

the bedside and shade the flame to look at she. as he do so, she

face quiver, and he touch her forehead lightly with his finger.

the muscle of her mouth instinctively relax, and by the thrill that

run through her frame and communicate itself to his he know that she

be awake.



“you be cold, dear,” he whisper.



she spring up, wide awake, full of life and love, with the bright

blood rush up into her cheek, and tender, passion-dark eye.



“no, no, not now, not now,” she cry incoherently, as she throw she

arm about he. “I be cold when I think you be go to face

those wicked man, all through my foolishness. but now you be safe I

be warm, warm, and listen, George, I be always go to be good and

tell you everything, so that you may never get into danger through I

any more.”



but George be frightened, for her foot be cold as marble, and her

lip hot and parch, and he sit up a long time beside she, afraid

lest her imprudence should have bring on a fever. next morning she

insist against his will on get up. she do not feel well and be

very fanciful, astonish he by the announcement that she want to

go to church. the day be Sunday, the oriental Bazaar be close,

and there be nothing for George to do but to gratify her desire. he

wish, as in duty bind, to take she to the english church; but Nouna

be not particular to a creed, and she have set her heart on go to

the Madeleine. so, with some scruple of conscience, he take she to

High Mass; and as she remain perfectly quiet and attentive during

the entire service, he comfort himself with the reflection that, as

what he have be teach to call the “error of Rome” be matter of

the deep ignorance and indifference to she, it be hardly an

ethical mistake to let she see religion in an attractive light. when

they come out he ask she rather curiously what she think of it.



“oh, I like it very, very much; I shouldn’t mind go to church

there every day,” she answer with enthusiasm.



“why,” say George, “the service ben’t much more beautiful than that

at St. ----’s,” and he name an english ritualistic church to which he

have twice take she in London.



“there be a difference,” she say thoughtfully.



“well, what be it?”



Nouna consider a moment. “you know those friend of yours that you

take I to see act in a piece at Saint George’s Hall?”



“yes; well?”



“and then I see the same piece act at the Court Theatre just before

we leave London?”



“yes.”



“well, the difference be just like that.”



George laugh. “I’ve hear people say something like that before,

Nouna.”



“ben’t it right, then?”



“I don’t know, dear.”



“George, may I be a roman Catholic if I like?”



“no, Nouna.”



“why not?”



“you mustn’t choose a religion in a hurry, any more than you may a

husband. in both case, one ought to be enough for a lifetime; and if

you once begin to change your mind about either, you never know when

to stop.”



“but I have my choice of a husband, and I don’t of a religion; I have

to take what be give I.”



“you would never do for a Catholic, Nouna. they have to confess all

their sin, even very little one that you think nothing of.”



“well, that’s what you’re always want I to do.”



“see then. you shall go to Mass every Sunday and then confess your

sin to I, and you will be the very good of Catholics.”



“but, George, George,” she begin, almost in a whisper, hold his arm

tight, and look away over the Place de la Concorde, which they

be now cross, to the tree of the Tuileries, “there be some

thing--not sin--that one doesn’t--like--to tell--I don’t know

why--but they make one think of so many thing--that all seem new--and

make one feel--like a different person. I suppose a man--never feel

like that, but I’m a woman--quite a woman--now, George.”



they walk on without speak after that, till they get among the

tree; then both stop and look at each other--shy, for that

little whisper suggestion make each appear to the other in a new and

sanctify light. the influence of the solemn and impressive Church

rite be upon they still, and the bright sun be play upon their

earnest face through a move trelli-work of leave. they have come

to a moment which be to be the sweetest in all their life but one; a

moment of perfect confidence, perfect happiness, perfect hope. so they

stand quite silently in an ecstasy of contented love, each reading

beautiful meaning in the other’s steadfast eye, each seeing and

worship, in this moment of exalt human feeling, what be good

and most worshipful in the other. they feel so strong, so radiant as

they walk home, she lean upon he and not talk at all, that

every evil which have be a burden yesterday and would be a burden

to-morrow, become a mere shadow slink into corner and dwindle

into insignificance before the flood of sunshine in their heart.

Chloris White, Rahas, Ben Hassan, and the odious Gurton be mere

name to George that day, and even when with the following morning the

drudgery and petty annoyance of workaday life begin again, he carry

in his heart such a spring of sweet human happiness that he receive

the snub of his chief as cheerfully as if they have be compliment,

and bore with fortitude the discovery that Monsieur Ben Hassan have

“go away for a few day on business,” leave his premise in the

charge of a stolid boy of thirteen or so, who know nothing definite

about his employer’s movement. George therefore keep the earring in

his possession and wait for some claim to be make. it come at the

end of a week in the shape of a bill for twelve hundred and fifty

franc, ten of which have be pay on account, for a pair of diamond

ear-stud supply to Monsieur Lauriston. George send back the

ear-stud by register post with a letter threaten Ben Hassan with

the police court. in a few day he get back the ear-stud from the

post-office, as the person Ben Hassan be not to be find at the

address give. George take no further step until he be summon

before the Civil Tribunal, where he appear in the full belief that

he have only to relate the fact of the case to confound Ben Hassan and

lie he open to the charge of perjury. to his great astonishment and

indignation, however, Ben Hassan solemnly swear that he have sell the

diamond as real stone, and call upon George to produce they,

challenge any one in the court to assert that it be possible to

suppose they could be buy for ten franc. could the Englishman’s

wife assert that she do not know they to be real? George have not

dare to bring his wife into court, fear the effect of the

excitement upon she. he weaken his case by assert emphatically

that Ben Hassan be in the pay of a man who wish to ruin he: for he

have no proof to bring forward, and the foreigner’s halting French in

which he make the accusation compare so unfavourably with the torrent

of eloquence with which the artful parisian refute it, that, on Ben

Hassan’s refuse to take back the jewel, the magistrate order the

Englishman to pay the amount claim, in monthly instalment of five

hundred franc.



with the stolid resistance to unpleasant fact characteristic of his

nation, George treat this decision with utter contempt, and indeed

believe that Ben Hassan would not dare to push the case far. but

on arrive home one rainy day early in the follow month, he find

his apartment occupy by two _huissier_, who be busily employ

in drag out into the hall poor Nouna’s trunk and such furniture

as they have buy themselves, which the landlady, anxious to save she

own thing, be point out to they. Nouna, deathly white and shake

from head to foot, be crouch on the sofa, draw her breath

heavily, and watch they with bright and burn eye. fear of what

the consequence of this scene might be to her sobered George in his

first fierce outburst of indignation. she have hardly move when he

come in, only glance up at he in shame and terror at what she know

to be the result of her own indiscretion. he go up to the sofa and

reassure she by the kind, firm, protect pressure of his hand upon

her head, while he ask the man by what authority they be act.

they show he their warrant; nothing could be more correct. he ask

they whether they would desist from their work and remain in the hall

outside for half an hour, while he go to a friend to try to raise

the money. the man consent at once, and retire while George,

soothe his agitated wife as well as he could, carry she into the

next room, lay she on the bed, and cover she with a rug, tell she

not to worry herself, as it would be all right in half an hour, when

he would be back again with she, and the man would go away satisfied.



with his hand on the door he look back yearningly. she be quieter

now, but as she lean on her elbow and watch he with feverish

eye, it seem to he that her gaze be wander and unintelligent,

and that the real matter-of-fact trouble which be send he on his

unpleasant errand have melt in her excited mind to a dim and horrible

dread.



“George, don’t go, don’t go!” ring in his ear as he go down the

stair and out of the house.



Poor George feel that he have never in his life have anything quite so

distasteful to do as the task he have before he now of ask a favour

of Mr. Gurton. but there be no help for it, and so he put the good

face he could upon the matter, get to the bank, where his chief be,

he know, still at this hour to be find, and knock at the door of

his private room.



“come in,” call out the well-know husky voice.



Mr. Gurton be read a letter. his face be flushed and his eye

be dull, but he have as much command of himself as usual.



“oh, it’s you, be it? what do you want?” he ask with the extra shade

of surliness which he use towards the people he do not like.



“yes, sir,” say George. “I be sorry to disturb you after office

hour, but it be upon a matter of so much importance to I that I hope

you will excuse my come to you.”



“well, what be it? be quick.”



the word, the appeal, stick in the young man’s throat; but out they

must come.



“I be in press difficulty, sir; I cann’t explain to you how now,

but it be through no fault of mine. just now when I go home I find

a couple of man seize my wife’s thing. she be in a delicate state

of health, and I be afraid of the shock for she. will you be so kind

as to advance I twenty pound of my salary? I will write to my

friend in England to-night, and I shall have the money next week, and

will return it to you at once, if you please. it be a very difficult

thing for I to ask, but I hope you willn’t refuse I.”



he hurry out the word, not dare to look at Mr. Gurton, who have

rise from his chair and walk over to the fireplace with a tread

which in its pompous heaviness tell George before he look up that he

have fail. there be a slight pause when he finish speak, Mr.

Gurton rattle his watch-chain and clear his throat. George raise

his eye, and see that his chief’s bloated face express nothing but

complacent satisfaction. then the devil wake in the lad with such a

hungry fury that he turn hastily to the door, afraid of himself. Mr.

Gurton, unluckily, could not resist a little play with his fish, and

he call he back. George hesitated, and at last turn slowly. Mr.

Gurton pause again to find some particularly offensive form of

expression, for he think he see his opportunity, by insult the

young fellow past endurance, to force he to resign his post, and so

make room for his own reputed nephew. he have be put in possession,

too, of a damaging fact against George, and here be the occasion make

to his hand, to use it.



“I’m sorry for this little misfortune, Lauriston, deuce sorry; not

only because it be quite beyond my power to assist you, but because,

you see, it’s so particularly bad for a House that’s just start,

for anything disreputable to be know about its _employés_.”



“Disreputable!” echo George in a low voice, start erect. “you

have no right to use such a word without know the fact, Mr.

Gurton.”



“oh, I know all about the fact, and so do everybody,” say Mr.

Gurton with confidential familiarity. “you’ve get an extravagant

little madam for your wife, and somebody of course must pay the

piper.”



George turn again to leave the room. Mr. Gurton, who be a big,

muscular man of six foot two, with two stride reach the door first,

admit a lad with despatch who be wait outside, and hold the

door close as he continue:



“you must listen, sir, to what I have to say. you be receive in

this House simply because we be inform that you be highly

connect, and that your social position would be an advantage to the

firm. what follow? you go nowhere, you know nobody; you be see in

omnibus, on penny steamer with a little oddly-dress girl--”



“take care; you be speak of my wife,” say George, in a low

tremulous voice which, with his bow head, give an utterly wrong

impression that he be cow.



Mr. Gurton put his hand in his pocket.



“well, sir, and if you choose to marry a courtesan’s daughter whom you

pick up in the slum--it is----”



like a wild beast suddenly loose George have he by the throat, and

with hand to which his mad anger give a grip of steel, he sway the

man’s huge frame once forward and fling he back with all his force.

gasp, choke, without time to cry out, Mr. Gurton stagger

backwards, his head strike against the corner of an iron safe that

stand behind he, and he fall heavily to the floor. Lauriston leave the

frightened errand-boy to pick he up, and rush out of the room. he

have suddenly remember that there be one more chance; a fellow-clerk

who be pretty well off lodge in the Rue Saint Honoré. he make his

way in that direction, through the still heavily-fall rain, without

another thought of the man he have just leave, except a savage wish that

he have not humiliate himself by apply to the cur.



but Mr. Gurton remain on the floor of his private room, and neither

speak nor move.









 CHAPTER XXVII.



in the excitement of a battle, when each man deal blow for his

life, madden by the clash of sabre, the roar of cannon, fierce

cry, and ghastly sight, he give and receive wound of which he

take no account, absorb in the struggle to beat the enemy back; so

George, fight for something dearer than his own safety, forget his

humiliation at Mr. Gurton’s hand, forget his own outburst of passion

and the rash act which follow, and still think of nothing but

Nouna’s wild, terror-strike face, and of the next effort he should

make to remove the cause of her fear. the fellow-clerk, to whom he be

now go to apply, be go out of town for the night; if he should

have start already, there would be nothing to do but to telegraph to

Lord Florencecourt and, while wait for the help he would be sure to

send immediately, to let the _huissier_ carry off what they would as

security. this be a terrible contingency, on account of the shock it

might give to Nouna; it have to be face, however, for, on arrive at

the lodging of his fellow-clerk, George learn that he have be go

half an hour.



it be not until his last hope of get immediate help have thus

disappear that George, return quickly towards his home,

remember what have happen in the office, and realise that by an

assault upon his chief, which Mr. Gurton would probably describe as

unprovoked, he have lose his situation, and perhaps get himself into a

bad scrape still, for he have not wait to find out whether Mr.

Gurton have be injure by the fall. George think he would call at

the bank and make inquiry, but on arrive at the corner of the

street in which the building stand, he see that a large and excited

crowd have already collect, in spite of the rain, about the door,

and that some _gendarme_ be press the people back.



“I suppose the boy rush out, shriek ‘murder!’ and bring up the

whole neighbourhood,” think George. “I hope to heaven he’s not

seriously hurt.”



a sudden chill seize he and his heart seem to become encased in

stone. when a heavy man fall, strike his head on the way to the

ground--oh, but nonsense, he should have see, have know what he have

do; he should have realise--what? George leave a blank there which

he could not fill. the possibility suggest by the sight of that

swaying, excited mob, throng, gesticulate fifty yard in front of

he, with morbidly eager face all upturned towards the window of the

first floor, where the bank be establish, be too ghastly, too

awful. he try to laugh at himself for entertain an idea so

fanciful, so ridiculous, but the crowd fascinate he; he could not

turn away without--ah, yes, by go near, by join the stream of

people that be still flow rapidly in that direction, he might

learn what sort of a story they have get hold of. the murmur grow

louder as he get deep and deep in the throng, until, when he be

well wedge in a feverishly eager phalanx of horror-monger against

whom the few _gendarme_ present be altogether powerless, his

curiosity be satisfied to the full, for the story bandy from mouth

to mouth be very definite indeed. a foreigner--English or German, it

be not certain which, have have a quarrel with his employer, some say

about a woman, some say about money, and have murder he and

escape. every version of the tale, however they might differ as to

other detail, contain the two last item--the murder and the escape

of the murderer. George stay deliberately, look mechanically up at

the window with the rest of the crowd, and gather in every

different turn of the story, with strained keenness of hearing, hope

desperately to hear some one, bright-witted and well-inform than

the rest, contradict the spread report and mock at the

exaggeration of the herd. the moment drag on; they be expect

a force of _gendarme_, and the excitement increase. George, unable

to move in the dense mass, be in a state of frenzied defiance of the

crowd’s surmise, when a quick turn of every head to the left, and

hoarse cry “_Les voilà, les voilà_,” tell he that the police be

come, and the next instant he be be bear off, a helpless unit

in the surge crowd as it retreat before the advance _gendarme_.

struggle to work his way out of the crush of people when free

movement become possible, George stumble against one of the

_gendarme_ who have be wait for assistance to disperse the mob.

he be a slim man, scarcely of middle height, and it be he, and not

the stalwart young Englishman, who suffer in the collision,

stagger a step or two with an oath. but George shrink back with a

great shock. if that ugly rumour should have any touch of truth, then

his relation to the little slim man be already that of the hare to

the hound, and the start would not be long delay.



he be free from the crowd now, and be hurry home sick at heart

and giddy of brain, try to realise the possibility he could no

long shirk. if Mr. Gurton be dead, he--George Lauriston--be a

murderer. that would be quite clear to any judge and jury; George see

that, with the apparently passionless clearness with which one vivid

idea can strike the mind in a state of white-hot excitement. he feel

no shock at the act, but only at the consequence, not as they

affect himself, but as they touch Nouna. George be not the man to

waste emotion over the exit from the world of a man who, if he have have

fifty more year of life, would only have use they to add to his

record of evil; he have certainly never wish or intend to send he

out of it, but, always except those ugly consequence, he as

certainly do not wish he back. the whole matter present itself to

he only in one light: if the hideous rumour be true, he must leave

his wife; what then would become of she? it be to he as if his very

heart be pierce and quiver under the point of this torturing

thought. he be not trouble by any imagining of what might be his

own fate; his whole soul be merely a storehouse for his devotion to

his wife, as his body be a shield to protect and a tool to work for

she, there would be nothing leave to he worth a man’s thought if she

be take away. take away! take away! the very word as they pass

through his brain turn he coward; the clank of his own boot on the

stone of the street frighten he, and he turn round with the

start eye and part lip of the fugitive, to make sure that he

be not already pursue, that before he could see his wife’s face

again he would not be catch.



he be wet from head to foot and tremble like a leaf by the time he

get inside the gate-way of the house. everything be quiet; as he

glance at the wife of the _concierge_, sew behind the glass door

of her little room, at the child play in the yard, at the cat

curl up on the stair, he rebuke himself for his folly in take a

wild mob-rumour for a truth, and comfort by the homely, every-day

aspect the house seem to wear, he run up the stair and let himself

into the top flat with a lighten heart. at any rate he be sure of

one thing: if the bad come to the bad, they could not take he now

without one more long look at his darling. in the terrible, searing

excitement of the last hour, all George’s habitual self-control have

give way, and the great passion of his life, which be always burn

steadily in the depth of his heart, leapt up in tower of flame,

show luridly every weak spot in his nature. like the sailor who

burst open the spirit-store when the ship be past saving, George

spring across the sitting-room with a fierce yearning for his wife’s

lip, with word more eloquent, caress more tender, than any he have

ever yet shower upon she, ready for one last interview which be to

sum up all the happiness they have enjoy together, to stamp upon her

heart and mind, once and for ever, the memory of the man who have hold

she as the jewel of his soul, who set no value on his own life without

she.



he open the bedroom door with clammy, tremble hand. be he

blind by the rush blood in his brain, or daze by the sudden

change from the lamp-light in the hall to the murky dimness of the

fading daylight? or be Nouna really not there? he cross the floor

to the bed, call to she hoarsely by name, and hunt with his

hand over every inch of the tumbled quilt where she have lie that

afternoon. he go out on to the balcony, walk from end to end of

it with his hand along the wet and slippery railing, feel for she

all the way, as if unable to trust to the sense of sight and sound.

then he return to the sitting-room and still grope in the dusk,

give forth a loud cry that make the roof ring.



“Nouna! Nouna!”



the door open slowly; but as he rush towards it he meet only Madame

Barbier, the landlady, who, scared and shivering, try to retreat.

but George catch she by the wrist and force she to answer he.



“where be my wife?”



“oh, monsieur, monsieur, don’t you know? have you miss she? don’t

look like that, or I cannot, I will not answer you, monsieur; you

frighten I; it be not my fault, I have do nothing, nothing at all.”



George put his hand to his head with a muttered curse on the woman’s

torture idiotcy, and then force himself to speak to she calmly.



“my dear madame, surely you can see I don’t want to frighten you. but

for God’s sake speak out.”



slowly, hesitatingly, paralyse by a sudden fear that the news she have

would prove even more disquieting than suspense, she speak.



“when you be go, monsieur, and the _huissier_ be still

here”--George start; he have forget the _huissier_, and their

disappearance have not trouble him--“a gentleman call, monsieur,

say he be a friend of your, and he ask for you; and when I say

you be out he say he would see madame. she come out to see he,

monsieur, and shriek when she meet he; I know, monsieur, because I

follow she into the room after help she to dress, and she tell I

to stay.”



George hold himself as still as stone, afraid of stop the recital.



“a dark-skin man,” he say, not questioningly.



“yes, monsieur. Madame wish to retire, but he would not allow it. I

gather that he say the mother of madame be wait to see she, and

that you, monsieur, be with she, and that she have send money to get

monsieur and madame out of their little difficulty. so he pay the man

and get a receipt from they, and they leave. and madame put on her

thing and go away with he in a _fiacre_. and I be sure, monsieur,

that if I have suppose you would have any objection----”



George let her hand drop.



“when do they go?” he ask in a strangle whisper.



“not long after you, monsieur. I be sure I think every moment that

you would be back together. but, ah! monsieur be ill! can I not assist

you? some _eau de vie_----”



George have reel into a chair and be breathe heavily. this last

shock bring no pang; something begin click and whir in his

head, and he think he feel a hard, cold substance press close

and close to his neck till he could not breathe, but begin to choke

and to gurgle, tear with both hand at his throat to get the

tightening grip away.



“ah, the knife! the knife!” he burst out hoarsely, as he stagger up

on to his foot with start eye and labour breath. “take she

away! take she away! don’t let she see I!”



and he fall to the floor in a fit, just as a loud knocking begin on

the outer door of the flat.



when he come to himself he be in the tender hand of the police. they

treat he very civilly however, tell he they could wait while he

change his clothe, which have be soak through and through by the

heavy rain, and cause George, who be too much exhausted in mind and

body to feel even his uncertainty about his wife except as a dull

pain, to think kindly of the french allowance for “extenuate

circumstance.” he be quite break down, and, regardless of the

shivering fit which seize he in rapid succession, be ready to go

with they at once, only ask on what charge he be arrest. on

learn that it be for murderous assault, he seem scarcely enough

master of himself to feel relieved that it be no bad; and when they

add that it might be change to a graver one if the injure man, who

have be take to a hospital, should die before the trial, George

merely nod without any sign of vivid interest. indeed, if he have

have complete command of his feeling and his wit, he would not have

care two straw whether Mr. Gurton live or die. the sentence George

have incur would certainly at the good be a term of imprisonment, at

the end of which, whether the period be long or short, Nouna would

be as effectually lose to he as if he be already dead.



George Lauriston be of the highly nervous, imaginative temperament to

which ambition, hope, devotion be as the spring of life; when these

be stop or dry up, he become at once the wither husk of a

man, a helpless log, not chafe at his confinement, not resign

himself to it, but live through the dull day like a brute, without

emotion, almost without thought, weigh down by a leaden depression

which threaten to end in the most fearful of all madness--a haunted

melancholy. he learn without interest on the second day after his

arrest that Mr. Gurton be dead. his formal appearance before the

magistrate do he an unrecognised good, by rouse he out of his

torpor into a strong sense of shame which bite into his very bone. to

appear before a crowd, among whom be some of his Paris

acquaintance, a prisoner, a social wreck, with every hope blight,

every honest ambition kill, be an ordeal for which he have to summon

all his shake manliness for one last gallant effort to show a

stubborn face to fate. there be a bad experience before he. when

he be bring into court to be formally commit for trial, the

first face he see be those of Dicky Wood and Clarence Massey, the

latter of whom weep like a child in open court, and be threaten

with ejection for his repeat offer of bail to the extent of every

penny he possess. Lord Florencecourt be not present. it give George

a shock to hear that the charge against he be murder; the presence

of his old comrade seem to emphasise the gravity of the case, which

he realise for the first time since his arrest. when ask if he have

anything to say, he answer: “I be not guilty. I reserve my defence,”

and remain stoically erect and grave while he be formally commit

for trial and remove from the court.



on the follow day, however, he receive two visit; the first be

from a well-know parisian barrister, who have be retain for his

defence by Clarence Massey, and have come to receive his client’s

instruction. the second be from Ella Millard, who be pale,

thin, plain than ever, and who tremble from head to foot as she

hand touch his.



“Ella, my dear girl, you should not have come,” say he, more

distressed by her grief than by his own plight; “I cann’t understand

how Sir Henry and Lady Millard allow you to come.”



“they don’t allow I; I just come,” answer Ella in a shake voice,

with a little americanism she have catch from her mother. “and I’ve

give uncle Horace such a talking-to as he never have before, even from

my aunt. I only hear about it yesterday; they keep the paper from

we; but I’ve make up for lost time since.”



she be neither tender nor gentle; perhaps she could not trust herself

to be either. her eye wander quickly from one object to another,

never rest upon his for two second at a time; upon her face there

be a fix scared look, as if her muscle have be freeze at the

moment of some fearful shock. she speak very rapidly, and scarcely

allow he a chance of answer or comment.



“it be very sweet and kind of----” he begin, when she start off

again.



“oh, no, I haven’t be sweet at all; I never be, you know. first I

scold papa and mamma for not let we know; then, as I tell you, I

go for uncle Horace; and now I’ve come to finish by an attack upon

you. you have be ungrateful and foolish towards we, George; you know

we all love----”



her voice tremble, and she stop. as for George, the sudden flood

of warm sympathy and friendship be too much for he. he take her hand

in a vehement grasp, and turn his back upon she.



“and now,” she continue briskly, though her finger twitch in the

clasp of his, “we mustn’t waste time. I don’t come to make a fool of

myself, but to see if there ben’t something I could do for you. where

be Nouna, George?”



he turn round quickly, and look straight into her eye, see how

well she read his heart, and press her hand against his breast with

passionate gratitude. she draw they hastily away.



“well, well, tell I what you know, or what you want to know,” she

cry, stamp her foot impatiently. “we’ve hear all sort of

story already, of course.”



“what story? yes, yes, tell I, tell I everything.”



“oh, that she run away from you, and that be why you quarrel with

the man.”



“and what do you think?”



“I say it be nonsense. People always think that a little lively

woman who talk fast and have playful way must be a perfect fool, but

I tell they Nouna have quite sense enough to know that she have a good

husband, and that if she have already leave off love you it be

because you have beat she--which I do not believe.”



“Ella, you’re a--a--brick.”



“that be to say I’m a hard little thing make for use, and not for

ornament. I see,” say she quite saucily. “well, now tell I what have

become of she.”



“I--don’t--know,” say George slowly, with such laboured utterance

that Ella grow instantly very serious, guess the gravity of his

fear. “if you--if you could find her--”



suddenly he give way, and, drop on to a chair, hide his face in his

hand. there be a little pause, during which Ella stand so motionless

that he might have fancy himself alone; then he feel her hand on

his head, not with a hesitate timid touch, but with the firm

pressure of finger that seem to act as conductor of the human

strength and kindliness that lie in her own heart.



“tell I all you fancy, or all you fear, George. I worm everything

out of my poor uncle Horace last night, so you may speak to I quite

freely. do you think she have go back to her mother?”



the mere mention of this suggestion in a matter-of-fact tone, without

any affectation of shrinking, or horror, convey a vague sense of

comfort. it imply that this be the most likely course to have be

take, and also the most to be desire. he look up and fix his

eye on hers with the hopeful confidence of a child towards the

stranger who let it out of the dark cupboard where it have be shut

up for punishment.



“she be take away by a trick, just before I be arrest. the man

who do it be a wretch who have be in the pay of--of her mother, and

who be in love with her himself. Ella, can you understand?”



she shiver; the look of agony in his eye be too horrible to be

bear. she wrench she right hand from his and bring it sharply

down on his shoulder.



“look here!” she say earnestly, “you be torture yourself without

cause; I be sure of it. I be a woman, and I can feel what a woman

would do. Nouna be sharp and bright, and even cunning upon occasion.

she would not be ten minute in that man’s society without know

that she must be on her guard; I suppose he promise to take she to

her mother; then depend upon it she would never let he rest until he

have do so.”



“ah, but you don’t know all, Ella. her mother hate me----”



“---- quarrel with you, and threaten all sort of awful thing, I

know; uncle Horace tell I. but George, you silly old George, don’t

you know that after all she’s her _mother_, and do you really believe

that when Nouna come to she, fling her arm about she, worship

she, and look upon she as her refuge, her safety--remember

that!--that she would, or could undo all the work of her life, and use

now to make her daughter miserable mean which she would not use

before to make she, accord to _her_ notion, happy?”



George’s face grow light; he look up out of the window and then

turn again to the girl.



“certainly--as you put it--it seem possible--”



“of course it be possible, probable, and I will stake my word--true.

you man be good creature, but you cann’t reason. now I will write

direct to the mother----”



“my dear Ella, I don’t think you must do that. ask Lady Mill----”



“nonsense. don’t be old-maidish. to-morrow you shall hear

something--something good, I earnestly believe.”



“Ella, you be kill I,” say George in a stifle voice. “if you

know--what it be--after these awful day--and night--to hear----”



“a human voice again? I know,” say she, speak more hurriedly than

ever to hide the break that would come in her clear tone. “only

don’t trouble, don’t worry yourself. Clarence Massey--bless him!--has

been crawl on the ground for I to walk upon he ever since he

find I--I--I be come to--to see you. his grandfather be just dead,

and he have come into £4,000 a year, and he want to bribe all the

prison official with annuity to let you escape. we catch the

barrister outside when he leave you, and when he say they could not

bring it in--the worst----” here her voice give way, “there be not

evidence enough, we could both have kiss he, George; I’m sure we

could.”



she have talk herself out of breath, and be oblige to stop, pant

and agitate through all her hectic liveliness. George himself be

speechless and could do nothing but wring her hand, so she go on

again after a moment’s pause.



“you mustn’t expect to get off altogether, I’m afraid. I dare not

speak about this much, because it be so dreadful to we all--everybody.

but you must keep a good heart, for you have friend as deep as the

sea and as firm as the rock, George; and as for your little wife, why

she shall live among we like a qu--queen in exile until her lord come

back again to make she ha--happy.”



the warder have be click the key outside for some minute; he now

gently open the door and give a respectful cough. George seize the

girl’s hand and press upon they kiss that leave red mark on the

pale flesh before he could let she go.



“God bless you, Ella,” he whisper hoarsely, “you have save my heart

from break.”



the next moment the door shut upon she, but the radiance shed upon the

bare wall by the pure sweet woman illumine they still.









 CHAPTER XXVIII.



a night, and a day, and a night, and a day, and again a night pass

during which time George hear nothing more of his minister angel

or her promise comfort. then on the second day his door open, and a

lady to see he be announce. the few instant which elapse before

she appear be more intensely exciting to he than the pause before

the judge pronounce sentence be to the prisoner. it be not Ella; she

would have be in like a sparrow before the announcement be well out

of the warder’s mouth. his suspense do not last a half-minute. with

slow and hesitate step a woman enter, oddly dress in garment

that be obviously never intend to be wear together; a shabby old

grey flannel dressing-gown with scrap of torn lace trail along the

floor behind she, an opera-cloak of light brown satin embroider in

gold thread border with sable-tail and fasten by a brooch of

sapphire, a battered black bonnet and a lace veil as thick as a mask,

form a costume so grotesque that at the first moment George fail

to recognise in the odd figure the luxurious and once daintily dress

Chloris White. the change in she, when she take off her veil as the

warder retreat, be even more striking: it appal George, who have

not have enough experience of woman of her class and their dismal

vagary to understand this ghastly but common metamorphosis of the

beauty of one day to the hag of the next. he have think in the glare

of the sunlight, that afternoon when he have carry she off to the

boat, that the liberal daubing of pink and white and black make she

beautiful face hideous; now, as she sit, heedless of her appearance,

in the full light of the little bar window, her face as innocent of

paint as his own, though not so clean, look, in its wither

yellowness, with its sunken eye and vicious furrow, so inexpressibly

uncanny and revolt, that he be force to acknowledge the wisdom of

a practice which disguise in some measure the ugly trace of base

thought and foul deed. he have see she first in all the pride of her

vogue, of her success in the career she have choose; now he see she in

the alternate mood of a degradation, a self-abandonment, a

wretchedness, which mock the possessor of treasure which would have

make an art-museum rich, and of jewel and fur which now only serve,

the former to enhance the weird hideousness of her sallow skin, the

latter to emphasise the slovenliness of her attire.



she seem ill at ease and frighten: the daughter of an english

gentleman and an indian princess, her wayward course of life have

reduce her native grace and dignity to mere accident of mood, and a

check or a disappointment make her destitute of either. George be

horror-strike, and could not speak, but stand wait for she to

explain the object of her visit. from the moment of her entrance, he

have forget her connection with Nouna; he be bring back to

startled recollection by her first word, which be speak in a

querulous, tearful voice.



“well, you have send to ask I where be your wife. it be I who come to

ask where be my child?”



“Nouna!” exclaim George in a low voice. “you do not know where she

be?”



“no. you have spoil she for her mother, you have make she look down

upon I, fear I. and what have you do for her yourself? what have

she become through you? how have you keep your fine promise to I?

you be too proud to take my money; it be too base for your fine

finger to touch; she be to be rich, and honour, and happy through

you! and what happen? what happen, I say?” her excitement be

increase as she talk, until the low tone he have admire in her

voice become shrill and nasal, and the great brown eye, which have

look languish and seductive when she raise and lower they

artfully between thick fringe of long black lash, now flame and

flash in her dry, parch skin like fire in a desert. “you fle

away all your chance, you go to work as a common clerk, you make

she--my daughter, _my_ beautiful daughter--live like a dressmaker in

two wretched room, and then you let she be carry off from you under

your very nose, so that she come back to I ill, miserable, her

beauty spoilt, her heart break--the wife of a criminal.”



in the course of her violent speech this woman have wring his heart

again and again, not by her reproach, but by the picture she have

call up of Nouna. what have the poor child learn about her mother?

how have she bear it? she have be shock, disgusted, so he gather.

poor little thing, poor little thing! and what have she learn about

he? so his thought run in a running commentary, and when Chloris

White stop, moan to herself in bitter scorn and anger, he have to

clear his throat again and again before he could speak.



“then she be with you?” he say at last huskily.



the woman raise her head in fierce petulance.



“no, no, no, I tell you. she be not with I--she have leave I, and I

don’t know where she have go.”



a great river of pain, mingle with which run one tiny current of

sweet sad pleasure, seem to rush through the heart of the stricken

young husband at the image these word call up before he, of the

poor little wife come for refuge into her mother’s home, gather

some inkling of the terrible truth that her idol be not all she have

believe, and shrink as her husband would have have she do, as she

mother fancy she would not do, from the luxury that bear a taint,

creep out into the world again, perhaps to come back to Paris alone

in search of himself.



“you don’t know where she have go!” he repeat in a soft voice,

for he recognise genuine human feeling in the woman’s tone.



“no, I tell you.”



“when do she leave you?”



“two day ago. I have hunt for she ever since; I come to Paris to

look for she. then a lady, a Miss Millard, one of Lord Florencecourt’s

niece--one of _my_ niece,” she add defiantly, “telegraph to my

house in London, and the telegram be forward to I here; you want

to know whether Nouna be with I, she say. she be not with I, she

be lose, wander about in the world by herself, ill, out of her

mind, perhaps. be you satisfied? see what your education have do for

she, see the grand result of your virtuous principle. she would have

be safe in my house and happy, and could have be as good as she

please, I never prevent she, I never should have prevent she. but

you have touch she with your own infernal cursed coldness and

idiotcy, and nothing would please she. during the two day she be

with I, it be nothing but: ‘when be George come? do you think

George will come by the next train?’ you haven’t even make she good

either, for when I offer to take she to church, she wouldn’t go with

I, but let I go alone. you have spoil her life, you have kill

she.”



she burst into a passion of tear. George pay no attention to she,

but walk up and down, torture himself by imagine what could have

become of his wife, and wonder when Ella would come again, that he

might consult the bright-brain girl as to the next step to take to

find she. he be deeply anxious to know all that have pass between

Nouna and her mother and Rahas, but he almost despair of learn

anything from the hysterical creature before he. gradually, however,

Chloris White seem to wake to the fact that she be be ignore,

and she try to recover some calm and a semblance of dignity.



“what have you to say for yourself? don’t you understand what you have

to answer for?” she ask with asperity.



George stop short in his walk up and down the narrow space at his

command, and look at she with a troubled face, but in his voice

there be a quiet and bite contempt as he replied--



“I have to answer for having foster what be good in her nature till

she be strong enough to resist all the temptation your wicked folly

could suggest, that’s all.”



and he begin to walk up and down again. Chloris White spring from her

chair and stop he by a violent grip of his arm.



“how dare you say such thing to I, you, who be the cause of it

all!”



George remove her hand from his arm and look down at she sternly.



“Madam, you be talk nonsense,” he say; “your daughter be

perfectly happy with I; you set a mischievous rascal to work to get

we into difficulty, to entice she away from I; and it be through no

fault of yours that the scoundrel don’t succeed in ruin she as he

have do I. when you come in here just now you seem human enough to

be ashamed of yourself, and I say nothing to you. now that you have

overcome your shame, I have overcome my forbearance, and I tell you

plainly you be the most corrupt, depraved and vile creature I ever

meet, and it would be well for Nouna to take shelter in a workhouse

than in your home. now you have well go, I cannot bear the sight of

you.”



the contemptuous brutality with which he shoot these rough word at she

and then turn away prove a far more effective mode of treatment

than the courteous composure he have show at the beginning of the

interview; for self-restraint be a quality little understand or

practise by woman of her class and their companion. she at once

become submissive and apologetic, rise and walk meekly towards the

door.



“I be sorry I intrude upon you; I think you would like to hear what

I know about your wife; I will go.”



George be immediately shock at his own savagery, and without

approach or look at she say he have not mean to be rude, his

temper be not improve by confinement, and he should be very glad if

she would tell he something--anything, only she must tell he nothing

but the truth.



“yes, yes, I will tell you the truth indeed,” she say humbly,

clasp her hand with restless impulsiveness, and recognise, with

the shrewdness of long practice in the art of pleasing man, that to

relate bare fact be her good chance with this one. “she come to I

five day ago--in the early morning--to my house in London. it be the

day after she leave you. the person who bring her----”



“Rahas?” interrupt George sharply.



“yes, Rahas--have tell she (I assure you he be not act by my

authority)----”



“go on, go on.”



“Rahas have tell she that you have come to I--that I be in Paris, that

I be ready to help you (indeed, I should have be, I assure you).”



George move again brusquely, and Chloris hasten back to the fact.



“he take she to an hotel, but Nouna mistrust he, and insist on

remain in the _fiacre_ while he go in to see if I be there. when

he have go in she jump out of the cab, make inquiry of the

proprietress, and find I have never be to the hotel at all. (you

understand, Mr. Lauriston, that all this be without my sanction?)”



“perfectly,” say George, with the good accent of sincerity he could

muster.



“she be go to drive back home when Rahas run out of the hotel,

tell she the fact be I be ill in England, be die to see she, and

have send he to bring she over by a trick, since I know her husband

would not let she come. Nouna be work upon so much by this, that,

as they have drive to the Gare du Nord, and be just in time for the

Calais train, she decide on the impulse of the moment to come, but

insist on travel in the lady’ compartment of the train, and in

the lady’ cabin on board, so that he see very little of she on the

journey, until they get to Charing Cross, where she get into a hansom

by herself, and refuse to come into my house until Sundran go out

to reassure she. apparently, Mr. Lauriston, marriage have not increase

her trust in human nature.”



“it have teach she to discriminate, madam.”



“I be not up. she be take into my boudoir, and I dress and go

to see she. she be stand just inside the door, wait; she be

flushed, and trembling, and so weak with fatigue and excitement that

she almost fall into my arm. but then--”



Chloris stop. something in these vivid memory be keenly painful

to she.



“she know--you be her mother?” say George in a low voice.



Chloris, who have relate her story stand so that he could only see

her side-face, turn the full gaze of her black eye upon he

defiantly.



“well, take what pride in it you like, she draw back from my arm, and

look at I, and the colour go out of her face, and leave she quite

white, with dark ring under her eye, and she ask, in a weak

whisper: ‘be you really my mother?’ perhaps I look angry and speak

harshly; I think of you, and how you have poison her mind against

I, and she run to the door with a wild, scared face, and cry:

‘George! where be George?’ and she glance round the room like a cage

bird, and fall down cry on to the floor. so I leave she, for I see

you have take she from I altogether, and Sundran go to she and make

her bathe and rest, and she write out a telegram to you, and fall

asleep crying. when I see she again she be quite meek and subdue,

and sit with I very quietly, not talk, but look at I with

wonder, inquire eye that haunt I. for I tell you I have love

my child, and it be hard to find that she have no heart leave for I.

then I be sorry that I--sorry that she have come; and when I learn

what have happen to you, I be angry, furiously angry with Rahas, and

I would not let he come near the house, and I do not know what to do

with the child. she could not be happy with I--you have spoil she for

that. I give she a beautiful dress I have have make, and she say: ‘I

will wear it when George come.’ she would not meet my friend, and I

do not press she; she do just as she like, and take walk with

Sundran instead of drive with I. and on the third morning she be

go. her bed have not be sleep in, and the footman say she have go

out late the night before. she leave a note thank I for be kind,

and say she could not rest till she see her husband again. then I

come over here to look for she, for I love she, and I love she no less

for she not love I. I go to the room where you stay, but she

have not be there, and all I find of she there be this.”



she hand to George two telegram, both address to himself. they

have be open by Chloris. both be from Nouna. one have be send

from Dover on her journey. it say:





 “I have go to see mamma, who be ill. she will help we. come at once,

 or I shall think you be angry.”





the second be send from London, and contain these word:





 “come to I quickly, I be frightened and ill. start at once. I hear

 your voice call to I, and I have not money enough to come.”





as George read these word his sight fail he, and a great sob shake

his whole frame. Chloris try to take back the two scrap of flimsy

paper, but he thrust they into his breast.



“no, they be mine,” he say in a broken voice.



she shrug her shoulder.



“as you like,” say she in a hard tone. “after all I have a well

consolation than you have.”



George look at she inquiringly.



“I be bear ambitious,” she continue, “as the unlucky daughter of a

princess have a right to be. I centre my ambition unselfishly on my

daughter; you and she frustrate I. well, I can still be Viscountess

Florencecourt--and I will.”



George pull himself together to make a good fight for his old

friend. this devil-may-care creature, who be begin to find the

oft-try excitement fail, be just in the mood to plunge head

foremost into the delight of start a new and sensational scandal.

George take care to speak with the great calmness.



“I don’t think you will, though, when you think about it. you be too

clever.”



“I be too clever to fail to do so, I flatter myself.”



“you be quite clever enough, madam, to convince every separate person

you talk to of the justice of your claim, but with the general public,

with society, the bar, the bench, all reason, sympathy, and probably

law, would be against you. I don’t think you could get a firm of

stand to take up your case.”



“don’t you?” say Chloris, raise her eyebrow incredulously, while

her face assume an expression of deep cunning. “and what if I assure

you that I have prepare for this contingency by _make_ a firm of

stand ready to my hand?”



George suddenly remember the utter and rather inexplicable devotion

to her interest show by Messrs. Smith and Angelo, and listen with

curiosity as she go on:



“four year ago a son of old Angelo’s go mad about I, and rob

his father to make I handsome present. the old man be dreadfully

cut up. I learn the fact, and know the reputation of the firm be

good, I earn the eternal gratitude of the father by throw over

the son, and make restitution to the extent of some four thousand

pound. do you understand?”



“I see that you have gain a solicitor devote to your interest; but

I maintain that it would be directly against your interest to put

pressure on the Colonel. I know he; I know that he would resist your

claim with such influence to back he as even you could not stand

against; and I know on the other hand”--George lower his voice, and

speak with slow significance--“that if you be content to let thing

remain as they be, he will be quite ready to make _private_ redress

by make such provision for you, when you choose to ask for it, as

even the daughter of a princess would not refuse.”



Chloris be interested to the extent of evidently occupy herself

with a mental calculation.



“_ask_ for it! I could _claim_ it!” she say defiantly.



“but as a claim it would not be allow.”



Chloris shrug her shoulder, but she be impressed. she know that

her charm have pass their zenith, and a handsome provision for the

future be not to be despise. George be satisfied with the

impression he have make, and extremely anxious to be rid of she. in

fact they both feel glad that the reappearance of the warder now

bring to a close a visit which have be prompt by no very kindly

feeling. at the last Chloris seem to feel this, and she linger at

the door to say, in a voice that have some womanly kindliness and some

self-reproach in it:



“I be sorry I come, for I have do you no good. I be think of

nothing but my child--my disappointment. forgive I. I be not bad all

through, and I thank you for what you have do for she. we can feel

for each other now, you and I, different as we be: we have both lose

she. if I have have any hand in bring you here, forgive I, for my

life be break too.”



George hold out his hand. not that he believe much in the permanency

of the capricious creature’s grief, but that it be impossible for he

to refuse pardon to any one who ask for it sincerely. she kiss his

finger passionately, to his great discomfiture; for not only have he a

Briton’s natural objection to demonstration of this sort, but his

clemency towards the woman who have do her utmost to cause the wreck

of his life be only the result of a surface sentiment of pity which

thinly cover a very much deep feeling of disgust and resentment,

and when the door close behind she he shake himself like a dog, with

an impulse to get free from the very air which she have breathe.



George have no more visit, except from his advocate, for the next two

day; but on the third he receive a note from the Colonel, date from

England, and write in a perturbed and rather constrain tone,

contain a backward shot at his foolishness in marry a girl of

whom he know nothing, some sincere condolence and regret at his

situation, and a useful expression of fear that he, the Colonel, be

“in for it now.” on the whole, the possibility that Chloris White

would now turn her attention entirely to he seem to have swamp

Lord Florencecourt’s kindliness, and George write he the follow

answer not without some bitter feeling:





 “Dear Lord Florencecourt,



 “I thank you very much for the kind thing you say. but as for my

 marriage, which you deplore as the beginning of the mess I be in, I

 assure you I be just in the same mind about it as I be at the time

 when I give my name to the forlorn little creature whose natural

 guardian have leave she at the mercy of they don’t care who. I don’t

 stand so well in the world now as I do then, but I think I be no

 bad a man for having love something well than my ambition, and

 teach my wife to love something well than her trinket. I have do

 my good to secure her near male relation from annoyance, and I

 think I have succeed; I hope that this circumstance will induce he

 to make every effort to find she and take care of she, if his instinct

 do not. I pray you, with the solemn prayer of a man who may be dead

 to the world, to persuade he to this. if I be satisfied about she,

 they might do what they like to I and welcome.



                                          “your very sincerely,



                                             “George Lauriston.”





within a fortnight of Chloris White’s visit George, ill and feverish

from neglect cold and reduce to a state of almost imbecile

disquietude not for himself, but for the wife of whose fate no one

could, or no one dare to give he tiding, be examine by the judge,

accord to french law, and bring up for trial. the proceeding

produce in he not even a languid appearance of interest; accusation

and defence seem to his wear-out weary brain only a long monotonous

buzz of unmeaning word, and when the verdict be pronounce, he do

not know whether it be more or less severe than he have expect.



he be acquit of the charge of wilful murder, but find guilty of

homicide, and sentence to five year’ penal servitude.



George repeat the word to himself, try to realise they. but all

he know be that he be thankful the trial be over.









 CHAPTER XXIX.



it be well for the wound spirit when the body fall sick in

sympathy, and the pierce thought become blunt into vague fancy,

and the heavy load of doubt and despair fall off with the

responsibility of sane and sound existence.



George Lauriston, who have be unconsciously sicken ever since the

day when he be arrest, and, stupefy by misery, have go off to

prison in clothe which have be saturate with the rain, be, on the

day after his conviction, too ill to stand; his skin be hot and dry,

his eye be glaze and dull, and his limb rack with pain. the

surgeon, on be send for to see he, order his immediate removal

to the hospital, where for three week he be lay up with a sharp

attack of rheumatic fever. he recover very slowly, but as this be a

common case with sick prisoner, who not unnaturally prefer the

relaxed discipline and well food of the hospital ward to the

monotonous life and meagre fare which await they on their

convalescence, he receive no special attention on that account, and

as soon as he be declare fit to be remove, he be consign to

Toulon with a batch of other convict destine, like himself, for work

in the dockyard. he be visit in his illness by Ella Millard, but

he be unable either to recognise she, or to learn from her lip the

painful tiding that every effort to find his wife have prove

fruitless. he start on his miserable journey, therefore, without one

parting word to cherish during the long month which must elapse

before he could see a friend’s face again, and know nothing of the

effort that be be make on his behalf.



the New World energy which poor little Lady Millard have use only to

force herself into the same mould as her husband’s less vivacious

compatriot, have blossom out in her young daughter to a quality

of the high order, capable, on occasion, of transform the plain,

unobtrusive girl into something like a heroine. Ella be convince

that the sentence pass upon George Lauriston be unduly severe, and

far, that if carry out it would kill he; therefore she put

forth all her power of perseverance and resource in the endeavour to

get it mitigate. to her uncle, Lord Florencecourt, and her aunt Lady

Crediton, both of whom be person of influence, she do not allow

one moment’s rest until, through the english ambassador at Paris, she

have obtain a hearing of the french Minister of the Interior. in

this, however, she do not succeed until the follow spring, by

which time her poor friend’s release by surer mean seem to be

draw near.



before the winter be more than half through George believe that he

be die. the authority of the prison think so too, and out of

compassion for the “_bel Anglais_,” whose athletic form, distinction

of movement and manner, and the old thoroughness and absorption with

which he do whatever work he have to do, have gain he the same sort

of reputation among the low of mankind that he have formerly hold

among the high, they shorten the preliminary term of confinement

within the wall, and put he with the worker in the dockyard, in the

hope that the open air, nipping and keen as it be in these winter

day, might restore the fail vigour of his frame, and check a

hack cough which make even the warder shrug their shoulder and

mutter “_pauvre diable!_” as they walk up and down the echo stone

corridor in the frosty night of the early year.



March have come, with bitter wind and no sign of the winter’s

breaking, when George Lauriston be send, as one of a small gang of

convict, to repair a breach in the harbour make during a storm the

day before. there be some hard and hazardous work involve, a portion

of the structure having be render unsafe by the tearing away, by

the action of the wave, of the outer pile place to break their

force. glad of the excitement, however, and of the near approach to

their kind of the outer world which the walk to and from the harbour

afford, the gang of convict, pick out of the smart and

well-conduct man, go to this novel work with more alacrity than

usual. the weather be still rough; the wave, of a troubled

greenish-brown colour, be crest with white, and the wind drive the

drizzling sleet straight from the north.



in spite of the fierce gust of wind, of the cloud of saturate

spray which break up against the wall of the harbour and fall with a

patter and a hiss on to the stone, on the first day that the convict

work there, a small, slender woman, poorly dress, who fight the

wind with difficulty and catch her breath with deep-draw, struggle

sob as if the exertion hurt she, creep slowly along the outer side of

the slippery pier through the dense sea-shower, until she be within

a few foot of the warder who walk, with fix bayonet, up and down,

guard the convict on the land side. the warder stop, and ask

she rather brusquely what she want.



“nothing; I only want to get as near as I can to the sea. it’s good

for I,” she answer fluently, but in a foreigner’s French.



and as she look ill enough for every breath she draw to be already

number, and fix her eye yearningly on the horizon as if no nearer

object be of moment to she, he let she stay. but each time that his

back be turn on his walk she be up like a hare, in spite of her

evident weakness, eagerly scan the worker in their coarse grey

uniform, search, search, until at last, at her third scrutiny,

she discover the man she want. it be George Lauriston. he be

work with a will, pickaxe in hand, his foot now in, now out of the

water, his back towards she, his arm rise at regular interval, as

he deal blow after blow at the solid masonry. she do not cry out as

she recognise he; she do not even try to attract his attention; but

fall back into her former position and retain it unchanged through

two or three turn and return of the warder up and down. the one

glance have intoxicate she; she doubt her own power of

self-restraint, that give she the blessed privilege of see he, her

own husband, in the flesh, after those long dark month of absence

when he have come to she only in dream.



after a little while she note, sit crouch under the wall, out

of sight of the convict, that the blow of the pickaxe have cease. if

for a few moment he be rest, he might, if God would be kind, turn

this way, see she, meet her gaze with his, give she one short kiss of

the eye that she might carry home and nurse in her memory through the

long night when she lie awake thinking of he. she wait, scarcely

draw breath, till the warder turn again. she have ten full second

for her venture. scud over the great stone like a lapwing she

reach the breach again, and look over. a cry rise from her heart,

but she stifle it as, through spray, rain, mist, the wind-drive rain

cut her tender face like stone, the wave shoot up great

geyser of white foam close to she, she meet the look that through long

week of illness she have hunger for.



“Nouna!” cry George, with a hoarse shout that the wave drown with

their thunder.



Finger on lip she speed back in a moment, leave he daze, stupefy,

half believe, half hope the figure he have see be only a vision

of his imagination. for could that little pinch, waste face, in

which the great brown eye stand out weirdly, be the bonny bride whose

beauty have seem to he almost supernatural? he set to work again

mechanically, hardly know what he do; but when the short day begin

to draw in, and a veil of inky cloud to bring a shroud-like shadow

over the sea, and the warder give the word to cease work and muster

for the march back to the prison, he see the little weird face again,

read the short sad message of unwavere love and weary longing in her

great passion-bright eye, and resist, with one supreme effort of

the old soldierly habit of discipline, the dangerous temptation to

risk everything and break the rank for an embrace, which his failing

health tell he would certainly be the last, he march on with the

rest, and leave she to creep--benumb with cold and wet to the skin,

but feverishly happy in the knowledge that she have see he

again--back to her home to live on the hope of another such meagre

meeting.



the next day be wild, stormy, and bitterly cold, with a driving

north-east wind, and intermittent snow-shower. but when the convict

be march down to the harbour, Nouna be already there,

crouch--a small, inert bundle of grey waterproof--under the shelter

of a pile of huge stone, watch for her husband’s come with

hungry eye. when the tramp, tramp, upon the flag tell she the gang

be approach she peep out cautiously, and then, afraid lest in

her desire to escape the notice of any one but George, she should

escape his also, she rise, creep out a few pace from her shelter, and

turn her face boldly towards the advance man. George be in the

front rank to-day; in the morning light, which beat full upon his

face, she see he well, see a terrible change in he; even while he,

on his side, note more fully the transformation in the little fairy

princess who have take his whole nature by storm less than a year

ago--from a lovely unthinking child into a sick and desolate woman.

how could he think, as he look at she, that there be anything but

loss in a change which rent his very heart, and move he as no

allurement of her beauty, no wile of her sensuous coquetry have ever

do? in spite of the educational enthusiasm he have spend upon his

sixteen-year-old bride, in spite of his genuine anxiety to surround

she with elevate and spiritualise influence, it thus happen

that when at last the spirit instead of the sense shine out of she

yearn eye, it give he no gladness, but rather a deep regret, and

instead of thank heaven for wake the soul he have in vain long

to reach, he curse his own fate that he have bring about this change

in the woman for whom he be at all time ready to die.



he do not pass very near to she, for the little creature be cow

and shy, afraid of bring some punishment upon he by any sign of

intelligence. he try to speak to she, try to tell she not to wait

there, expose to the bitter wind and the lightly fall snow; but

his voice be hoarse and break, nothing escape his lip but guttural

sound, which do not even reach her ear. so that when, after a

couple of hour’ work upon the rough stone of the pier, he again come

in sight of his wife, crouch in the same place, watch patiently

for another brief sight of he, he take, to save she from the risk

her fragile frame be run, a resolve, the execution of which cut

he like a knife. he go up to the warder and say:



“that be my wife. she will die of cold if she stay. please speak to

she gently.”



George see, as he turn to go back to his work, the poor child’s

white frightened face as the warder address she. slowly, with one

long strain gaze, as if she would draw she love one into her arm

by the passionate force of her yearn eye, she turn, and George

see her hurry away down the pier as fast as her chilled limb would

let she: and he feel that the little retreat figure which soon

become a mere speck against grey sky, grey sea, grey stone, have

carry away the last shred of human hope and human feeling that

prison life and fail health have leave in his breast.



next day, which be the last of the work in the harbour, Nouna be not

on the pier; but as George take his place with the rest he find,

roughly cut with a knife or some other sharp instrument in one of the

large stone, the letter fill in with red chalk, these word:



“I have be quite good all the time. good-bye. N.”



it be his wife’s last message to he. George kneel down and put his

lip upon the stone. he have forget that he be not alone, but if he

have remember, it would have make no difference. the wave might wear

out next tide the feebly scrawl mark which perhaps no eye but his

could decipher, or the word might be read by every man, woman and

child in the town--it be all the same to he now; they be engrave

upon his own heart, a complete, a holy answer to every doubt which have

ever trouble he, to every aspiration he have ever have for the young

life he have bind to his own. love and sorrow have sanctify she;

there be no danger for his darling now.



the man, on the other hand, have only his bad feeling intensify by

misfortune which he could not but look upon as unmerite. George’s

love for his wife remain as strong as ever, but it be now the one

soft spot in a nature rapidly harden under the influence of a

struggle with fortune in which he have be signally worst. in the

long hour of the night, when his cough keep he awake even though he

be tired out by a hard day’s labour, he brood over the wrong he

have suffer, until the canker of disappointment eat into his heart

and breed there a burning, murderous wish for revenge: not upon the

french law which have condemn he, as he maintain, unjustly--that

be impersonal, intangible, a windmill to fight; not upon the Colonel,

who have falter in his friendship; not upon Chloris, whose

mischievous caprice have set in motion the force which have indirectly

destroy he; but a man’s indignant righteous revenge upon the rascal

who have try from his very wedding-day to come between he and his

wife. George begin to feel that it be even more for the sake of

find Rahas than of meet Nouna again that he yearn with a sick

man’s longing to live until the time of his release, and pray for

strength to drag on an existence which with its hopelessness and its

morbid craving for the savage excitement of vengeance, be an

infernal torment which tell, by its intensity, on his wane strength.



the prison authority notice the change in he, and treat he with

what little consideration be possible. the old priest, in particular,

stir by the fact that “number 42” be a heretic into give he

something well than the conventional dose of religious advice which

he administer to the devotee of “the true Church,” prove a most

kind friend to he, and it be with a manner of sincere and warm

sympathy that the good father while pay he his usual visit one day

in April, let fall at part a mysterious whisper about good news and

good friend who have not forget he. the brood prisoner hardly

heed he. but next morning he be bring up before the governor,

and a paper be formally read out to he, in which he be inform

that the Minister of the Interior, on having bring under his notice

the case of the Englishman, George Lauriston, now undergo a

sentence of penal servitude at Toulon, have come to the conclusion that

the say sentence be unduly severe, and that, as the evidence go to

show that the crime be unpremeditated, and commit under strong

provocation, a short term of imprisonment would have be adequate

punishment, and that, in view of the fact that the say George

Lauriston have be already at Toulon work as a convict for nearly

four month, the Minister have decide to remit the remainder of the

allotted term of imprisonment. George listen, but he hardly

understand; the governor, in a few kindly word, then tell he that he

be a free man, that he could go back to his friend.



“friend!” echo George in a dull voice.



“come, you cannot deny that you have friend; it be to some of they

that you owe the good news you have just receive,” say the governor.

“I understand they be in the town wait to meet you. Sir

Henry--something I do not recollect, be the name of the gentleman; and

the lady----”



a light break over George’s face; he speak some broken word of thank

in a more human voice.



that evening he be a free man, and be hold, daze and tremble

as with palsy, on one side the hand of Sir Henry Millard, on the other

that of his daughter Ella.









 CHAPTER XXX.



George have not know until this meeting with his old friend how

much ill-health and confinement have pull he down. he scarcely dare

to look at Ella, for there come a lump in his throat whenever his eye

fall on her brave, steadfast face. Sir Henry’s presence be a great

relief to they both. the baronet’s comment on the situation be so

inapposite, and he have such a strong sense that he be render

ridiculous by this journey to France to chaperon his daughter in her

effort on behalf of another woman’s husband, that he give they

something to laugh at when they be only too ready to cry. Ella be

as practical as ever.



“what be you go to do?” ask she, draw George aside with she

usual _brusquerie_ when the first greeting be over.



“I be go to find Nouna,” say he. “she have be here, and she go

away ill a fortnight ago; I have find that out, and that her black

servant Sundran be with she. I must start to-night.”



“you be too ill for the journey.”



“I be too ill to stay here. I have some work to do in England

besides.”



“what work?”



he do not answer, and there be a pause, during which she consider

he attentively.



“George,” she say at last in a low voice, “you be change. you have

lose the ‘good’ look you use to have. the work you speak of be

something unworthy of you.”



“it must be something very degrading then; you forget I be a----”



she stop he imperatively.



“you be my ideal of an Englishman, as honest as any and not so stupid

as some. if you haven’t be unlucky, I should never have tell you so,

but now that you know what a surpassingly lofty opinion I have of you,

I expect you to live up to it.”



“you must let I be human though.”



“that depend. there be good and bad humanity. what do you want to

do?”



“I want to--well--I want to--get at that scoundrel Rahas!”



“you may--on one condition.”



“well?”



“you musn’t lie a hand on he until you have see Nouna.”



George look at she wonderingly.



“tell I why you make that condition.”



her answer come at once in a full, deep, steady voice, that betray

even more than her word do.



“because I know that the sight of a face one love and have long to

see can extinguish all hatred and anger, everything but happiness;

just as your come to-night have calm down all my wicked feeling

towards my uncle and towards--your poor little wife. I can forgive you

for marry she now--for the first time.”



George be thunderstruck. all the passionate intensity with which the

small, plain girl have love he and long for his success in life,

have compassionate he and work to retrieve his error, blaze in

her black eye and seem to cast a glow over her sallow face. man be

so much accustomed by reason and experience to associate woman’s

fragility of frame with frivolity of mind, that any sudden discovery

of devoted singleness of purpose in one of the soft and foolish sex

strike they into as much distant awe and reverent worshipfulness as a

manifestation of godhead in the flesh would do. so that George

remain quite silent before Ella, with no inclination to thank she,

but a strong impulse to fall on his knee.



after nearly a minute’s silence, she say, in the same deep voice:



“will you promise I to see she first?”



George look at she in a sidelong, shameface way.



“I will promise anything in the world you like,” he say huskily.



she smile happily, and take his hand, make he sit down beside she.

the joy of having procure his release have throw she this evening

into an exaltation of feeling which banish her usual awkwardness,

and make she unreserved as only a shy person unusually move can be.



“remember,” she say, “you have to save yourself up for a journey.”

and she turn upon he the motherly look which shine out in the

tenderness of all the good woman.



Ella be perfectly happy this evening, and have not an atom of jealousy

that the thought of the man, in whose interest she could forget all

scruple of prudery, be bent on another woman. she have do for he

what his wife could not do; there be pride enough in that knowledge.

there have be from the first so little selfishness in her love that

by this time there be none--a not uncommon beauty of character in the

plain of person who, expect nothing, be more than content with a

little. so she arrange all the detail of the journey, and within a

couple of hour she and her father and George be on their way back

to England.



they do not reach London until the second morning after their

departure from Toulon. George be disgusted and alarm to find that

he could scarcely stand; but he resist the suggestion that he should

take a day’s rest, be afraid that if he once yield to his bodily

weakness, it would be a long time before he be able to get about

again. so he leave Ella and her father at the hotel where they put up,

and drive to Mary Street to learn whether Rahas still live there.

this step he take with Ella’s full knowledge; he should fulfil his

promise, he tell she, and keep his hand off the oriental merchant

until after he have find Nouna; but he must set about his search in

his own way.



no. 36, Mary Street look the same as ever, except that, during the

eleven month which have pass since George first drive up to the door

and dash up the dingy staircase come suddenly upon an _Arabian

Nights_’ nook in murky London, the low window have acquire a

thick coating of grime, and the board with the name “rahas and

Fanah” have lose its freshness of new paint; the brass vase and

lantern, the arabian gun, the inlaid table, the indian figure be

still there, and the fact that the firm do not depend upon the chance

custom of passer-by be more patent than ever.



George stumble as he get out of the hansom, and feel, almost without

seeing, for the bell. fatigue, weakness, and the sleeplessness cause

by intense excitement have prey upon his body and stimulate his

imagination till on this, the first day of his return to his own

country, he be like a man walk in his sleep, and see face and

hear voice invisible and inaudible to all but he. Nouna, as he see

her first, sleep like a fairy princess, amidst gorgeous

surrounding; the strange doctor, whose warn against the girl’s

dangerous charm rang again in his ear; the dark-faced Rahas and his

pretension to occult power--all these recollection chase each

other through his feverishly excited mind, dull his faculty to the

cold reality of present experience, and when the door be open by a

woman whose face be unknown to he, he stand before her stupidly,

without realise that it be he who have summon she. when she ask

he what he want, he pull himself together, and ask if Rahas,

the merchant, still live there.



“yes, he live here, but he ain’t here to-day; he’s go to Plymouth,

and willn’t be home for a week or so. you can see the old gentleman if

you like, or letter be send to he.”



Plymouth! the name send an old suggestion into George’s mind. he

suddenly remember that Miss Glass, the old servant of his family who

have give Nouna shelter between she leave Mary Street and her

wedding-day, come from Plymouth, where her parent have keep a

lodge-house. he have never doubt that he should find Nouna easily,

and now he know in a moment, without further reasoning, that she be

at Plymouth, and that Rahas have go down to see she there. so sure

do he feel, that he do not even call at Miss Glass’s house in

Filborough Road to make inquiry; but obtain from the servant at

no. 36 the final information that Rahas have not long start, George

jump hastily back into his hansom and drive to Paddington. he find

he have just miss the 11.45 train, and there be not another till

three o’clock; so he drive to Waterloo, and learn that there be a

train at 2.30, he resolve to go by that in order to be on the road as

soon as possible, although it arrive no early than the three

o’clock express from Paddington. this leave he time to go back to the

Charing Cross Hotel to say good-bye to his friend.



whether she be frighten by the thought of a possible collision

between George in his weakness and the unprincipled Arabian, or

whether she be sting by a feeling of jealousy that the time of her

generous devotion to he be over, her work do, Ella grow ghastly

pale on hearing of his intended journey, and try to dissuade he

from it. when she find he immovable, she endeavour to induce her

father to go with he; but both the man laugh this suggestion to

scorn, and the most she could obtain be permission for she and her

father to see he off at the station.



George be absorb, as he stand at the window of the compartment in

which he be to travel, by a strong feeling of gratitude towards the

young girl on the platform below he, in whose eye he read a steady,

unwavere friendship and affection, free from the advance and

recede tide of passion, without coquetry, without caprice, the

noble love a human creature can give, the one also which in either

sex be sure never to have an adequate return. George look down at

her pale face reverently, and try to find some word to express the

overflowing feeling inspire by her goodness to he; but she would

not hear. step back from the carriage-door with a blush, she

affect to interest herself in the rest of the passenger, when

suddenly the flush die away from her face, and she come hastily back.

look up at George with an expression of strong anxiety, she say in

a whisper:



“George, for Heaven’s sake be careful; I believe the man himself be in

the next carriage!”



Lauriston, much startle, his face light up, try to open the

door: but she stop he, say: “remember--your promise!”



the next moment the train have start, and George, overcome by the

rush of feeling evoke by the thought that the man whom he hate be

so near to he, sink down into his corner seat in the wet white heat

which strong excitement cause to the bodily weak. he hope that

Rahas, if indeed it be he whom Ella have see, have not catch sight of

he; in that case George be sure that he have only to follow the wily

Arabian to be take straight to the house where Nouna be. the journey

seem endless; he fall from time to time into fit of stupor, in

which he hear the tramp of the warder through the rattle of the

train, and Nouna call to he in hoarse, break accent unlike her

own, and a rasp voice shriek out to the beat of the wheel:

“never to meet! never to meet!” with a start he would find that

prison-wall and darkness have melt back into the cushion carriage

and the light of day, and remember in a vague, half-incredulous way

that he be on his way to Nouna. then the train would stop at a

station, and he would look out eagerly, furtively, scan the

passenger who get out, search for the man he want. at last, at

Salisbury, where the train wait a quarter of an hour, his anxiety

be set at rest. wrap in a long overcoat, and wear a

travel-cap pull low over his eye, Rahas descend to the

platform, walk two or three time up and down with his eye on the

ground as if in deep thought, and get in again without having give

one glance at any of the other compartment. George have feel pretty

safe from recognition, as he be much alter by illness and the loss

of his moustache, and as, moreover, he be believe to be still a

prisoner in France. now he be altogether sure that Rahas be off his

guard, and the knowledge give he confidence. when, therefore, the

oriental merchant leave the train at a little station a few mile from

Plymouth, George only allow he time to get through the door before

he jump out after he, and turn up his coat-collar, as the

coolness of the evening give he an excuse for do, give up his

ticket and follow.



once out of the station, Rahas, without a glance behind he, strike

straight across the field by a narrow path that lead to the distant

light of what George suppose must be some little village. it be

half-past eight; the shower of an April day have saturate the grass,

and a thick damp mist linger among the tree, most of which as yet

have but a thin spring covering. the moon have not yet rise, and George

have to hurry after Rahas, fear in the obscurity to lose sight of

he altogether. the numbness which have seize his tired faculty from

time to time on the railway journey now again begin to creep over he,

so that the surprise he would at another time have feel, the question

he would have ask himself as to the merchant’s leave the train

before he come to Plymouth, now merge into a dull confusion of idea,

the most prominent of which be that Rahas be try to escape he.

as the path descend into a little valley dark with tree, and the

figure before he, now indistinct against the dark background,

disappear over a stile into the shadow of the copse beyond, this

fancy grow strong and, feel that his limb be unsteady with

ever-increase fatigue, which make he hot and wet from head to foot,

he break into a run, reach the stile in his turn, get over it, and

stumble over some unseen obstacle, slip on the soft, muddy earth,

and fall to the ground. the next moment he feel himself seize as he

lie on his face, bind with a stout cord that cut into his flesh in

his struggle to free himself, and then drag through bramble and

wet grass into the little wood. this last be a slow operation, for

George be a big man, and though no long in the full vigour of his

health, he be too heavy for his dead weight to be pull along with

ease. he lie quite still, without utter a sound, recognise, after

a valiant but vain attempt to get free, that he be quite at the mercy

of his assailant, he decide that entire passivity be his good chance

of escape such a quieting as would save he all further exertion.

the first result of this be that Rahas, when he have continue his

slow and tedious progress with his victim for what seem a long time,

stop and peer into his face closely enough for George to make

quite sure of his identity. to his surprise, the Oriental seem quite

relieved to find that he be not dead.



“ah ha, you know I,” he mutter, as he encounter the shining of

live eye in the gloom. “you be not hurt. that be all right. I do

not want to hurt you, be sure of that. I bear you no ill-will.”



“thank you,” say George quietly. “that be satisfactory as far as it

go; but I should like to know whether this be the manner in which

you treat chance acquaintance, for example.”



“no,” answer Rahas, quite simply; “I be force to this last mean of

keep you from the woman whom Heaven, as the planet declare, have

give to I, and whom you have ruin by instill into she your own

soul, which be kill her fair body day by day. do you understand?

her mother have give she to I, be only wait for I to take she

away to give she the dower you, in your proud folly, refuse. I have

wait long, I have try many way, to get what Allah intend for

I. Nouna herself, weary of wait, die by inch, have at last

give I permission to see she. must I, at the last, with success in

my very grasp after a year of waiting, see it wring from I by the man

whose touch have be fatal to this fair flower of the East? no. the

will of Allah must be do. there be woman enough in the world for

you; there be only one for I. Nouna must come to my arm to-night;

and for you, after to-night, I be at your disposal in any way you

please.”



there be a strange mixture of cupidity, fanaticism and ferocious

courage in his speech and manner which strike horror into George’s

heart, at the thought that his wife might to-night have to come face

to face, without a husband’s protection, with this man. he utter a

loud shout and make a sudden effort to rise, which the Arabian

frustrated with a movement as nimble as a hare’s, accompany by a

short laugh.



“keep still,” he say more harshly, “and keep your shouting until I be

out of earshot.”



he make no threat in word, but his tone be so significant that

George, to whom danger have restore his full faculty, resolve to

save up his lung. in a business-like manner Rahas then, with his knee

on the young man’s chest, assure himself that the cord which bind

he be secure, and with a civil and dispassionate “good-night,” to

which the Englishman be in no humour to respond, he turn and walk

rapidly away; his step scarcely sound on the soft, damp earth, and

only the crackle of dead branch and the rustle of living one,

grow fainter and fainter until the sound fade quite away, tell

George that he be retreat rapidly.



then come a time for the poor fellow when he pray for death at last.

with the rot leave of the previous autumn form a slimy pillow

for his head, his body sink slowly into the damp earth, while a

rise wind moan a low dirge among the surround hill and sweep

over the thinly-leave branch above his head with a sepulchral

“hush!” he feel all the horror of the grave, all its loneliness, all

its impotence, without the one blessing--peace, which we hope for

there in spite of the clergy, who be ferocious as regard the next

world to counter-balance their meekness in this. the deft Rahas have

bind he sailor-fashion, begin with the middle of the rope; and

the knot be immovable as iron; he begin to feel cramped and

benumb by the cold, the rise moisture amid the undergrowth of the

wood, and the impede circulation of his blood. still his head

remain hot as fire, his brain reel in a mad dance of fantastic

torture, until at last frenzy come, and picture of the past chase

each other through his memory, but with a lurid light of horror upon

they which distort his fairest recollection, and turn they into

ugly nightmare. then in turn the picture fade and his sense begin

to grow dull, and strange cry to sound in his ear to which he try

to reply; but his voice would not come, and even as his lip move in

this effort, the last gleam of sense leave he, and he fall into

unconsciousness.



as upon the blackness of night the fair, pure dawn come gradually, so

George, from the stupor of a deadly lethargy, wake by slow degree to

sensation of warmth, and light, and joy; and feel, before the

sense of sight come back to he, a soft touch on his flesh that set

he quivering, and a breath against his lip that exhale the very

perfume of love, he fancy in the first moment of a still feebly

move brain, that his prayer have be grant, that he be dead, and

in Heaven. until suddenly there burst upon his ear a wild, joyous

cry: “he be breathe! he have come back to I--back, thank God! thank

God!”



and his heart leapt up, and an ember of the old fire warm his vein.

open his eye, which be blind and dazzle still, he whisper

huskily, “Nouna, my little wife!” and grope about with weak,

tremble arm until she come to he, and lie down by his side,

press her lip to his with warm, cling kiss that carry a

world of loyalty and love straight from her soul to his. then, while

he feel her soft mouth strain against his, he know, all daze and

half benumb as he still be, that a change have come upon she. it be

not the restless butterfly kiss of a passionate caprice that she give

he, as in the old day when she would fly from his knee to the window

and back again half a dozen time in five minute; it be not the

embrace of sincere but timid affection she have learn to give he when

they live their struggle life in Paris; it be the seal of patient

and faithful love satisfy at last. from that moment he have no

question to ask, no explanation to hear. what do it matter where he

be, how he come there, how she come there? but Nouna, draw she

head back to look at he, see his lip move, and she watch they and

listen, hold her breath, to his weak whisper:



“cold, darkness, pain, and the long windy night--all over now!”



and he draw she close to he, and fall asleep.









 CHAPTER XXXI.



next morning, when rest have restore he to a wide interest and

curiosity, George learn the missing detail of his adventure, and the

circumstance which have lead to the journey of Rahas.



on find that the pretext of her mother’s illness, upon which she

have be entice to England, be a false one, Nouna, who now mention

the once love name with avert eye, but without any other token of

her suspicion, have feel guilty and uneasy about her husband; and as

she do not hear from he she slip away one night to find the house

of Miss Glass, of whose kindness to herself and fondness for George

she retain a warm recollection. as she feel ill and have no money, it

be easy to guess how strong must have be the feeling which

prompt she to leave her mother’s house.



“if I could not be with you, I want to be with some one who know you

and be fond of you, and would help I to get back to you, George,”

she explain.



she have trust to luck to find her way from Eaton Square to

Kensington, and have be too much frightened to ask for direction. at

last however, when she be so tired and despondent that she have sit

down on a doorstep and begin to cry, a policeman have speak to she,

and on learn that she have no money, that she want to get to

Filborough Road, that she be not sure of the number, but that she have

friend there, he ask she whether she think she could find the

house if she be in the street, and suggest that she should take a

cab, and ask her friend to pay for it. he have then hail a hansom

and put she into it, she have find the house without much difficulty,

and Miss Glass have take she in and nurse she carefully through a

long illness which follow her rash adventure.



at this point of her story poor Nouna break down in tear, remind of

a disappointment which have cut she to the heart. “and--my baby--never

come after all,” she whisper in a broken voice, with her head hung

down in pathetic shame; “and I think it be a punishment because I

come away without ask you, and I think you be offend and

would never forgive I, because when I write to Paris to tell you I

be sorry and ill, and beg you to come, I get no answer. for I do

not know you be in prison, Miss Glass would not let I know. it be

not until week later, when--my mother find out where I be, and tell

I she have see you, that I know, and that I say I must come to you.

so they let I go, with Sundran, to Paris; and first they say you

be at Poissy, and I go there and ask to see you, and there they

say perhaps you be at Toulon. so we go to Toulon, and I write to

the governor, and he say I could see you in two month. I feel I

could not live all that time, and I be wonder what I could do to

see you, when the great storm come and damage the harbour, and they

say some of the convict would repair it. and my heart seem to give

a great bound, for I feel that my wish have come true like that. so I

creep down to the harbour and slip quietly along to the place where

the stone be wash away, and wait until I see you. when the

second day you speak to the warder-man and tell he to send I away, I

do not mind, for I know by your face you be not angry; so next

morning I write a message to you on the stone where you be work,

and Sundran bring I back to England, for I be get ill again,

and she be afraid I should die there. and Miss Glass say I must go

to the south where it be warm, and she send I to Plymouth to her

parent, and they be very kind and good to I.”



“and do you let that wretch Rahas come and visit you?” ask George

in a puzzled voice.



“I will tell you. I get a letter from he a few day ago, say he

be go to France, and if I please, he could take a letter from I

to you, and let I see you, if I be anxious, as he use to let I

see--my mother. I have only to say yes, and he would come down to

Plymouth. I hate he for deceive I and bring I to England, but

he declare in his letter that be my mother’s do. and I be so

hungry for some news of you that I write yes, he might come. then I

could not keep still for impatience: he telegraph to I to meet the

train he come by, and I go to the station, and when I find he

haven’t come by it, I describe he to the guard, and he say a dark

gentleman like that have leave the train two station before. there’s a

big boy at the house where I’m stay who do whatever I like, and I

have make he come to the station because I be afraid of meet Rahas

alone. and I tell he to take ticket for he and I, and we go back

by the next train to the station where Rahas get out. the porter say

two gentleman have get out and go across the field; and I know who

the other one be, and I scream, and tell William my husband have

come back. but he say it be a fancy. we walk across the wet field

in the dark, and I be tremble so that I could scarcely stumble

along, and William carry a lantern, and say I have well go back,

for we be on a wild-goose chase. and when we come down to the wood,

my foot slip, and I fall on to the grass, and as he stoop to pick

I up, William see mark on the ground, as if something have be

pull along over it. he go a little way slowly until I hear he

give a cry, and I run to he, and--and we find you.”



she could not say more, her voice be suffocate, her lip be

shake. but the whitewashed wall of the room in which he be lie,

the hayrick he could see through the window, tell George that it be

to a farmhouse he have be bring; and there they spend two day,

until he be well enough to get up and go with Nouna back to her

friend in Plymouth. then begin for they both in the pretty southern

town a new and sweeter honeymoon, mar only for each by a secret

fear for the other. in the first day of their re-union happiness give

their waste frame a new vitality which make each feel on the high

road to health, but which make to each only the more evident the pale

face and heavy breathing of the other.



they be sit together in the sunlight one May afternoon, the

window wide open, the breeze come in straight from the sea, drink

in the joy of each other’s presence as they be never tired of do,

when George pass his hand slowly down his wife’s cheek, and

shiver.



“be you cold?” she ask anxiously, nestle up to he and put

her little arm round he as if to protect he from the spring air.



“no,” he say in a troubled voice, “I’m all right. but I’m afraid this

place don’t suit you, Nouna; you’re get so thin and white. you

be pale than when I come back.”



Nouna’s face change; after a moment’s pause she spring up with her

old vivacity, and run to a look-glass, gaze at her own

reflection for some minute, and then creep back to her husband’s side

with a bright light in her eye. as he look at she inquiringly, she

draw up the sleeve of his coat as far as she could, very gently, and

then bare her own arm also, lay it beside his, and glance up into

his face with an odd, tender, yearn expression which, after a

moment’s wonderment, open his own dull eye. for a few second

neither speak again. then he snatch she into his arm and their eye

hold each other’s for some minute in an ecstasy of relief and

gratitude. George have love his wife well than his career, well

than his own happiness. Nouna, since the fall of her first idol--her

mother--have turn all her devotion to the husband who have cherish

she so tenderly. both, therefore, dread life without the other a

thousand time bad than death, and when it dawn upon they that

they be not to be part again, there be no further sorrow possible

for they in this world.



“George,” say Nouna at last, in a break whisper, “if you have never

meet I you would have be much happy, for you would have marry

that good Ella and have get on in the world and become a great man.”



“yes,” say he at once.



“well, ben’t you sorry?”



“no.”



“why?”



it be not easy to explain. the sailor, sink with his ship at

twenty-five, do not in his last moment wish that he have be a

grocer, though if he have he might have go on contentedly sell tea

and candle for half a century. George, strike down by misfortune in

the prime of his youth, have taste some of life’s supreme joy, and

the rolling year could give he no delight such as he have feel in

run the whole gamut of an absorbing passion. he hesitate before

he answer she.



“if I have not marry you,” he say at last, “you would never have

be poor, you would have have as many lovely dress and diamond as

you want, and nobody would ever have tease you to tell the truth,

or to do anything you don’t want to do. and yet you be not sorry you

marry I. what’s the reason?”



she curl herself about he. “I don’t know,” she say shyly. “you’ve

make I feel thing I didn’t--feel--before.”



“well, Nouna, and you’ve do the same to I. be you satisfied?”



“yes,” she say.



“then so be I.”



and in this state of placid but languid contentment these two

shipwreck creature drift on day by day, tire out by the buffet

of fortune, and make no effort to escape from the black archer who

seem to have mark they down. the young come to this stage more

easily than the middle-aged; when their strong passion and eager

desire burn low, quench suddenly by ill-health or desperate

misfortune, all the busy wheel of the world seem to stand still with

they, and they cry, when they feel that the pulse of life beat

weakly: “this be the end!” while old sufferer, who have shake time

by the hand, and know his way, and have learn to bear his penalty

patiently, see only the daily work interrupt against their will,

wait to be take up again when the storm be over.



there come to Plymouth, when Lauriston and his wife have be a week

there together, a friend who see something of this, and set her wit

to work, after her custom, to put right what she see be wrong. Ella

Millard have bring her whole family to the town on the plea that a

fortnight of the devonshire air would improve her sister’

complexion, and arm they for the triumph of the come season.

having gain over her mother, from whom she inherit her own strong

will, the rest yield like lamb, and within a week of her resolution

to come they be all instal in a house at the upper end of Lockyer

Street, near the hoe. by Sir Henry and his two eld daughter, who

all enjoy a serene animal health, and to whose lymphatic temperament

trial of the nervous system be meaningless word, the wan face and

languid movement of the Lauristons be look upon as altogether

fatal sign. but the more discriminating Ella would not give up hope

so easily. it seem to her contrary to common sense, and to the lofty

quality she attribute to he that the man who have be her ideal

should allow himself to be snuff out of life so easily. Afraid to

depend entirely upon her own judgment in such an important matter, she

refrain from set she scathing little tongue to jibe at he for

the inertness of his mind until she have find some person of authority

to pronounce upon the health of his body. but George have never before

in his life be in need of a doctor, and scout the idea of see

one now; while Nouna, on whose behalf Ella then plead, shrank

sensitively from the ordeal of meet a stranger, and only consent

at last to see the physician whom George have call in to dress her

arm on the memorable evening of his first visit to Mary Street. the

very next day Dr. Bannerman arrive, and have an interview with both

his patient. the entrance of the tall, slightly stoop figure, the

sight of his dark, penetrate face, lean, lined, and impressive as

that of a magician, raise a flush of excitement to Nouna’s face, and

bring back to her husband’s mind a vivid recollection of the

prophecy utter by the doctor on that May evening. if the sharp eyed

man of science know all the circumstance that have chequer

Lauriston’s life since he disregard that warning, he would indeed

think that his sinister prophecy have be amply fulfil.



the interview be a short one. the doctor affect to have no

recollection of either of his patient until George follow he out

of the room, and stand face to face with he on the landing.



“you remember I, doctor, I suppose,” he say in a rather shamefaced

way.



“perfectly.”



“the first time you meet I you be kind enough to read I a sermon.

you might read I one to more purpose now.”



“More purpose! no. you can read your own sermon now, and I come to my

proper function, that of cure the result of the act my warning

could not save you from.”



“if you know the whole story, doctor, you would hardly blame I.”



“I don’t blame you. how can I blame conduct which bring I a patient?

if all man be wise, we poor medicine man might go sweep crossing.”



“but, doctor, if I have be a wise man I should have be a bad

one.”



“not necessarily. and it show no more virtue than wisdom to throw up

the sponge when you be beat by Fortune at the first round.”



George redden. “first and last round too, ben’t it, doctor? come,

tell I honestly how long you give I to live.”



Dr. Bannerman look at he steadily.



“if you remain moon about here, hover along like a moth in the

sunshine, brood over thing which be past and beyond remedy, I

give you a year. if you buckle to, make yourself new interest in

life, start on a new career, and get new air into your lung and new

thought into your brain, I give you any time from ten year to

five-and-twenty.”



George instinctively draw himself up into a more martial attitude.



“and my wife?” he ask with fresh interest and eagerness.



“I give she as long as she have a strong heart and a brave arm to take

care of she.”



the young man turn his eye away with a new light burn in they.

at last he say with a tremor in his voice:



“you would not deceive we about this, of course, just to keep we

linger on a little long?”



“not a bit of it. you be both suffer from severe shock to the

nervous system, and because each of you think you be go to lose

the other, neither have have the energy or the desire to pull round. you

besides have a weak lung, and I tell you frankly you would not make

her majesty such a smart young officer again. but a man of your

intelligence must have other resource.”



George see by the foregoing speech that very little of his history

during the past year be unknown to the doctor. on the whole, this

knowledge make he feel easy.



“I think I could write,” say he reflectively. “I have already give

myself some sort of training for it, and if only all my idea do not

seem to be lock up somewhere out of my reach, I think I could

express they at least intelligibly.”



“good,” say Dr. Bannerman. “then all we have to do be to find the

key. I think I know a friend of yours whom we can consult about that.

you shall hear the result of our conference very shortly. in the

meanwhile, keep up your spirit and keep out of draught, and English

literature may yet thank your wife for take you out of the army.”



George shake his hand warmly, and the doctor leave the house. half way

down Lockyer Street he meet Ella Millard, who be burn with

impatience to know the result of the interview. as he come up she

hastily dismiss a fair-haired young fellow of three or four and

twenty, who trot meekly off at once towards the hoe. she be too

deeply interested in what the doctor have to tell to utter more than

the word “well!” in a tremulous voice. she think, however, by the

expression of his face that his news could not be very bad.



“well!” he repeat after she.



“_be_ it well?” say she impatiently.



the doctor smile. “I think so.”



her face soften. “I think it could not be the bad; it would have

be too dreadful--and too foolish,” she add sharply.



“that be just what I tell he. oh! I be very hard with he; I think

he want it. he have have an awful time of it lately, and the poor boy

hardly know even yet whether he be on his head or his heel. but it

be quite time now that he make an effort to pull himself together. I

give he a good talk to, I can tell you.”



her look seem to implore mercy, but she say nothing. he continue:

“they ought to go away. he think he could write, and I should

encourage he to try.”



“and--his wife?” she ask, with a scarcely perceptible diminution of

interest.



“there be nothing organically wrong with she at all. she will be

herself again before he, and then help his recovery.”



“_help_ he! do you think so?” ask Ella doubtfully.



“yes.”



“I think you tell I, that when you first see she she produce on

you a very different impression.”



“so she do. but then--she be a very different woman.”



Ella’s mouth twitch rather scornfully. she think that the weird

prettiness of Nouna’s little waste face have bewitch even this

middle-aged doctor.



“she be scarcely even yet an ideal companion for a man of intellect,”

she say with a slight touch of she bad, most priggish manner.



“H’m, I don’t know,” say the doctor. “your man of intellect be

generally a man of something else besides; and the housekeeper-wife

and the blue-stocking wife both frequently leave as much to be desire

as--well, say, the flower-wife, if once the flower learn to turn to

the sun, as, I think, little Mrs. Lauriston have do.”



“she be fond of he,” agree Ella rather grudgingly.



“and what more do he ask of she?”



“nothing more now; but will it be always so?”



“who can tell? but love on both side be a good matrimonial

foundation. have they any money?”



“enough to live upon as quietly as they be do now.”



“ah! but they want something more than that. he ought to move about,

to travel, and she ought to be tempt back to interest in life with

some of the pretty thing she be so fond of. haven’t they any

relation who could manage that?”



Ella’s face brighten with a little smile as she nod assent. “I

think the relation can be find,” she say.



apparently the doctor think he have put the suggestion into good

hand, for he look at her very good-humouredly as he hold out his

hand and bade her good-bye.



“the gentleman who be dismiss for I will be wish I all the

nauseous draught I ever prescribe,” say he drily.



Ella grow superbly disdainful.



“oh no,” she cry with haughty emphasis. “he be only a silly young

fellow who be a fellow-officer of Mr. Lauriston’s, and who be so fond

of he that he have come down here on purpose to see he, although he

put off do so from day to day for fear of wake in he

recollection which might distress he.”



the doctor be more than satisfied with this elaborate explanation.



“I dare say he manage to fill up his time agreeably enough--in this

pleasant neighbourhood,” say he gravely.



and he raise his hat and leave she before she have time to utter

another protest.



now, quite unintentionally, Dr. Bannerman have do a very ill turn to

a most harmless and kindly fellow-mortal. Clarence Massey, the humble

companion whom he displace at Ella’s side, having be attract to

Ella by the devotion with which she have work for his friend George

Lauriston, have raise up an altar to she in his most affectionate and

warm heart, on which, figuratively speak, he burn incense all day

long. whenever and wherever she would let he, he follow like a dog,

bear her snappish fit with beautiful meekness, accept any

remark she like to throw to he, as precious pearl to be treasure

in his memory; gentle, loyal, and devoted always. Ella, who have begin

by laugh at he, have be thaw by his distracted anxiety and

misery over George Lauriston’s misfortune, until from tolerate she

have begin to like he. and now, just as she be get so amiable to

he that he have begin to entertain hope which he have the sense and

modesty to think extravagant, this light suggestion on the part of a

stranger chill she into anger at the thought that any one should

think she capable of a serious thought for so unintellectual a person

as Clarence Massey.



she have promise, on Doctor Bannerman’s approach, to rejoin Clarence

on the hoe; but it be with the step of an offended empress that the

plain little girl meet this well-provide young fellow, on whom a dozen

mamma of marriageable daughter now fix long eye.



“well, what do he say?” ask Clarence, afraid from the expression

of her face that the report be bad.



she tell he briefly and coldly the substance of the doctor’s opinion,

but without any hint of his last suggestion except the vague

information that the pair have well go abroad. then she walk

briskly on in the direction of the Fort, and to Clarence’s meek

request for permission to accompany she, she give the most brusque,

most chilling answer that he could “do as he please.” of course he

please to go, and when they get on to the narrow footpath which be

only wide enough for one, he follow with tear in his eye at the

change in she, wonder what in the world have happen to make she so

unkind to he. meanwhile, however, an idea have come into her busy

little head which help the effect of the spring air in restore she

to good humour; so that when she stop to look reflectively out to

sea and catch sight of his disconsolate face, she smile at he with

mingle mercy and majesty and ask he why he look so miserable.



“I’m not miserable now,” say he, brighten up at once. “it be only

that I be afraid you don’t want I.”



Ella grow prim again.



“it be very kind of you to come,” say she.



“Ella, don’t say that. how can you say that, when you know very well

how happy it make I to be with you!”



“happy! how absurd! I wish, Clarence, you wouldn’t say such ridiculous

thing.”



“but, Ella, why be it ridiculous? it’s true, you know it’s true. you

know very well I would follow you to the end of the world if you’d let

I, that I’d do anything you want I to, that I’m never so happy as

when I’m with you. well, why be it ridiculous to say what be true and

what you know?”



“but I don’t want to know it,” say Ella sharply. “if I have think

you would ever talk to I in such a silly way I would never have let

you come out with I. when I’m think about serious thing, too!”



“cann’t you see that this be serious to I?”



“it’s only all the more ridiculous. you must either promise never to

talk such nonsense to I again, or you must give up the walk.”



“very well, then, I must give up the walk,” say Clarence resignedly,

“for I cann’t make the promise.”



and he walk away over the rough grass, and begin to look out to sea

on his own account. Ella, in spite of the “serious thing” which have

occupy her thought, be force to turn her attention to this

importunate and foolish person close at hand, and she do so with a

much graver countenance than be she willnot in matter relate to he.

the fact be that this unexpected threat of withdraw his despise

attention wake she suddenly to the fact that she should miss they.

Ella discover all at once that she be not so insensible as she have

imagine to the ordinary feminine pleasure in the possession of a

devoted slave. even a Clarence who occasionally talk nonsense would

be well than no clarence at all. some expression of these

conclusion find its way to her face, for the crestfallen swain be

embolden by her glance to draw near she again. she say no kind word

however, and he be afraid that far plead at the moment might

be injudicious, so they stand very quietly side by side until Ella

break out vehemently:



“I wish I have twenty thousand pound!”



the wish and the fiery manner in which it be utter take Clarence so

completely by surprise that instead of assure she that she have only

to say the word, and he would lay that sum at her foot, as perhaps she

have expect of the impulsive little Irishman, he only say simply:



“what for?”



“to throw into the sea,” be her surprising answer.



he laugh, suppose that this be a faint sort of joke.



“I mean it,” she add gravely. “I can get five thousand pound of my

fortune from papa, but I want twenty thousand more.”



“but what a strange use for it; you be not in earnest about that!”



“oh, yes, but I be.”



“well, if anybody be to offer you twenty thousand pound, what would

you say to--he?”



“I should say, thank you.”



“prettily?”



Ella pause. he be bend his head to look into her eye, and

put into that word a great deal of impertinent meaning. then she

flash up into his face a grand glance full of magnificent

haughtiness.



“of course, because I be not handsome, you think I ought to jump at

you!”



“oh, no, I don’t. but whether you jump at I or away from I, you

shall have the twenty thousand pound.”



“what, without know what I be go to do with it?”



“you say you want it to throw into the sea.”



“oh, yes, yes, so I do. but suppose I be to throw it to another

man--a _merman_, for example?”



Clarence wince. “whatever you do be right, Ella,” he say, at last.

“you can throw it to whoever or whatever you like.”



“when can I have it?”



“I shall have to go up to town. I can raise it by next week.”



Ella put her hand on his arm impulsively.



“you’re a good fellow,” she say, in a very sweet voice.



and Clarence, who have never have such a mark of her favour before, feel

all on fire, and wish he dare to hold her finger where they have so

unexpectedly place themselves. but the overwhelming reverence he feel

for this small girl teach he discretion, and you might have think,

by the stiffness with which he hold himself under her touch, that a

wasp have settle upon he, and that he be afraid to move for fear of

provoke it to sting. but they walk back together to the Hoe in a

very amicable manner, Clarence feeling that luck have help he to

make a splendid move, and Ella wonder whether by the acceptance of

twenty thousand pound from a man she could be consider in any way

to have compromise herself.









 CHAPTER XXXII.



three week pass very quietly for George Lauriston and his wife

without any markedly apparent result of the doctor’s visit, except

that George, try to shake off the lethargy into which he have sink

since his imprisonment, have put himself into harness for a new battle

with fortune by write article on the condition of the army for a

local paper. he also take a journey to London to fulfil his

long-promise revenge upon Rahas, and would probably have get himself

into fresh trouble by use other than legal mean of chastisement

upon the Arabian, if that ingenious gentleman have not just get into a

little difficulty with the excise officer over a large consignment of

choice tobacco which be more than suspect of having pay no duty,

and some silver good not up to standard, the hall-mark on which have

be forge, which force he to leave the land of his adoption for

shore where genius be more respected.



both George and Nouna for a long time refrain from mention her

mother’s name, and it be with some emotion that they both recognise

her handwriting one day outside a letter direct to the husband, the

postmark of which be Bath. George take it away to read, and Nouna

make no remark, but when he come back to she, hold it open in his

hand, he find that she be tremble with intense excitement. she

take it from he with a passionately anxious glance, but gather

comfort from his gravely smile face.



Nouna then read these word:





 “my dear Mr. Lauriston,



 “I be write to make a request which I pray you will generously

 grant. I know there be difference between we which would make

 another meeting undesirable and perhaps painful to both, I would not

 suggest that we should see each other again: but I implore you to let

 I see my daughter just once more. six month ago I could have claim

 this as a right, or I would have contrive it by a trick. but I have

 learn to respect you, and I only ask. I be a different woman, I have

 grow old, I be change, you would not mind she come now--I swear

 it. Lord F. have be very generous, and I want nothing but just one

 more look at my daughter. let she come and see the Condesa di

 Valdestillas, that be the name I bear here, and shall bear to the end

 of my life. a foreign title cover whatever of eccentricity be leave in



                                               “yours very sincerely,



                                           “Lakshmi di Valdestillas.”





Nouna be cry quietly as she finish. she cling to her husband’s

arm.



“must I go?” she whisper.



“oh, yes,” say George promptly. “she have always love you, Nouna; I

will write to tell she you be come.”



“oh, George, George,” pant the little creature in the same low

voice, “I feel so wicked for not want to go! but all my heart have

turn to you now, and I cann’t get the old feeling back.”



he clasp his hand round her shoulder.



“but you will, Nounday, you will have just the feeling that be right

when you see she all by herself, lonely, wait for you whom she have

always love well than anything in the world.”



all the sting have now go out of his feeling towards the creature

who, with all her odd mixture of coarseness and refinement, corruption

and generosity, have live to see the very virtue she have foster in

her child turn against she in the loneliness of her premature age. for

George have learn from Lord Florencecourt, who run down to Plymouth

two or three time to see he and Nouna, to whom he be begin to

be reconcile, that Chloris White have indeed retire from her old

life, break up and suddenly middle-aged, and have fix her retreat in

the pretty old city of Bath, where she live safe from recognition in

a colony of what the Colonel irreverently call “old tabby,”

feel neither contrition for the past nor discontent with the

present, and pass her time, with a serenity bear of dull

faculty and wear-out energy, in petty charity and petty scandal.



two day after the receipt of the letter George arrive with Nouna in

Bath, leave she at the door of her mother’s residence, a small,

well-keep house in a quiet street, and walk up and down outside

until she should rejoin he. when she reappear at the door she be

very serious, and she beckon he to come up the step to she.



“Mamma wish--to say--good-bye to you,” she say in a tremulous

voice.



stand aside she let George see a bent figure, dress in black,

with greyish hair, and a wan dark face, who raise her great black

burn eye, but not with the old boldness, to his face. he take his

hat off, and hold out his hand. the lean little dark finger she put

into his be shake.



“good-bye, Mr. Lauriston. I shall not see you again. it have make I

happy to see you. remember when you think of I that I have no

chance--from the beginning. but I keep my child pure, and so God send

you to she. I dare not bless you, but I thank you; if I be well I

would pray for you. good-night. good-bye.”



the long evening shadow be creep over the quiet street, as

George and his wife, walk slowly away, catch the final glimpse of

a pale, draw face, and great eye like flame fire, strain in

the gloom for a last look at they. Nouna be very quiet, but she be

much happy than she have be in come.



“George,” she say in a low voice, “I can think about she and love she

now just as I use to do. when may I see she again? she would not tell

I.”



and George could not tell she either, though he give she a ready

assurance that she should come whenever she be summon; for he have a

shrewd suspicion that, in spite of Lord Florencecourt’s belief that

she be happy and content, the restless spirit of the repute

Countess be untame still, and chafe in secret under the new bond

of broken health, change habit, and disappointed ambition. two day

later this suspicion be confirm, when he receive the tiding,

convey to he only, of the sudden end of the Condesa di

Valdestillas, who have be find dead in her bed from an overdose of a

sleeping-draught. but as she leave a seal letter for George with

instruction to keep the news of her death from her daughter until

Nouna be strong, full of passionate thank to he, and equally

passionate regret that she might not leave what she possess to her

child, he be not deceive, though he be the only person who ever

know the secret.



Poor Sundran, who be with her mistress to the last, implore George,

who go at once to Bath on learn the tiding, to let she come back

to her darling Missee Nouna. and as he be sure enough now of his

influence over his wife no long to dread that of the black woman, he

promise that, at no distant time, she should return to her service.



on hear that the “Condesa di Valdestillas” be dead, Lord

Florencecourt, finally relieve from his fear, openly acknowledge

Nouna as his daughter “by a former wife,” as indeed poor Chloris,

think over the position of affair on the eve of her first and last

attempt at reparation, have foresee that he would do, and settle a

handsome allowance upon she. he come down to Plymouth in the last week

of May to make this determination know to his son-in-law. he be

accompany by his niece Ella, who be in a state of strong but

subdued excitement, but who give no reason which her uncle could

consider adequate for her entreaty that she might thus leave London

for a few day in the height of the gaiety of the season.



on their arrival in Plymouth, Ella choose to remain alone at the hotel

while the Colonel go to call upon the Lauristons. he think this

decision very extraordinary; but on his return a light come to he;

for in the sitting-room, stand close by his niece’s side, and

bend over she to speak with a passionate earnestness which seem

to infect the usually self-contain girl, be Clarence Massey. they

both start guiltily on Lord Florencecourt’s entrance, and Clarence

shake with nervousness as he greet he. Ella rush at her uncle,

and ask about the health of the invalid with great vivacity and

interest.



“what be you talk about when I come in?” ask the Colonel

bluntly, when he have inform she that George and Nouna be neither

well nor bad than they have be three week ago.



“we be talk about they--about the Lauristons,” answer Ella.



and Clarence echo her word. the Colonel look from the one to the

other incredulously. his niece seize both his hand impulsively, with

a light-hearted laugh.



“we must tell you--it’s a great secret, but it’s come out now, and

you shall be the first to hear it,” say she.



then she make he sit down, and tell he, rather breathlessly, a long

story, to which clarence play Chorus, and to which the Colonel

listen with amazement, admiration, and something like consternation

too.



“and who’s to pay for it all?” he ask at last in bewilderment.



“oh, we’ve arrange all that,” say Ella airily.



again Clarence echo, “we’ve arrange all that.”



and this astonishing unanimity naturally lead Lord Florencecourt to a

conclusion the expression of which would have fill Ella with the

lofty indignation. in the meantime, having be inform of the

plot, he be press into the service of the conspirator, and that

evening, when it have grow dark, they all three go to the house

where the Lauristons be stay, and the Colonel enter, leave

the two young people to walk up and down outside in a state of

breathless expectancy.



“break it gently!” be Ella’s last injunction as he leave they.



Lord Florencecourt find his way up stair to his son-in-law’s

sitting-room in a state of great nervousness. he find George and

Nouna, pale, thin, and languid as ever, the former sit at the

table, writing, while his tiny wife, curl up on the sofa with a

large ball of wool, some long wooden pin, and a small, misshapen

piece of work which be the result of many evening’ labour, flattered

herself that she be knit. they be both surprise by this second

visit from the Colonel, and by the fact that now he have come he seem

to have nothing to say.



“what be you do?” he ask Nouna at last.



“I’m make George a comforter,” she answer proudly. “I cann’t be

idle while my husband’s at work.”



“well, it keep you quiet at any rate,” he observe injudiciously, a

glance at the comforter having convince he that if ever it should be

finish and wear it would belie its name. the Colonel fidget for a

few moment, and the young people begin to assume an attitude of

expectancy, perceive that something be to come of this unusual

restlessness. “I suppose you wouldn’t like to leave Plymouth--to go

anywhere--to--India, for instance,” he blurt out at last.



Nouna spring up with a cry, a great light in her eye. George’s face

flushed; he cross the room and come to support his wife, who be

totter.



“why do he say it? why do he say it? it cann’t be true, oh, it

cann’t be true!” sob she, bury her face in his breast.



“what do it mean, Colonel? be you serious?” ask George in a

hoarse voice.



he hate England just now, sore and beat down as he still feel, but

he have feel that to run away from it be cowardly, even if he have be

able to afford it. this suggestion of change for himself and joy for

Nouna therefore come upon his heart like a ray of bright light in the

dead grey level of their languid life.



“make all your preparation to-night,” say the Colonel, “for you will

have to start to-morrow.”



and, as if afraid of commit himself by any explanation, he leave

the room, and dart out of the house like a lad before they have time

to stop he. in the street Ella and Clarence meet he, full of

excitement.



“well?” say they at the same time, both quiver with excitement.



“it’s all right. I tell they--just enough and no more. I say it

rather suddenly perhaps, but I be afraid they’d ask question.

they’re to be ready to start to-morrow, I say. you couldn’t have

manage well yourself, Ella. they be delighted, absolutely

delighted.”



the Colonel be right. to these two being, whose heart and mind

be still scarcely as convalescent as their body after the trial

of the precede few month, the suggestion of this great change come

as the grant of a new bright life to they. Nouna, in particular, be

half crazy with delight, and seem to recover in a moment all her

lose vivacity, as she babble of palm and sunshine, palace with

stately dome and graceful minaret, of elephant with rich trapping,

bird with bright plumage, and dark depth of jungle where the tiger

be know to lurk, and where every step be hedge with fascinating

peril. that night she scarcely sleep, and next morning, when Lord

Florencecourt again make his appearance, accompany this time by

Ella, he be quite bewilder by the change in his daughter’s look.

Ella herself, although very quiet, be almost as much excited, as she

ask whether they be ready. George, with dull masculine

pertinacity, worry everybody by ask for detail of the journey

for which they have so hastily prepare; but at last perceiving, by the

evasive answer he get, that some surprise be intend, he be in the

end content to hold his tongue, and to wait patiently till the proper

time should bring enlightenment. arrangement have be make, they be

tell, for the transport of their luggage, and they have nothing to do

but to start in the company of Ella and the Colonel. they set out on

foot, which be one astonishing thing, and they be take in the

direction of the Hoe, which be another. it be a beautiful, bright

May morning. from the seat by the camera obscura they all stand for a

moment, look down at the water, when suddenly Nouna burst forth

into a cry of admiration at the sight of a beautiful yacht which be

anchored half-way between the shore and Drake’s Island.



“when do it come?” she cry with much interest. “it ben’t here

yesterday. what a beautiful little thing!”



“little thing!” cry Lord Florencecourt, with untimely impetuosity.

“why it’s 150 ton; big enough to go round the world in!”



then an awkward silence fall upon everybody, for, vulgarly speak,

the cat be out of the bag. and the conversation be keep up with

difficulty until, descend the cliff, they all come to the little

landing-pier, where a small boat be wait with Clarence Massey

stand up in it, wave his hat frantically and beam with

unspeakable enthusiasm. neither George nor Nouna ask any question

now; and they all get into the little boat in a state of surprising

silence, and be row straight out towards the beautiful yacht

without anybody’s remark upon the strangeness of the circumstance.

but as they draw near she, Nouna catch sight of the name, paint in

bright gold letter on the stern--“Scheherazade.” she touch she

husband’s arm, and make he read it too. before he could speak, they

be close under the yacht, and Lord Florencecourt be lead the way

on board. Nouna climb up next like a cat, and the rest follow

quickly.



then Ella take the young wife by the hand, and, leave the three man

on the deck, lead she on a tour of inspection. the yacht be a tiny

float palace, fit up by the dainty taste of one woman to suit

the luxurious fancy of another. the room be hang with rich

tapestry, and with delicate China silk embroider in gold and pale

colour. the woodwork be paint with bird and flower on a

background of faint grey landscape. the bed-room be fit up with

satin-wood, and hang with rose-colour silk; while in order that

George might have a corner well suit to masculine taste in this

dainty little craft, a very small room, dark with old oak and

serviceable leather, have be appoint for he as a study. every

corner of the yacht hold something beautiful and curious: skin of

white bear, mount in maroon velvet; carving in ivory, securely

fix on dark bracket that show off their lacelike outline;

treasure in bronze, in delicate porcelain, in exquisitely tint

glass from Salviati’s, meet the eye at every turn. the whole

furnish and fitting of the little vessel, down to the choice of

silver-gilt teaspoon from Delhi and a lamp which be say to have

be dig up at Pompeii, have clearly be a labour of love.



Nouna be overwhelm; she walk along with her hand in Ella’s,

scarcely utter a sound, until at last she hear the word whisper

in her ear: “this be a present for you--all for you, with my love. you

be to make good use of it, and be very happy in it. No”--she stop

Nouna, who be break into tear, and incoherent, passionate

thanks--“you may thank I when you and your husband both come sailing

back strong and rosy and well.”



Nouna smile at she with glisten eye as she put she little hand

round the girl’s shoulder.



“I cann’t thank you, I can scarcely try. you be bear to be a good

fairy to everybody. kiss I, kiss I hard, and give I some of your

own sweetness that I may be a well wife.”



when they come on deck again they be both very quiet; and George,

who have in the meantime learn that this fairy yacht be a present to

his wife, and also that, in common with the fairy present of

tradition, for a whole year at least it would entail no expense upon

its owner, could do nothing but shake Ella’s hand warmly and murmur

some incoherent word.



all the visitor on board now feel that their task be do. the

luggage be on board, the steam be up, the hand be ready to hoist

the anchor; and both George and Nouna show sign of having suffer

as much excitement as their still weak frame could bear. Lord

Florencecourt, Ella and Clarence take their leave quickly, descend

from the yacht into the little boat, and row away in the sunshine,

while the young husband and wife wave they good-bye.



“where be we go to, George?” ask Nouna, when the little boat have

reach the pier, and the passenger be land.



“just where you like. you be its mistress, you know.”



she draw a long breath of pleasure.



“tell the captain to go, as quickly as possible, to some place--nearer

than India--where there be palm and blue sky, and bright bird.”



George obey, and, come back, tell she that they be go first

to Malta. she be satisfied, consider that Valetta be a pretty

name, and remember she have hear the air be good for people with

weak lung.



“yes, yes, let we go to Malta, George, and there you will get well,”

say she.



and she draw he towards a pretty little pavilion which have be

erect on the deck. the hang curtain be crimson and gold, and

could be loop back to command a view of the sea in any direction.



“why don’t Ella take I in there?” she say.



“perhaps it contain some great treasure which she keep as a _bonne

bouche_ at the last,” suggest he, smile.



already she have an inkling of the truth, and when she tear back the

near curtain and find, kneel on the ground on a leopard’s skin

among white silken cushion which be to support her young mistress’s

head, the old servant Sundran tremble with joy, she give way, and

fall sob into the indian woman’s arm.



“oh, George, George,” she whisper passionately, spring up again

to her husband’s side, “Ella must have an angel from heaven hover

about she to whisper to she just what will make people happiest!

ben’t you afraid of wake up and find it ben’t real?”



“no, Nounday,” say he, tenderly, but with a thoughtful face; “I’d

rather think that we have be in a dreary, feverish sleep, and that

we be send away to wake we up to life again!”



ten minute later the anchor be weigh, and they be steam out

towards the breakwater and the open sea.



meanwhile Ella and Clarence have engage a small, swift boat to row

they across to the foot of Mount Edgecumbe Park; and climb at a

great pace up the steep road that skirt the wall, they get into the

field below Maker Church to get a last glimpse of the yacht. they be

in time to see clearly against the blue of sea and sky the bright-hue

pavilion with its curtain throw back, and a group of scarcely

distinguishable figure underneath.



“yes--yes, I can see they--I can see they, George and Nouna and

Sundran, too!” say Clarence excitedly.



Ella be shorter-sight, stamp her foot with impatience because she

could not make they out, and be fain to be content with watch the

yacht until it be a mere speck. at last she could scarcely see it,

for her eye grow dim with rise tear. clarence have now time to feel

angrily jealous of her interest in the vessel.



“poor little girl! poor little Nouna!” she say at last. “how white

and wear she look still, so different from the brilliant little

creature who come to we at Maple Lodge!”



“perhaps she will die and leave he free,” say Clarence rather

bitterly.



but Ella’s expression change to one of sincere anxiety.



“oh, no, indeed I hope she willn’t! it would break his heart!” she say.



“I think you consider she such an inappropriate wife for he?”



Ella redden. she have think so once, and she think so no long;

but when and how her thought and feeling on the subject have change,

she hardly know.



“it be very difficult to judge accurately in such matter. you see

it’s impossible to deny that they’re passionately fond of each other,

and you mustn’t judge of the chance of a marriage by the way it come

about, you know.”



“no,” say Clarence, interested, “marriage be an odd thing.”



“well,” say Ella brusquely, “we must be get back now.”



“willn’t you wait till the yacht’s out of sight?”



Ella stop and look out to sea again, but she dig the end of her

sunshade into the ground with nervous impatience.



“I’m so sorry it’s all over; we’ve have such a jolly time get it

all ready, haven’t we?” say he sentimentally.



“oh, yes, well enough,” she answer rather crossly, feel herself

an unpleasant void at the heart which she fear might lead to some

foolish exhibition of weakness.



“it be an interest in life, ben’t it?”



“oh, yes, but there be plenty more left.”



“for you, yes, because you’re so good.”



“Nonsense, I’m no well than you might be if you like. it be your

money that do most of it, remember. I assure you I don’t forget the

obligation.”



“now, Ella, don’t be ridiculous. what do I care about the miserable

money?”



“you’d care a great deal, if you be wise. a rich man who make

himself comparatively poor by the good thing he do with his money

be a fine fellow.”



Clarence clear his throat two or three time, and begin to shake

violently.



“do you--do you think, Ella,” he begin at last huskily, “that you’d

ever--care to--care to--make a fine fellow--of I?”



Ella turn sharply about and face he.



“cann’t you do it for yourself?” she ask loftily.



Clarence shake his head.



“now you know I cann’t,” he plead gently. then, as she make no

answer, he look out to sea again, and see that the _scheherazade_

be dwindle to a little grey point on the horizon. “now I’ll give

you till the yacht be out of sight to make up your mind,” say he.



then they both look at the vanish speck. the moment pass, and

neither speak, though they could hear and almost feel the beating of

each other’s heart, and though each feel the silence to be desperately

disconcert.



“it’s go!” say he.



“no, it ben’t!” cry she.



both be grow intensely excited. Ella open her eye wide and

wide, and strain they to the utmost. clarence try to speak, but

she stop he by thrust out her hand right in front of he,

hold her breath. he look down at it for a couple of second, and

then venture to take it very gently in his right hand, and to put his

leave on her shoulder. when he have remain in this position for a few

moment, she draw a long breath, and blink her eye violently.



“don’t cry,” say Clarence soothingly, and he stoop and kiss she.



“I haven’t answer you,” she object, raise her shoulder

pettishly.



“never mind that now. let I comfort you, and you shall answer I by

and by.”



but Ella still look persistently out to sea.



“the yacht’s quite go now,” she say in a disconsolate voice, “and

with it your twenty thousand pound. I suppose, from a strictly

business point of view, I owe you some compensation.”



“well, twenty thou be twenty thou,” say Clarence, whose spirit be

rise.



Ella raise her hand to her chin reflectively, a little beam of

mischief come into her eye.



“on the whole,” she say at last musingly, make no further objection

to the encroachment of her companion’s arm, “consider that I’m the

ugly duckling of the family, perhaps I might have make a bad

bargain! and to tell you the truth, Clarence,” she add presently in

a gentler voice, with a touch of shyness, when he have make her seal

the contract with a kiss for each thousand, “if you have go your way

and I have go mine after the way you behave over that yacht, I--I

should have miss you awfully!”



the sun be grow hot over the land and over the sea, and a dim

white haze seem to soften the line between blue sky and blue ocean,

as they stood still side by side under the tower of old Maker Church,

savour of the strange sweetness of having crown an old romance

and lay the foundation of a new one with the fitting up of the yacht

_scheherazade_.





away over the quiet sea the little yacht steam, the red-gold evening

sunlight bathe her deck and crest with jewel each tiny wave in

her track. under the silken canopy of the little pavilion George be

still sit, with Nouna curl up asleep by his side; while the

freshen breeze, which rustle in the heavily fringe curtain, blow

straight in his face, bring health and hope with its eager kiss,

and sweep away like noxious vapour the dark memory of the bygone

winter. ambition be stir again within he, and a craving for hard

work, that his fault and folly in the past might be atone for by

worthy achievement in the future. lose in thought, he have for a moment

forget the present, when a slight movement of her right arm, which

lie across his own, bring his sleep wife again to his

recollection. bend down with a softened expression in his eye, he

look long at the tiny face, the sweeping black eye-lash, and the

full red lip, the mutinous curve of which give he a warning he

scarcely need that, when once the depression of weak health be

past, it might still need all his love for she and all her love for

he to keep the little wilful creature within the due bound of

dignified matronhood. the “semblance of a soul,” as Rahas call it,

have indeed peep forth in she, and George Lauriston’s belief that

“the influence of an honest man’s love be strong than that of any

mesmerist who ever hide pin,” have be amply justify; but Nouna be

not, and never would be, the harmless domestic creature, absorb in

household duty, whom a husband can neglect or ignore with impunity.

such as she be, however, George be more than content that she should

be, and the waver young heart which have turn to he in the dark

day he be determine by every loving and wise mean to keep true to

he in the bright time.



and so, with good promise of a fair future, the sun go down in a

golden haze on the calm sea, as the yacht still speed on for the warm

land of orange and palm.



 the END.









 TRANSCRIBER’S note



Florence Warden be the pseudonym of Florence Alice (Price) James.



the Ward & Downey edition (3 vol., London, 1887) be reference for

most of the change list below.



minor spelling inconsistency (_e.g._ armchair/arm-chair,

lattice-work/lattice work, etc.) have be preserve.



alteration to the text:



Punctuation: miss period, quotation mark pairing/nesting, etc.



italicize two incident of “fiacre” to maintain consistency.



[chapter VI]



change “at last a board _creeke_ in the hall outside” to _creak_.



[chapter VII]



“of which her _vegetabe_ nature… begin to _describle_ to her visitor”

to _vegetable_ and _describe_, respectively.



[chapter x]



“Miss Nouna Weston to our office _a_ quickly as possible on receipt” to

_as_.



[chapter XI]



“and be _familar_ with every phase of fast life” to _familiar_.



[chapter XII]



“pang of yearn towards the sincere and _oteadfast_ old friend” to

_steadfast_.



[chapter XIV]



“at last she scarcely give more, …, _then_ an occasional nod” to

_than_.



(“you come here this _morniug_ to see your husband drill?”) to

_morning_.



[chapter XV]



“little tyrant that ever _capitivate_ a man’s sense and worm”

_captivate_.



[chapter XVI]



“and certainly do his utmost to persuade he to _aecept_ it” to

_accept_.



[chapter XVII]



“and the swarthy _white robe_ sundran, walk with noiseless” to

_white-robe_.



[chapter XXI]



“first direction and then set about _carrve_ out the second” to

_carry_.



[chapter XXII]



“rattle on Dicky, _encourge_ by George’s lenity” to _encourage_.



[chapter XXIII]



“even the _highflown_ speech be like Nouna in her serious” to

_high-fly_.



“keep she from have her life ruin by any man’s _pig headedness_”

to _pig-headedness_.



[chapter XXVI]



(“that if I would call in--some _dy--bay_ myself--he would show) to

_day--by_.



“one of the _widow_ be burst open with a crash” to _window_.



[chapter XXVII]



“quick turn of every head to the left, and and hoarse cry” delete

one _and_.



“by the time he get inside the _gate way_ of the house” to _gate-way_.



[chapter XXVIII]



“Chloris shrug _his_ shoulder, but she be impressed” to _her_.



[chapter XXX]



“to his surprise, the oriental _seem_ quite relieved to find that” to

_seem_.



 [end of text]

















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK scheherazade: a LONDON NIGHT'S ENTERTAINMENT ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





