The project Gutenberg eBook of Forge and furnace: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: forge and furnace: a novel



author: Florence Warden



Release date: August 5, 2022 [ebook #68689]

                most recently update: October 18, 2024



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: New Amsterdam Book Company, 1896



credit: MWS, Martin Pettit and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive/American Libraries.)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK FORGE and FURNACE: a novel ***



+-------------------------------------------------+

|Transcriber’s note:                              |

|                                                 |

|Obvious typographic error have be correct.  |

|                                                 |

+-------------------------------------------------+





[illustration: “oh, father, don’t, don’t! you’ll hurt he.”

--_Frontispiece._]









FORGE and FURNACE



a novel





BY

FLORENCE WARDEN



AUTHOR of



“the HOUSE on the MARSH,” “scheherazade,” “a prince

of darkness,” ETC.



[illustration: Logo]



NEW YORK

NEW AMSTERDAM BOOK COMPANY

156 FIFTH AVENUE









COPYRIGHT, 1896,

BY

NEW AMSTERDAM BOOK COMPANY.









content.





CHAPTER                                        PAGE

    I. A Pair of Brown Eyes                       5



   II. Claire                                    13



  III. something wrong at the Farm               18



   IV. Claire’s Apology                          21



    V. Bram’s rise in life                       31



   VI. Mr. Biron’s Condescension                 38



  VII. Bram’s Dismissal                          46



 VIII. another Step Upward                       54



   IX. a call and a Dinner Party                 61



    X. the Fine eye of her Cashbox              70



   XI. Bram show himself in a New Light         80



  XII. a Model Father                            86



 xiii. an Ill-match Pair                      102



  XIV. the Deluge                               111



   XV. Parent and Lover                         118



  XVI. the Pangs of Despised Love               126



 XVII. Bram speak his mind                     134



xviii. face to face                             143



  XIX. Sanctuary                                151



   XX. the Furnace Fires                        159



  XXI. the fire go out                        168



 XXII. Claire’s Confession                      173



XXIII. Father and Daughter                      184



 XXIV. Mr. Biron’s Repentance                   190



  XXV. Meg                                      200



 XXVI. the Goal reach                         206









forge and FURNACE;



the romance of a sheffield blade.









CHAPTER I.



A PAIR of BROWN EYES.





Thud, thud. amidst a shower of hot, yellow spark the steam hammer

come down on the glow steel, shake the ground under the foot of

the master of the work and his son, who stand just outside the shed.

in the full blaze of the August sunshine, which be, however, temper

by such cloud of murky smoke as only Sheffield can boast, old Mr.

Cornthwaite, acclimatize for many a year to heat and to coal dust,

stand quite unconcerned.



tall, thin, without an ounce of superfluous flesh on his bone, with a

fresh-colored face which seem to look the young and the handsomer

for the silver whiteness of his hair and of his long, silky moustache,

Josiah Cornthwaite’s be a figure which would have arrest attention

anywhere, but which be especially noticeable for the strike contrast

he make to the rough-look Yorkshiremen at work around he.



like a swarm of demon on the shore of Styx, they move about,

haggard, gaunt, uncouth figure, silent amidst the roar of the furnace

and the whirr of the wheel, lift the bar of red-hot steel with

long iron rod as easily and unconcernedly as if they have be hot

roll bake in an infernal oven, heedless of the red-hot spark which

fall around they in shower as each blow of the steam hammer fall.



Mr. Cornthwaite, whose heart be in his furnace, his huge revolving

wheel, his rolling mill, and his gigantic press, watch the work,

familiar as it be to he, with fascinated eye.



“what day be it last month that Biron turn up here?” he ask his

son with a slight frown.



this frown often cross old Mr. Cornthwaite’s face when he and his

son be at the work together, for Christian by no mean share his

father’s enthusiasm for the work, and be at small pain to hide the

fact.



“oh, I’m sure I don’t remember. how should I remember?” say he

carelessly, as he look down at his hand, and wonder how much more

black coal dust there would be on they by the time the guv’nor would

choose to let he go.



a young workman, with a long, thin, pale, intelligent face, out of

which two deep-set, shrewd, gray eye look steadily, glance up

quickly at Mr. Cornthwaite. he have be stand near enough to hear

the remark exchange between father and son.



“well, Elshaw, what be it?” say the eld Mr. Cornthwaite with an

encouraging smile. “any more discovery to-day?”



a little color come into the young man’s face.



“no, sir,” say he shyly in a deep, pleasant voice, speak with a

broad Yorkshire accent which be not in his mouth unpleasant to the

ear. “ah hear what you ask Mr. Christian, sir, and remember it be

on the third of the month Mr. Biron come.”



“thank. your memory be always to be trust. I think you’ve get your

head screw on the right way, Elshaw.”



“Ah’m sure, ah hope so, sir,” say the young fellow, smile in return

for his employer’s smile, and touch his cap as he move away.



“smart lad that Elshaw,” say Mr. Cornthwaite approvingly. “and steady.

never drink, as so many of they do.”



“can you wonder at their drinking?” break out Christian with energy,

“when they have to spend their life at this infernal work? it parch

my throat only to watch they, and I’m sure if I have to pass as many

hour as they do in this awful, grimy hole I should never be sober.”



the elder Mr. Cornthwaite look undecided whether to frown or to laugh

at this tirade, which have at least the merit of be utter in all

sincerity by the very person who could least afford to utter it. he

compromise by give breath to a little sigh.



“it’s very disheartening to I to hear you say so, Chris, when it have

be the aim of my life to bring you up to carry on and build up the

business I have give my life to,” he say.



Christian Cornthwaite’s face be not an expressive one. he be

extraordinarily unlike his father in almost every way, have prominent

blue eye, instead of his father’s pierce black one, a fair

complexion, while his father’s be dark, a figure short, broad, and

less upright, and an easy, happy-go-lucky walk and manner, as different

as possible from the erect, military bearing of the head of the firm.



what little expression he could throw into his big blue eye he throw

into they now, as he pull his long, ragged, tawny moustache and

echo his father’s sigh.



“well, ben’t it dishearten for I too, sir,” protest he

good-humoredly, “to hear you constantly threaten to put I on bread

and water for the rest of my life if I don’t settle down in this

beastly hole and try to love it?”



“it ought to be natural to you to love what have bring you up in every

comfort, educate you like a prince, and make of you----”



Josiah Cornthwaite pause, and a twinkle come into his black eye.



“make of you,” he go on thoughtfully, “a selfish, idle vagabond,

with only wit enough to waste the money his father have make.”



“thank you, sir,” say Chris, quite cheerfully. “if that’s the good the

work have do for I, why should I love they?”



at that moment young Elshaw pass before his eye again, and recall

Christian’s attention to a subject which would, he shrewdly think,

divert the current of his father’s thought from his own deficiency.



“I wonder, sir,” he say, “that you don’t put Bram Elshaw into the

office. he’s fit for something well than this sort of thing.”



and he wave his hand in the direction of the group in the middle of

which stand Elshaw, rod in hand, with his lean, earnest face intent on

his work.



Josiah Cornthwaite’s eye rest on the young man. Bram be a little

above the middle height, thin, sallow, with shoulder somewhat incline

to be narrow and sloping, but with a face which command attention.

he have short, mouse-color hair, high cheek bone, a short nose, a

straight mouth, and a very long straight chin; altogether an assemblage

of feature which promise little in the way of attractiveness.



and yet attractive his face certainly be. intelligence, strength of

character, good humor, these be the quality which even a casual

observer could read in the countenance of Bram Elshaw.



but the lad have more in he than that. he have ambition, vague as yet,

dog tenacity of purpose, imagination, feeling, fire. there be the

stuff; of a man of no common kind in the young workman.



Josiah Cornthwaite look at he long and critically before answer

his son’s remark.



“yes,” say he at last slowly, “I daresay he’s fit for something

well--indeed, I’m sure of it. but it don’t do to bring these young

fellow on too fast. if he get too much encouragement he will turn

into an inventor (you know the sort of chap that’s the common pest of

a manufacturing town, always worry about some precious ‘invention’

that turn out to have be invent long ago, or to be utterly

worthless), and never do a stroke of honest work again.”



“now, I don’t think Elshaw’s that sort of chap,” say Chris, who look

upon Bram as in some sort his protégé, whose merit would be reflect

on himself. “anyhow, I think it would be worth your while to give he a

trial, sir.”



“but he would never go back to this work afterwards if he prove a

failure in the office.”



“not here, certainly.”



“and we should lose a very good workman,” persist Mr. Cornthwaite,

who have conservative notion upon the subject of promotion from the

rank.



“well, I believe it would turn out all right,” say Chris.



his father be about to reply when his attention be divert by the

sudden appearance, at the extreme end of the long avenue of shed and

workshop, of two person who, to judge by the frown which instantly

cloud his face, be very unwelcome.



“that old rascal again! that old rascal Theodore Biron! come to borrow

again, of course! but I willn’t see he. I won’t----”



“but, Claire, don’t be too hard on the old sinner, for the girl’s sake,

sir,” say Chris hastily, cut short his protest.



Mr. Cornthwaite turn sharply upon his son.



“yes, the old fox be artful enough for that. he use his daughter to

get himself receive where he himself wouldn’t be tolerate for two

minute. and I’ve no doubt the little minx be up to every move on the

board too.”



“oh, come, sir, you’re too hard,” protest Chris with real warmth, and

with more earnestness than he have show on the subject either of his

own career or of Bram’s. “I’d stake my head for what it’s worth, and I

suppose you’d say that ben’t much, on the girl’s be all right.”



but this championship do not please his father at all. Josiah

Cornthwaite’s bushy white eyebrow meet over his black eye, and his

handsome, ruddy-complexion face lose its color. Chris be astonish,

and regret his own warmth, as his father answer in the tone he

could remember dread when he be a small boy--



“whether she’s all right or all wrong, I warn you not to trouble your

head about she. you may rely upon my do the good I can for she, on

account of my relationship to her mother. but I would never countenance

an alliance between the family of that old reprobate and mine.”



but to this Chris respond with convince alacrity--



“an alliance! good heavens, no, sir! we suffer quite enough at the

hand of the old nuisance already. and I have no idea, I assure you, of

throw myself away.”



Josiah Cornthwaite still keep his shrewd black eye fix upon his

son, and he seem to be satisfied with what he read in the face of

the latter, for he presently turn away with a nod of satisfaction

as Theodore Biron and his daughter, who have perhaps be linger a

little until the great man’s first annoyance at the sight of they have

blow over, come near enough for a meeting.



“ah, Mr. Cornthwaite, surely there’s no sight in the world to beat

this,” begin the dapper little man airily as he hold out a small,

slender, and remarkably well-shape hand with a flourish, and keep

his eye all the time upon the man at work in the near shed as

if the sight have too much fascination for he to be able readily to

withdraw his eye. “this,” he go on, apparently not notice that

Mr. Cornthwaite’s handshake be none of the warm, “of a whole

community immerse in the noblest of all occupation, the turning of

the innocent, lifeless substance of the earth into tool and wheel,

ship and carriage! I must say that this place have a charm for I

which I have never find in the fairest spot of Switzerland; that

after see whatever be to be see in California, the States, the

Himalayas, Russia, and the rest of it, I have always be ready to say,

not exactly with the poet, but with a full heart, ‘give I Sheffield!’

and to-day, when I come to have a look at the work,” he wind up in a

less lofty tone, “I think I would bring my little Claire to have a

peep too.”





[illustration: “ah, Mr. Cornthwaite, surely there’s no sight in the

world to beat this.”--_Page 10._]





in spite of the absurdity of his harangue, Theodore Biron know how

to throw into his voice and manner so much fervor. he speak, he

gesticulate with so much buoyancy and effect, that his hearer be

amuse and interested in spite of themselves, and be carry away,

for the time at least, into believe, or half-believe, that he be

in earnest.



Josiah Cornthwaite, always accessible to flattery on the matter of “the

work,” as the artful Theodore know, suffer himself to smile a little

as he turn to Claire.



“and so you have to be sacrifice, and must consent to be bore to

please papa?”



“oh, I shalln’t be bore. I shall like it,” say Claire.



she speak in a little thread of a musical, almost childish, voice,

and very shyly. but as she do so, utter only these simple word,

a great change take place in she. before she speak no one would have

say more of she than that she be a quiet, modest-looking, perhaps

rather insignificant, little girl, and that her gray frock be neat and

well-fitting.



but no soon do she open her mouth to speak or to smile than the

little olive-skinned face break into all sort of pretty dimple. the

black eye make up for what they lack in size by their sparkle and

brilliancy, and the two row of little ivory tooth help the dazzle

effect.



then Claire Biron be charming. then even Josiah Cornthwaite forget

to ask himself whether she be not cunning. then Chris stroke his

mustache, and tell himself with complacency that he have do a good

deed in stand up for the poor, little thing.



but rough Bram Elshaw, whom Chris have beckon to come forward, and who

stand respectfully in the background, wait to know for what he be

want, feel as if he have receive an electric shock.



Bram be hold very unsusceptible to feminine influence. he be what

the factory and shop lass of the town call a hard nut to crack, a

close-fiste customer, and other term of a like opprobrious nature.

occupy with his book, those everlasting book, and with his vague

dream of something indefinite and as yet far out of his reach, he

have, at this ripe age of twenty, look down upon such member of the

frivolous sex as come in his way, and dream of something fairer in

the shape of womanhood, something to which a pretty young actress whom

he have see at one of the theatre in the part of “Lady Betty Noel,”

have give more definite form.



and now quite suddenly, in the broad light of an August morning, with

nothing more romantic than the roll mill for a background, there have

break in upon his startled imagination the creature the sight of whom

he seem to have be wait for. as he stand there motionless, his

eye rivet, his ear tingle with the very sound of her voice, he

feel that a revelation have be make to he.



as if reveal in one magnetic flash, he see in a moment what it be

that woman mean to man; see the attraction that the rough lad of his

acquaintance find in the slovenly, noisy girl of their own court and

alley; stand transfix, coarse-handed son of toil that he be, under

the spell of love.



the voice of Chris Cornthwaite close to his ear startle he out of a

stupor of intoxication.



“what’s the matter with you, Bram? you look as if you’d be strike by

lightning. you be to go round the work with Miss Biron and explain

thing, you know. and listen” (he might well have to recall Bram’s

wandering attention, for this command have throw the lad into a sort of

frenzy, on which he find it difficult enough to suppress all outward

sign), “I have something much more important to tell you than that.”

but Bram’s face be a blank. “you be to come up to the Park next

Thursday evening, and I think you’ll find my father have something to

say to you that you’ll be glad to hear. and mind this, Bram, it be I

who put he up to it. it’s I you’ve get to thank.”



“thank you, sir,” say Bram, touch his cap respectfully, and try

to speak as if he feel grateful.



but he be not. he feel no emotion whatever. he be stupefy by the

knowledge that he be to go round the work with Miss Biron.









CHAPTER II.



CLAIRE.





Bram wonder how Mr. Christian could give up the pleasure of show

Miss Biron round the work himself. Christian’s partiality for feminine

society be as great as his popularity with it, and as well know. the

partiality, but not perhaps the popularity, be inherit from his

father--at least, so folk say.



and Bram Elshaw, look about for a reason for this extraordinary

conduct on the part of the young master, and note the wistfulness of

that young man’s glance and the displeasure on the face of the elder

Mr. Cornthwaite, come very near to a correct diagnosis of the case.



Bram be always the person choose to carry message between the work

and Holme Park, the private residence of the Cornthwaites, and the

household talk have filter through to he about Theodore Biron, the

undesirable relation of french extraction, who have settle down too

near, and whose visit have become too frequent for his rich kinsman’s

pleasure. and the theory of the servant be that these visit be

always pay with the object of borrow money.



not that Theodore look like an impecunious person. to Bram’s

inexperienced eye Mr Biron and his daughter look like people of

boundless wealth and great distinction. Theodore, indeed, be if

anything well dress than either of the Cornthwaites. his black

morning coat fit he perfectly; his driving glove be new; his

hat sit jauntily on his head. from his tall white collar to his tight

new boot he be the picture of a trim, youthful-look country

gentleman of the smart and rather amateurish type.



he have a thin, small-feature face, light hair, light eyebrow, and the

small of light moustache; pale, surprised eye, and the slim

pair of feminine white hand that ever man have. of these he be proud;

and so his glove keep their new appearance for a long time, as he

generally carry they in his hand.



as for Claire, she not only look well dress than either Mrs. or

Miss Cornthwaite, but well dress than any of the lady of the

neighborhood. and this be not Bram’s fancy only; it be solid fact.



Claire Biron have never be in France, and her mother have be an

Englishwoman of Yorkshire descent. but through her father she have

inherit from her french ancestor just that touch of feminine genius

which make a woman neat without severity, and smart look without

extravagance.



in her plain gray frock and big yellow chip hat with the white gauze

rosette, the little slender, dark eyed girl look as nice as no

ordinary english girl would think of make herself except for some

special occasion.



Bram have not the nicely critical faculty to enable he to discern

thing. all he know, as he walk through the black dust with Miss

Biron and point out to she the different process which be go

on, be that every glance she give he in acknowledgment of the

information he be oblige to bawl in her ear be intoxicate; that

every insignificant comment she make rang in his very heart with a

delicious thrill of pleasure he have never feel before.



and behind they follow the two old gentleman, Mr. Cornthwaite

explain, comment, soften in spite of himself under the artful

interest take in every dry detail by the airy Theodore, who trot

jauntily beside he; and grow enthusiastic over everything.



before very long, however, Mr. Cornthwaite, who be get excite

against his will over that hobby of “the work” which Theodore manage

so cleverly, draw his companion away to show he a new process which

they be in course of testing; and for a moment Bram and Miss Claire

be leave alone together.



and then a strange thing, a thing which open Bram’s eye, happen.

from some corner, some nook, sprang Chris, and, hook his arm with

affectionate familiarity within that of Miss Biron, he said--



“all right, Elshaw; I’ll show the rest. come along, Claire.”



and in an instant he have whirl away with the young lady, who begin to

laugh and to protest, round the near corner.



Bram be leave stand stupidly, with a feeling rise in his heart

which he could not understand. what be this that have happen? nothing

but the most natural thing in the world; and the impulse of sullen

resentment which stir within he be ridiculous. there be, there

could be, no rivalry possible between Mr. Christian Cornthwaite, the

son of the owner of the work, and Bram Elshaw, a workman in his

father’s employment. and Miss Biron be a lady as far above he (Bram)

as the Queen be.



this be what Bram tell himself as, with hard-set jaw and a lower

look of discontent on his face, he quietly go back to his work.



but the matter be not end with he. as he go on mechanically with

his task, as he bend over the great steel bar with his long rod, his

thought be with the pair, the well-match, handsome pair of lover,

as he suppose they to be, who have flit off together as soon as

papa’s back be turn.



now what do that mean?



if it have be any other young lady Bram would not have give the

matter a second thought. Christian Cornthwaite’s flirtation be as

the sand of the sea for multitude, and he would bring half-a-dozen

different girl in a week to “see over the work” when papa could be

rely upon to be out of the way. Christian have the easy assurance,

the engaging, irresponsible manner which always make their possessor

a favorite with the unwise sex, and be report to be able to win the

favor of a prude in less time than it take another man to gain the

smile of a coquette.



and so where be the wonder that this universal favorite should be a

favorite with Miss Biron? of course, there be nothing in the fact to

be wonder at, but the infatuate Bram would have have this particular

lady as different from other lady in this respect as he hold she

superior in every other.



but then a fresh thought, which be like a dagger thrust on the one

hand, yet which bring some bittersweet comfort for all that, come

into his mind. surely Miss Biron be not the sort of girl to allow such

familiarity except from the man whom she have accept for a husband.

surely, then, these two be engage--without the consent, or even the

knowledge, of Mr. Cornthwaite very likely, but promise themselves

that they would get that consent some day.



and as he come to this decision Bram look black.



and all the time that these fancy chase each other through his

excited brain this lad of twenty retain a saner self which stand

outside the other and smile, and tell he that he be an infatuated

young fool, a moonstruck idiot, to tumble headlong into love with a

girl of whom he know nothing except that she be as far above he, and

of all thought of he, as the star be above the sea.



and he be right in think that there be not a man in all that crowd

of his rough fellow-workman who would not have jeer at he and look

down upon he as a hopeless ass if they have know what his thought and

feeling be. but for all that there be the making in Bram Elshaw,

with his dream and his fancy, of a man who would rise to be master

of they all.



out of the heat of the furnace and the glowing iron Bram Elshaw

presently pass into the heat of the sun, and stand for a moment,

his long rod in his hand, and wipe the sweat from his face and neck.

and before he could turn to go back again he hear a little sound

behind he which be not a rustle, or a flutter, or anything he could

describe, but which he know to be the sound of a woman move quickly

in her skirt. and the next moment Miss Biron appear a couple of

foot away from he, smile and grow a little pink as a young girl

do when she feel herself slightly embarrassed by an unaccustomed

situation.



before she speak Bram guess by the position in which she hold she

little closed right hand that she be go to offer he money. and

he draw himself up a little, and blush a much deep red than the

girl--not with anger, for after all be it not just what he might have

expect? but with a keener sense than ever of the difference between

they.



Miss Biron have begin to speak, have get as far as “I want to thank you

for explain everything so nicely,” when something in his look cause

she to stop and hesitate and look down.



she be suddenly strike with the fact that this be no common workman,

this pale, grimy young Yorkshireman with the strong jaw and the clear,

steady eye, although he be dress in an old shirt blacken by coal

dust, and trouser pack with piece of sack tie round with string.



“Ah’m reeght glad to ha’ be of any service to yer, Miss,” say Bram

in a very gentle tone.



there be a moment’s silence, during which Miss Biron finally make up

her mind what to do. look up quickly, with the blush still in her

face, she say, “thank you very much. good-morning,” and, to Bram’s

great relief, turn away without offer he the money.









CHAPTER III.



something wrong AT the FARM.





it be certain that Bram Elshaw be still think more of Miss Biron

than of the communication which Mr. Cornthwaite be to make to he when

he present himself at the back door of his employer’s residence on

the follow Thursday evening.



Holme Park be on the side of one of the hill which surround the city

of Sheffield, and be a steep, charmingly-woode piece of grass and

from a small plateau in which the red brick house look down at the

row of new red brick cottage, at the factory chimney, and the smoke

cloud of the hive below.



Bram have always take his message to the back door of the house, but

he be shrewd enough to guess, from the altered manner of the servant

who now let he in and conduct he at once to the library, that this

be the last time he should have to enter by that way.



and he be right. Mr Cornthwaite be as precise in manner, as

business-like as usual, but his tone be also a little different, as he

tell Bram that his obvious ability be throw away on his present

occupation, and that he be willing to take he into his office, if he

care to come, without any premium.



Bram thank he, and accept the offer, but he show no more than

conventional gratitude. the shrewd young Yorkshireman be really more

grateful than he seem, but he see that his employer be act in

his own interest rather than from benevolence, and, although he make

no objection to the smallness of the salary he be to receive, he

modestly but firmly refuse to bind himself for any fix period.



“ah may be a failure, sir,” he object quietly, “and ah should like to

be free to goa back to ma auld work if Ah be.”



so the bargain be strike on his own term, and he retire respectfully

just as a servant enter the library to announce that Miss Biron

wish to see Mr. Cornthwaite. and at the same moment the young girl

herself trip into the room, with a worried and anxious look on her

face.



Mr. Cornthwaite rise from his chair with a frown of annoyance.



“my dear Claire, your father really should not allow you to come this

long way by yourself--at night, too. it be neither proper nor safe. by

the time dinner be over it will be dark, and you have a long way to go.”



“oh, but I be go back at once, as soon as you have read this,” say

Claire, put a little note fasten up into a cocked hat like a

lady’s, into his unwilling hand. “and perhaps Christian would see I as

far as the town, if you think I ought not to go alone.”



but this suggestion evidently meet with no approval from Mr.

Cornthwaite, who shake his head, sign to Bram to remain in the room

and begin to read the note, all at the same time.



“my dear,” say he shortly, as he finish read and crumple it up,

“Christian be engage at present. but young Elshaw here will show you

into your tram, willn’t you, Elshaw?”



“certainly, sir.” Bram, who have the handle of the door in his hand,

salute his employer, and retreat into the hall before Claire, who

have not recognize he in his good clothe, have time to look at he

again.



“a most respectable young fellow, my dear, though a little rough. one

of my clerk,” Bram hear Mr. Cornthwaite explain rapidly to Miss Biron

as he shut himself out into the hall and wait.



Bram be divide between delight that he be to have the precious

privilege of accompany Miss Biron on her journey home, and a sense

of humiliation cause by the shrewd suspicion that she would not like

this arrangement.



but when a few minute later Claire come out of the library all his

thought be turn to compassion for the poor girl, who have evidently

receive a heavy blow, and who have difficulty in keep back her

tear. she dash past he out of the house, and he follow at a

distance, perceive that she have forget he, and that his duty

would be limit to see without her knowledge that she get safely

home.



so when she get into a tram car at the bottom of the hill outside the

park he get on the top. when she get out at St. Paul’s Church, and

dart away through the crowded street in the direction of the Corn

Exchange, he follow. tread through the crowd of people who fill

the roadway as well as the pavement, she flee along at such a pace that

Bram have difficulty in keep her little figure in view. she draw away

at last from the heart of the town, and begin the ascent of one of the

stony street, line with squalid, cold-look cottage, that fringe

the smoke-wreathe city on its north-eastern side.



Bram follow.



once out of the town, and still go upwards, Claire Biron flee like

a hare up a steep lane, turn sharply to the left, and plunge into

a narrow passage, with a broken stone wall on each side, which run

between two open field. this passage give place to a rough footpath,

and at this point the girl stand still, her gaze arrest by a strange

sight on the high ground on the right.



it be dark by this time, and the outline of the hill above, break by

a few cottage, a solitary tall chimney at the mouth of a disuse coal

pit, and a group of irregular farm building, be soft and blur.



but the window of the farmhouse be all ablaze with light. a long,

plain stone building very near the summit of the hill, and hold

a command situation above a sudden dip into green pasture land,

the unpretende homestead dominate the landscape and blink fiery

eye at Claire, who utter a low cry, and then dash away from the

footpath by a short cut across the field, make straight for the

house.



all the blind be up, and group of candle could be see on the

table within, all flicker in the draught, while the muslin curtain

in the low room be blow by the evening wind into dangerous

proximity to the light.



and in all the house there be not a trace of a live creature to be

see, although from where Bram stand he could see into every room.



he follow still, uneasy and curious, as Claire climb the garden

wall with the agility of a boy, and run up to the house door.



it be lock. nothing daunt, she mount on the ledge of the near

window, which be open only at the top, throw up the sash, and get into

the room.



a moment later she have blow out all the candle. then she run from

room to room, extinguish the light, all in full view of the

wonder Bram, who stand watch her movement from the lawn, until

the whole front of the house be in complete darkness.



then she disappear, and for a few minute Bram could see nothing,

hear nothing.



but presently from the back part of the room, there come to his

listening ear a long, shrill cry.









CHAPTER IV.



CLAIRE’S APOLOGY.





the effect of that cry upon Bram Elshaw be to set he tingle in

every nerve.



the lawn which run the length of the farmhouse be wide, and slope

down to a straggling hedge just inside the low stone wall which

surround the garden and the orchard. up and down this lawn Bram

walk with hurried footstep, uncertain what to do. for although he

recognize Claire’s voice, the cry she have utter seem to he to

indicate surprise and horror rather than pain, so that he do not feel

justify in enter the house by the way she have do until he feel

more sure that his assistance be want, or that his intrusion would

be welcome.



in a very few moment, however, he hear she cry--“Don’t, don’t; oh,

don’t! you frighten I!”



Bram, who be by this time close to the door, knock at it loudly.



wait a few moment, on the alert for any fresh sound, and hear

nothing, he then make his way round to the back of the house, leap

over the rough stone wall which divide the garden from the farmyard,

and try the handle of the back door.



this also be fasten on the inside.



but at the very moment that Bram lift the latch and give the door a

rough shake he hear a sound like the clashing of steel upon stone, a

scuffle, a suppress cry, and upon that, without further hesitation,

Bram put his sinewy knee against the old door, and at the second

attempt burst the bolt off.



there be no light inside the house except that which come from the

fire in an open range on the right; but by this Bram see that he be in

an enormous stone-paved kitchen, with open rafter above, a relic of

the time when the farmer be not one of the gentlefolk, but dine with

his family and his laborer at a huge deal table under the pendant ham

and bunche of dry herb which in the old day use to dangle from

the rough-hewn beam.



Bram, however, notice nothing but that a door on the opposite side of

the kitchen be swinge back as if some one have just pass through,

and he spring across the stone flag and throw it open.



there be a little oil lamp on a bracket against the wall in the wide

hall in which he find himself. stand with his back to the solid

oak panel of the front door, brandish a naked cavalry sword of

old-fashioned pattern, stand the airy Theodore Biron in dressing-gown

and slipper, with his hair in disorder, his face very much flushed,

and his little fair moustache twist up into a fierce-looking point at

each end.



on the low step of a wide oak staircase, which take up about twice

the space it ought to have do in proportion to the size of the hall,

stand little Claire, pale, tremble with fright, try to keep she

alarm out of her voice, as she coax her father to put down the sword

and go to bed.



“Drunk! mad drunk!” think Bram as he take in the situation at a

glance.



at sight of the intruder, whom she do not in the least recognize,

Claire stop short in the midst of her entreaty.



“what be you do here? who be you?” ask she, turn upon he

fiercely.



the sudden appearance of the stranger, instead of far infuriate

Mr. Biron, as might have be fear, strike he for an instant into

decorum and quiescence. lower the point of the weapon he have be

brandish, he seem for a moment to wait with curiosity for the

answer to his daughter’s question.



when, however, Bram answer, in a respectful and shame-face manner,

that he have hear she call out and fear she might be in need of help,

Theodore’s energy return with full force, and he make a wild pass or

two in the direction of the young man, with a recommendation to he to

be prepare.



Claire’s terror return with full force.



“oh, father, don’t, don’t! you’ll hurt he!” she cry piteously.



but the entreaty only serve to whet Theodore’s appetite for blood.



“hurt he! I mean to! I mean to have his life!” shout he, while his

light eye seem to be start from his head.



and, indeed, it seem as if he would proceed to carry out this threat,

when Bram, to the terror of Claire and the evident astonishment of her

father, rush upon Theodore, and, cleverly avoid the thrust which

the latter make at he, seize the hilt of the sword, and wrest it

from his grasp.



it be a bold act, and one which need some address. Mr Biron be for

the moment sober by his amazement.



“give I back my sword, you impudent rascal!” cry he, make as he

speak a vain attempt to regain possession of the weapon.



but Bram, who be a good deal strong than he look, keep he off

easily with his right hand, while he retain a tight hold on the sword

with his left.



“you shall have it back to-morrow reeght enough,” say Bram

good-humoredly. “but maybe it’ll be safe outside t’house till ye feel

more yerself like. Miss Claire yonder knaw it’s safe wi’ I.”



“oh, yes; oh, yes,” pant Claire eagerly, though in truth she have not

the least idea who this mysterious knight-errant be. “let he have it,

father; it’s perfectly safe with he.”



but this action of his daughter’s in side with the enemy fill Mr

Biron with disgust. with great dignity, support himself against the

wall as he speak, and gesticulate emphatically with his right hand,

while with his left he fumble about for his gold pince-nez, he say in

solemn tones--



“I give this well-mean but m-m-muddle-head young man credit for

the good intention in the world. but same time I demand that he should

give up my p-p-property, and that he should take himself off m-m-my

premise without furth’ delay.”



“certainly, sir. good-evening,” say Bram.



and without wait to hear any more of Mr Biron’s protest, or heed

his cry of “stop thief!” Bram run out as fast as he could by the

way he have come, leave the outer door, which he have damage on his

forcible entry, to slam behind he.



once outside the farmyard, however, he find himself in a difficulty,

be suddenly stop by a farm laborer, in whom his rapid exit from

the house have not unnaturally arouse suspicion, which be not

allay by the sight of the draw sword in his hand.



“eh, mon, who art ta? and where art agoin’?”



Bram point to the house.



“there’s a mon in yonder have get t’ jump,” explain he simply,

“and he be wa-ave this abaht’s head. so ah take it away from ’un.”



the other man grin, and nod.



“T’ mester’s take that way sometimes,” say he. “but this sword’s none

o’ tha property, anyway.”



Bram look back at the house. nobody have follow he out; even the

damage door have be leave gape open.



“ah want a word wi’ t’ young lady,” say he. “she knaw I. I work for

Mr. Cornthwaite down at t’ work in t’ town yonder.”



“oh, ay; Ah’ve hear of ’un. he’s get t’ coin, and,” with a

significant gesture in the direction of the farmhouse, “we haven’t.”



“you work on t’ farm here?” ask Bram.



the man answer in a tone and with a look which imply that affair

on the farm be in anything but a flourish condition--



“ay, ah work on t’ farm.”



and, apparently satisfied of the honesty of Bram’s intention, or else

careless of the safety of his master’s property, the laborer nod

good-night, and walk up the hill towards a straggling row of cottage

which border the high side of the road near the summit.



Bram get back into the farmyard, and wait for the appearance at the

break door of some occupant of the house to whom he could make his

excuse for the damage he have do. he have a shrewd suspicion who that

occupant would be. since all the noise and commotion he and Theodore

Biron have make have not bring a single servant upon the scene, it

be natural to infer that Mr. Biron and his daughter have the house to

themselves.



and this idea fill Bram with wonder and compassion. what a life for

a young girl, who have seem to rough Bram the epitome of all womanly

beauty and grace and charm, be this which accident have reveal to

he. a life full of humiliation, of terror, of anxiety which would

have break the heart and the spirit of many an old woman. instead of

be a spoilt young beauty, with every wish forestall, every caprice

gratify, his goddess be only a poor little girl who live in an

atmosphere of petty care, petty worry, under the shadow of a great

trouble, her father’s vice of drink.



and as he think about the girl in this new aspect his new-bear

infatuation seem to die away, the glamour and the glow fade, and he

think of she only as a poor little nestling which, deprive of its

natural right of warmth and love and tenderness, live a starve life,

but bear its privation with a brave look.



and as he lean against the yellow-wash wall he hear a slight

noise, and start up.



Miss Biron, candlestick in hand, be examine the injury do to she

back door.



Bram open his mouth to speak, but he stammer and utter something

unintelligible, take aback as he be by the vast difference between

the fancy picture he have be draw of the young lady and the reality

with which he be confront.



for instead of the wan, white face, the stream eye, the anxious and

weary look he have expect to see, he find himself face to face with a

cheery little creature, brisk in movement, bright of eye, who look

up with a start when he appear before she, and say rather sharply--



“this be your doing, I suppose? and instead of be scold for the

mischief you have do you expect to be thank and perhaps reward,

no doubt?”



at first Bram could scarcely believe his ear.



“Ah’m sorry for t’ damage Ah’ve do, miss,” he say hurriedly. “and

that’s what Ah’ve wait for to tell yer, nowt but that. but it’s not

so bad as it look. it’s nobbut t’ bolt spring off and a scratch to the

paint outside. if you can let I have a look into your tool-chest,

Ah’ll set it reght at once. and for t’ paint, Ah’ll come up for that

to-morrow neght.”



Miss Biron smile graciously. the humble Bram have his sense of humor

tickle by the air she be give herself now, as if she have forget

altogether her helpless fright of only an hour before, and the relief

with which she have hail his disarming of her father.



“well, that’s only fair, ben’t it?” say she with a bright smile, as

she instantly act upon his advice by disappear into the house like

a flash of lightning.



Bram hear the rattling of tool, and as it go on some time without

apparent result, he step inside the door to see if he could be of

any assistance.



Claire have throw open the door of a cupboard to the left of the wide

hearth, and be stand on a Windsor chair turn over the content

of a couple of biscuit tin on the top shelf. Bram, slow step by slow

step, come near and nearer, fascinate by every rapid movement of

this, the first feminine creature who have ever arouse his interest.

how small her foot be! Bram look at they, and then turn away

his head, as if he have be guilty of something sacrilegious. and

the movement of her arm as she turn over the odd and end in the

box, the bend of her dark head as she look down, fill he afresh

with that strange new sense of wonder and delight with which she have

inspire he on his first sight of she at the work. against the light

of the candle, which she have place on the shelf, he see her profile in

a new aspect, in which it look pretty, more childlike than ever.



“well give I t’ box, miss,” suggest Bram presently.



Miss Biron start, not know that he be so near.



“very well,” say she. “you can look, but I be afraid you willn’t find

any proper tool here at all.”



she be right. but Bram be clever with his hand as well as with his

head, and he could “make thing do.” so that in a very few minute he

be at work upon the door, while Miss Biron hold the light for he,

and watch his nimble movement with interest.



and while she watch he it occur to she, now that she feel quite

sure he be no mere idler who have burst his way into the house from

curiosity, that she have be by no mean as grateful for his timely

entrance as he have have a right to expect. and the candle begin to shake

in her hand as she glance at he rather shyly, and wonder how,

without cast blame upon her father, she could make amend to this

methodical, quiet, and rather mysterious young Orson for the part he

have take in the whole affair.



“I’m really very much oblige to you,” she say at last, with a very

great change in her manner from the rather haughty air she have

previously assume. “I----”



she hesitate, and stop. Bram have glance quickly up at she, and

then his eye have flash rapidly back to his work again.



“I seem to know your face,” say she with a manner in which sudden

shyness struggle with a sense of the dignity it be necessary for she

to maintain in these novel circumstance. “where have I meet you before?

and what be your name?” she add quickly, as a fresh suspicion rush

into her mind.



“my name be Elshaw, miss. Bram Elshaw,” he answer, as he sit back on

his heel and hunt again in the biscuit tin. “and I’ve see you. I

see you t’ other day, last Tuesday, at Mr. Cornthwaite’s work. it be

I show you round, miss.”



“oh!”



the bright little face of the girl be cloud with bewilderment.



“and then again ah see you to-neght up to Mr. Cornthwaite’s house, up

at t’ Park. and he tell I for to see you home, miss.”



“oh!”



this time the exclamation be one of confusion, annoyance, almost of

horror.



“I remember! he say--he say--he would send some one to see I home.

but--er--er--I be in such a hurry--that--that I forget. and I run off

by myself. and--and so you follow; you must have follow I!”



and Claire’s pretty face grow red as fire.



the truth be she have be angry with Mr. Cornthwaite for the manner of

his reception, for the dry remark he have make about her father, and

for his manif and most ungracious unwillingness to allow Christian

to see her home. and she have make up her mind that no “respectable

young man” of Mr. Cornthwaite’s choosing should accompany she if Chris

might not. and so, dash off through the park in the dusk by a short

cut, she have think to escape the ignominy which Mr. Cornthwaite have

design for she.



Bram, with a long, rusty nail between his tooth, grow red than she.

in an instant he understand what he have not understand before, that the

young lady have take the offer of his escort as a humiliation. she have

want to go back with Christian, and Mr. Cornthwaite have wish to put

she off with one of his workman! Bram feel that her indignation be

just, although he be scarcely stoical enough not to feel a pang.



“you see, miss,” he say apologetically, take the nail out of his

mouth, “ah be bind to come this weay, and so ah couldn’t help but

follow you. and--and when Ah hear you call aht--why ah couldn’t help

but get in. Ah’m reght sorry if Ah seem to be take a liberty, miss.”



again Claire be strike as she have be that day at the work by the

innate superiority of the man to his social position, of his tone to

his accent.



“it be very lucky for I--I be very glad, very grateful,” say she

hurriedly, in evident distress, which be most touching to her hearer.

“I don’t know what I should have do--I--I must explain to you. you

must not think my father would have do I any harm,” she go on

earnestly, with a great fear at her heart that Bram would report these

occurrence to his employer, and furnish he with another excuse for

slight her father. “he get like that sometimes, especially in the

hot weather,” she go on quickly, and with so much intensity that it

be difficult to doubt her faith in the story. “he be in the army

once, and he have a sword-cut on the head when he be out in India. and

it make he excitable, very excitable. but it never last long. now he

be fast asleep, and to-morrow morning he will be quite himself, quite

himself again. you willn’t say anything about it to Mr. Cornthwaite, will

you?” she wind up, with a sidelong look of entreaty, as Bram, having

finish his task, rise to his foot and pick up the coat he have

throw off before set to work.



“no, miss.”



there be something in his tone, in his look, as he say just those two

word which inspire Claire with absolute confidence.



“thank you,” she say. “thank you very much.”



and Bram understand that her gratitude cover the whole ground, and

take in his forcible entrance, the time he have spend in mend the

door, and his final promise.



“and Ah’ll look in to-morrow neght, miss,” say he as he turn in the

doorway and notice how sleepy her brown eye be begin to look,

“and give a coat of paint to’t.”



“oh, you need not. it’s very good of you.”



he touch his cap, and turn to go; but as he be turn,

Claire, blush very much, and conscious of this conflict between

conventionality and her sense of what she owe to this dignified young

workman, who could not be reward with a “tip,” thrust out her little

hand.



then Bram’s behavior be for the moment rather embarrassing. the

privilege of touch her finger, of hold the hand which have

stir in he so many strange reflection for a moment in his own, as

if they have be friend, equal, be one which he could not accept

with perfect equanimity. she see that he start, and, blush more

than ever, she seem in doubt as to whether she should withdraw she

hand. but, see her hesitation, Bram master himself, take the hand

she offer, wring it in a strong grip, and walk quickly away towards

the gate.



he feel as if he be in Heaven.









CHAPTER V.



BRAM’S rise in life.





what be there about this little brown-eyed girl that she should

bewitch he like this? Bram, who flatter himself that he have his wit

about he, who have keep himself haughtily free from love entanglement

up to now, could not understand it. and the most amazing part of it

all be that his feeling about she seem to undergo an entire change

every half-hour or so. at least a dozen time since his infatuation

begin he fancy himself quite cure, and able to laugh at himself and

look down upon she. and then some fresh aspect of the little creature

would strike he into fresh ecstasy, and he would find himself as

much under the spell as ever.



thus the first sight of she that evening in Mr. Cornthwaite’s study have

thrill he less than the announcement of her name. but, on the other

hand, the touch of her hand so unexpectedly accord, have quicken his

feeling into a delicious frenzy, which last during the whole of his

walk down into the town and out to the one small backroom in a grimy

little red brick house where he lodge.



when Bram try to think of Miss Biron soberly, to try to come to

some sort of an estimate of her character, he be altogether at a

loss. her tear, her terror, her smile, her little air, all seem

to succeed each other as rapidly as if she have be still a child.

no emotion seem to be able to endure in her volatile nature. he

doubt, consider the matter in cold blood, whether this be a

characteristic he admire; yet there it be, and his infatuation

remain.



with all her limitation, whatever they might be; with all her fault,

whatever they be, Miss Claire Biron have permanently take her place

in Bram’s narrow life as the near thing he have ever see to an ideal

woman, as the representative, for the time be at least, of that

feminine creature, the necessity for whom he now begin to understand,

and who be to come straight into his heart and into his arm some day.



for, with all his ambition, his reasonable hope, Bram be as yet too

modest to say to himself that this white-handed lady herself, this

pearl among pebble, be the prize for which he must strive; no, she

only stand for that prize in his mind, in his heart, or so at least

Bram tell himself.



Bram think about Miss Biron and her bibulous papa all night, for he

scarcely slept, but with the morning light come fresh care to occupy

his thought.



it be his first day at his new employment in the office, and Bram,

though he manage to hide all trace of what he feel under a stolid

and matter-of-fact demeanor, feel by no mean at his ease on his first

entrance among the young gentleman in Mr. Cornthwaite’s office.



he have put on his Sunday clothe, not without a pang at the

extravagance in dress which his rise in life entail. nobody in the

office seem to have hear of his promotion, for the other clerk take

no notice of he on his entrance, evidently suppose that he have be

send for, as be frequently the case, to take some message or to do

some errand which require a trustworthy messenger.



when, after be call into the inner office, he come out again

and take his place at a desk among the rest there be a burst of

astonishment, amusement, and some contempt at his expense. and when the

truth become know that he have come among they to stay, he straight

from the coalyard and the mill and the shed outside, the feeling

of all the young gentleman find vent in “chaff” of a particularly

merciless kind.



his accent, his speech, his dress, his look, his walk, his manner, all

form theme for the very easy ridicule. never before have they have

such an opportunity, and they make the most of it. but if they think

to make life in the office unbearable for Bram they have reckon

without their host. Bram case himself in an armor of stolid good

humor, join in the laugh against himself, and in affect to try to

assume their mode of speech and manner contrive to burlesque they at

least as well as they have mimic he.



and the end of it be that the fun languish all too soon for their

wish, and Bram when he leave the office that afternoon, and wipe his

face as he use to do after another sort of fiery ordeal, congratulate

himself on having get through the day well than he have expect.



Christian Cornthwaite run out after he, and slap he on the back.



“well, Elshaw,” cry he, “and how do you feel after it?”



“much t’ same as Dan’l do when he’d come out of t’ den o’ lion, sir,”

reply Bram grimly. “t’ young gentleman in there,” and he point with

his thumb over his shoulder, “doan’t find I grand enough for’em.”



“and so you want to go back to the work, Bram?”



“no fear, sir,” answer the new clerk dryly. “they’ll get use to I,

or else maybe I shall get use to they. or wi’ so many fine pattern

round I maybe ah shall be a polished gentleman myself presently.”



“no doubt of it, Bram. but you’ve be rather roughly treat. it ought

to have be manage gradually, bit by bit, and then at last, when

you take your place in the office, I ought to have send you to my own

tailor first, and have you properly rig out.”



Bram look down ruefully at his Sunday clothe.



“ah feel a prince in these last evening,” he expostulate.



Christian laugh heartily.



“well, they couldn’t beat you at the main thing, Elshaw, at writing

and spelling and calculate, eh?”



“no,” answer Bram complacently. “ah could beat most of ’em there.”



as a matter of fact, Bram’s self-teaching, with the additional help of

the night school in the winter, have so develop his natural capacity

that he be as far ahead of his new companion intellectually as he be

behind they in external. Christian, who know this, feel proud of his

protégé.



“there be some more hint I want to give you,” say he, as he put his

arm through that of his rough companion and walk with he up the

street, with the good-natured familiarity which make he popular with

everybody, but in the exercise of which he be very discriminating.

“you will have to leave William Henry Street, or wherever it be you

hang out, and take a room in a well neighborhood. and I will show you

where you can go and dine. look here,” he go on, stop abruptly,

“come up to I this evening, and we’ll have a talk over a pipe. you

smoke, I suppose?”



“no, sir,” say Bram. “ah don’t smoke. it’s too expensive. and ah thank

you kindly, but Ah’ve get a job out Hessel way this evening, and--”



Christian interrupt he with sudden interest.



“Out Hessel way? why, that’s near Duke’s farm. will you take a note

up for I to Miss Biron? she live there. you can find the house easy

enough.”



Bram, who have listen to these word with emotion he dared not

express, agree to take the note, but do not mention that it be to

the farmhouse that his own errand take he.



all the happiness he have feel over the anticipated walk to Hessel

evaporate as he watch Christian tear a leaf out of a note-book,

scribble hastily on it in pencil, fold and address it to “Miss Claire

Biron.”



but what a poor fool he be to be jealous? could there be a question

but that Mr. Christian Cornthwaite, with his good look and his gayety,

his position and his fortune, would make she a splendid mate?



something like this Bram carefully din into himself as he take the

note, and go home to his tea.



but for all that, he feel restless, dissatisfied, and unhappy as he set

out after tea on his walk up to Hessel with that note from Christian

Cornthwaite to Miss Biron in his pocket.



although it be a hot evening, and the walk be uphill all the way,

Bram get to the farm by half-past six, and come up to the door just as

a woman, whom he decide must be the servant, come out of it.



she be about forty year of age, a little under the middle height,

thickset of figure, and sallow of skin. but in her light gray eye

there be a shrewd but kindly twinkle; there be a promise of humor

about her mouth and her sharply-point nose which make the countenance

a decidedly attractive one.



she make no remark to Bram, but she turn and watch he as he

approach the back door, and do not resume her walk until he have

knock and be admit by Claire herself.



Miss Biron seem to feel some slight embarrassment at the sight of

he, and receive his explanation that he have come to repaint her

door with an assumption of surprise. the shrewd young man decide

that the young lady have repent her unconventional friendliness of

the precede evening, and be inclined to look upon his visit as an

intrusion. his manner, therefore, be studiously distant and respectful

as he raise his cap from his head, give the reason for his come,

and then say that he have bring a note for she from Mr. Christian

Cornthwaite.



Claire blush as she take it. Bram, who have bring his paint can and

his brush, take off his coat, and begin his task in silence, with just

a sidelong look at the girl as she begin to read the note.



at that moment the inner door of the kitchen open, and Mr. Biron

enter with a jaunty step, arrange a rosebud in his button-hole in

quite a light comedy manner. catch sight at once of Bram at work

on the door, that young man observe that a slight frown cross his

face. after a momentary pause in his walk, he come on, however, as

gayly as ever, and peep over his daughter’s shoulder read the few

word the note contain, and say at once--



“well, you must go, dear; you must go.”



Claire blush hotly, and crumple up the note.



“I--I don’t want to. I would rather not,” say she in a low voice.



“oh, but that’s nonsense,” retort he good-humoredly. “Chris be a good

fellow, a capital fellow. put on your hat, and don’t be a goose. I’ll

see that the young man at the door have his beer.”



Bram hear this, and his face tingle, but he say nothing. he

perceive, indeed, from a certain somewhat feminine spitefulness in Mr.

Biron’s tone, that the word be say with the intention of annoy

he.



Claire appear to hesitate a moment, then quickly make up her mind

she said--“All right, father, I’ll go,” and disappear through the

inner door.



Theodore, without any remark to Bram, follow she.



in a few moment Bram hear a movement in the straw of the farmyard

behind he, and look round see that Claire be stand behind he

with her hat and glove on, and be apparently debate in her own mind

whether she would utter something which be in her thought. he salute

she respectfully with a stolid face. then she begin to speak, redden,

stammer, and finally make a dash for it.



“where do you live?” she ask suddenly. “I mean--be it far from here?”



“no, miss; it’s over yon,” answer Bram mendaciously, nod in the

direction of the cottage on the brow of the hill.



“then would you very much mind--” and Bram could see that her breast

be heave under the influence of some strong emotion, “keep your

eye upon this place until I come back? you know all about it,” she go

on, with a burst of uneasy confidence, “so that it’s no use my minding

that. and when my father’s leave alone--well, well, you know,” say

she, blush crimson, and keep her eye down. “and Joan have to go

home to her husband and child at night. and--and I’m afraid when he

get excited, you know, that he’ll set the place on fire. he nearly do

last night. you see, my poor father have a great many worry, and a

very little affect his head--since that sabre cut in India.”



the humility, nay, the humiliation in her tone, touch Bram to the

quick. he promise at once that he would take care that Mr. Biron do

no harm either to himself or to the house while she be away, and

receive her grateful, breathless, little whisper of “thank you; oh,

thank you,” with outward stolidity, but with considerable emotion.



then she run off, and he go quietly on with his work.



it take he a very short time to finish put on the one coat of

paint, which be all he could do that night; and then, as Mr. Biron have

not appear again, Bram think he have well take a look round and

see what that gentleman be do. so he take up his paint-can, and,

leave the door open to dry, make his way round to the front of the

house, and peep cautiously in at the low window; and in one of

they he see a couple of empty champagne bottle, with the cork lie

beside they, and an overturn glass on the table.



“T’owd rascal haven’t waste much time,” think Bram to himself, as

he stare at the evidence of Mr. Biron’s solitary dissipation, and

look about for the toper himself. but Theodore be not in the room.

neither be he in the room on the other side of the front door, as Bram

hasten to ascertain. perhaps he have have sense enough to make his way

upstairs to his own room to sleep off the effect of the wine.



this seem to be a probable explanation of his disappearance, Bram

be inclined to trouble himself no far on that head, when a faint

noise, which seem to proceed from the bowel of the earth, attract

his attention. there be a grating under the window of the room which

appear to be the dining-room, and in the cellar which be thus dimly

light some one appear to be move about.



Bram, in his character of sworn guardian of the house, think it well

to investigate, so he run round to the back, enter by the open door,

and find a trap-door in the hall just outside the kitchen door.



a strong smell of paraffin be the first thing he notice as he look

down the ladder; the next be the sight of Mr. Biron calmly empty

a can of the oil upon the loose straw and firewood which the cellar

contain.



startle by the sudden light and noise above, Mr. Biron drop the can

as the trap-door open, and then Bram see that in his left hand he

hold a box of match.



“tha fool, tha drunken fool, coom up wi’ ye!” shout Elshaw, as he

stretch down a strong arm and pull Theodore up by his coat collar.



Bram have expect his captive to stagger, and so he do. he have

expect he to stammer and to stare; and he do these thing also. but

Bram have see a good deal of drunkenness in his time, and he be not

easy to deceive.



suddenly hold the slender little man at arm’s length from he, and

look steadily into his eye with a black frown on his own face, he

shout in a voice which might have rouse the village--



“why, you d----d old rascal, what villainy have you be up to? you’re

as sober as I be!”









CHAPTER VI.



MR. BIRON’S CONDESCENSION.





when Mr. Theodore Biron find himself pull up the step of his

cellar, and roughly shake by the very person who have disarm he on

the previous evening, his rage be such that he lose his usual airy

self-possession completely, and betray himself in the most unworthy

manner.



“who be you, sir? and how dare you interfere with I in this way?”

stammer he, as he try in vain to release himself from the

determined grasp of the young clerk.



“coom up to t’ light, and then you’ll see who Ah be,” say Bram, as

with a strong arm he drag the little man up the step, and, shut

the trap-door, fold his arm and turn to look at he.



“do you dare to justify this outrage, this--this burglarious entry upon

my premise? the second in two day? do you dare to justify it?” say

Theodore haughtily.



“ay,” say Bram surlily, “Ah’m go to give information to t’ police.

Ah’m goin’ to tell they to keep an eye upon you, Mr. Biron, and not

to be surprised if t’ house be burn down; since you’ve get odd way

of amuse yourself with match and paraffin, and with candle leave

ablaze near light curtain. ah suppose you’re insure, Mr. Biron?”



“whatever you suppose have nothing to do with the question,” retort

Mr. Biron, whose little thin cheek be pink with indignation, and

whose light eye be flash with annoyance and malignity. “nobody

be likely to pay much attention to the statement of a man who be

evidently a loafer and a thief.”



“a thief!” shout Bram with a menacing gesture, which have the effect

of send Theodore promptly into the little dining-room behind he.

“well, we’ll see whether t’ word of t’ thief willn’t be take against

your, Mr. Biron.”



there be a pause. theodore from behind the table in the little

dining-room, where he be twirl his moustache with a tremble white

hand, look at he with apprehension, and presently laugh in an

attempt to recover his usual light-hearted ease of manner.



“come, come,” say he, “this be carry a joke too far, for I suppose

it be intend for a joke--this intrusion upon my premise--and that

you never have any real thought of carry anything away. I remember

your face now; you be one of the workman at my cousin’s place,

Cornthwaite’s Iron-Works.”



Bram, who be not unwilling to make term with Miss Biron’s father,

stare at he sullenly.



“Ah’m not one of t’ workman now. Ah’m in t’ office,” say he.



Mr. Biron raise his eyebrow; he do not seem pleased. it have in fact

occur to he that this young man be employ as a sort of spy by

the Cornthwaites, with whom he himself be by no mean an acceptable

person.



he smile disagreeably.



“one of the clerk, eh? one of the smart young man who nibble pen in

the office?”



“ay, but ma smartness ben’t outside, Mr. Biron.”



“I see. great genius--disdain mere appearance and all that.”



Bram say nothing. theodore’s sneer hurt he more than any he have ever

be subject to before. he feel, in spite of his contempt for the

airy-mannered scoundrel, that he himself stand at a disadvantage, with

his rough speech and awkward movement, with the dapper little man in

front of he. the consciousness that he himself would be reckon of

no account compare to Theodore Biron by the very man who despise the

latter and respect himself be the strong spur he have ever feel

towards self-improvement.



“and what bring a person of your intellectual calibre into our humble

neighborhood?” pursue Theodore in the same tone.



“Ah’m look for lodging up this way,” answer Bram shortly.



the idea have come to he that evening that, since he have be tell to

change his lodging, he would settle in the neighborhood of Hessel.



as he have expect, Mr. Biron do not look pleased.



“and you be make yourself at home in advance!” suggest he dryly.



“well, sir, you needn’t see more of I than you feel inclined to,”

retort Bram.



and, with a curt salutation, he turn on his heel and go out of the

house by the back way, through the kitchen and the still open outer

door.



he go up the hill towards the row of cottage on the summit, and

make inquiry which result in his find the two modest room he

want in the end house of all, within a stone’s throw of a ruin so

strange-look that Bram make a tour of inspection of the ramshackle

old building before return to the town.



this ruin have once be a country mansion of fair size and of some

importance, but the trace of its architectural beauty be now

few and far apart. of the main building only one side wall retain

enough of its old characteristic to claim attention; at the top of the

massive stonework a Tudor chimney, of handsome proportion, rise in

incongruous stateliness above the decay roof which have be place

over a row of cottage, which, build up within the old wall, have grow

ruinous in their turn, and be now shut up and desert.



at the back of this heterogeneous pile and a little distance away

from it, another long and massive stone wall, with a Tudor window

out of which once Wolsey have look, have now become the chief prop

and mainstay of another row of building, one of which be a school,

another a chapel, while a third be a now disuse stable.



and in the shelter of these ruin and remain of greatness a tall

chimney, a cluster of shed, and a pile of grass-grow truck mark

the spot where a now disuse coal mine add a touch of fantastic

desolation to the scene.



Bram go all round the pit-mouth and survey the town of Sheffield,

with its dead yellow light and its patch of blackness, like an inky

sea bear a fleet of ill-light boat on its breast in a stygian

mist. he think he should like this evening walk out of the smoke and

the lick of the fiery tongue, even without the occasional peep he

should get at Miss Biron.



but he hardly know, perhaps, how much the thought of she, of she

dance eye, her rapid movement like the sweep of a bird’s wing, have

to do with his feeling.



he go back round the pit’s mouth, make his way with some difficulty

in the darkness over the rough stone with which the place be thickly

strew.



and as he come to the remain of the old mansion he hear the laugh of

Christian Cornthwaite, a little subdue, but clearly recognizable, not

very far from his ear.



Bram straighten himself with a nasty shock. by the direction from

which the sound come, he know that Christian be in the ruin itself;

and that he be not there by himself be plain. who then be with he?

Bram do not want to find an answer to this question; at least he tell

himself that he do not. the dilapidated shell of the old mansion be

not the place where a lady would meet her lover. Bram have peep into

one of the desert cottage on his way to the pit’s mouth, and have

see that, board up as door and window be, there be ruinous

cranny and space through which a tramp or vagrant could creep to a

precarious shelter.



Christian, who love an adventure, amorous or otherwise, be evidently

pursue one now.



Bram walk down the hill, pass the cottage where he have engage his

new room, whistle to himself, and tell himself persistently that

he be not wonder where Miss Biron have go to that evening. and

then he become suddenly mute, for, turn his head at the sound of a

light footstep behind he, he see Claire herself come down the hill

at a breathless rate.



she pass he without see he. her head be bent low, and her foot

seem to fly. Bram’s heart seem to stop beat as he watch she.



but he would not allow that he suspect she of be the person who

have be in the ruin building with Christian Cornthwaite. it be true

that Christian have send she a note in which he have evidently ask she

to meet he; it be true that she have accede to the request, at her

father’s instigation.



but although Bram clench his tooth in thinking of Theodore, and feel

a sudden impulse of fierce indignation against that gentleman, he would

not acknowledge to himself that it be possible to connect she with an

act inconsistent with the modesty of a gentlewoman.



he be not far behind when Theodore, lively, bright, and entirely

recover from the discomposure into which Bram’s unseemly violence have

throw he, come forth from the farmyard to meet his daughter.



“my dear child, I be get quite anxious about you. where’s Chris? I

think he would have see you back home.”



“I leave he--at the top of the hill, papa,” answer Claire in a demure

voice.



and she run past Theodore into the house.



then Theodore, whose eye be sharp, recognize Bram. and there

flash through his brain, always active on his own behalf, the

suspicion that this presumptuous young man might be spy not so much

on his employer’s account, as upon his own. the idea strike Theodore as

preposterously amusing; but at the same time he think that something

might be make out of the foolish fellow’s infatuation, if it indeed

exist.



“well, and how about the lodging?” say he with cheerful

condescension, as Bram come nearer.



“Ah’ve find some,” reply Bram shortly.



“and what bring you so far afield?” go on Theodore more urbanely

than ever. “may I hazard the conjecture that there’s a lady in the

case?”



the young man be quick to seize this suggestion, which he see might be

use most usefully hereafter.



“ay, sir, that’s about reght,” say he. “but she doan’t live here,” he

go on, make up his story with great deliberation as he speak. “she

live mile away in t’ country; but ah think Ah’d well settle out

of t’ town myself, before ah go court.”



Theodore be disappoint, but he do not show it.



“well,” say he, “we shall see something of you now and then, I

daresay.”



and he nod good-bye in the most affable manner.



Bram salute respectfully, but he be too shrewd to be much impressed,

in the manner Theodore intend, by this change towards he.



away from the glamour cast upon he by the fact of Claire’s presence

in his vicinity, Bram have sense enough to reflect that the less he see

of Miss Biron and her shifty father the well it would be for he. he

do not say this to himself in so many word; but the knowledge be

bear strongly in upon he all the same. there be force in those two

person, differently as he esteem they, against which he feel that he

have no defence ready. Theodore be cunning and grasping; his daughter

be, as Bram know, use by her father as a tool in his unscrupulous

hand. Deep as Bram’s compassion for the charming girl be, and his

admiration, he have the strength of mind to live for month in her

neighborhood without make any attempt to speak to she.



he see she, indeed, morning after morning, and evening after evening,

on his way down to the work and on his way back. for the road from his

lodging lie past the farm, where Miss Biron be always busy with her

poultry in the morning, and work in her garden at night.



it be not often that she see Bram, but when she do she have always

a smile and a nod for he; never more than that though, even when he

linger a little, in the hope that she would throw he a word.



Bram see Theodore sometimes, lounge in a garden chair, with a

cigarette in his mouth; and sometimes Chris Cornthwaite would be with

he, or walk by Claire’s side round the lawn, chatter to she

while she potter about her late autumn flower.



this sight always send a sharp pang through Bram’s heart; for he have

conceive the idea that Christian, nice fellow though he be, might be

too volatile a person to value Claire’s affection as she deserve.



Claire, on her side, seem to be happy enough with Christian. her

pretty laugh ring out gayly; and Bram, even while he laugh at himself

for a sentimental folly, find himself pray that the poor child

might not be deceive in her hope of happiness with her volatile lover.



for Christian, amiable and devoted as he might be with Claire, have not,

as Bram know, give up his amiability and devotion to other girl; and

after the second or third time that Bram have see he at Hessel Farm,

he mention casually to the newly promote clerk that he do not want

his father to hear of his visit there.



Whereat Bram look grave, and foresaw trouble in the near future.



the March wind have begin to blow fiercely on the high ground above

Hessel, when Theodore Biron at last discover a use to which to put

his young neighbor. would Bram do some marketing for he in the town?

Bram be rather surprised at the request, for an excuse for go into

the town be what Theodore like to have. but when he find that the

task he be expect to undertake be the purchase of one pound’s worth

of good for the sum of five shilling, which be all the cash Theodore

trust he with, Bram, when Theodore have turn his back upon he,

stand look thoughtfully at the two half-crown in his hand.



and while he be do so Claire, who have see the transaction from the

window, run out of the house and come up with he. as usual, the girl’s

presence throw a spell upon he, and put to flight all the saner idea

he have conceive as to the desirability of try to conquer his own

infatuation. she come up smile, but there be anxiety in her face.



“what have papa be say to you?” she ask imperiously.



“he want I to get some thing for he in the town,” say Bram

straightforwardly. “but Ah’m such a bad hand at marketing--that--that

Ah’m afraid----”



Claire blush, and interrupt he impatiently.



“he’s not give you money enough, of course. he never do. he don’t

understand. man never do. they think everything can be get for a few

penny for the housekeeping, and that one be wasteful and extravagant.

give I the money; I’ll see about the thing.”



“no, you willn’t, Miss Claire,” say Bram composedly, as he put the two

half-crown in his pocket. “you’ve put I on my mettle. Ah’m go to

see what ah can do, and show you that the man can give the lady a

lesson in marketing, after all.”



but Claire do not reply in the same light tone. she look up in his

face with an expression of shame and alarm in her eye, which touch

he keenly. with a little catch in her breath, she try to protest, to

forbid. then she read something in Bram’s eye which sting she, some

gleam of pity, of comprehension. she break off short, burst into tear,

and turn abruptly away.



Bram stand by the gate for a few second, with his head hang down, and

a guilty, miserable look on his face. then, as nobody come out to he,

he slunk quietly away.









CHAPTER VII.



BRAM’S DISMISSAL.





it be with some diffidence that Bram present himself at the

farmhouse door that evening. he go through the farmyard to the back

door, and give a modest knock. it be Joan, the servant, who open the

door to he, and Bram, as his own eye meet those of the middle-aged

Yorkshire woman, have a strong sense that she read he, as he would have

express it, “like a book.” indeed Joan could read character in a face

much more easily than she could read a print page. having be bear

long before the day of School Boards, she have be accustom from she

early youth to find she entertainment not in cheap fiction, but in the

life around she; so that she be on the whole much well educate

than woman of her class be now, having store her mind with the fact

gain by experience and observation.



she look at he not unkindly.



“ah,” she begin, with a nod of recognition, as if she have know he

well for a year instead of now speak to he for the first time, “ah

thowt it be you. Mister Christian he come in by t’ front door.”



Bram do not like this comparison. it suggest, in the first place,

that Joan have an instinct that there be some sort of rivalry between

himself and Mr. Christian. it suggest also the basis on which they

respectively stand.



“I’ve bring some thing Miss Biron want,” he begin, forget that

he have be commission, not by the young lady, but by her father.



Joan smile a broad smile of shrewd amusement. Bram wish she would

mind her own business.



“Weel, here she be to see they hersen,” say she, as the inner door of

the kitchen open, and Claire come in.



“oh, Joan, papa want you to----” begin she.



then she see Bram, and stop.



“I’ve bring the thing, Miss Claire,” say he in a shy voice.



Miss Biron have stop short and change color. she now come forward

slowly, and pass Joan, hold open the door for he to enter.



“oh, please come in,” she say in a very demure voice, from which it

be impossible to tell whether she be pleased or annoyed, grateful or

the reverse, for his good office.



Bram enter, and proceed to place his enormous parcel on the deal

table, and to cut the string. he be pass through the refining

process very rapidly; and, already, in the clothe which he have choose

under Chris Cornthwaite’s eye, he look too dignified a person to

engage in the duty of a light porter.



Claire, more demure than ever, speak as if she be much shocked.



“oh, have you carry that heavy parcel? oh, I’m so sorry. it be very,

very kind of you, but----”



she stop, stammer a little. Joan, who be stand with her hand

on her hip, admire the scene, laugh scornfully.



“eh, but it’s a grand thing to be yoong! ah cann’t get no smart yoong

gen’lemen to carry my parcel for I, not if they be to see I

breakin’ ma back.”



“why, you’ve get a husband to carry they for you,” say Claire quickly,

and not very happily; for Joan laugh again.



“ay, Miss Claire, but they doan’t do it after they’re marry; so do

you make t’ moast o’ your time.”



and Joan, with an easy nod which be mean to include both the young

people, go through into the hall with leisurely step.



as she have leave behind she a slight feeling of awkward reserve, Claire

feel bind to begin with an apology for she.



“she’s rather rough, but, oh, so good,” say she.



“then if she’s good to you, I can forgive all her roughness,” say Bram.



and the next minute he wish he have not say it.



there be a momentary pause, during which Bram busy himself with

the string of his parcel. with a rapid eye, Miss Biron run over the

various thing which the outer wrapper have contain. then, with a

bright flush in her face, she take her purse from her pocket.



“how much do I owe you?” she ask quickly. “three box of candle,

eighteenpence. two box of sardine, two and sixpence. box of fig,

half-a-crown----”



Bram interrupt she hotly. “one and ninepence, the fig,” cry he,

“and the sardine be only ninepence a tin.”



“then they be not the good.”



“yes, they be.”



this colloquy, short and simple as it be, have leave the combatant, for

such they seem, pant with excitement. Miss Biron look at the

young man narrowly and proceed in a tone of much haughtiness----



“I must beg you to tell I really what they cost, whatever my father

say. he know nothing about the price of thing, but”--and the young

lady give he a look which be mean to impress he with her vast

experience in these matters--“I do.”



Bram, afraid of offend she still far, and conscious of the

delicate ground upon which he stand, begin submissively to add up the

various item, deduct a few penny where he dare, until the total

of nineteen shilling and fourpence be reach. Miss Biron open she

purse rather nervously, and take out a small handful of silver, a very

small handful, alas!



“let I see. Papa give you five shillings----”



“and then the ten he give I as I go out by the gate after you’d go

up,” pursue Bram, imperturbably.



“Ten!” echo Claire, sharply. “Papa give you ten shilling more!”



“half-a-sovereign, yes,” reply Bram, mendaciously. “you say he

haven’t give I enough, you know, so he give I the ten shilling. you

ask he.”



Claire shake her head.



“it’s no use ask papa anything,” she say with a sigh. then she

add, suddenly raise her head and flash her eye, “I must trust

to your honor, Mr. Elshaw.”



the sound of his name utter by her lip give Bram a ridiculous

thrill of pleasure. he have suppose she only know he as “Bram,” and

the thought that she have take the trouble to inquire his name be a

delicious one.



“yes,” say he simply, in no wise trouble by the doubt she express.

“well, that’s fifteen shilling, and you owe I four shilling and

fourpence.”



she give he a quick glance of suspicion, and then count out her poor

little hoard of sixpence and copper. she have only three shilling and

sevenpence.



“I owe you,” say she, as she put the money into his hand, “ninepence,

which I must pay you next week. but, please, I want you to promise,”

she earnestly go on, “not to do any more shopping for papa. he be so

extravagant,” and she try to laugh merrily, “that I have to keep some

check upon he, or we should soon be ruin.”



“all right, Miss Claire, I’ll do just as you wish, of course. but it’s

a great pleasure to I to be able to do any little thing for you.

you know, for one thing,” he add quickly, fancy that she might

think this presumptuous, “that Mr. Christian be the person who get I

move up out of the work, so I be doubly glad to do anything for--for

anybody he take an interest in.”



over Claire’s sensitive face there pass a shadow at the mention of

Christian’s name.



“Christian Cornthwaite be my cousin, you know,” say she. “he often

talk of you. he say you be very clever, and he be very proud of

having discover you, as he call it.”



“it be very good of he,” say Bram. “I’m afraid I don’t do he much

credit; I’m such a rough sort of chap.”



Miss Biron look at he rather shyly, and laugh.



“well, you be, just a little. but you be--are----”



“a little bit well now?” suggest Bram modestly.



“well, I be go to say a great deal well, only I be afraid it

sound rather rude. what I mean be that--that----”



“well, I should like to hear what it be you mean.”



“well, that you speak differently, for one thing.”



“but I slip back sometimes,” say Bram, laughing and blushing, just as

she laugh and blush. “it’s so hard not to say ‘ah’ when I ought to

say ‘I.’ I’m get on, I know, but it’s like walk on egg all the

time.”



then they both laugh again, and at this point the door open and Mr.

Biron come in.



he be very amiable, and insist on Bram’s come into the dining-room

with he. as Bram neither smoke nor drank, however, Theodore’s offer

of whisky and cigar be throw away. but Bram sit down and make a

very good audience, laugh at his host’s story and joke, so that

he find himself force into accept an invitation to come in again

on the following evening.



by Theodore’s wish it become Bram’s frequent custom to spend an hour at

the farmhouse in the evening; and the young man soon avail himself of

the intimacy thus begin to make himself useful to Claire in a hundred

way. he would chop wood in the yard, mend broken furniture, fetch

thing from the town, and bargain for she for her poultry, suggest and

help to carry out reformation in her management of the dairy--do

everything unobtrusively, but make his shrewd common sense manif

in a hundred practical way.



and Claire be grateful, rather shy of take advantage of his

kindness, but give he such reward of smile and thank as more than

repay he for labor which be pleasure indeed.



sometimes Christian Cornthwaite would be at the farm, and on these

occasion Bram see little of Claire, who be always monopolize by

her cousin. Christian be as devoted as Bram could have wish; but,

if Theodore think that the young man delay his coming, he do not

scruple to send his daughter on some excuse to call at Holme Park,

always refuse Bram’s humble offer to take the message or to escort

Claire.



the one thing Bram could have wish about Claire be that she should

be less submissive to her unscrupulous father in matter like this.

he would have have she refuse to go up to Holme Park, where she be

always receive, as Bram know, with the coldness which ought to have

be reserve for Theodore. and especially do Bram feel this now

that he know, from Theodore’s own lip, that the note he send by his

daughter’s hand to Josiah Cornthwaite be seldom answer. it make

Bram’s blood boil to know this, and that in the face of this fact

Theodore continue to send his daughter up to his rich cousin’s house

on beg errand.



Bram be in the big farm kitchen by himself one cool September

evening, busily engage in make a new dressing-table for Claire out

of some old box. he have his coat off, and be saw away, hum to

himself as he do so, when, turn to look for something he want, he

find, to his surprise, that Claire, whom he have not see that evening,

be sit in the room.



she have take her hat off, and be sit with it in her lap, so

silently, so sadly, that Bram, who be not use to this mood in the

volatile girl, be strike with astonishment.



for a moment he stand, see in hand, look at she without speak.



“Miss Claire!” exclaim he at last.



“well?”



“when do you come in? I never see you come in!”



“no. I don’t want you to see I. I don’t want any one to see I. so I

cann’t go in because papa have the door open, and he would catch I on

the way upstairs.”



“what’s wrong with you, Miss Claire?”



Bram have come over to she and be lean on the table and speak

with so much kindness in his voice that the girl’s eye, after glance

up quickly and meet his, fill with tear.



“oh, everything. one feel like that sometimes. everybody do, I

suppose.”



Bram’s heart ache for the girl. he guess that she have be to Holme

Park on the usual errand, and that she have be coldly receive. he

could hear Theodore strum on the piano in the drawing-room. the

piano be so place that the player have a good view of the open door,

and Bram know that Theodore have choose this method of fill up the

time till his daughter’s return. apparently he have now catch with his

sharp ear the sound of voice in the kitchen, for the playing cease,

and a moment later he present himself at the door with a smile face.



“good-evening, Elshaw. hear you saw away, but don’t like to

disturb you till I hear another voice, and guess that I might. any

answer to my note, Claire?”





[illustration: for a moment he stand, see in hand, look at she

without speaking.--_Page 52._]





“no, papa.”



Claire have rise from her chair, and be stand with her back turn

to her father, pretend to be busy stick the long, black-head

pin into her hat.



“no answer. oh, well, there be hardly an answer need. that’s all

right.”



from his tone nobody would have guess that Theodore care more than

his word imply; but Bram, who see most thing, notice a frown of

disappointment and anger on the airy Mr. Biron’s face. after a pause

Theodore said--



“I think I shall go down the hill and have a game of billiard. that

will fill up the time till you’ve finish your carpentering, Elshaw,

and then we’ll finish up with a game of chess.”



and Theodore disappear. a few moment later they hear he shut

himself out by the front door.



Bram after a glance at Claire go on with his sawing, judge it wiser

not to attempt to offer the sympathy with which his heart be burst.



when he have be go on with his work for some minute, however,

Claire come and stand silently beside he. he look up and smile.



“go on with your work,” say she gravely, “just for a few minute. then

I’m go to send you away.”



“send I away, Miss Claire? what for?”



“for your own good, Mr. Elshaw.”



Bram suddenly pull himself upright, and then look down at she in

dismay.



“Mr. Elshaw! I’m get on in the world then! I use to be only Bram.”



“that’s it,” say Claire in a low voice, look at the fire. “you use

to be only Bram; but you’ve get beyond that now.”



“but I don’t want to get beyond that with you, Miss Claire,” protest

he.



“what you want don’t matter,” say she decidedly. “you cann’t help

yourself. I’ve hear something about you to-night. oh, don’t look like

that; it be nothing to your discredit, nothing at all. but you’ve

get to give up your carpentering and wood chop for we, Bram, and

you’re not to come here again.” she speak with much decision, but she

sensitive face show some strange conflict go on within she, in

which some of the soft emotion be evidently engage. whatever it

be that make she turn her humble and useful old friend away, the cause

be not ingratitude.



before he could put another question, be indeed too much move to be

able to frame one speedily, Bram be startle by a tapping at the door.

Miss Biron start; Bram almost think he see she shiver. she point

quickly to the inner door.



“go at once,” say she in an imperious whisper, “and remember you be

not to come back; you be never to come back.”



Bram take up his coat, slip his arm into it, and obey without

a word. but the look on his face, as Claire catch a glimpse of it,

be one which cut she to the quick. she draw a deep breath, and throw

out her hand towards he with a piteous cry. Bram stop, shiver,

make one step towards she, when the tap at the door be repeat more

sharply.



Claire recover herself at once, make a gesture to he to go, and

open the one door as he let himself out by the other.



Bram hear the voice of the newcomer. it be Christian Cornthwaite.









CHAPTER VIII.



another step upward.





Bram leave the farmhouse in a tumult of feeling. why have he be

dismiss so abruptly? why have he be dismiss at all?



it be on Christian’s account apparently. but what objection could

Christian have to his visit to the farm?



on the many occasion when the two young man have meet there Bram have

always be shunt into the background for Christian, and have be

leave at his modest occupation unheede, while Claire give all her

attention to her cousin. Bram have look upon this arrangement as quite

natural, and have never so much as wince at it. the idea that Christian

Cornthwaite might look upon he as a possible rival be out of the

question, again Bram ask himself--what could be the reason of his

dismissal?



he do not mean to take it quietly; he have conceit enough to think that

Claire would be sorry if he do. he could flatter himself honestly

that during the past six month he have become the young lady’s trust

friend, never obtrusive, never demonstrative, but trust, perhaps

appreciate, none the less on that account.



Bram have the excuse of Theodore’s invitation for hang about the

neighborhood until that gentleman’s return. but at the very moment

when Mr. Biron’s gay voice, hum to himself as he come up the hill,

strike upon Bram’s ear, Christian Cornthwaite come out through the

farmyard gate.



“Hallo, Elshaw, be that you?” he ask, as he come out and pass his

arm through Bram’s. “I wonder what have become of you when I do not

find you in the house this evening. I’d begin to look upon you as one

of the fixture.”



“I be there this evening, Mr. Christian,” reply Bram soberly. “but I

get turn out without much ceremony just before you come.”



“turn out, eh? I don’t think you ever do anything to deserve such

treatment from any one.” and Chris look curious. “you be what I call

a model young man, if anything a little too much like the hero of a

religious story for young lady, write by a young lady.”



Bram be quite acute enough to understand that this be a sneer.



“you mean that I’m what you and your friend call a prig, Mr.

Christian?” he say quite unaffectedly, and without any sign of

shame or regret. “well, I suppose I be. but you don’t allow for the

difference between we at start. to get up to where you stand from

where I use to be, one must be a bit of a prig, don’t you think?”



“perhaps so. I think you may be trust to know your own business,

Elshaw. you’re one of the man that get on. it willn’t do you any harm on

the way up if you leave off chop firewood in your shirt-sleeve for

people who don’t think any the well of you for it.”



Bram, who have let himself be lead up the hill, stop short.



“she don’t think any the bad of I for do any little thing I can

to help she,” say he in a muffled voice.



Christian begin to laugh.



“she? you mean Claire. oh, no, no, she do justice to everybody, bless

her dear little heart! I be think of our rascally friend, her

father. you know very well that he use his daughter as a means for

get all he can out of everybody. I hope you’ve not be have by the

old ruffian, Elshaw?”



“no, Mr. Christian; no, I haven’t,” answer Bram hastily. “that be,

not to an extent that matter.”



“ah, ha! that mean you have be have for half-crown, for instance?”

as Bram move uneasily, Chris laugh again. “of course, it be no

affair of mine; I’m quite sure you can see through our frivolous friend

as well as anybody else. but if, as you say, you have be dismiss,

why, I advise you not to try to get reinstate.”



now, this advice trouble Bram exceedingly. it be excellent of its

kind, no doubt; but he ask himself whether the man who be so keenly

alive to the disadvantage of even an acquaintance with the Birons

could really be ready to form an alliance which must bring the burden

of the needy elderly gentleman upon he for life. his feeling upon the

subject be so keen that they would not permit he to temporize and to

choose his word and his opportunity. quite suddenly he blurt out--



“you’re go to marry Miss Claire, ben’t you?”



Christian, who always take thing more easily than his deeply-nature

companion, look at the earnest, strongly-cut face with something

like amusement. luckily, it be too dark for Bram to see the full

significance of his companion’s expression.



“marry she? why, yes, to be sure I hope so. my father be very anxious

for I ‘to settle down,’ as he call it, though I would rather, for my

own part, not settle down quite so far as matrimony just yet.”



there be a pause. then Bram say in a dry voice--



“I cann’t understand you, Mr. Christian. you seem just as nigh what a

man ought to be as a man can be in lot of way. and I cann’t understand

how a man like that, that be a man like you, shouldn’t be all on fire

to make the girl he love his wife as quick as he can. be that a part

of my priggishness, Mr. Christian, to wonder at that?”



Christian do not answer at once. they have reach the top of the hill,

and be stand by the ruin cottage, which look more desolate

than ever in the darkness of the winter evening. the wind whistle

through the broken wall and the decay rafter.



Bram remember the evening when he have hear Christian’s laugh in that

very pile.



“I suppose it be, Bram,” say Chris at last. “but I rather like it in

you, all the same. I cann’t help laugh at you, but I think you’re

rather a fine fellow. now, listen to I. you may go on wonder at my

behavior as much as you like, but you mustn’t yourself have anything

more to do with the Birons. we’ll say I’m jealous, Bram, if you like.

I really think it’s true, too,” he add with a flippancy which belie

his word.



but Bram shake his head solemnly.



“no, Mr. Christian,” he answer; and in the excitement he feel the

strong Yorkshire accent be hear again in his voice. “you’ve no

call to be jealous of I, and you know that right well. if I be a

gentleman bear, like you----”



“don’t use that expression,‘gentleman bear,’ Elshaw,” interrupt

Chris lightly. “it mean nothing, for one thing. my great-grandfather

be a mill hand, or something of that sort, and so be the

great-grandfather of half the man in the House of Lords. and it sound

odd from a man like you, who will be a big pot one of these day.”



“well, Mr. Christian, if I’d be bring up in a big house, like you,

and have have my face keep clean and my hair curl instead of be

allow to make mud-pie in the gutter----”



“I _want_ to make mud-pie in the gutter!” interpolate Christian

cheerfully.



“well, you know what I mean, anyhow. if we’d stand just on the same

ground----”



“we never should have stand on the same ground, Elshaw,” say Chris

with a shrewd smile.



“----And if I haven’t be beholden to you for the rise I’ve get, I’d

have fight you for the place you’ve get with she very likely. but, as

it be, I’m nowhere; I don’t count. and you know that, Mr. Christian.”



“indeed, I’m very glad to hear it, for if there’s one man in the

world I should less like to have for a rival than another, in love

or in anything else, it’s you, Bram. I know you’re a lamb outside;

but I cann’t help suspect that there’s a creature more like a tiger

underneath.”



“I’m inclined to think myself, Mr. Christian, that the creature

underneath’s more like an ass,” say Bram good-humoredly.



they be stand at the top of the hill; it be a damp, cold night,

and Christian shiver.



“you mustn’t stand here talk, Mr. Christian,” say Bram. “you be

not so used to strong breeze as I.”



“well, good-night; I willn’t take you any far. you live somewhere

about here, I know. but, I say.” he call after Bram, who be turn

back. “there’s one thing I want to tell you. don’t say anything to the

guv’nor about meet I at the farm.”



Bram stare blankly, and Christian laugh.



“my dear fellow, don’t you know that these matter require to be

conduct with a little diplomacy? when a man be dependent upon his

father, as he always be if he’s a lazy beggar like I, that father have

to be humor a little. I must prepare he gradually for the shock, if

I’m ever to marry Claire.”



“all right, Mr. Christian. I’ll say nothing, of course. but I shall

be glad to hear that matter be straight. it seem hard on the young

lady, don’t it?”



“ah, well, life ben’t all beer and skittle for any of we.”



Christian call out these word, turn his head as he walk rapidly

away on the road to Holme Park.



Bram have make such astonishing progress in the office since his

promotion, not much more than a year before, that nobody but himself

be astonish when he be call into the private office of the elder

Mr. Cornthwaite, about a fortnight after his talk with Christian, and

be formally invite by that gentleman to dine at Holme Park in the

course of the following week. Bram’s first impulse be to apologize for

decline the invitation, but Mr. Cornthwaite insist, and with such

an air of authority that Bram feel there be no escape for he.



but, meet Christian later in the day, Bram relate the incident

rather as if it be a grievance.



“you know, Mr. Christian, it’s not in my line, that sort of thing. ah

shall make a fool o’ myself, ah know ah shall.”



and, either accidentally or on purpose, he drop again into the

strong Yorkshire dialect, which since his elevation he have work

successfully to overcome.



but Christian only laugh at his excuse.



“you’d be a fool to refuse,” he say shortly. “I’ll take you round to

my tailor’s again, and he’ll measure you for your war-paint.”



Bram’s face fall.



“no, Mr. Christian, no. I’m not go to dress myself up. Mr.

Cornthwaite willn’t expect it, and what would be the good of my wasting

all that money on clothe you’ll never catch I wear again? and the

oaf I should look in ’em too! why, you’d all be laughin’ at I, an’ not

more than I should be laughin’ at myself.”



“Elshaw,” return Chris gravely, “the one thing which distinguish

you above all the self-make man and bear genius I’ve ever hear about

be that you’ve get too broad a mind to despise trifle. while Sir

George Milbrook, who begin as a factory hand, and Jeremiah Montcombe

of Gray’s Hall, and a lot of other man who’ve get on like they, make

a point of drop their h’s and clip their word just as they

use to do forty year ago, you’ve think it worth your while to drop

your Ah’s and your tha’s, till there’s very little trace of they leave

already, and there’ll be none in another year. well, now, there be

some more trifle to be master, and dress for dinner be one of

they. so buck up, old man, and come along. and by-the-by, as you’ll

always take a hint from I, couldn’t you let yourself drop into slang

sometimes? your language be so dreadfully precise, and you use so many

word that I have to look out in the dictionary.”



“do I, Mr. Christian?” ask Bram, surprised. then he laugh and

shake his head. “no, I cann’t trust myself as far as the slang yet. it

wouldn’t come out right perhaps. I shouldn’t have discrimination enough

to choose between the slang that be all right and the slang which

would make the lady look at each other.”



“well, I suppose I must let you have a few month’ grace. but it’s only

on condition that you smoke an occasional cigarette, and that you don’t

stick so persistently to soda water and lemonade, when you’re ask to

have a drink.”



“but, Mr. Christian, I’m not use to wine and spirit, not even to

beer, and if I be to drink they they would get into my head. and as it

take I all my time to speak properly and behave so as to pass muster,

as it be, you’d well leave pretty well alone, and let I keep to the

soda water.”



“oh, well, as long as you’re not move by conscientious scruple I

don’t so much mind. but teetotalism savor rather too much of the

Sunday-school and the Anti-Tobacco League. mind, I don’t want to make

you an habitual drunkard, but I should like to feel sure that you

understand there be a happy medium.”



“oh, yes, I understand that,” say Bram with a comical look; “but I

wish I haven’t to go up to the Park Thursday week all the same.”



Chris look at he steadily, and play with his long, tawny moustache

for a few moment in silence.



“so do I. I wish you haven’t get to go too,” say he at last.



but he would not explain why; he turn the subject by remark that

they mustn’t forget the visit to the tailor’s.









CHAPTER IX.



a call and a dinner PARTY.





it be not to be suppose that Bram have forget all about Claire

Biron, or that he have not be tempt to break through the command

she have impose upon he. at first he have intend to present himself

as usual at the farm on the evening after his summary dismissal, and

to brave her possible displeasure. he feel so sure of her kind feeling

toward himself that he have very little doubt of overcome her scruple

from whatever cause they arise.



on the very next morning, however, he have come suddenly upon she as he

go down the hill towards the town; and Claire have cut he, actually

cut he, pass he with her eye on the ground, at a rapid pace.



Bram be so utterly overwhelm by this action on her part that he

stand stupidly stare at her figure as it go quickly upwards,

uncertain what to do, until she turn into the farmyard and

disappear.



he go on to the office with a dull weight at his heart, hope

against hope that she would relent, that she would smile at he with

her old friendliness when next they meet, but unable to stifle the fear

that the pleasant friendship which have be so much to he be now over.



as to her reason for this new course of treatment he could make no

guess which seem to he at all likely to be the right one. she have

hear something about he, that be her excuse, something not to his

discredit, but which be, nevertheless, the cause of she send he

away. now, Bram could think of nobody who be likely to be able to

tell Claire the one fact which might have bring about his banishment

conceivably, the fact that he love she. he have keep his secret so well

that he might well feel sure it be in his own power, so well that he

sometimes honestly doubt whether it be a fact at all.



besides, even if it have be possible for she to find this out, she

would not have dismiss he in this curt, almost brutal, fashion.



the more Bram think about his banishment, the far he seem

to get from a sane conclusion; but he could not rest. he could not

dismiss the matter from his mind. full as his new life be of work, of

interest, of ambition, of hope, the thought of Claire haunt he. he

wonder how she be get on without he, know that he have make

himself useful to she in a hundred way, and that if she do not miss

he, she must at least miss the work he do for she.



and Christian--he have tell Bram in so many word that he mean to marry

his cousin; yet his visit have fall off in frequency, and Bram have an

idea that Claire look unhappy and anxious.



Bram know very well that he could get an invitation back to the farm at

any moment by put himself in the way of Theodore. but he would not

do this; he would not go back without the invitation, or at least the

consent of Claire herself.



so he avoid Theodore, and go up and down the hill with an outward

air of placid unconcern until the evening before the day when he be

to dine at Mr Cornthwaite’s.



it be a pleasant October evening; there be a touch of frost in the

air, which be brace and pleasant after the heavy atmosphere of the

town. when he get close to the farmhouse, he see Claire cross the

farmyard on her way to the kitchen door, with a heavy load of wood in

her arm. it seem to he that her face look sad and worn, that odd

little face which have so little prettiness in repose except for those

who know the possibility for fun, for tenderness, that lie dormant in

her bright brown eye.



he hesitate a moment, and then go quickly through the gate.



“may I help you, Miss Claire?”



she do not start or pretend to be surprised. she have see he come.



she stop.



“you know what I tell you, that you be not to come here again,” she

say severely.



but it be severity which do not frighten he.



“well,” he begin humbly, “I’ve keep away nearly a fortnight.”



“but I say you be never to come again.”



“I don’t think you can have mean it though. you would have give I

some reason if you have.”



Claire frown and tap she little foot impatiently on the ground.



“oh, you know, you must know. you be not stupid, Mr. Elshaw.”



“I’m begin to think I be,” say Bram, as he begin to take her load

from she with gentle insistence.



it amuse and touch he to note how glad she be, in spite of she

assume displeasure, to give she work up to he in the old way. he

open the kitchen door, and take the wood into the scullery, where

Joan be at work, just as he use to do for she, and then go through

the kitchen slowly on his way out again.



Claire be stand by the big deal table.



“thank you, thank you very much,” say she.



but her tone be not so bright as usual; she be more subdued

altogether--a quiet, demure, downcast little girl. Bram, make his way

with leaden foot to the outer door, want to say something, but hardly

know what. he hope that she would stop he before he reach the door,

but he be disappoint. he put his hand upon the latch and pause.

still she say nothing. he open the door, and glance back at she.

although the look she give he in return have nothing of invitation in

it, he feel that there be something in her sad little face which make

it impossible to leave she like that.



“Miss Claire,” say he, and he be surprised to find that his voice

be husky and not so loud as he expect, “mayn’t I finish the

dressing-table?”



“if you like.”



her voice be as husky as his own.



without another word he set about the work, find the saw, which,

by-the-bye, be his own, the wood, and the rest of the thing he

want, and in less than ten minute be at work in the old way, and

Claire, fetch her needlework, be busy by the fire, just as she use

to be. she be too proud to own it; but Bram see quite plainly that

this quiet re-establishment of the old situation make she almost as

happy as it do he.



“thing go all right, Miss Claire?” ask he as he take up his plane.



“no, of course they’re not. they’re go all wrong, as usual. More

wrong than usual. Johnson take more advantage than ever of there be

nobody to look after he properly.”



Johnson be the farm bailiff, and he have work all the well for

the suggestion sharp-sighted Bram have make to Claire. since Bram’s

banishment Johnson have be rampant again. Claire be quite conscious

of this, and she turn to another subject, to allow he no opportunity

of apply her comment.



“and you--at least I needn’t ask. you always get on all right, don’t

you?”



“I shall come to grief to-morrow,” answer Bram soberly. “I’ve get

to go up to the Park to dinner. what do you think of that, Miss

Claire? and to wear a black coat and a stiff shirt-front, just like a

gentleman! willn’t they all laugh at I when my back’s turn, and talk

about daw’ and peacock’ feather? it’s all Mr. Christian’s fault, so

I suppose you will say it’s all right?”



“it be all right, Bram,” say Claire gravely; “and they willn’t laugh

at you. they cann’t. you’re too modest. and too clever beside.” she

pause, drop her work in her lap, and look intently at the fire.

“be it true that you’re go to be marry, Bram?” she presently ask

abruptly.



“marry! I! Lord, no. who tell you such a thing as that?” and Bram

stand up and look at she, let his plane lie idle.



“Papa say he think you be. he say you be engage to a girl who

live in the country. you never tell I about she.”



“and be that why you send I away?”



at his tone of dismay Claire burst out laugh with her old hilarity.



“oh, no, oh, no. I send you away, if you must know, because I have hear

that you be to go up and dine at Holme Park, and because I know that

it would be well for you to be able to say there that you don’t

visit we.”



“be _that_ what you call a reason?” ask Bram scornfully, angrily.



“yes, that’s one reason.”



“well, well, haven’t you any well one?”



“perhaps. but I shalln’t tell you any more, so you need not ask I for

they. I want to know something about this girl you’re engage to.”



“not engage,” say Bram stolidly.



“well, in love with then? I want to know something about she. I think

it very strange that I never hear anything about she before. what be

she like?”



“well, she’s like other girl,” say Bram. “she be much like nine out

of every ten girl you meet.”



“really? I shouldn’t have think you’d care for a girl like that,

Bram.”



“you must care for what you can get in this world,” say Bram

sententiously.



“well, tell I something more. be she tall or short, fair or dark? have

she blue eye, or gray one, or brown?”



Bram look thoughtful.



“well, she’s neither tall nor short. she’s not very dark, nor yet very

fair. and her eye be a sort of drab color, I think.”



“you don’t mean it, Bram? I suppose you think it’s no business of mine?”



“that’s it, Miss Claire.”



“I don’t believe in the existence of this girl with the drab-color

eye, Bram.”



Claire have jump up, and dart across to the table in her old

impulsive way; and now she stand, her eye dance with suppress

mirth, just as she use to stand in the good old day before the

rupture of her own making.



Bram be delighted at the change.



“well, I willn’t say whether she exist or not,” reply he with a smile

lurk about his own mouth; “and I don’t choose to have my love

affair pry into by anybody, I don’t care who. how would you like

people to pry into your?”



she grow suddenly grave, and he wish he have not say it.



“there’s no concealment about mine, Bram,” she say quietly.



“you’re go to marry Mr. Christian?”



“I suppose so.”



why do she speak so quietly, so wistfully? the question trouble

Bram, who do not dare to say any more upon a subject which she seem

anxious to avoid as much as she could. and the talk languish until

Claire hear her father’s footstep come down the stair.



“now go,” say she imperiously. “I don’t want you to meet papa. and you

mustn’t come again. and you mustn’t tell they up at Holme Park that

you be here this evening.”



Bram frown.



“Miss Claire,” say he, “I be a deal prouder of come here than I be

of go up to t’ Park. and if I’m to choose between here and t’ Park,

I choose to come here. but I shall be let to do as I please, I can

promise you. but, of course, if you don’t want I here, I willn’t come.”



“good-night,” say she for answer.



and she hurry he out of the house, and shut the door upon he in

time to prevent her father, who be in the passage outside, from

meet he.



Bram go up to the Park on the following evening in much well

spirit than if he have not have that reassuring interview with Claire.

he still feel rather troubled as to the prospect of the marriage

between she and her cousin, but he hope that he might hear something

about it in the family circle at Holme Park.



the ordeal of the evening prove less try than the promote clerk

have expect--up to the certain point.



with the lady of the family he have already become acquainted. Mrs.

Cornthwaite be a tiresome elderly lady of small mental capacity and

extremely conservative notion, who alternately patronize Bram and

betray her horror at the recollection of his former station. the

good lady be a perpetual thorn in the side of her husband, whom she

irritate by silly interruption and sillier comment on his remark,

and to her daughter, who have to be ever on the alert to ward off the

effect of her mother’s imbecility.



the daughter, hester, be a thoroughly good creature, who have be

worried into a pessimistic view of life, and into a belief that much

“good” could be do in the world by speak her mind with frank

rudeness upon all occasion. the consequence of these peculiarity

in the lady of the household be that to spend an evening in their

society be a torture from which all but the brave shrank, although

every one acknowledge that they be the well-intentione people in

the world.



the only guest besides Bram be Mr. and Mrs. Hibbs and their only

daughter, whom Bram know already by name and by sight.



Mr. Hibbs be a coal-owner, a man of large mean, and a great light

in evangelical circle. he be a tall, sallow man, with thin whisker

and a deliberate manner of speak, as if he be always in the

reading-desk, where on Sundays he often read the lesson for the day.

his wife be a comfortable-looking creature, with a round face and a

round figure, and a habit of gently nod her head after any remark

of her husband’s, as if to emphasize its wisdom.



as for Minnie, it strike Bram, as he make she the bow he have be

practise, that she exactly answer to the description he have

give Claire of the suppose lady of his heart. there be only this

difference, that she be distinguish from most young woman of she

age by the exceedingly light color of her eyebrow and eyelash. she

appear to have none until you have the opportunity for a very close

inspection.



she have quite a reputation for saintliness, which have reach

even Bram’s ear. her whole delight be in Sunday-school work and

in district visiting, and the dissipation connect with these

occupation.



she be, however, very cheerful and talkative during dinner; and Bram

be surprised to see how very attentive Christian, who sit by her

side, be to this particularly unattractive young person, who be the

antithesis of all he admire.



for Christian’s good nature do not generally go the length of make

he more than barely civil to plain woman.



Bram find Miss Cornthwaite kind and easy to get on with. she be

a straightforward, practical woman, on the far side of thirty, and

this grave, simple-mannered young man, with the observant gray eye,

interested and please she. she try to intercept the glance of

horror which Mrs. Cornthwaite occasionally throw at he, and the

terrible explanation with which the eld lady condescendingly favor

he.



thus, when the Riviera be mention, Mrs. Cornthwaite throw he the

good-natured aside, audible all over the room--



“the shore of the Mediterranean, you know, the sea that lie between

France and Italy, and--and those place!”



and when some one use the word “bizarre,” Mrs. Cornthwaite smile at

Bram again, and again whisper loudly--



“quaint, odd, you know. it’s a french word.”



“Mamma, you needn’t explain. Mr. Elshaw speak well French than we

do, I’m quite sure,” say hester good-naturedly enough, though she have

well have make no comment.



but Bram say at once, as if grateful to the old lady--



“no, Miss Cornthwaite, I can read and write French pretty well, but I

cann’t speak it. and when I hear a french word speak I don’t at once

catch its meaning.”



“there, you see, Hester, I be right. I know Mr. Elshaw would be glad

of a little help,” say Mrs. Cornthwaite triumphantly.



“very glad, indeed,” assent Bram, quickly interpose as hester be

about to continue the argument with her mother.



it be not until the lady have leave the room, and Bram, with an amuse

glance at Christian, have take a cigarette, that the real ordeal of the

evening come for the young clerk in a shape he have never expect.



“I suppose you hardly know, Elshaw,” say Mr. Cornthwaite with

a preliminary cough, as if to show that he be about to make an

announcement of importance, “why I be so particularly anxious for you

to dine with we this evening?” Bram look interested, as, indeed, he

feel. “you be aware, Elshaw, of the enormously high opinion of your

talent which my son have always hold. he now propose that you should

go to London to represent we in a rather delicate negotiation, in

place of himself. and as the reason be that he will himself be occupy

with pleasanter matter than those of dry business, I think it would

interest you to be present on the occasion of the first announcement of

the pleasanter matter in question. it be not less than a wedding----”



“a wedding, sir?” Bram’s face cloud with perplexity.



“yes, Elshaw. you have have the honor of be introduce to the young

lady this evening. my son have be fortunate enough to obtain the heart

and a promise of the hand of Miss Minnie Hibbs.”



Bram look steadily at Christian. he dared not speak.









CHAPTER X.



the fine eyes of her cash-BOX.





Christian Cornthwaite pretend to be occupy in conversation with his

future father-in-law, while Mr. Cornthwaite, senior, in his blandest

and most good-humor tone, make the announcement of his son’s

intend marriage to the astonished Bram.



but Christian’s attention be not so deeply engaged that he could not

take note of what be happen, and he notice the dead silence with

which Bram receive the announcement, and presently steal a furtive

look at the face of the young clerk.



Bram catch the look, and reply to it with a steady stare. Chris

turn his eye away, but that look of Bram’s fascinate he, worry

he. in truth, it have be his fear of what Elshaw would say, even more

than his own disinclination, which have keep he hover on the brink

of his engagement with Miss Hibbs for so long.



and now he feel that he would have prefer some outbreak on Bram’s

part to this stony silence.





[illustration: “a wedding, Sir?” Bram’s face cloud with perplexity.

--_Page 70._]





even Josiah Cornthwaite be puzzle by Bram’s reception of the news.

the young man seem absolutely unmove by the fresh proof of his

employer’s confidence give in the information that he be to be send

to London on important business. he grow even uneasy as Bram’s silence

continue, or be break only by the brief and cold of answer.

he look from his son to Bram, and perceive that there be some

understanding between they. and his fear grow apace. he shorten the

stay in the dining-room, therefore, and let Mr. Hibbs and Chris

enter the drawing-room together, he take Bram up the stair, with the

excuse of show he the view of the town from one of the window.



Bram be shrewd enough to guess that he be to be “pump.”



“this news about my son’s intend marriage seem to have take you by

surprise, Elshaw,” say Mr. Cornthwaite as they stand together look

out on the blurred light of the town below.



“well, sir, it have,” admit Bram briefly.



“but you know he be twenty-six, an age at which a young man who can

afford it ought to be think of marry.”



“oh, yes.”



“you think, perhaps, that such a volatile fellow would be scarcely

likely to make such a sensible choice as he have do?” go on Josiah

with an air of bland indulgence, but with some anxiety in his eye.



there be a pause.



“that be what you think, eh?” repeat Mr. Cornthwaite more sharply.



Bram Elshaw frown.



“Sir, may I speak out?” ask he bluntly.



“certainly.”



“well, then, sir, I don’t think it be a wise choice--if it be his

choice at all, and not your, sir?”



now, Mr. Cornthwaite, while give his permission to speak out, have not

expect such uncompromise frankness as this. he be take aback. he

stammer as he begin to answer--



“why, why, what do you mean? could there be a more sensible choice than

such a lady as Miss Hibbs? a good daughter, not frivolous, or vain, or

flighty; a sensible, affectionate girl, devote to her parent and to

good work. just such a girl, in fact, as can be depend upon to make

a thoroughly good, devoted wife.”



“for some sort of man, sir. but not for a man like Mr. Christian,”

return Bram with decision.



his blood be up, and he speak with as much firmness as, and with more

fire than, he have ever before show to his employer.



Mr. Cornthwaite, who have ground for feel uneasy, be lenient,

patient, attentive, curious.



“why, don’t you know, Elshaw,” say he sharply, “that a man should

mate with his opposite if he want to be happy? that grave and serious

man like frivolous wife; but that your lively young fellow like a

sober-minded wife to keep his house in order?”



“Sir, if it’s Mr. Christian’s choice, there’s an end of it,” say Bram

brusquely.



“of course it’s his choice, none the less, but rather the more, that

it meet not only with my approval, but with that of the lady of my

family,” say Mr. Cornthwaite pompously.



yet still he be curious, still unsatisfie. and still Bram say

nothing.



“believe I,” Mr. Cornthwaite go on impressively, “a man be none the

less amenable to the influence of a good wife for having sow his wild

oat first. with a wife like the one I--no, I mean he have choose,” a

faint smile flicker over Bram’s mouth at this correction, “my son

will settle down into a model husband and father. you want the two

element, seriousness on the one side, good-humor gayety on the

other, to make a happy marriage. why, I ought to know, for these be

exactly the principle on which I marry myself.”



Mr. Cornthwaite utter these word with an air of bland assurance,

which, he think, must carry conviction. but his young hearer,

unfortunately, have hear enough about the domestic life at Holme Park

to know that the “sensible marriage” on which Mr. Cornthwaite pride

himself have by no mean result in domestic peace. the bickering of

the ill-match pair be, in fact, a constant source of misery to

all the household, and be use freely by Chris as an excuse for his

neglect of home.



Bram, therefore, receive this information with courtesy, but without

comment. Mr. Cornthwaite keep his eye steadily fix upon the young

man, and find himself at last oblige to put a direct question.



“you have, I suppose, expect he to make a different sort of choice?”



“very different, sir.”



“some one, perhaps, whom you would have consider well suit to

he?”



“much well suit, sir.”



Mr. Cornthwaite’s face cloud.



“whom do you mean?”



Bram only hesitate a moment. he could do Christian no harm now by

tell the truth; and he have a linger hope that he might bring old

Mr. Cornthwaite to see the matter with his own eye.



“Sir,” say he, “have you never suspect your son of any attachment,

any serious attachment, to a lady as good as Miss Hibbs be say to be,

and a great deal more attractive?”



Bram feel as he say this that he have lapse into the copybook style of

conversation which Chris have point out as one of his besetting sin.

but he could not help it. he feel the need of some dignity in speak

word which he feel to be momentous.



Mr. Cornthwaite look deeply annoyed.



“I have not,” say he shortly. and again he asked--“Whom do you mean?”



“Miss Claire Biron, sir,” answer Bram.



Mr. Cornthwaite’s face darken still more.



“what!” cry he in agitation which belie his word. “you believe that

my son ever give that girl a serious thought? and that the daughter of

such a father could be a proper match for my son? Absurd! Absurd! of

course, you be a very young man; you have no knowledge of the world.

but I should have think your native shrewdness would have prevent

your fall into such a mistake as that.”



Bram say nothing. Mr. Cornthwaite, in spite of the scornful tone he

have use, be evidently more anxious than ever to learn whatever Bram

have to tell on the subject. after a short silence, therefore, he ask

in a quieter tone--



“how came you to get such a notion into your head, Elshaw?”



“I know that they be fond of each other, sir; and I know that Miss

Biron be a young lady of character, and what you call tact.”



“Tact! Humbug!” say Mr. Cornthwaite shortly. “she be an artful,

design girl, and she and her father have do all in their power to

entangle my son. but I foresee his danger, and now I flatter myself I

have save he. you, I see, have be take in by the girl’s little

mince way, just as my son be in danger of be. but I warn you not

to have anything to do with they. they be an artful, scheme pair,

both father and daughter, and it would be ruin for any man to become

connect with they--ruin, I say.”



and he stare anxiously into Bram’s face.



“have she lead you on too?” he ask presently, with great abruptness.



Bram’s face flush.



“no, sir. she have forbid I to come to her father’s house.”



“ah! a ruse, a trick to encourage my son!” cry the old gentleman

fiercely. “I wish he be safely married. I shall do all in my power to

hurry it on. how often have you see he about there? you live near, I

believe?” say he curtly.



“I have see he now and then, not so very often lately,” answer

Bram.



“ah, well, you willn’t see he there much long. Miss Hibbs will see to

that.”



“Sir, you be wrong,” cry Bram, whose head and heart be on fire at

these accusation against Claire. “Miss Hibbs may be a good girl, as

girl go. I don’t know” (Bram’s English give way here) “nothing against

she. but I do know you don’t give your son a chance when you make he

marry a sack o’ meal like that, and he love a flesh-and-blood woman

like Miss Biron! why, sir, ask yourself whether it’s in nature that he

should settle down to the psalm-singing that would suit she, so as to

be happy and satisfied to give up his wild way? put it to he point

blank, sir, which he’d do of his own free will, and see what answer

you’ll get from he!”



“I shall do nothing of the kind,” say Mr. Cornthwaite hastily, “and

I’m exceedingly sorry to find you so much more gullible than I have

expect, Elshaw. be it possible you don’t observe how this young

woman run after my son? come to this house on every possible occasion

with some excuse or other?”



“that be her father’s fault, sir,” retort Bram hotly.



“probably he have something to do with it; but she fall in with his

wish with remarkable readiness, readiness which no modest girl

would have show in the circumstance. she must have see she be not

welcome with any warmth by the head of the household at least.”



the blood rush to Bram’s forehead. the idea of poor little Claire

creep unwillingly to the great house on one of her father’s

miserable errand, only to be snub and coldly receive by every one,

strike he like a stab.



“surely, sir, there be no place in the world where she have so good a

right to expect to be well receive as here?” say he, with difficulty

control the emotion he feel. “a young girl, do she good to

fulfil every duty, with no friend, no mother, no father worthy of the

name. and you be her relation; here there be woman, lady, who

know all about she, and who might be expect to sympathize with her

difficulty and her trouble!”



Bram, who speak slowly, deliberately, choose his word with nice

care, but utter they with deep feeling, paused, and look straight

into Mr. Cornthwaite’s face. but there be no mercy in the fiery black

eye, or about the cold, handsome mouth.



“they would have show she every sympathy,” say he coldly, “if she have

not abuse the privilege of intimacy by try to ensnare my son.”



“Mr. Cornthwaite,” interrupt Bram scornfully, “do you really think

Mr. Christian ever wait for a girl to run after he? why, for every

time Miss Biron’s be up here--send here by her father, mind--he’s

be three or four or five time down at the farm!”



Mr. Cornthwaite’s eye blaze. by a quick movement he betray that

this be just what he have want to know. his face cloud more than

before.



“ah!” say he shortly, “that’s what I’ve be tell. well, it’s the

girl’s own doing. if she’s get herself into a scrape, she have no one

but herself to thank for it, no one. shall we join the lady in the

drawing-room?”



he lead the way downstairs, and Bram follow in dead silence.



a horrible, sickly fear have seize his heart; he could not but

understand the imputation Mr. Cornthwaite have make, accompany as it

be by a look, the significance of which there be no mistaking.



Claire, poor little helpless Claire, the cherish idol of his

imagination and of his heart, lie under the most cruel suspicion which

can assail a woman, the suspicion of having hold her honor too lightly.



Bram, shock beyond measure, recoil at the bare mention of this

suspicion in connection with the girl he worship. the next moment

he cast the thought behind he as utterly base, and feel that he have

disgrace himself and she by the momentary harboring of it.



but as for Mr. Cornthwaite, Bram feel that he hate the smug, elderly

gentleman, who trouble himself not in the least about the helpless,

friendless girl who love his son, and whose only thought be to hurry

his son into a heartless marriage in order to “save he from” the

danger of his repair his suppose error.



in these circumstance, Bram lose all self-consciousness, all

remembrance of his unaccustomed dress, of his attitude, of his

awkwardness, and enter the drawing-room utterly absorb in thought

of Claire. Old Mrs. Cornthwaite, who be fumble about with a lapful

of feminine trifle, smell-bottle, handkerchief, spectacle-case,

drop one of they, and he hasten to pick it up.



“thank you,” say she, with a gracious, good-humor smile, “you be

more attentive than any of the grand folk.”



“Mamma,” cry hester in fidgety exasperation. and good-naturedly

fear that he might have be hurt by her mother’s lack of tact, she

open the old-fashioned, but not unhelpful, album of photograph,

which lie on a table near she, and ask he if he care for picture

of swiss scenery.



“not much, Miss Hester,” say Bram.



but he go up to the table, encourage by her kind manner, by the

honest look in her eye, in the hope that he might find a supporter in

she of the cause he have at heart.



“but I should like to see some photograph of you and Mr. Christian, if

you have any.”



she open another album, smile as she do so, and offer he a

chair near she, which he immediately take.



“I never show these unless I be ask,” she say. “family photograph I

always think uninteresting, except to the family.”



“and to those interested in the family,” amend Bram. “you see, Miss

Hester, there’s hardly another thing in the world I care about so much.

that’s only natural, ben’t it, after what I’ve be treat like at

their hand.”



he be conscious that his English be get doubtful under the

influence of the emotion which he could not master. but Miss

Cornthwaite seem, of course, not to notice this. she be extremely

well disposed towards this frank young man with the earnest eye, the

heavy, obstinate mouth, and the long, straight chin, which give so much

character to his pale face.



“Christian always speak of you with such boyish delight, as if he have

discover you bind hand and foot in the midst of cannibal who want

to eat you,” say she laugh.



“so he do, Miss Hester,” answer Bram gravely, almost harshly.



he could not speak, could not think of Chris just now without betray

something of the emotion the name arouse in he. and he glance

angrily across to the corner where Chris be sit beside prim little

Miss Hibbs, who be giggle gently at his remark, but clasp she

hand tightly together, and keep her arm pin closely to her

side, as if she feel that she be unbend more than be meet, and

that she must atone for a little surface hilarity by this penitential

attitude.



Hester Cornthwaite notice the glance throw by Bram, and feel curious.



“I be very glad he be go to be marry,” she say quickly, with an

intuition that he would not agree with she. Bram look her full in the

face in a sudden and aggressive manner.



“why be you glad?” he ask abruptly.



she be rather disconcert for a moment.



“why? oh, because I think it will be good for he, that he will

be happy, that he will settle down,” she answer with a little

confusion.



surely he must know as well as she do that there be many reason for

wish Chris to grow more steady. a little prim suggestion of this

feeling be noticeable in her tone.



“I don’t think he would settle down, if so he be to marry a girl

he don’t care for,” say Bram bluntly. “and I should have think

you would agree with I, understand Mr. Christian as you do, Miss

Hester.”



Miss Cornthwaite draw her lip rather primly together.



“he do care for she, of course,” say she rather tartly, “else why

should he marry she?”



Bram smile, and give she a glance of something like scorn.



“there be a good many reason why he should marry to please Mr.

Cornthwaite, your father, when he cann’t marry to please himself.”



“why cann’t he? who do he want to marry?” ask Miss Cornthwaite

quickly.



“why, Miss Biron, Miss Claire Biron, of Duke’s farm,” reply honest

Bram promptly.



hester’s thin and rather wizene face flush. she frown; she look

annoyed. “dear I! I never hear anything about it,” she say testily.

“and I can hardly think he would wish to do anything so very unwise.

Christian ben’t stupid, though he’s rather volatile.”



“Stupid! no, indeed. that he should want to marry Miss Biron be no

proof of stupidity. where could he find a nice wife? how could you

expect he to sit and look contentedly at Miss Hibbs when there be such

a girl as Miss Biron within ten mile?”



Hester look more prim than ever.



“you seem very enthusiastic, Mr. Elshaw. pray, what have you to say

about Mr. Biron?”



“well, Mr. Christian wouldn’t have to marry he.”



“that be just what he would have to do,” retort she quickly. “Mr.

Biron would take good care of that. Christian would never be able to

shake he off.”



“well,” say Bram, “he cann’t shake he off now, can he? so he would be

no bad off.”



“now, seriously, Mr. Elshaw, would you like to have such a

father-in-law yourself?”



Bram’s heart leapt up. but he do not tell the young lady that he

only wish he have the chance. instead of that, he answer in a

particularly grave and judicial tone--



“if I have, I’d soon bring he to reason. he’s not stupid either, you

see. I’d make an arrangement with he, and I’d make he keep to it.

and if he don’t keep to it----”



“and he certainly wouldn’t. what then?”



“well, then perhaps I’d get rid of he some way, Miss Hester.”



“I certainly shouldn’t advise my brother to run the risk of have to

do that, and all for a girl much too volatile to make he a good wife.

why, she be nearly half french.”



Bram look at she quickly.



“surely, Miss Hester, you who have travel and be about the world,

don’t think the bad of a lady for that?”



Miss Cornthwaite redden, but she stick to her gun.



“I hope I be above any silly insular prejudice,” she say coldly.

“but I certainly think the french character too frivolous for an

Englishman’s wife. why, when Claire come here, though she will sob as

if her heart be break one moment at the humiliation her father

expose she to, she will be laugh heartily the next.”



“poor child, poor child! thank heaven she can,” say Bram with solemn

tenderness which make Miss Cornthwaite just a little ashamed of

herself. “and don’t you think a temper like that would come in handy

for Mr. Christian’s wife, as well as for Mr. Biron’s daughter?”



“oh, perhaps,” say Miss Cornthwaite very frigidly, as she stretch

out her hand quickly for a fresh book to show he.



Poor Claire have no partisan here.









CHAPTER XI.



BRAM shows himself in a new light.





now, Christian feel throughout the evening that Bram be avoid his

eye, save himself up, as it be, for an attack of eye and tongue, a

combat in which Chris would have all he could do to hold his own.



Christian be fond of Bram, fonder even, perhaps, than Bram, with his

honest admiration and indulgence, be of he. the steady, earnest

character of the sturdy man of the people, with his straightforward

simplicity, his shrewdness, and his blunt outspokenness when his

opinion be ask, have constant attraction for the less simple, but

more amiable, son of the owner of the work. he want to put himself

right with Bram, and to do it in such a way as to put Bram in the wrong.



he try to get an opportunity of a chat with the sullen-look young

clerk, who, however, avoid this chance more cleverly than Chris

seek it.



at the close of the evening, when Bram have reel off without a

mistake the elaborate speech of thank to Mrs. Cornthwaite which he

have prepare beforehand, he contrive very cleverly to slip out of the

house while Chris be occupy with the perfunctory attention demand

by his _fiancée_. and with the start he thus obtain, he contrive to

reach the foot of Hassel Hill before he become aware that he be be

follow.



“Hallo!” cry out a bright voice, which he know to be that of Chris.

“Hallo!”



Bram do not answer, do not slacken his pace, but go straight on up

the hill, leave Chris to follow or not as he please.



he have reach the outer gate of Duke’s Farm before Chris come in

sight, toil up the steep road in silence after he. then the pursuer

call out again. somebody besides Bram recognize the voice, for a

minute later Bram see a light strike in an upper window of the farm.

the window be throw up, and somebody look out. Bram, however,

stalk upwards in silence still.



he have reach the first of the row of cottage on the top of the hill,

when Chris, make a last spurt, overtake he, and seize he by the

arm.



“Bram, Bram, what’s the matter with you? I’ve be pant and puff

after you for a thousand mile, and I cann’t get you to turn that wooden

head of your. come, I know what’s wrong with you, and I mean to have

it out with you at once, and have do with it. so come along.”



he have already hook his arm within that of the unwilling Bram,

who hold himself stiffly, stubbornly, with an air which seem to

say--“Well, if you want it, you can have it.”



and so, the one eager, defiant, impetuous, the other stolid and

taciturn, the two man walk past the row of mean cottage, past

Bram’s own lodging, and up to the very summit of the hill, where the

ruin, patch-up, and re-ruined mansion be, and the disuse coal

shaft with its tower chimney.



“and now,” cry Chris, suddenly stop and swinge Bram round to

face he in the darkness, “we be come to an understanding.”



“very well, sir.”



“now, don’t ‘sir’ I, but tell I if you’re not ashamed of yourself----”



“I ashamed of myself! I like that!” cry Bram with a short laugh.

“but that’s the way with you gentleman. if you please, we’ll not have

any talk about this, because honor and honesty don’t mean the same

thing to you as to I.”



“that’s a nasty one,” retort Chris in his usual airy tone. “now, look

here, Bram, although you’re so entirely unreasonable that you don’t

deserve it, I’m go to condescend to argue with you, and to prove to

you the absurdity of your conduct in treat I like this.”



“like what, Mr Christian?”



“oh, you know. don’t let’s waste time. you be angry because I’m

marry Miss Hibbs----”



“no,” say Bram obstinately. “I’m not angry with you for marry Miss

Hibbs. I’m angry because you’re not marry the girl you love, the

girl you’ve teach to love you.”



“same thing, Bram. I cann’t marry they both, you know.”



Bram shake his arm free angrily.



“Mr. Christian, we willn’t talk about this no more,” say he in a voice

which be hoarse, and strain, and unlike his own. “I might say thing

I shouldn’t like to. let I go, sir; let I go home, and do you go home

and leave I alone.”



“no, I willn’t leave you till we’ve thresh the matter out. be

reasonable, Bram. you know as well as I do that I’m dependent on my

father----”



“you know that all along. but you say, you tell me----”



“I tell you that I want to marry my cousin Claire. well, so I do.

but my father wouldn’t hear of it; apart from the objection he have to

the marriage of cousins----”



“that’s new, that be,” put in Bram shortly.



“apart from that, I say, he wouldn’t have anything to say to the match

for a dozen reason. you know that. and, know how I’m place, it be

highly ridiculous of you to make all this fuss, especially as you, no

doubt, intend to use the opportunity to cut in yourself.”



his tone change, and Bram detect real pique, real jealousy in these

last word.



Bram hear this in dead silence.



“you do, eh?” go on Chris more sharply.



“no, Mr. Christian, I do not. I couldn’t come after you in a girl’s

heart.”



“why not? you be too modest, Bram.”



perhaps Chris flatter himself that he speak in his usual tone; but an

unpleasant, jeer note be clearly discernible to Bram Elshaw’s ear.

Christian go on in a more jarring tone than ever.



“or have you be so far penetrate with the maxim of the

Sunday-school that you would not allow a girl a little harmless

flirtation?”



“Flirtation!” echo Bram angrily. “it be more than that, Mr.

Christian, more than that--to she!”



“it be nothing more than that,” say Chris emphatically. “I have do

the girl no harm.”



before the word be out of his mouth Bram have spring forward with the

savagery of a wild animal. in the obscurity of the cloudy night his

eye gleam, and with set tooth and clench fist he come close to

Christian, stare into his eye, stammer in his vehemence.



“if you have,” whisper he almost inaudibly, but with passion which

infect Christian and awe he into silence, “if you have do

she--any--harm, I’d ha’ strangle you, Mr. Christian. I’d ha’ gone

down to t’ work, when you be there, and I’d ha’ take one o’ t’

leather band o’ t’ wheel, and I’d ha’ twist it round your neck, Mr.

Christian, and I’d ha’ pull, and pull, till I see t’ eye start out

o’ your head, and t’ blood come burst out o’ your mouth. and I’d ha’

hold you, and tighten it, and tighten it till the breath be out o’

your body!”



when he have finish, Bram still stand close to Christian, glare at

he with wild, bloodshot eye. Christian try to laugh, but he turn

suddenly away, almost staggering. he feel sick and faint. it be Bram

who recover himself first. he confront Chris quickly, look

ashamed, penitent, abash.



“ah shouldn’t ha’ say what ah do,” say he, just in his old voice,

as if he have be again a mere hand at the work. “it be not for I

to say it, owe what ah do to you, Mr. Christian. but--by--I mean it

all the same.” and again the strange new Bram flash out for a moment.

“and I’m think, Mr. Christian,” he go on, resume the more

refined tone of his later development, “that it will be good for I to

leave the work altogether, for it can never be the same for you and I

after to-night. you cann’t forgive I for what I’ve say, and--well, I

feel I should be more comfortable away, if it’s the same to you.”



there be a pause, hardly last more than a few second, and then

Chris speak, with a hoarse and altered voice, but in nearly his

ordinary tones--



“but it’s not the same to I or to we, not at all the same, Bram. my

delinquency, real or imaginary, cannot be allow to come between my

father and the good clerk he ever have, the man who be to make up for

my business shortcoming. so--so if you please, Elshaw, I’ll take my

chance of the strangling, though, mind you, I should have think you

might have discover some more refined mode of make away with I,

something just as effective, and--and nice to look at.”



his voice be tremulous, and he do not look at Bram, though he

succeed pretty well in maintain a light tone. Bram laugh shortly.



“my refinement’s only skin deep, you see, Mr. Christian. I tell you so.

the raw Sheffielder’s very near the top. and in these fine clothe,

too!”



he glance down rather scornfully at the brand-new overcoat, and at the

glaze expanse of unaccustomed shirt-front which show underneath.



there be another pause. both the young man be tremble violently,

and find it pretty hard to keep up talk at this placid level of

commonplace. quite suddenly Chris said--“Well, good-night, Elshaw,” and

start on his way back to Holme Park at a good pace.



Bram draw a long breath. he have just go through an experience so

hideous, so horrible, that he feel as if he have be sear, brand

with a hot iron. for the first time he realize now what he have be

simple enough not to suspect before, that Christian have never for a

moment seriously entertain the idea of marry Claire.



and yet he be in love with she! Bram, love Claire himself, be

clear-sighted and not to be deceive on this point. Christian love she

still enough to be jealous of any other man’s feeling for she. he have

betray this fact in every word, in every tone. if, then, he love she

and do not mean to marry she, he, the irresistible, the spoilt child

of the sex, what right have he to love she, to make her love he? what

motive have he in pass so much of his time at Duke’s Farm?



and there dart into poor Bram’s heart a jealous, mad fear that be

like a poison in his blood. he clench his tooth, he shake his fist

in the air; again the wild, fierce passion which have sweep over he at

Christian’s stab word seize he and possess he.



he turn quickly, as if to start in pursuit of Chris, when a low

sound, a cry, stop he, turn he as if into stone.



for, at a little distance from he, between where he stand and the

retreating figure half-way down the hill, stand Claire.



an exclamation escape his lip. she run pant towards he.









CHAPTER XII.



a MODEL FATHER.





Dark as the night be, the moon be so thickly obscure by cloud

that she never show her face except through a fly film of vapor,

Claire seem to detect something alarming in Bram’s attitude,

something which cause she to pause as she be run up the hill

towards he.



at last she stop altogether, and they stand look each at the

figure of the other, motionless, and without speak.



as for Bram, he feel that if he try to utter a single word he should

choke. he could not understand or analyze his own feeling; he do

not well know whether his faith in her innocence and purity remain

intact. all he know, all he feel, as he look at the little creature

who seem so pitifully small and slight as she stand alone on the

hillside, wrapt tightly in a long cloak, but shiver in the night

air, be that his whole heart be sore for she, that he ache for pity

and distress, that he do not know what he should say, what he could

do, to comfort and console she.



at last she seem to take courage, and come a few step near.



“Mr. Elshaw!”



“yes, Miss Claire.”



she start, and no wonder. for his voice be as much change as be

the sentiment he feel for she.





[illustration: an exclamation escape his lip. she run pant towards

him.--_Page 86._]





she come a little nearer still, with hesitate foot, before she speak

again.



“be that--wasn’t that my cousin, Christian Cornthwaite, who go away

when he see I?”



it be Bram’s turn to start. so that be the reason of the sudden

flight of Chris! he have see and recognize the figure of Claire as she

come up the hill behind Bram.



“yes, Miss Claire.”



another pause. she be near enough now to peer up into his face with

some chance of discern the expression he wear. it be one of

anxiety, of tenderness. she draw back a little.



“I--I hear he call--I hear a voice call out ‘Hallo!’” she explain,

“and I jump up, and look out of the window, and I see you, and I

see my cousin follow you. and you would not answer he. but he still

go on. and--and I be frightened; I think something dreadful have

happen, that you have quarrel; so I get up and come up after you.

and I saw----”



she stop. Bram say nothing. but he turn his head away, unable

to look at she. her voice, now that she speak under the influence of

some strong emotion, play upon his heartstring like the wind upon an

æolian harp. he make a movement as if to bid she go on with her story.



“I see,” she add in a low voice, “I see you spre upon he as if

you be go to knock he down. you have be quarrel. I’m sure

you have. and I be frightened. I scream out, but you don’t hear I,

either of you; you be too full of what you be say to each other.

and it be about I; I know it be about I. now, ben’t it?”



Bram be astonish.



“what make you think that, Miss Claire? do you hear anything?”



“ah!” cry she quickly. “that’s a confession. it be about I you be

quarrel. cann’t you tell I all about it at once?”



but Bram do not dare. he move restlessly from the one foot to the

other, and suddenly said--



“you’re cold; you’re shiver. you’ll catch an awful chill if you

stay up here. just go down back to the farm, Miss Claire, like a good

girl”--and unconsciously his tone assume the caress accent one

use to a favorite child--“and you shall hear all you want to know in

the morning.”



but she stand her ground, make an impatient movement with one foot.



“no, Bram, you must tell I now. what be it all about?”



he hesitate. even if he be able to put she off now, which seem

unlikely, she must hear the truth some day. it be only selfishness,

the horror of himself give her pain, which urge he to be reticent

now. so he say to himself, doggedly prepare for his avowal. his

anger against the Cornthwaites, his fear of hurt she, combine to

make his tone sullen and almost fierce as he answered--



“well, Miss Claire, I be angry wi’ he because I think he haven’t

behave as he ought.”



there be a pause. it seem to Bram that she guess, with feminine

quickness, what be come. she speak, after another of the short

pause with which their conversation be break up, in a very low and

studiously-restrain tone--



“how? to whom, Bram?”



“to--to you, Miss Claire,” answer Bram with blunt desperation.



another silence.



“why, what have he do to I?” ask she at last.



“he have go and get engage--to be marry--to somebody else; that’s

what he’s do, there!”



Bram be fiercer than ever.



“well, and what of that?”



he could not see her face, and her tone be one of careless bravado.

but Bram be not deceive. he clench his fist till the nail go

deep into his flesh. it cut he in the heart to have to tell she this

news, to feel what she must be suffer. he answer as quietly as he

could.



“nothing, but that I think he ought--he ought----”



“you think he ought to have tell I. oh, I guess, I guess what be

go to happen,” reply Claire rapidly in an off-hand tone. “I should

have hear it from himself to-morrow. who--who be it?”



“a Miss Hibbs.”



“oh, yes, of course. I might have know.”



but her voice tremble, and Bram, turn quickly, see that the tear

be run down her cheek. she be angry at be thus catch, and

she dash they away impatiently.



“D---- he!” roar Bram, clench his fist and his tooth.



“Hush, Bram, hush! I’m surprised. I’m ashamed of you! and, besides,

what do it matter to you or to I either whom Mr. Cornthwaite

marrie?”



“it do matter. he ought to have marry you, and take you away out

of the place, and away from the life you have to live with that old

rascal----”



Bram be beside himself; he do not know what he be say. Claire

stop he, but very gently, saying--



“Hush, Bram. he’s my father.”



“well, I know that, but he’s a rascal all the same,” say Bram bluntly.

“and Mr. Christian know it, and he have ought to be glad to have the

chance of take you away, and make you happy. he’s behave like a

fool, too, for the girl his father’s find for he will never get on

with he, never make he happy, like you would have do, Miss Claire.

he be just make a rod for his own back, and it serve he jolly well

right!”



Claire do not interrupt he; she be cry quietly, every tear she

let fall increase Bram’s rage, and throw fuel on the fire of his

indignation. perhaps his anger soothe she a little, for it be in a

very subdued little voice that she presently said--



“oh, Bram, I don’t think that! I do wish he to be happy! indeed,

indeed I do. and if it ben’t for one thing I should be very, very glad

he’s go to marry somebody else--very, very glad, really!”



Bram have come a little near to she; he speak earnestly, tenderly,

with a voice that tremble.



“you’re fond of he?” say he, quickly, imperiously.



“yes, I’m very fond of he. he’s my cousin, and he’s always be kind

to I. but I don’t want to marry he. oh, I don’t want to marry he!”



Bram be astonish, incredulous. he speak brusquely, almost harshly.



“he think you do. he think you care for he. so do I, so do

everybody.”



“yes. I know that. he’s so popular that people take it for grant one

must care for he. but I didn’t--in the way you mean.”



Bram be still dubious.



“then, why,” say he suddenly, “do you take this so much to heart?”



Claire make a valiant attempt to dry her eye and steady her voice.



“because,” say she in a hesitate voice, “because of--of--because of

papa! he want I to marry he; he count on it; and now--oh, dear, I

don’t know what he will do, what he will say. well, it cann’t be help.

I must go back; I must go home. good-bye; good-night!”



before Bram could do more than babble out “good-night, Miss Claire,”

she have fly like the wind down the hill towards the farm.



Bram go back to his lodging in a sort of delirium. be it possible

that Claire have speak the truth to he? that she really care not

a straw for her cousin except in a cousinly way; that all she be

trouble about be her father’s displeasure at having miss such a

chance of a connection with the family of the long purse.



Bram understand very little about the nature of woman. but he have, of

course, acquire the usual vague notion concern the reticence, the

ruse of girl in love, and he could not help feel that in Claire’s

denial there be matter for distrust. how, indeed, should she, this

little friendless girl who have no other lover, fail to respond to

the affection of a man as attractive, both to man and woman, as Chris

Cornthwaite? and do not the behavior of Chris himself confirm this

view? if Claire have not care for he, why should he have receive

Bram’s frown, his angry reproach, with something which be almost

meekness, if he have feel they to be absolutely undeserved? the more

he consider this, the more impossible it seem that Claire’s

lame explanation of her tear, of her distress, could be the true

one. it seem to Bram that Theo Biron, with his shrewdness and his

cunning, must have be the very person to feel most sure that Josiah

Cornthwaite would never allow the marriage of Chris with Claire.



again, why, if she have not feel a most deep interest in Chris have

she take such a bold step as to follow he up the hill that night?

surely it must have be in the hope of speak with he, perhaps of

reassure herself from his own lip on the subject of the rumor of

his approach marriage, which must have reach she? if, too, Chris

have have nothing to reproach himself with on her account, why have he

flee so quickly, so abruptly, at the first sight of she?



More and more gloomy grow Bram Elshaw’s thought as he approach the

cottage where he lodge, pass through the little bit of cramp

garden, and let himself in. enter his little sitting-room, and

strike a light, he find a note address to himself lie on the

table. the writing of the envelope be unknown to he, and he open

it with some curiosity. the letter be stamp with this heading--“The

Vicarage, East Grindley.”



“Grindley! East Grindley!” think Bram to himself. “why, that’s where

my father’s people come from!”



and he read the letter with some interest. it be this:





     “dear Sir,--I be sorry to inform you that Mr. Abraham Elshaw,

     who be some relation of your, though he hardly seem himself to

     know in what degree, be very ill, and not expect to live many

     day. he have desire I to write and ask you if you will make an

     effort to come and see he without delay. I may tell you that I

     understand Mr. Elshaw have hear of the rapid manner in which you

     be get on in the world; he have, in fact, often speak of you

     to we with much pride, and he be anxious to see you about the

     disposal of the little property of which he be possess. I need

     not ask you under the circumstance to come with as little delay

     as possible.--Yours very truly,



     “BERNARD G. THORPE.



     “P.S.--Mr Elshaw have be a member of my congregation for many

     year, and he choose I rather than one of his own relation to

     open communication with you. I should have prefer his choosing

     one of they, but he refuse, say they be unknown to you, so

     that I could not refuse to fulfil his wish.”





Bram put down the letter with a rather grim smile. he have never see

this namesake of his, but he have hear a good deal about he. an

eccentric old fellow, not a rich man by any mean, he have save a few

hundred pound in trade of the small and most pettifog kind,

on the strength of which he have give himself great air for the last

quarter of a century among the pit hand and mill hand and grinder

who form his family and acquaintance. a sturdy, stubborn, miserly

old man, of whose hard-fistedness and petty money-grab Bram have

hear many tale. but the family be proud of he, though it love he

not. Bram remember clearly how, when he be a very small child, his

father have go out on a strike with his mate, and his poor mother, at

her wit’ end for a meal, have apply to the great Abraham for a small

loan, and how it have be curtly and contemptuously refuse.



this be just the man, this hard-fiste, self-help old saver of

halfpence, to bestow upon the successful and prosperous young relation

the money of which he would not have lend he a cent if he have be

starve. Bram tell himself that he must go, of course: and he

resolve to do his good with the old man for those unknown relation

who might be more in want of the money than he himself be. for he be

shrewd enough to foresee that old Abraham’s intention be to make his

prosperous young relation heir to what little he possess. he resolve

to ask next morning for a day off, and to go at once to East Grindley.



Bram get the require permission easily enough, and go on the very

next day to see his reputed wealthy namesake. East Grindley be a good

many mile north of Sheffield and it be late in the day before he

return.



throughout the whole of the day he have be haunt by thought of

Claire; and no soon have he have his tea than he determine to go to

the farm, with the excuse of ask if she have catch cold the night

before.



he be in a fever of doubt, anxiety, and only half-acknowledge hope.

he have wish, honestly wish, when he believe Claire to be as

fond of Chris as Chris be of she, that the cousin should marry,

that little Claire should be take right out of her trouble and her

difficulty, and set down in a palace of peace and content, of luxury

and beauty, with the man of her heart. but if those word of Claire’s

utter to he the night before be really true, might there not be a

chance that he might win she himself? that he might be the lucky man

who should build she a palace, and lift she from misery into happiness?



Bram know that Claire like he; know that the distance between himself

and she, which have seem immeasurable thirteen month before, have

diminish, and be every day diminish. if, indeed she do not care,

have never care for her cousin with the love Bram want, who have a

well chance with she than himself, whom she know so well, and trust

so completely?



Bram with all his humility, be proud in his own way, and exceedingly

jealous. if Claire have love her cousin passionately, and have be

jilt by he, as Bram have believe to be the case, he do not feel

that he should even have wish to take the vacant place in her heart.

no doubt the wish would have come in time, but not at once. if,

however, it be true that she have not care for Chris in the only way

of which Bram would have be jealous, why, then, indeed, there be

hope of the most brilliant kind.



Bram, on his way to the farm, begin to see in his heart such vision as

love only can build and paint, love, too, that have not take the edge

off itself, fritter itself away, on the innumerable flirtation with

which his daily companion at the office beguile the dead monotony of

existence.



in his new life, as in his old, it be Bram’s lot to be “chaff” daily

on his unimpressionability, on the stolid, matter-of-fact way in which

he go about his daily work, “as if,” as the other clerk say, “his

eye could see nothing well in the world than paper and ink, print

and figure.”



Bram on these occasion be accustom to put on an air of extra

stolidity, and to shake his head, and declare that he have no time to

think of anything but his work. and all the time he wonder to himself

at the ease with which they could chatter of their affection for this

girl and that, and enjoy the joke which be level at they, and

wear their heart upon their sleeve with ill-conceal delight.



and he smile to himself at their mistake, and go on nourish his

heart with its own choose food in secret, with rapture that nobody

guess.



and now the thought that his dreamy hope might grow into reality

bring the color to his pale cheek and new lustre to his steady gray

eye, as he walk soberly down the hill, and enter the farmyard in

the yellow sunlight of the end of a fine day in September.



he knock at the kitchen door, and nobody answer. he knock more

loudly, fancy that he hear voice inside the house. but again

without result. so he open the door, and peep in. a small fire be

burn in the big grate, but there be nobody in the room. with the

door open, however, the voice he have faintly hear become louder, and

he become aware that an altercation be go on between Claire and

her father in the front part of the house.



he be on the point of retire, therefore, with a sigh for the poor

little girl, when a cry, utter by she in a wail tone, reach his

ear, and act upon his startled sense like flame pitch on tow.



“oh, papa, don’t, don’t hurt I!”



the next moment Bram have burst the opposite door open, and see

Theodore, his little, mean face wrinkle up with malice, strike

Claire’s face sharply with his open hand. this be in the hall, outside

the dining-room door.



no soon be the blow give than Bram seize Theodore, lift he into

the air, and fling he down against the door of the dining-room with

such force that it burst open, and Mr. Biron lie sprawl just inside

the room.



Claire, her cheek still white from the blow, her eye full of tear of

shame, rush forward, ready to champion her father.



“go away,” she say in a strangled, breathless voice. “go away. how

dare you hurt my father? you have no right to come here. go away.”



she try to speak severely, harshly, but the tear be run

down her face; she be heart-break, miserable, full of such deep

humiliation that she could scarcely meet his eye. but Bram do not

heed she, do not hear she perhaps. he be himself tremble with

emotion, and his eye shine with that liquid lustre, that yearning of

long-repress passion, which no word can explain away, no eyewitness

can mistake.



he stretch out his hand, without a single word, and take both her in

one strong clasp. and the moment she feel his touch her voice fail,

die away; she bend down her head, and burst into a fit of weep more

passionate than ever.



“Hush, my dear; hush! don’t cry. remember, it’s only I; it’s only

Bram.”



he have bend his head too, and be lean over she with such tender

yearning, such undisguised affection, in look, manner, voice, that no

girl could have doubt what feel it be which animate he. with

his disengaged hand he softly touch her hair, every nerve in his own

body thrill with a sensation he have never know before.



“hush, hush!”



the whisper be a confession. it seem to tell what love he have

cherish for she during all these month; a love which give he now

not only the duty, but the right of comfort she, of soothe the

poor little bruised heart, of calm the weary spirit.



“hush, dear, hush!”



whether it be a minute, whether it be an hour, that they stand like

this in the little stone-flag hall in the cool light of the dying

September evening, Bram do not know. he be intoxicate, mad. it be

only by strong self-control that he refrain from press she to his

breast. he have to tell himself that he must not take advantage of her

weakness, he must not extort from she while she be crush, break, a

word, a promise, an assurance, which her strong, her real self would

shudder at or regret. she must feel, she must know, that he, Bram, be

her comforter, the tender guardian who ask no price, who be ready to

soothe, to champion, and to wait.



meanwhile the strong man find in his own sensation reward enough and

to spare. here, with her heart beat very near his, be the only

woman who have ever light in he the fiery light of passion; her little

hand tremble in his, the tender flesh press his own hard palm with

a convulsive touch which set his vein tingle. the scent of her hair

be an intoxicating perfume in his nostril. every sob breath she

draw seem to sound a new note of sweetest music in his heart.



at last, when he have be silent for some second, she suddenly draw

herself back, with a face red with shame; with eye which dare not

meet his. reluctantly he let she drag her hand away from he, and

watch her wipe her wet eye.



“Papa! where be he?” ask she quickly.



staggering, unsteady, hardly know where he go, or what he do,

Bram cross the hall, and look into the dining-room. but the lively

Theodore be not there. he turn and come face to face with Claire,

who be red than ever, the place where her father have strike she

glow with vivid crimson which put the other cheek to shame.



she move back a step, look about also. then she go quickly out of

the room, and recrosse the hall to the drawing-room. but her father

be not there either. back in the hall again, she meet Bram, and they

glance shyly each into the face of the other.



both feel that the fact of their having let Mr. Biron disappear without

having notice he be a mutual confession. Claire look troubled,

frightened.



“I wonder,” say she in a low voice, “where he have go?”



but Bram do not share her anxiety. there be no fear that Mr. Biron

would let either rage or despair carry he to the point of do

anything rash or dangerous to himself.



“he’ll turn up presently,” say he, with a scornful movement of the

head, “never fear, Miss Claire. have you get anything for I to do this

evening? you’re run short of wood, I think.”



he walk back into the kitchen, which, be the least frequent

by the fastidious Theodore, be Bram’s favorite part of the house.

in a few moment Claire come softly in after he. she seem rather

constrain, rather stiff, and this make Bram very careful, very

subdue. but there be a delicious peace, a new hope in his own heart;

she have rest within the shelter of his arm; she have be comfort

there.



“you ought not to have come this evening, Bram,” she say with studied

primness. “you know, I tell you that before. it only make thing bad

for I, it do really.”



“now, how can you make that out?” ask Bram bluntly.



“why, papa will be all the angrier with I afterwards. as for--for what

you see he do, I don’t care a bit. it make I angry for the time,

and just give I spirit enough to hold out when he want I to do

anything I willn’t do, I cann’t do.”



“what be it he want you to do?” ask Bram, grind his tooth.



Claire hesitate. she grow crimson again, and the tear rush once

more to her eye.



“I’d rather not tell you.” then as she notice the expression on Bram’s

face grow dark and more menacing, she go on quickly--“Well, it be

only that he want I to go up to Holme Park again to-night--with a

note--the usual note. and that I can’t--_now!_”



Bram’s heart sink. of course, she mean that it be the engagement of

Chris which make this difference. but why should this be, if she do

not care for he? Bram come near to she, lean on the table, and

look into her face. what an endless fascination the little feature

have for he. when she look down, as she do now, he never know what

would be the expression of her brown eye when she look up, whether

they would dance with fun, or touch he by a queer, dreamy, expression,

or whether there would be in they such infinite sadness that he would

be force into silent sympathy. Bram wait impatiently for she to look

up.



as he come near and nearer, she still look down, but conscious

of his approach, a new thought come into his mind, a cruel, a bitter

thought. suddenly he stand up, still lean over the corner of the

table.



“be you what they call a coquette, Miss Claire?” he ask with blunt

earnestness.



she look up quickly then, with a restless, defiant sparkle in her

eye.



“perhaps I be. french people, french woman, be all suppose to be,

ben’t they? and my grandmother be french. why do you ask I?”



“because I don’t understand you,” answer Bram in a low, thick voice.

“because you tell I you don’t care for Mr. Christian, and I should

like to believe you. but you tell I to keep away, and yet--and

yet--whenever I come you make I think you want I to come again,

though you tell I to go. but surely, surely, you wouldn’t play with

I; you wouldn’t condescend to do that, would you? now, would you?”



she look up again, step back a little as she do so; and there

be in her eye such a look of beautiful confidence, of kindness, of

sweet, girlish affection, that Bram’s heart leapt up. he have promptly

sit down again on the table, and be bend towards she with passion

in his eye, when there steal round the half-open door the little,

mean, fair face of Theodore.



Bram spring up, and stand at once in an attitude of angry defiance.



but Theodore, quite unabashed, be in the room in half a second,

hold out his pretty white hand with a smile which be mean to be

frankness itself.



“Mr. Elshaw,” say he, “we must shake hand. I willn’t allow you to

refuse. I owe you no grudge for the way you treat I a short time

ago; on the contrary, I thank you for it. I thank you----”



“Papa!” cry poor Claire.



he wave she into silence.



“I thank you,” he persist obstinately, “for remind I that I be

treat my darling daughter too harshly, much too harshly. Claire, I

be sorry. you will forgive I, willn’t you?”



and he put his hand on her shoulder, and imprint delicately on she

forehead a butterfly kiss. Claire say nothing at all. she have become

quite pale, and stand with a face of cold gravity, with her eye cast

down, while her father talk.



Bram feel that he should have like to kick he. instead of that he

have to give his reluctant hand to the airy Mr. Biron, an act which he

perform with the bad possible grace.



“you must stay to supper,” say Theodore. “oh, yes; I want a talk

with you. about this marriage of my young kinsman, Chris Cornthwaite.

frankly, I think the match a most ill-choose one. he would have do

much well to marry my little girl here----”



“Papa!” cry Claire angrily, impatiently.



“only, unfortunately for _he_, she don’t care enough about he.”



Claire draw a long breath. Bram look up. Theodore, in his hurry to

secure for his daughter another eligible suitor whom he see to be well

dispose for the position, be show his hand a trifle too plainly.

Bram grow restless. Claire say sharply that they could not ask Mr.

Elshaw to supper, as she have nothing to offer he. she be almost rude;

but Bram, whose heart ache for the poor child, give she a glance which

be forgiveness, tenderness itself. he say he could not stay, and

explain that he have be out all day on an errand, which have tire

he. to fill up a pause, he tell the story of his eccentric kinsman.



“and he mean to leave I all his money, whatever it be,” go on Bram.

“he show I the box he keep it in, and tell I in so many word that

it would be mine within a few day. and all because he think I’ve get

on. if I’d be still a hand at the work down there, and hard up for

the price of a pair of boot, I shouldn’t have have a penny.”



“ah, well, it will be none the less welcome when it come,” say

Mr. Biron brightly. “what be the amount of your fortune? something

handsome, I hope.”



“I don’t know yet, Mr. Biron. not enough to call a fortune, I expect.”



“well, you must come and tell we about it when it’s all settle.

there’s nobody who take more interest in you and your affair than my

daughter and I--eh, Claire?”



but Claire affect to be too busy to hear; she be engage in make

the fire burn up, and at the first opportunity she steal out of the

room, unseen by her father. so that Bram, who soon after take his

departure, do not see she again.



he go back to his lodging in a fever. this new turn of affair,

this anxiety of Theodore’s to make he come forward in the place of

Christian, fill he with dismay. on the very first sign of this

disposition in her father Claire have shrink back into herself and have

refuse to give he so much as another look. but then that be only the

natural resentment of a modest girl; it prove, it disprove nothing

but that she refuse to be throw at any man’s head. that look she have

give he just before her father’s entrance, on the other hand, have

be eloquent enough to set he on fire with something more definite

than dreamy hope. if it have not betray the very love and trust for

which he be long, it have express something very near akin to that

feel. Bram live that night in alternate state of fever and frost.



he dare not, however, for fear of give pain to Claire, go to the

farm again for the next fortnight. he would linger about the farmyard

gate, and sometimes he would catch sight of Claire. but on these

occasion she turn she back upon he with so cold and decide a snub

that it be impossible for he to advance in face of a repulse so

marked. and even when Theodore lie in wait for he, and try to induce

he to go home with he, Bram have to refuse for the sake of the very

girl he be long to see.



meanwhile the date of Christian’s marriage with Miss Hibbs be rapidly

approach. Chris maintain an easy demeanor with Bram, but that

young man be stiff, reserve, and shy, and receive the confidence,

real or pretend, of the other without comment or sympathy. when Chris

lament that he could not make a match to please himself, Bram look

in front of he, and say nothing. when he make attempt to sound Bram

on the subject of Claire, the young clerk parry his question with

perfect stolidity.



the day of the wedding be a holiday at the work, and Bram, who dare

not spend the day at the farm, as he would have like to do, and who

have refuse to take any part in the festivity, pay another visit to

old Abraham Elshaw at East Grindley as an excuse for stay away.



he return, however, early in the evening, and be on his way up the

hill by way of the field, when, to his unbounded amazement, he see a

side-gate in the wall of the farmhouse garden open quickly, and a man

steal out, and run hurriedly down across the grass in the direction of

the town.



Bram feel sure that there be something wrong, but he have hardly go a

few step with the intention of intercept the man, when he stop

short. something in the man’s walk, even at this distance, strike he.

in another moment, in spite of the fact that the stealthy visitor wear

a travel cap well over his eye, Bram recognize Chris Cornthwaite.



stupefy with dread, Bram glance back, and see Claire stand at the

little gate, watch Chris as he run. shade her eye with her hand,

for the glare of the set sun come full upon her face, she wait

until he be out of sight behind a stone wall which separate the last

of the field he cross from the road. then she shut the gate, lock

it, and go indoor.



Bram stare at the farmhouse, the window of which be shine like

jewel in the set sun. he feel sick and cold.



what be the meaning of this secret visit of Chris Cornthwaite to

claire on his wedding day?









CHAPTER XIII.



an ILL-MATCHED PAIR.





nobody but simple-hearte Bram Elshaw, perhaps, would have be able

to doubt any long after what he have see that there be something

strong than cousinly affection between Christian Cornthwaite and

Claire. but even this wild visit of Chris to his cousin on his very

wedding day do not create more than a momentary doubt, a fly

suspicion, in the heart of the devoted Bram.



have he not look into her dark eye not many day before, and read

there every virtue and every quality which can make womanhood sweet and

noble and dear?



Unluckily, Chris have be see on this mysterious visit by other

besides Bram.



it be not long after the wedding day that Josiah Cornthwaite find

occasion, when Bram be alone with he in his office, to break out into

invective against the girl who, so he say, be try to destroy every

chance of happiness for his son. Bram, who could not help know to

what girl he refer, make no comment, but wait stolidly for the

information which he see that Mr. Cornthwaite be anxious to impart.



“I think even you, Elshaw, who advocate this young woman so warmly a

little while ago, will have to alter your opinion now.” as Bram still

look blank, he go on impatiently--“Don’t pretend to misunderstand.

you know very well whom I mean--Claire Biron, of Duke’s Farm.



“it have come to my ear that my son have a meeting with she on his

wedding day----”



Bram’s countenance look more blank than ever. Mr. Cornthwaite go

on--



“I know what I be talk about, and I speak from the full

information. she send he a note that very morning; everybody know

about it; my daughter hear she say it be to be give to Mr. Christian

at once, and that it be from his cousin Miss Biron. be that evidence

enough for you?”



Bram tremble.



“there must be some other explanation than the one you have put upon

it, sir,” say he quietly but decidedly. “Miss Biron often have to write

note on behalf of her father,” he suggest respectfully.



“Pshaw! would any message of that sort, a mere begging letter, an

attempt to borrow money, have induce my son to take the singular, the

unprecedented action that he do? surprising, nay, insulting, his wife

before she have be his wife two hour.”



Bram hear the story with tingling ear and downcast eye. that

there be some truth in it no one know well than he. have he not

the confirmatory evidence of his own eye? yet still he persist in

doggedly doubt the inference Mr. Cornthwaite would have force upon

he. his employer be wait in stony silence for some answer, some

comment. so at last he look up, and speak out bravely the thought

that be in his mind.



“Sir,” say he steadily, “the one thing this visit of Mr. Christian’s

prove beyond any doubt be that he be in love with she at the time you

make he marry another woman. it don’t prove anything against Miss

Biron, until you have hear a great deal more than you have do so

far, at least. you must excuse I, sir, for speak so frankly, but

you insist on my tell you what I think.”



Mr. Cornthwaite be displeased. but as he have, indeed, force the young

man to speak, he could not very well reproach he for obey. besides,

he be use to Bram’s uncompromise bluntness, and be prepared to

hear what he really think from his lip.



“I cann’t understand the young man of the present generation,” he say

crossly, with a wave of the hand to intimate to Bram that he have do

with he. “when I be between twenty and thirty, I look for good

look in a girl, for a pair of fine eye, for a fine figure, for a pair

of rosy cheek. now it seem that woman can dispense with all those

attribute, and bowl the man over like ninepin with nothing but a

little thread of a lisping voice and a trick of cast down a pair of

eye which be anything but what I should call fine. but I suppose I be

old-fashioned.”



Bram retire respectfully without offer any suggestion as to the

reason of this surprising change of taste.



he be in a tumult of secret anxiety. he feel that he could no long

keep away from the farm, that he must risk everything to try to get an

explanation from Claire. if she would trust he with the truth, and

he believe her confidence in himself to be great enough for this, he

could, he think, clear her name in the eye of the angry Josiah. it

be intolerable to he that the girl he worship as devotedly as ever

should lie under a foul suspicion.



so that very evening, as soon as he have leave the office, he go

straight to the farm. it be his last day before start on the

mission with which he be to be intrust in the place of Chris, who

be on his honeymoon. this be an excellent excuse for a visit, which

might not, he fear, be well receive.



he be more struck than ever as he approach the farmyard gate with a

fact which have be patent to all eye of late. the tenant of Duke’s

Farm have fall on evil day. everything about the place betray the

fact that a guide hand be want; while Bram have keep an eye on the

farm bailiff thing have go pretty smoothly, fence have be repair,

the stock have be well look after. now there be sign of neglect

upon everything. the wheat be still unstacke; the thatch at one end

of the big barn be break and defective; a couple of pig have stray

from the farmyard into the garden, and be root up whatever take

their fancy.



Bram lean on the gate, and look sorrowfully around.



be it by chance that the back door open, and Joan, the good-humor

Yorkshire servant, peep out? she look at he for a few minute very

steadily, and then she beckon he with a brawny arm. he come across

the yard at once.



“look here, mister,” say she in her broadly familiar manner, “what

have ye be away so long for? do ye think there’s nought to be do

here now? or have ye grow too grand for we poor folk?”



he laugh rather bitterly.



“no, Joan, I’ve only keep away because I’m not want.”



“Hark to he!” she cry ironically, as she plant her hand on her

hip, and glance up at he with a shrewd look in her gray-green clever

eye. “he want to be press now, when he use to be glad enoof to

sneak in and take his chance of a welcome! well, ah could tell a tale

if Ah like, and put the poor, modest fellow at his ease, that Ah

could!”



Bram’s face flush.



“do you mean she want I?” he ask so simply that Joan burst into a

good-humor laugh.



“go ye in and see,” say she with a stupendous nod. “and if ye get the

chuck aht, blame it on to I!”



Bram take the hint, and go in. Joan follow, and point to a chair

by the table, where Claire sat bend over some work by the light of

a candle. the evening be a gray one, and the light be already dim in

the big farm kitchen.



“here’s a friend coom to see ye who doan’t coom so often as he might,”

cry Joan, follow close on the visitor’s heel. Claire be look

up with eye in which Bram, with a pang, note a new look of fear and

dismay. for the first time within his recent memory she do not seem

glad to see he. he stop.



“I’ve only come, Miss Claire,” say he in a very modest voice, “to tell

you I’m go to London to-morrow on business for the firm. I shall

be away ten day or a fortnight; and I come to know whether there be

anything I could do for you, either before I go or while I’m there. but

if there’s nothing, or if I’m in the way----”



“you’re never in anybody’s way, Mr. Elshaw,” say she quite cordially,

but without the hearty ring there use to be in her welcome. “please,

sit down.”



she offer he a chair, and he take it, while Joan, round about whose

wide mouth a malicious smile be play, disappear into her own

precinct of scullery and back-kitchen.



for some minute there be dead silence, not the happy silence of two

friend so secure in their friendship that they need not talk--the

old-time silence which they have both love, but a constrain,

uncomfortable taciturnity, a leaden, speechless pause, during which

Bram watch with feverish eye the little face as it bent over her

work, and note that the outline of her cheek have grow sharp.



he try to speak, to break the horrid silence which weigh upon they

both. but he could not. it seem to he that there be something

different about this meeting from any they have ever have, that the air

be heavy with impend disaster.



he speak suddenly at last in a husky voice.



“Miss Claire, I want you to tell I something.”



she look up quickly, with anxiety in her eye. but she say nothing.



“I want you to tell I,” he go on, assume a tone which be almost

bully in his excitement, “why Mr. Christian come to see you the day

he be marry?”



to his horror she stand up, push back her chair, move as if with

no other object than to hide the frantic emotion she be seize with

at these word. there pass over her face a look of anguish which he

never forget as she answer in a low, breathless voice.



“Hush, I cannot tell you. you must not ask. you must never ask. and you

must never speak about it again, never, never!”



Bram lean over the table, and look straight into her eye. in every

line of her face he read the truth.



“he ask you to--to go away with he!” he growl, hardly above his

breath.



“hush!” cry she. “hush! I don’t know how you know; I hope, oh, I pray

that nobody else know. I want to forget it! I will forget it! if I have

to go through it again it would kill I!”



and, dry-eye, she fall into a violent fit of shuddering, and sink down

in her chair with her head in her hand.



“the scoundrel!” say Bram in a terrible whisper.



and there come into his face that look, that fierce peep out of the

primitive north country savage, which have startle Chris himself one

memorable night.



Claire see it, and she grow white as the dead.



“Bram,” cry she hoarsely, “don’t look like that; don’t speak like

that. you frighten I!”



but he look at she with eye which do not see. this fulfilment of

his fear, of his doubt of Chris, be a shock she could not understand.



there be a pause before he be able to speak. then he repeat

vaguely--



“frightened you, Miss Claire! I don’t mean to do that!”



but the look on his face have not change. Claire lean across the

table, touch his sleeve impatiently, timidly.



“Bram,” say she in a shrill voice, sharpen by alarm, “you be to

forget it too! do you hear?”



he turn upon she suddenly.



“no,” say he, “you cann’t make I do that!”



“but I say you must, you shall. oh, Bram, if you have be here, if you

have hear he, you would have be sorry for he, you would have pity

he, as I do!”



Bram leap up from his chair. all the fury in his eye seem now to

be concentrate upon she.



“you pity he! you be sorry for he! for a black-hearted rascal

like that!”



“oh, Bram, Bram, don’t you know that those be only word! when you see

a man you’ve always like, be fond of, who have always be happy and

bright, and full of fun and liveliness, quite suddenly change, and

break down, and wretche, you don’t stop to ask yourself whether he’s

a good man or a bad one. now, do you, Bram?”



“you ought to!” rejoin Bram in fierce Puritanism militant. “you ought

to have use your chance of show he what a wicked thing he be

do to his poor wife as well as you!”



“oh, Bram, I do. I say what I could!”



“not half enough, I’ll warrant!” retort he, clench his fist. “you

don’t tell he he be a blackguard who ought to be kick from one end

of the county to the other! and that you’d never speak to he again as

long as you live!”



“no, I certainly don’t.”



“then,” almost shout Bram, bring his fist down on the table with

a threatening, sound thump, “you ought to be ashamed of yourself!

you good woman do as much harm as the bad one, for you be just as

tender and sweet to man when they do wrong as when they do right. you

encourage they in their wicked way, when you should be stand-off and

proud. I do believe, God forgive I for say so, you care more for

Mr. Chris now than you do before!”



Claire, who be very white, wait a moment when he have come to the end

of his accusation. then she say in a weak, timid, little voice, but

with steadiness--



“it be true, I believe, that I like he well than I do before. you

be too hard, Bram; you make no allowance for anything.”



“there be some thing no allowance should be make for.”



“well, there’s one thing you forget, and that be that I’ve not be

use to good people, so that I be not so hard as you be. I’ve never

know a good man except you, Bram, but then I’ve never know one so

severe upon other either.”



“you shouldn’t say that, Miss Claire; I’m not hard.”



“oh!”



“or if I be, it’s only so as I shouldn’t be too soft!” cry he,

suddenly break down into gentleness, and forget his grammar at

the same time. “it’s only because you’ve get nobody to take care of

you, nobody to keep harm away from you, that I want you to be hard

yourself!”



there be a pause. Claire be evidently touch by his solicitude.

presently she speak, persuasively, affectionately, but with caution.



“Bram, if I promise to be hard, very hard, will you give I a promise

back?”



“what’s that?”



“will you promise I that you will forget”--Bram shake his head,

and at once begin a fierce, angry protest--“well, that you will say

nothing about this. come, you be bind in honor, because I tell you in

confidence----”



“no, you don’t; I find out!”



“you cann’t deny that I have tell you some thing in confidence. now,

listen. you can do no good, and you may do harm by speak about this.

you must behave to Christian as if you know nothing. it be of no use

for you to shake your head. I insist. and remember, it be the only way

you have of prove to I that you be not hard. why, what about the

poor wife you pretend to be so anxious about just now? ben’t it for

her advantage as well as mine that this awful, dreadful mistake should

be forget?”



there be no deny this. Bram hang his head. at last he look up,

and say shortly--



“if I promise to behave as if I haven’t hear will you promise I not to

see Mr. Christian again?”



Claire flush proudly. but when she answer it be in a gentle, kind

voice.



“you willn’t trust I, Bram?”



“I think it will be well for the wife, for you, for he, for

everybody, if you promise.”



“very well. I promise to do my good not to see he again.”



she be look very grave. Bram stare at her anxiously. she get up

suddenly, and look at he as if in dismissal. he hold out his hand.



“good-bye, Miss Claire. you forgive my rough manner, don’t you? if

only you have somebody well than I to take care of you, I wouldn’t be

so meddlesome. good-bye. God bless you!”



he want to say a great deal more; he want to know a great deal

more; but he dare not risk another word. give her hand a quick, firm

pressure, which she return without look up, and with a restraint

and reserve which warn he to be careful, he hurry out of the house.









CHAPTER XIV.



the DELUGE.





Bram be away much long than the ten day he have expect.

difficulty arise in the transaction of the affair which have call

he to London; he have to take a trip to Brussels, to return to London,

and then to visit Brussels again. it be two month after his departure

from Sheffield before he come back.



in the meantime old Abraham Elshaw, his namesake, have die. a letter

be forward to Bram inform he of the fact, and also that by the

direction of the deceased the precious box in which the old man have

keep his property have be send to Bram’s address at Hessel.



Bram acknowledge the letter, and send direction to his landlady for

the safe keeping of the box contain his legacy.



when he get back home to his lodging, one cold night at the end of

November, Bram receive the box, and set about examine its content.

it be a strong oak miniature chest, hinge and padlock. as there be

no key, Bram have to force the padlock. the content be varied and

curious. on the top be a Post Office Savings Bank book, prove the

depositor to have have two hundred and thirty-five pound to his credit.

Next come a packet of paper relate to old Elshaw’s transaction

with a building society, by the failure of which he appear to have

lose some ninety-six pound. then there be some gas share and some

deed which prove he to have be the owner of certain small house

property in the village where he have live. next come a silver teapot,

contain nothing but some scrap of tissue paper and a button. and at

the bottom of the box be a very old-fashioned man’s gold watch, with a

chase case, a large oval brooch contain a woman’s hair arrange in

a pattern on a white ground, and a broken gold sleeve-link.



Bram, who, from inquiry he have make, consider himself at liberty to

apply all the money to his own use, the other relation of old Abraham

not be near enough or dear enough to have a right to a share, look

thoughtfully at the paper, and then put they carefully away. he know

what the old man have apparently not know, that there be formality

to be go through before he could claim the house property. he should

have to consult a solicitor. there be no doubt that his windfall

would prove more valuable than he have expect, and again his thought

fly to Claire, and he ask himself whether there be a chance that

he might be able to devote his little fortune to the building of that

palace which his love have already plan--in the air.



he tell himself that he be a fool to be so diffident, but he could

not drive the feeling away. the truth be that there be still at the

bottom of his heart some jealousy leave of the lively Chris, some proud

doubt whether Claire’s heart be as free as she have declare it to be.



but if, on the one hand, she have speak compassionately of her erring

cousin, there be to be remember, as a set-off against that, the

delicious moment when she have stand content in the shelter of Bram’s

own arm on that memorable evening when he have, for the second time,

protect she from the violence of her father.



on the whole, Bram feel that it be time to make the plunge; now, when

he have money at his command, when he be in a position to take she

right out of her danger and her difficulty. with Theodore, who be

not without intelligence, a bargain could be make, and Bram could not

doubt that this moment, when the supply have be cut off at Holme

Park, and the farm be go to ruin, would be a favorable one for his

purpose.



he resolve to go boldly to Claire the very next day.



when the morning break, a bright, clear morning, with a touch of

frost in the air, Bram spring out of bed with the feeling that there

be great thing to be do. the sun be bright on the hill when he

start, though down far below his foot the town lie bury in a smoky

mist. just before he reach the farmyard gate he pause, look

eagerly for the figure which be generally to be see busily engage

about the place at this hour of the morning.



but he be disappoint. Claire be nowhere to be see.



reluctantly Bram go on his way down the hill, when the chirpy, light

voice of Theodore Biron, call to he from the front of the house,

make he stop and turn round. Mr. Biron be in ride costume, with a

hunting crop in his hand. he be very neat, very smart, and far more

prosperous-look than he have be for some time. he play with his

moustache with one hand, while with the other he jauntily beckon Bram

to come back.



“Hallo!” say Bram, return readily enough on the chance of see

Claire. “where be you off to so early, Mr. Biron? I don’t think you

ever try to pick up the worm.”



“go to have a day with the hound,” reply Theodore cheerfully.

“they meet at Clinker’s Cross to-day. I pick up a clever little mare

the other day--buy she for a mere song, and I be go to try she

at a fence or two. come round and see she. do you know anything about

hunter, Elshaw?”



“no,” reply the astonish Bram, who know that Mr. Biron’s purse have

not lately allow he to know much about hunter either.



“ah!” say Theodore, as he open the garden gate for Bram to enter,

and lead he into the house. “all the well for you. when you’ve once

get to think you know something about horse-flesh, you cann’t sit down

quietly without a decent nag or two in your stable.”



and Mr. Biron, whose every word cause Bram fresh astonishment, flung

back the door of the kitchen with a jaunty hand.



Bram follow he, but stop short at the sight which meet his eye.



spring up with a low cry from a stool by the fire on Bram’s

entrance, Claire, with a face so white, so draw that he hardly know

she, stare at he with a fix look of horror which seem to freeze

his blood.



“Miss Claire!” he say hoarsely.



she say nothing. with her arm hold tightly down by her side, she

continue to stare at he as if at some creature the sight of whom have

seize she with unspeakable terror. he come forward, much disturbed,

hold out his hand.



“come, come, Claire, what’s the matter with you? ben’t you glad to see

Bram Elshaw back among we?” say Theodore impatiently.



still she do not move. Bram, chill, frightened, do not know what

to do. Mr. Biron leave the outer door, by which he stand, and advance

petulantly towards his daughter. but before he could reach she she

stagger, draw away from he, and with a frightened glance from Bram

to he, flee across the room and disappear.



Bram be throw into the utmost consternation by this behavior. he

have turn to watch the door by which she have make her escape, when

Theodore seize he by the arm, and drag he impatiently towards the

outer door.



“come, come,” say he, “don’t trouble your head about she. she’s not

be well lately; she’s be out of sort. I’ve talk of leave the

place, and she don’t like the idea. she’ll soon be herself again.

her cousin Chris have be round two or three time since his return

from his honeymoon try to cheer she up. but she willn’t be cheer; I

suppose she enjoy be miserable sometimes. Most lady do.”



Bram, who have follow Mr. Biron with leaden foot across the farmyard

towards the stable, feel that a black cloud have suddenly fall upon

his horizon. the mention of Chris fill he with poignant mistrust,

with cruel alarm. he feel that calamity be hang over they all, and

that the terrible look he have see in Claire’s eye be prophetic of

come evil. he hardly see the mare of which Theodore be so proud;

hardly hear the babble, airily ostentatious, cheerily condescend,

which Claire’s father din into his dull ear. he be fill with one

thought. these new extravagance of Theodore’s, the look in Claire’s

face, be all connect with Chris, and with his renew visit. Bram

feel as if he should go mad.



when he reach the office he watch for an opportunity to get speech

alone with Christian. but he be unsuccessful. Bram do not even see

he until late in the day.



long before that Bram have have an interview with the eld Mr.

Cornthwaite, which only confirm his fear. he have to give an account

to the head of the firm of the business he have transact while away.

he have carry it through with great ability, and Mr. Cornthwaite

compliment he highly upon the promptitude, judgment, and energy he

have show in a rather difficult matter.



“my son Christian be perfectly right,” Mr. Cornthwaite go on, “in

recommend I to send you away on this affair, Elshaw. you seem to

have an old head upon young shoulder. I only hope he may do half as

well on the mission with which he himself be to be entrust.”



Bram look curious.



“be Mr. Christian go away again so soon, sir?” ask he.



Mr. Cornthwaite, whose face bear trace of some unaccustomed anxiety,

frowned.



“yes,” he answer shortly. “I be sorry to say that he and his wife

don’t yet rub on so well as one could wish together. you see I tell you

frankly what the matter be, and you can take what credit you please

to yourself for having predict it. no doubt they will shake down in

time, but on all account I think it be as well, as there happen to be

some business to be do down south, to send he away upon it. he will

only be absent a few week, and in the meantime any little irritation

there may be on both side will have have time to rub off.”



Bram look blank indeed.



he be more anxious than ever for a few word alone with Chris, but

he be unable to obtain they. when his employer’s son appear at the

office, which be not till late in the day, he carefully avoid the

opportunity Bram seek. after shake hand with he with a dash

and an effusion which make it impossible for the other to draw back,

even if he have be so inclined, Chris, with a promise of “see he

presently,” go straight into his father’s private office, and do not

reappear in the clerk’ office at all.



in spite of the boisterous warmth of his greeting, Bram have notice

in Christian two thing. the first be a certain underlie coldness

and reserve, which put off, under an assumption of affectionate

familiarity, the confidence which have be the rule between they. the

other be the fact that Christian look thin and worried.



Bram linger about the office till long after his usual hour of

leave in the hope of catch Christian. and it be at last only by

chance that he learn that Chris have go some two hour before, and,

far, that he be to start for London that very evening.



now, this discovery worry Bram, and set he think. the intercourse

between he and Christian have be of so familiar a kind that this

abrupt departure, without any sort of leave-taking, could only be the

result of some great change in Christian’s feeling towards himself.

so strong, although vague, be his fear that Bram when he leave the

office go straight to the new house in a pretty suburb some distance

out of Sheffield, where Christian have settle with his bride. here,

however, he be meet with the information that Mr. Christian have already

start on his journey, and that he have go, not from his own, but

from his father’s house.



as Bram leave the house he see the face of young Mrs. Christian

Cornthwaite at one of the window. she look pale, drawn, unhappy, and

seem altogether to have lose the smug look of self-satisfaction which

he have dislike in her face on his first meeting with she.



much disturb, Bram go away, and return to his lodging, pass

by the farm, where there be no sign of life to induce he to pause.

it be nine o’clock, and as there be no light in any of the window,

he conclude that Mr. Biron have go to bed, tired out with his day’s

hunting, and that Claire have follow his example.



he feel so restless, so uneasy, however, that instead of pass on he

linger about, walk up and down, watch the blank, dark window,

almost pray for a flicker of light in any one of they for a sign of

the life inside.



after an hour of this unprofitable occupation, he take himself to task

for his folly, and go home to bed.



on the follow morning, before he be up, there be a loud knock

at the outer door of the cottage where he live. Bram, with a sense of

something wrong, something which concern himself, run down himself to

open it.



in the middle of the little path stand Theodore Biron, with the same

clothe that he have wear on the morning of the previous day, but

without the hunting-crop.



he be white, with livid lip, and his limb tremble.



“what’s the matter?” ask Bram in a muffled voice.



“Claire, my daughter Claire!” stammer Theodore in a voice which

sound shrill with real feeling. all the jauntiness, all the vivacity,

have go out of he. he shiver with something which be keener than

cold.



“well?” say Bram, with a horrible chill at his heart.



“She’s--she’s go, go!” say Theodore, reel back against the

fence of the little garden. “she’s run away. she’s run right away.

she’s leave I, leave her poor old father! don’t you understand? she be

gone, man, go!”



and Mr. Biron, for once rouse to genuine emotion, break into sob.



Bram stand like a stone.









CHAPTER XV.



PARENT and LOVER.





for some minute after he have make the announcement of his daughter’s

flight Mr. Biron give himself up openly and without restraint to the

expression of a sorrow which, while it might be selfish, be certainly

profound.



“my daughter! my daughter!” he sob. “my little Claire! my little,

bright-faced darling! oh, I cann’t believe it! it must be a dream, a

nightmare! do you think, Elshaw,” and he suddenly draw himself up, with

a quick change to bright hope, in the midst of his distress, “that she

can have go up to the Park to stay at her uncle’s for the night?”



but Bram shake his head.



“I don’t think it’s likely,” he say in a hollow voice. “they be none

so kind to she that she should do that.” a pause. “when do you miss

she?”



“this morning when I get back,” reply Theodore, who look blue with

cold and misery. “I go out with the hound yesterday as you know. and

we get such a long way out that I couldn’t get back, and I put up at

an inn for the night. don’t you think,” and again his face brighten

with one of those volatile change from misery to hope which make he

seem so womanish, “that she may have be afraid to spend a night in

the house by herself, and that she may have go down to Joan’s place

to sleep? I’ll go there and see. will you come? yes, yes, you’d well

come. I don’t care for Joan; she’s a rough, unfeele sort of person. I

should like you to come with I.”



“I’ll come--in a minute,” say Bram shortly.



he know very well that there be nothing in Mr. Biron’s idea. he speak

as if this be the first time that Claire have be leave to spend the

night alone in the farmhouse; but, as a matter of fact, Bram know very

well that it have be Theodore’s frequent custom to spend the night

away from home, and that his daughter be too much use to his vagary

to trouble herself seriously about his absence.



he go upstairs, finish dress, come out of the house, and

rejoin Mr. Biron; and that gentleman notice no change in he,

thought, indeed, that he be take the matter with heartless coolness.

certainly, if behavior which contrast strongly with that of the

injure father give proof of heartlessness, then Bram be a very stone.



all the way down the hill Mr. Biron lament and moan, sob, and

even snivel, loudly curse the wretch at Holme Park who have make

an outcast of his daughter, and, above all, Chris himself, who have

steal and ruin his daughter.



but Bram cut he short.



“Hush, Mr. Biron,” say he sternly. “don’t say word like that till you

be sure. for her sake hold your tongue. it’s not for you to cast the

first stone at she, or even at he.”



even in his most sincere grief Mr. Biron resent be take to task

like this; and by Bram, of all people, whom he secretly dislike, as

well as fear, although the young man’s strong character attract he

instinctively when he be in want of help. he draw himself up with all

his old airy arrogance.



“do you think I would doubt she for a single moment if I be not

cruelly sure?” cry he indignantly. “my own child, my own darling

little Claire! but I understand it all now. I see how thoroughly I be

deceive in Chris. but he shall smart for it! I’ll thrash he within an

inch of his life! I willn’t leave a whole bone in his body! I’ll strangle

he! I’ll tear he limb from limb!”



and Mr. Biron make a gesture more violent with every threat, until at

last it seem as if his frantic gesticulation must dislocate the

bone in his own slim and fragile little body.



as for Bram, he seem to be past the stage of acute feeling of any

sort. he be benumb with the great blow that have fall upon he;

overwhelm, in spite of the foreshadowing which have of late break

his peace. with the fall of his ideal there seem to have crumble

away all that be good in his life, leave only a cold automaton to do

his daily work of head and hand. he be astonish himself, if the pale

feeling could be call astonishment, to find that he could laugh at

the antic of his companion; not openly, of course, but with secret and

bitter gibe at the careless, selfish father, and the frantic gesture

by which he seek to impress his companion.



when Theodore’s energy be exhaust they walk on in silence. and

then Theodore feel hurt at Bram’s blunt, stolid apathy.



“I think I should find you more sympathetic, Elshaw,” he say in an

offend tone. “you always pretend to think so much of my daughter!”



“it ben’t pretence,” say Bram shortly. “but I’m think, Mr. Biron,

though I don’t like to say it now, that she must have be very unhappy

before she go away like that.”



quite suddenly his voice break. Mr. Biron, surprised in the midst

of his theatrical display of emotion into a momentary pang of real

compunction and of real remorse, be for a few moment entirely silent.

then he say in a quiet voice, more dignified and more touching than

any of his loud outbursts--



“it’s true, I’ve not be a good father to she. but she be such a good

girl--I never guess it would come to this.”



Bram say nothing. he feel as hard as nail. Theodore be really

suffer now; but it serve he right. what have the poor little

creature’s life be but a long and terrible struggle between

temptation on the one side, worry and difficulty on the other? she

have hold out long and bravely. she have struggle with a bright face,

bear her father’s burden for he, and her own as well. what wonder

that human nature have be too weak to hold out forever?



Bram’s heart be like a great open sore. he dared not look within

himself, he dared not think, he dared not even feel. he try to

stupefy himself to the work of the moment, to stifle all sense but that

of sight, and to fix his eye upon Joan’s cottage, which they be now

approach, as if upon the mere reaching of it all his hope depend.



but if Theodore have find Bram unsympathetic, what must he have think

of Joan? she hear his inquiry with coldness, and after say that

Claire have not be with she since she leave the farmhouse on the

previous evening, she ask shortly whether she have go away.



“I--I be afraid so. oh, my child, my poor child!” cry Theodore.



Joan grow very red, and clap her hand on her hip, nod with

compress lip.



“you’ve get no one but yourself to thank for this, Mr. Biron,” she

say. “T’ poor young lady’s have a cruel time these many month through

yer wicked way! God help she, poor little lady!”



and the good woman turn sharply away from he, and slam the door

in his face, disappear, sob bitterly.



Theodore be very white; he tremble from head to foot, and be even

for a little while too angry and too much perturb to speak.



at last, when Bram have put a hand within his arm to lead he away, he

stammer out--



“you hear that, Elshaw! you hear the woman! that’s what these ----

north country ---- be like; they haven’t a scrap of feeling, even for

the sacred grief of a father! but I don’t care a hang for the whole

---- lot of they! I’ll go up to the Park, and I’ll tell Mr Cornthwaite,

the purse-proud old humbug, who think money can buy anything--I’ll

tell he what I think of he and his scoundrel of a son! and then I’ll

go up to town, and I’ll find he out, I’ll hunt out Christian himself,

and I’ll avenge my child.”



Bram say nothing.



“and I’ll make he provide for she. I’ll bring out an action against

he, and make he shell out, he and his skinflint of a father. Chris

be nothing but a chip off the old block, and I’ll make they suffer

together, in the only way they can suffer--through the money-bag.”



Bram be disgusted, sicken. he scent through this new turn of Mr.

Biron’s thought that feel for the main chance which be such a

prominent feature of that gentleman’s character. and quite unexpectedly

he stop short, and say bluntly--



“that may comfort you, Mr. Biron, but it will never do aught for she!

if--if,” he have to clear his throat to make himself hear at all, “if

she--come back, she’ll never touch their money! poor, poor child!”



“you think she’ll come back?” ask Theodore almost wistfully.



but Bram could not answer. he do not know what to think, what to wish.

he shrug his shoulder without speak, and with a gesture of

abrupt farewell turn from his companion, who have now nearly reach

his own door, and walk rapidly back in the direction of his lodging.



he could not bear to come near the farm, the place which have be

hallowed in his eye by thought of she who have be his idol.



Theodore call out to he.



“you’ll give I a look in to-night, willn’t you, when you come back from

the office? think how lonely I shall be.”



Bram, without turn round, make a gesture of assent. he feel with

surprise to himself that he be half-draw to this contemptible

creature by the fact that, underneath all his theatrical demonstration

of regret and grief, there be some very strong and genuine feeling.

it be chiefly a selfish feeling, as Bram know; indeed, a resentful

feeling, that Claire have treat he shabbily and ungratefully in

leave he to shift for himself without any warning, after so many

year of patient slavery, of tender care for he.



but still Bram feel that he have at last some emotion in common with

this man, whom he have so far only despise. Theodore even feel the

disgrace, the moral shame of this awful disaster to his daughter more

keenly than any one would have give he credit for.



as for Bram himself, he go home, he eat his breakfast, he start for

the town almost in his usual manner. no one who pass he detect any

sign in his look or in his manner of the blow which have fall upon

he. but, for all that, he be suffer so keenly, so bitterly, that

the very intensity of his pain have a numb effect, reduce he to

the level of a brute which can see, and hear, and taste, and smell, but

in which all sense of anything high be dead and cold.



it be not until he have nearly pass the garden of the farm, keep

his eye carefully turn in the opposite direction, that a bend in the

road catch his eye, where not many evening before he have see Claire

stand with a letter in her hand, wait for some one to pass who

would take it to the post for she.



and his face twitch; from between his closed tooth there come a sort

of strangle sob, the sound which in Theodore have rouse his contempt.

he remember the smile which have come into her eye when he come by,

the word of thank with which she have slip the letter into his hand,

and run indoor. he remember that a scent of lavender have come to he

as she pass, that he have feel a thrill at the sound, the sight of she

fly skirt as she flee into the house.



oh! it be not possible that she could have do this thing, she who

be so proud, so pure, so tender to her friend!



and Bram stop in the middle of the road, with an upward bound of the

heart, and tell himself that the thing be a lie.



what a base wretch he be to have harbor such a thought of she!

she be go; but what proof have they but their own mean and base

suspicion that she have not go alone?



and Bram by a strong effort throw off the dark cloud which be press

down upon his soul, or at least lift one corner of it, and strode

down towards the office resolve to trust, to hope, in spite of

everything.



at the office everything be reassuringly normal in the daily routine.

and, by a great and unceasing effort, Bram have really get himself to

hold his opinion on the one great subject in suspense, when a carriage

drive up to the door, and a few minute later young Mrs. Christian,

with a face which betray that she be suffer from acute distress,

come into the office.



as soon as she see Bram, she stop on her way through.



“no,” she say quickly to the clerk who be lead she through to the

private office of Mr. Cornthwaite, “it be Mr. Elshaw I want to see.

please, can I speak to you?”



Bram feel the heavy weight settle at once on his heart again. he

follow she in silence into the office. Mr. Cornthwaite have not yet

arrive.



as soon as the door be shut, and they be alone, she break out in a

tremulous voice, not free from pettishness--



“Mr. Elshaw, I want to see you because I feel sure you will not

deceive I. and all the rest try to. Mr. and Mrs. Cornthwaite, and my

sister-in-law, and my own people, and everybody. you live near Duke’s

farm? tell I, be Miss Claire Biron at home with her father, or--or have

she go away?”



“I believe, Mrs. Christian, she have go away.”



the young wife do not cry; she frown.



“I know it!” she say sharply. “they pretend they do not know; but

I know it, I feel sure of it. Mr. Elshaw, she have go away with my

husband!”



“oh, but how can you be sure? How----”



“Mr. Elshaw, don’t trifle with I. you know the truth as well as I do.

not one day have pass since our marriage without Christian’s flaunt

this girl and her perfection in my face; not one day have pass since

our return from abroad without his either see she or make an

effort to see she. oh, I daresay you will say it be mean; but I have

have he watch, and he have be at the farm at Hessel every day!”



“but what of that? he be her cousin, you know. he have always be use

to see a great deal of she and of her father.”



“oh, I know all about her father!” snap Minnie. “and I know how

likely any of the family be to go out to Hessel to see he! don’t

prevaricate, Mr. Elshaw. I have understand you never do anything of the

kind. can you pretend to doubt that they have go away together?”



Bram be silent. he hang his head as if he have be the guilty person.



“of course, you cannot,” go on the lady triumphantly. “where have she

get to go to? what friend have she to stay with? who would she leave

her father for except Christian? it seem she have never have the decency

to hide that she be fond of he!”



“don’t say that,” protest Bram gently. “why should she hide it in the

old day before he be marry? there be no reason why she should.

they be cousin; they be believe to be engage. they would have

be marry if Mr. Cornthwaite have allow it. don’t you know that?”



“not in the way I’ve know it since, of course,” say Minnie bitterly.

“everything be keep from I. I hear of a boy-and-girl affection;

that be all. the whole family be deceitful and untrustworthy. and

Christian be the bad of they all. he don’t care for I a bit; he

never, never do!”



and here at last she break down, and begin to cry piteously.



Bram, usually so tender-hearted, feel as if his heart be scorch up

within he. he look at she; he try to speak kindly, try to say

reassure thing, to express a doubt, a hope, which he do not feel.



but she stop he imperiously, snappishly.



“don’t talk nonsense, Mr. Elshaw, please. and don’t say you be sorry.

for I know you be sorry for nobody but she. Miss Biron be one of those

person who attract sympathy; I be not. but you can spare yourself the

trouble of pretend.” she draw herself up, and hastily wipe she

eye. “I know what to do. I shall go back to my father’s house, and

I shall have nothing more to do with he. I be not go to break my

heart over an unprincipled man, or over a creature like this Claire

Biron.”



Bram offer no remonstrance. he know that he ought to be sorry for

this poor little woman, whose only and most venial fault have be

a conviction that she possess the power to “reform” the man she

marry. unhappily, it be true, as she say, that she be not one of

those person who attract sympathy. her hard, dry, snappish manner,

the shrewish light in her blue eye, repel he as they have repel

Christian himself. and Bram, though far from excuse or forgive

Christian, feel that he understand how impossible it would have

be for a man of his easy, genial temperament to be even fairly,

conventionally happy with a nature so antipathetic to his own.



in silence, in sorrow, he withdraw, with an add burden to bear, the

burden of what be near to absolute certainty, of extinguished hope.









CHAPTER XVI.



the pang of DESPISED LOVE.





the farmhouse look desolate in the dusk of the November evening when

Bram, in fulfilment of his promise to Theodore, cross the farmyard to

the back door and tap at it lightly.



it be open by Joan, who look as if she have be interrupt in the

middle of “a good cry.”



“ay, coom in, sir,” say she, “coom in. but you’ll find no company here

now.”



“ben’t Mr. Biron back yet?”



“no, sir,” she answer with a sudden change to aggressive sullenness,

“and he’s welcome to stay away, he be! if it haven’t be for that

miserable auld rascal, poor Miss Claire ’ud never be take away from

we. ah wouldn’t have on my conscience what yon chap have, no, not for a

kingdom.”



Bram, sombre and stern, sit down by the fire, stare at the little

wooden stool on which he have so often see Claire sit in the

opposite corner, with her sewing in her hand. the big chimney-corner

which they have both love--how bare it look without she! Joan,

alone of all the people he have meet that day, seem to understand

what have take place in he, to realize the sudden death, the total,

irremediable decay, of what have be the joy of his life. she put down

the plate she have be wipe, and she come over to look at he in the

firelight. there be no other light in the room.



“poor lad! poor chap!” she murmur in accent so tender, so motherly,

that her rough voice sound like most sweet, most touching music in

his dull ear.



for the first time since the horrible shock he have receive that

morning his feature quiver, become convulsed, and a look of

desperate anguish come into his calm gray eye.



her strong right hand come down upon his shoulder with a blow which be

mean to be inspirit in its violent energy.



“well, lad, ye must bear oop; ye must forget she! ay, there’s no two

way about it. it’s a sad business, an’ Ah’m break oop abaht it mysen,

but she’s choose to go, an’ there’s no help for it, an’ no grieving can

mend it! it be only you, an’ her like for you, that stop she from

go before, I reckon. look at yon auld spend-t’-brass and the life

she’s lead wi’ he, always have to beg, beg, beg for he from folk

as don’t pity she as they should!”



Bram move impatiently.



“yes, that’s what I cannot forgive he!” growl he.



Joan stare at he in the dusk.



“have you hear,” say she, peer mysteriously into his face, “if

anything ’as happen while you be away?”



Bram shake his head.



“well, summat do happen. Mr. Biron get money from some one, an’ begin

to spend it loike one o’clock. you must have hear o’ that?”



Bram nod, remember the new hunter and Theodore’s smart appearance.



“well,” go on Joan, lean forward, and drop her voice, “it be

summat to do wi’ that as break oop poor Miss Claire. ay, lad, don’t

shiver an’ start; it’s good you should know all, and forget all if you

can. well, it be after that, after t’ auld man have get t’ brass,

that I see a change coom over she. she go abaht loike one as warn’t

right, an’ she say to ’Im one day--ah be in t’ kitchen yonder an’ ah

hear her--‘Papa,’ say she, ‘ah can never look Bram Elshaw in t’ face

again.’ that’s what she say, my lad; Ah hear she.”



Bram get up, and begin to pace up and down the tile floor without a

word. Joan go on, quicken her pace, a little anxious to get the

story over and do with.



“you know his way. but there be summat in her voice tell I it be

no laughin’ matter wi’ she. an’,” go on the good woman in a voice

lower still, “when Mr. Christian coom that evening, say she, say

Miss Claire--‘Ah mun see ’Im to-neght.’ an’ he come in, an’ they go

in through to the good parlor, and they have a long talk together. that

be t’ day before yesterday. she must have go last neght, as soon as

ah left t’ house.”



still Bram say nothing, pace up and down, up and down, on the red

tile which he have tread so often with something like ecstasy in his

heart.



Joan be shrewd enough and sympathetic enough to understand why he do

not speak. she finish her plate-washing, disappear silently into

the outhouse, and presently return with her bonnet on.



“be ye go to stay here, sir?” she ask, as she lay her hand on

the door to go out.



“yes; I promise I’d look in.”



“friendly loike? you ben’t go for to do he any hurt?”



“no, oh, no.”



“well,” say Joan, as she turn the handle and take she portly person

slowly round the door, “if so be you have, you might ha’ do it an’

welcome! ah wouldn’t have stop ye. good-neght, sir.”



“good-night, Joan.”



she go out, and Bram be leave alone. the sound of her footstep die

away, until he feel as if he be the only live thing about the farm.

even the noise that usually come across from the shed and the stable

where the animal be keep seem to be hush that evening. no sound

reach his ear but the moaning of the rise wind, and the scratching

of the mouse in the old wainscotting.



never before have he feel so utterly, hopelessly miserable and castdown.

in the old day, when he have live one of a wretched, poverty-stricken

family in a squalid mean way, ill-kept, half-starve, he have have his

daydream, his vague ambition, to gild the sorry present. now, on the

very high-road to the fulfilment of those ambition, he be suddenly

leave without a ray of hope, without a rag of comfort, to bear the most

unutterable wretchedness, that of shattered ideal.



not Claire alone, but Chris also have fall from the place each have

hold in his imagination, in his heart, and Bram, who hide a spirit-world

of his own under a matter-of-fact manner and a blunt directness of

speech, suffer untold anguish.



while he watch the ember of the fire in profound melancholy, with

his hand on his knee, and his eye stare dully into the red heart

of the die fire, he hear something move outside. he raise his

head, expect to hear the sound of Mr. Biron’s voice.



but a shadow pass before the window in the faint daylight that be

leave; and with a wild hope Bram sit up, his heart seem to cease to

beat.



the shadow, the step be those of a woman.



the next moment the door be softly, stealthily open, and away like a

dream go joy and hope again.



the woman be not Claire.



he could see that the visitor be tall, broad-shoulder, of

well-develop figure, and that she be of the class that wear shawl

round their head, and clog on their foot in the daytime.



she stand in the room, just inside the door, and seem to listen. then

she say in a voice which be coarse and uncultivated, but which be

purposely subdue to a pitch of insincere civility, as Bram instantly

feel sure--



“Miss Biron! be Miss Claire Biron here?”



now, Bram have never, as far as he know, meet this girl before; he do

not even know her name. but, with his sense of hearing make sharp,

perhaps, by the darkness, he guess at once something which be very

near the truth. he know that this woman come with hostile intent of

some kind or other.



he at once rise from his seat, and said--“No; Miss Biron be not in.”



and he put his hand up to the high chimney-piece, find a box of

match, and light a candle which be beside it. meanwhile the visitor

stand motionless, and be so standing when the light have grow bright

enough for he to see she by. she be a handsome girl, black-haire,

black-eye, with cheek which ought to have be red, but which be

now pale and thin, show a sharp outline of rather high cheek-bone

and big jaw. Bram recognize she as a girl whom he have often see

about Hessel, and who live at a little farm about a mile and a half

away. her name be Meg Tyzack. she be neatly dress, without any of

the flaunting, shabby finery which the factory girl usually affect

when they leave their shawl and clog. her lip be tightly closed,

and in her eye there be an expression of ferocious sullenness which

confirm the idea Bram have conceive at the first sound of her voice.

her black cloth jacket be button only at the throat, and her right

hand be thrust underneath it as if she be hide something.



“not in, eh?” she ask scoffingly, as she measure Bram from head to

foot with a look of ineffable scorn. then, with a sudden, sharp change

of tone to one of passionate anxiety, she ask, “where’s she go to

then?”



Bram hesitate. this woman’s appearance at the farm, her look, her

manner, betray to he within a few second a fact he have not guess

before, though now a dozen circumstance flash into his mind to

confirm it. this be one of the many girl with whom Chris have have

relation of a more or less questionable character. Bram have see she

with he in the lane lead to her home, and on the hill above Holme

Park; have see she wait about in the town near the work. but to see

Chris talk to a good-look girl be too common a thing for Bram to

have give this particular young woman much attention. now, however,

he divine in an instant that it be jealousy which have bring she to

the farmhouse, and a feeling of sickening repulsion come over he at

the thought of the word which he might have to hear direct by this

virago at Claire. if the idol be break, it be an idol still.



as he do not reply at once, Meg Tyzack step quickly across the

floor, and glare into his eye with a look terrible in its fierce

eagerness, its deadly anxiety.



“where have she go? ye cann’t keep t’ truth from I.” then, as he be

still silent, she burst out with an overwhelming torrent of passion.

“ah know what they say! ah know they say he’s take she away wi’ he,

Mr. Christian of t’ work, Cornthwaite’s work. but it’s a lie. ah know

it’s a lie. he’d never take her wi’ he; he’d never dare take any one

but I. he care for she? not enoof for that! she’s here, ah know she

be; only she’s afraid to coom out, afraid to meet I! but Ah’ll find

she; Ah’ll have her aht. what ’ud you be doin’ here if she ben’t here?

oh, ah know who Christian be jealous of; ah know she be artful enough

to keep the two of ye on. ah know it be her fault he use to coom here

and----” her eye flash, and her voice suddenly drop to a fierce

whisper. “ah mean to have her aht.”



as she suddenly swing round and make for the inner door lead into

the hall, Bram see that she hold under her jacket a bottle. there be

mischief in the woman’s eye, bad mischief even than be bode by her

tongue. for one moment, as he spring after she, Bram feel glad that

Claire be not there. Meg laugh hoarsely in his face as she elude

he, and disappear into the hall, slam the door.



Bram do not follow she. Claire be go, she could do little harm.

he open the outer door, and go out into the farmyard. in a few

minute he see a light flickering in room after room upstairs. Meg

Tyzack be search, hunt in every nook and every corner, search

for her rival with savage, despairing eagerness. Bram shiver. it be

a relief to he when he hear footstep approach the farm, and a few

moment later the voice of Theodore call to he.



“yes, Mr. Biron, it’s I.”



“then who’s that in the house? be it Joan?” ask Theodore fretfully,

testily.



he be dispirit, deject; evidently he have meet with neither comfort

nor sympathy at Holme Park. he have be try to comfort himself

on the way back, as Bram discover by his unsteady gait and husky

utterance.



“it’s a girl, Meg Tyzack,” answer Bram.



Mr. Biron start.



“that vixen!” cry he. “that horrible virago! why do you let she get

in?”



“I couldn’t help it,” reply Bram simply.



“what be she up to?”



“she’s look for Miss Claire,” say Bram in a low voice.



Theodore make no answer. but he shudder, and lean against the wall

of the farmyard begin to cry.



“come, Mr. Biron,” say Bram impatiently, “it’s no use give way like

that. it’s just something to be thankful for that this mad woman cann’t

get hold of she.”



Mr. Biron do not answer. a moment later, attract probably by the

voice, Meg came rush out of the house like a fury, and make

straight for the two man.



“ah!” cry she shrilly, when she make out who the newcomer be,

thrust her angry face close to his in the gloom. “so it’s you, be

it? you, the father of that----”



“hold your tongue.”



“hush!” cry Bram, seize her arm.



there be a sound so impressive in his voice, short and blunt as his

speech be, that the woman turn upon he sharply, but for a moment

be silent. then she say with coarse bravado--



“and who be you to talk to I? why, t’ very mon as ought to take my

part, if you have any spirit? but you leave it to I to pay out t’ pair

on ’em. an’ Ah’ll do it. Ah’ll make ’em both smart for it, if Ah swing

for it! Ah’ll show he the price he have to pay for treatin’ a woman

like I the way he’s do. when Ah love he so! ay, ten time more’n

than that little hussy could! oh, my God, my God!”



Bram, child of the people that he be, be move in the utmost depth

of his heart by the woman’s mad, passionate despair. he feel for she

as he could never feel for the cool, prim, little wife Christian have

serve so ill. he would have comfort she if he could. but as no word

strong enough or suitable enough to the occasion come to his lip, he

just put a gentle hand upon the woman’s shoulder as she bow herself

down and sob.



but Mr. Biron’s refinement be shock by this scene. see the

woman less ferocious, now that she be more absorbed in her grief, he

venture to come a little nearer, and to say snappishly--



“but, my good woman, though we may be sorry for you, you have no right

to force yourself into my house. nor have you any right to speak in

such term of my daughter.”



Meg be erect in a moment, her eye flash, her nostril quiver.

with a wild, ironical laugh, she face about, point at his mean

little face a scornful finger.



“you!” cry she in a very passion of contempt. “you dare to speak to

I! you as would have sell your daughter a dozen time over if t’ price

have be good enoof! why, mon, your hussy of a daughter’s a pearl to

you! you’re a rat, a cur! ah could almost forgive she when ah look at

you! it’s you Ah’ve get to blame for it all, wi’ your black heart an’

your mean, white face! you more’n she, more’n he!”



with a sudden impulse of indomitable rage, she step back, and

raise her right hand quickly, fling something at his face.





[illustration: “a wedding, Sir?” Bram’s face cloud with perplexity.

--_Page 70._]





Mr. Biron utter a pierce shriek, as shrill as a woman’s.



“fiend! she-devil! she’s kill I! help! oh, I’m on fire!”



Bram, who hardly know what have happen, catch Theodore as the latter

fall shriek into his arm. Meg, with a wild laugh, pick up the

remain of her broken bottle, and run out of the farmyard.









CHAPTER XVII.



BRAM speak his MIND.





Meg Tyzack have hardly leave the farmyard before Bram know what she have

do, and realize the full extent of the danger Claire have escape.

the bottle Meg have carry, and which she have throw at the head of

Theodore Biron, have contain vitriol. luckily for Mr. Biron, he have

move aside just in time to escape have the bottle break on his

face, but part of the content have fall on his head, on the side of

his face, and on his left hand before the bottle itself be dash into

two piece as it fall on the ground.



Bram wipe Theodore’s face and hand as quickly as he could, but the

effeminate man have so entirely lose his self-control that he could not

keep still; and by his own restlessness he hinder the full effect of

Bram’s good office.



the young man see that his good chance with the hysterical creature be

to get he into the house as quickly as he could. but Theodore object

to this. he want Bram to go in pursuit of the woman, to bring she

back, to have she take up. and as his cry have by this time cause

a little crowd to assemble from the cottage round about, he begin to

harangue they on the subject of his wrong, and to try to stir they up

to resent the outrage to which he have be subject.



it be needless to say that his effort be ineffectual. Mr. Biron

have succeed in establish a thoroughly bad reputation among his

neighbor, who know all about his selfish treatment of his daughter.

he find not one sympathizer, and at last he be fain to allow himself

to be lead indoor by Bram, who be very urgent in his persuasion,

be indeed afraid that Theodore’s curse upon the bystander for

their supineness would bring upon he some further chastisement. he

prevail upon a lad in the crowd to go for a doctor, assure he that

it be the pain from which the gentleman be suffer that make he so

irritable.



once inside the house, Bram find that his difficulty with his

unsympathetic patient have only just begin. Mr. Biron be not use to

pain, and have no idea of suffer in silence. he rave and he moan,

he curse and he swear, and Bram be amazed and disgusted to find that

this little, well-preserve, middle-aged gentleman be quite as much

concern by the injury which he should suffer in appearance as by the

pain he have to bear.



“do you think, Elshaw, that the mark will ever go away? oh, good

heaven, I know they willn’t,” he cry, as with his uninjured eye he

survey himself in the glass over the dining-room sideboard by the

light of a couple of candle. “oh, oh, the wretch! the hag! I’ll get

her six month for this!”



and the little man, tremble with rage, shake his fist and gnash his

tooth, present in his anger and disfigurement a hideous spectacle.



the left side of his face be already one long patch of inflammation.

his left eye be shut up; the hair on that side of his head have already

begin to come away in tuft from the burn skin.



Bram be disgusted. Mr. Biron’s grief over the loss of his daughter,

keen as it have be, could not be compare to that which he feel now

at the loss of his remain good look. there be a note of absolute

sincerity in his every lament which have be conspicuously lack in

his grief of the morning. the young man could scarcely listen to he

with patience. he try, however, out of humanity, to remain silent,

since he could give no comfort. but silence would not do for his

garrulous companion, who insist on have an answer.



“do you think, Elshaw, that I shall be disfigure for life?” he ask

with tremulous anxiety.



“I’m afraid so,” answer Bram rather gruffly. “but I don’t think I’d

worry about that when you have bad thing than that to trouble you.”



Unluckily, Mr. Biron be so much absorb in the loss of his own beauty

that he fall into the mistake of be absolutely sincere for once.



“bad trouble than that! worse than to go about like a scarecrow,

a repulsive object, all the year of one’s life! what can be bad?”

groan he.



Bram, who be stand solemnly erect, answer at once, in a deep

voice, out of the fulness of his heart--



“well, Mr. Biron, if you don’t know of anything bad, I suppose there

be nothing bad--for you!”



but Mr. Biron be impervious to sneer. he walk up and down the

room in feverish anxiety until the arrival of the doctor, whom he

interrogate at once with as much solicitude as if he have be a young

beauty on the eve of her first ball.



the doctor, a stolid, hard-work country practitioner, with a dull

red face and dull black eye, show Theodore much less mercy than

Bram have do. he know his patient well, having be call in to he

on several occasion when that gentleman’s excess have bring on the

attack of dyspepsia to which he be subject; and the more he see of

he the less he like he. Theodore’s anxiety about his appearance he

treat with cruel bluntness.



“no, you’ll never be the same man again to look at, Mr. Biron,” he say

quite cheerfully. “and you may be thankful if we can save you the sight

of the left eye.”



“you think the scar will never go away? nor the hair grow again?” ask

Theodore piteously.



“the scar willn’t go away certainly. but that’s not much to trouble about

at your time of life, I should think,” return the doctor bluntly.

“there’s a great danger than that to concern ourselves with. unless

you be very careful, you will have erysipela. you must get that

little daughter of yours to nurse you very carefully. where be she?”



Theodore burst out fretfully with a new grievance--



“my daughter! she’s not here to nurse I. I’ve no one to nurse I now.

she’s go away, go away and leave I all by myself!”



the doctor stare at he with the unpleasant fixity of eye which have

to look hard before they see much.



“you tell she to go, I suppose?” say he at last, abruptly.



take by surprise, Theodore, to the horror of Bram, who be stand in

the background, confessed--



“well, I tell she she could go if she like; but I never mean she to

take I at my word.”



Bram be thunderstruck. such a simple solution of the mystery of the

disappearance of the dutiful daughter have never enter his mind. in a

fit of passion, perhaps of partial intoxication, Theodore have bid his

daughter get out of the house. and the long-suffer girl have take

he at his word.



the doctor nod.



“I think so,” say he. “I think there be no end to what the child

would put up with at your hand. so you have drive she away? well,

then you’ll have to suffer for it, I’m afraid. I don’t know of anybody

else who would come to nurse you.”



“I’ll do what I can,” say Bram in a hollow voice from the background.



it need an effort on his part to make this offer. he feel that he

loathe the little wretch who have himself drive his daughter into the

arm of her untrustworthy lover. only the thought that Claire would

wish he to do so enable he to undertake the distasteful task of

minister to such a patient. Theodore thank he in a half-hearte

sort of way, feel that there be something not altogether grateful

to himself in the spirit in which this offer be make. the doctor be

far more cordial.



he tell Bram he be do a fine thing.



“but then,” he add in his rough way, “fine thing be what one

expect of you, Mr. Elshaw.”



and then he go out, leave Theodore in much perplexity as to what

the fellow could see in Elshaw to make such a fuss about.



Bram spend the night with he, do his good to soothe and to comfort

the unfortunate man, whose suffering, both of mind and body, grow more

acute as the hour wear on. his own worry about himself be the chief

cause of this. long before morning he have lose sight of the shame of

his daughter’s flight, and look upon it solely as a wicked freak

which have result in his own most cruel misfortune.



“why, surely, man,” break out Bram at last, lose patience at his

long tirade of woe and indignation, “it’s well that you should be

disfigure than she, at any rate.”



“no, it ben’t,” retort Theodore sharply. “Claire never care half as

much about her appearance as I do about mine. and, besides,” he go

on, with a sudden feeling that he have get hold of a strong argument,

“if she have be disfigure, she would have have no temptation to do

wrong!”



Bram jump up, clench his fist. he could bear no more. with a few

jerk-out word to the effect that he would send Joan to get his

breakfast, he rush out of the house.



Poor Claire! poor little Claire! be this the creature she have wrong

in go away? this shallow, selfish wretch who have turn she out, and

who regret the ministration of her gentle hand far more than he

do the shame her desperate act have draw down upon she!



Bram go down to the work that morning a different man from what he

have be the day before. he be wake from the dull lethargy of grief

into which the first discovery of Claire’s flight have throw he. a

smoulder anger against the Cornthwaites, father and son, be take

the place of sullen misery in his breast. he have gather from Theodore

that the eld Mr. Cornthwaite have take his remonstrance not only

coolly, but with something like relief, as if he feel glad of an excuse

for getting rid of the relation whose vicinity have be a continual

annoyance.



but Bram do not mean to be put off. Josiah, who have not be at the

office at all on the previous day, should see he, and answer his

question. and Bram, mature a grave resolution, stride down into the

town with a steady look in his eye.



Mr. Cornthwaite see he as soon as he himself arrive, and, evidently

with the intention of take the bull by the horn, speak to he at

once.



“ah, Elshaw, good-morning. come in here a moment, please. I want to

speak to you.”



Bram follow in silence, and stand within the room with his back to

the door, with a stern expression on his pale face.



Mr. Cornthwaite broach the unpleasant subject at once.



“nice business this, eh? nice thing Chris have do for himself now!

bring a hornet’s nest about his ear and mine too! Old Hibbs and his

wife have be down to my house blackguard I; Minnie herself be

fit for a lunatic asylum, and, to complete the business, the girl’s

rascally father have be to my house, try to levy blackmail. but

I’ve make up my mind to make short work of the thing! I start for

London to-night; find out Master Chris (luckily he give his address

to no one but I, or he’d have have his wife’s family about his ear

already), and bring the young man back to his wife’s foot--bring he by

the scruff of the neck if necessary!”



“and--Claire--Miss Biron?” say Bram hoarsely.



“oh, she must shift for herself. she know what she be do, run

off with a married man. I’ve no pity for she; not the least. I wash my

hand of the pair of they, father and daughter, now. he must just pack

up his trap and be off after she. what become of she be his affair,

not ours!”



“Mr. Christian cann’t get rid of the responsibility like that, sir,”

say Bram, with a note of sombre warning in his voice.



“I take upon myself the responsibility for he,” retort Mr.

Cornthwaite coldly. “my son be dependent upon I, and he can do nothing

without my approval. I be certainly go to give he no help towards

the maintenance of a baggage like that. you know what my opinion of she

always have be. circumstance have confirm it most amply. a young

man be not much to blame if he get catch, entangle, by a girl as

artful and as design as she be.”



“I don’t think you will find yourself and Mr. Christian in agreement

upon that point, sir,” say Bram steadily.



“well, whether he agree or not, he’ll come back with I to-morrow,”

reply Mr. Cornthwaite hotly.



“then, Mr. Cornthwaite, you’ll please take my notice now, and I’ll

be out of this to-day. for,” Bram go on, with a rise spot of deep

color in his cheek, and a bright light in his eye, “I couldn’t trust

myself face to face with such a d----d scoundrel as Mr. Christian be if

he leave the girl he love, the girl he’s betray, and come sneak

back at your heel like a cur, when he ought to stand up for the woman

who love he!”



“upon my word, yours be very singular morality for a young man who go

in for such correctness of conduct as you do. where do the wife come

in, the poor, injure wife, in your new-fangled scheme of right and

wrong? be she to be leave out in the cold altogether?”



“where else can she be leave, poor thing?” cry Bram with deep feeling.

“do you think if you bring Mr. Christian back ‘by the scruff of the

neck,’ as you say, that you’d ever be able to patch matter up between

’em so as to make ’em live anything but a cat-and-dog’s-life? no,

Mr. Cornthwaite, you couldn’t. the wife willn’t come to so much hurt;

she wouldn’t have come to none if you haven’t force on this curse

marriage. let she get free, and make he free; and let Mr. Christian

put the wrong right as far as he can by marry the girl he want, the

girl who know how to make he happy!”



Mr. Cornthwaite’s black eye blaze. he hate even a semblance of

contradiction; and Bram’s determined and dog attitude irritate he

beyond measure. he rise from his arm-chair, and clasp his hand

behind his back with a loud snap, he assume towards the young man an

air of bland contempt which he have never use to he before.



“your notion be charming in the abstract, Elshaw. I have no doubt,

too, that there be some section of society where your idea might be

carry out without much harm to anybody. but not in that in which we

move. if my son be to commit such an unheard-of folly as you suggest

I would let he shift for himself for the rest of his day. and perhaps

you know enough of Christian to tell whether he would find life with

any young woman agreeable under those condition.”



Bram remain silent. there be a pause, rather a long one. then Mr.

Cornthwaite speak again----



“of course, you be sensible enough to understand that this be my

business, and my son’s; that it be a family matter, a difficulty

in which I have to act for the good. and I hope,” he go on in a

different tone, “for your own sake, more than for mine, that you will

not take any step so rash as leave this office would be. without

notice, too!”



“as to that, sir, you have well let I go--and without notice,” say

Bram with a sullen note in his voice which make Mr. Cornthwaite look

at he with some anxiety, “if it’s true that you’re go to make Mr.

Christian leave Miss Claire in the lurch. for I tell you, sir,” and

again he look up, with a steely flash in his gray eye and a look of

stubborn ferocity about his long upper lip and straight mouth, “if I

be to come face to face wi’ he after he’d do that thing I couldn’t

keep my fist off he; ah couldn’t, sir. that’s what come of my being

bear in a different section of society, sir, I suppose. and so, as

Ah’ve love Mr. Christian, and as Ah’ve have much to thank you and he

for, sir, you’d well let I go back--to my own section of society,

where a man have to stand by his own deed, like a man!”



Mr. Cornthwaite’s attitude, his tone, change insensibly as he look

and listen to the man who tell he his view so honestly, and stand

by they so firmly. he see that Bram be in earnest, and he begin to

walk up and down the room, thinking, planning, consider. he do

not want to lose this clever young man; he could not afford to do so.

Bram have something like a genius for the detail of business, and be

besides as honest as the day; not a too common combination.



the young man wait, but at last, as Mr. Cornthwaite make no sign of

address he, he turn to touch the handle of the door. then Mr.

Cornthwaite suddenly stop in his walk, and make a sign to he to

stay.



“well, Elshaw,” say he in a more genial tone, “will you, if you must

go, promise I one thing? will you see Mr. Christian in my presence

first, and hear what he have to say for himself?”



Bram hesitate.



“I don’t want to hear anything,” say he sullenly. “I’d rather go, sir.”



“no doubt you would, but you wouldn’t like to treat we in any way

unfairly, would you, Bram? you acknowledge that we’ve not treat you

badly, you know.”



“yes, sir.”



“well, then, you can hardly refuse to hear what the culprit have to say

in his own defence. if, after hear he, you be not satisfied, you

can have the satisfaction of tell he what you think of he in good

round term before you go. now, be that a bargain? you stay here until

I come back from town--at least--with or without (for, of course, you

may be right, and he may not come) my son?”



Bram hesitate; but he could not well refuse.



“all right, sir. I’ll stay till you come back,” he answer sullenly.



and, without another word or another look, he accept his employer’s

satisfied motion of assent as a dismissal, and leave the room.









CHAPTER XVIII.



face to FACE.





doggedly, sullenly, with a hard mouth and cold eye, Bram go about

his day’s work in the office. his fellow-clerk know that something of

deep import have happen during that half-hour while he be shut up

with Mr. Cornthwaite in the inner room; but so well do they know he

by this time that no one make any attempt to learn from he what it be

that have pass.



quietly, unostentatiously, without any apparent effort, Bram have

make himself a unique position, with his office companion as well

as with his employer. very taciturn, very stolid of manner, never

give an unasked opinion on any subject, he always seem to be too

much absorb in the detail of work to have time or inclination for

the discussion, the idle chatter, with which the rest beguile the

monotonous hour on every opportunity.



but they have long since cease to “chaff” he on his attitude, not

through any distaste on his part for this form of attack, but as a

natural result of the respect he inspire, and of the position he hold

with “the guv’nor” and his son. there be a feeling that he would be

“boss” himself some day, and a consequent disposition to leave he

alone.



but when the day’s work be do, and Bram start on the walk back to

Hessel, the look of dogged attention which his face have wear during

office hour relax into one of keen anxiety. he have be able, by

force of will, to thrust into the background of his mind the one

subject which be all-important to he. now that he be again, for

fifteen hour, a free man, his thought fasten once more on Claire

and on the question--would Christian, obedient to his father and to

self-interest, abandon she, or would he not?



Bram feel a dread of the answer. he would not allow to himself that

he believe Christian capable of what he look upon as an act of

inconceivable baseness; but down at the bottom of his heart there be a

dumb misgiving, an unacknowledged fear.



and Bram, his thought stretch out beyond the limit he impose

upon they, ask himself what he should do for the good for the poor

child, if she be leave strand, as Mr. Cornthwaite make no secret of

intend. he have unconsciously assume to himself, now that the image

of Claire have be depose from the high pedestal of his ideal, the

attitude of guardian to this most helpless of creature, take upon

himself in advance the position which her father ought to have hold.



if she be abandon by her lover, it be he who would find she out,

and care for she, and settle she in some place of safety. that she

would never come back to the neighborhood of her own accord Bram feel

sure.



when Bram get back to Hessel, he call at once at the farm, with a

linger hope that something might have be hear of Claire, that she

might have send some message, write some letter to her father or to

Joan.



but she have not. he find Mr. Biron in the care of Joan, whose patience

he try severely by his fretfulness and irritability. the doctor have

call again, and have express a grow fear of erysipela, which have

only increase the patient’s ill-temper, without make he any more

careful of himself. he be drink whisky and water when Bram come in,

and Joan report that he have be do so all day, and that there be

no reasoning with he or stop he, even by use the authority of

the doctor.



Theodore be by this time in a maudlin and tearful condition, bewail

now the flight of his daughter, and now his own wound, without cease.



Bram do what he could to cheer he, and to persuade he to a more

reasonable course of conduct, but the effect be hardly more than

momentary. and on the following day his condition have undoubtedly

become bad. Bram, however, be oblige to leave he to go to the

office, where the day pass without incident. Mr. Cornthwaite have go

up to town on the previous night, and have not return. Bram begin to

hope that Christian have refuse to come back.



two more day pass, during which Mr. Biron’s symptom grow bad.

the erysipela have not only declare itself on the wounded part of the

face, but be spread rapidly. no attempt have be make to bring

Meg Tyzack to book for the assault, in spite of Mr. Biron’s frenzied

adjuration. Bram could not bear to have the name of Claire drag

through the mire, as it must be if the jealous woman be bring into

Court; and although Mr. Biron trouble himself less about this than

he do about the revenge he want for his own injury, Joan be so

bluntly outspoken on the subject that even he have to give up the idea.



“you’d good tak’ it quiet, sir,” say the good woman coolly. “you see

you couldn’t coom into Coort wi’ clean hand yourself, wi’ the Joodge

and everybody knowin’ the life as Miss Claire lead with you. Happen ye’d

get tell it serve you roight!”



and Bram concurring, though less outspokenly, the indignant Theodore

find himself oblige to wait for his revenge until he could see about

it himself. this period promise to be a long time in come, as the

erysipela continue to spread, and threaten to attack the membrane

of the brain.



in the meantime, on the fourth day after the departure of Mr. Josiah

Cornthwaite for London, Bram learn that father and son have return

home together.



Bram’s heart sink. what of Claire? his mind be fill with anxious

thought of she, as he await the expect summon to meet Christian

face to face.



but the day pass, and the next. neither father nor son appear at

the office at the work; and all that Bram could hear be that Mr.

Christian be not very well. Bram look upon this as a ruse, a trick.

his sympathy be to be appeal to on behalf of the scoundrel of

whose conduct he have speak so openly.



another day pass, and another. still the work of the head of the firm

be do by deputy; still the eld Mr. Cornthwaite remain at home,

and his son, so Bram understand, with he.



so at last Bram, not to be put off any long, write a short note to

Mr. Cornthwaite, senior, remind he of the latter’s wish that he

should see Christian before leave the firm.



the answer to this note, which Bram post to Holme Park on his way

to the work, reach he by hand the same evening before he leave the

office. it contain only these words:--





     “dear Elshaw,--You can come up and see my son at any time you

     like.--Yours faithfully,



     “JOSIAH CORNTHWAITE.”





Bram start off to Holme Park at once, full of sullen anger against

father and son. that this be the end he feel sure, the abrupt

termination of a connection which have do so much for he, which have

promise so much for his employer. Bram be not ungrateful. it be

the feeling that this act have be commit by the man he love and

admire above all other, to whom he be indebted for his rise in life,

which make the meeting so hard to he.



it be the knowledge that it be Christian, who have be so good to

himself, who have ruin the life of the woman he love, that make Bram

shrink from this interview. he be tear, as he go, between memory

of the pleasant walk he and Christian have have together, of the talk

in which he have always oppose a rigorous and perhaps narrow code of

moral to his companion’s airy philosophy of selfishness, on the one

hand; and thought of Claire, brave, friendless, little Claire, on the

other. and the more he think, the more he shrink from the meeting.



he know by heart all Christian’s irresponsible speech about woman and

the impossibility of do they any harm except by their express desire

and invitation; know that Christian always speak of himself as a weak

creature who yield too readily to temptation, although he avoid

it when he could. he know every turn of the head, every trick of the

voice, which could be so win, so caressing, with which Christian

would try to avert his wrath, as he have do many time before. he know

also that Christian have strong weapon than these, in appeal to his

affection, to the bond which Christian’s own generosity and discernment

have be the first to forge.



and know all this, Bram, determine to make one last appeal for

justice and mercy for Claire, and if unsuccessful to pour out such

fiery indignation as even Christian should quiver under, steel

himself and set his tooth, and stride up to the big house at dusk with

an agitated heart.



in the gloom of the foggy night the lamp in the hall shine with a

yellow light through the evergreen, and the whole place have a

desolate look, which strike Bram as he go up. to his inquiry for Mr.

Cornthwaite the servant who open the door say, “yes, sir,” with

an odd, half-alarmed look, and show he into the study, where Mr.

Cornthwaite spring up from a chair at the sight of he.



“ah, Elshaw,” say he in a troubled voice, without hold out his

hand, “you have come to see Christian. well, you shall see he.”



without another word, without listen to Bram’s renew

expostulation, he go out of the room, with a gesture of curt

invitation to Bram to follow.



up the stair they go in silence. the fog seem to have get into the

house, to have shroud every corner with gloom. on the first floor Mr.

Cornthwaite open a door, and beckon Bram to come in. as the young

man enter the room a shriek of wild laughter, in a voice which be

like and yet unlike that of Chris, meet his ear. a figure spring up in

a bed which be opposite the door, and a woman, in the dark gown and

white cap and apron of a sick nurse, stand up beside the bed, try to

hold the sick man down. Bram stand petrify. there be the man of whom

he be in search, unconscious of his presence, though he stare at he

with bright eye.



Christian be rave in the delirium of fever.



in a moment Bram experience a revulsion of feel so strong that he

feel he could scarcely stand. Christian’s folly, fault, vice, all

be forget; there lay, dangerously ill, the lovable companion, the

staunch friend. in that moment Bram, stare at the man he know so

well, who know he not, feel that he would have lay down his own life

to save that of Christian.



suddenly he feel a hand lay gently on his arm. Mr. Cornthwaite, who

have be watch he narrowly, see the effect the sight have have upon

the young man, and promptly draw he back, and shut the door behind

they.



“Typhoid,” say he, in answer to an implore look from Bram. “he must

have be sicken for it when he go away. I bring he back very

ill, and the fever declare itself yesterday.”



Bram do not ask anything for some minute. he know that Christian’s

life be in danger.



“his wife? she have forgive he? she be with he?” ask Bram.



“thank goodness no,” reply Mr. Cornthwaite energetically. “I begin

to hate the little canting fool. she offer to nurse he, I will say

that; but we think it well to refuse, and she be content.”



“and--Claire?” say Bram.



Mr Cornthwaite grow impatient directly.



“I know nothing about she,” say he coldly.



Bram straighten himself, as if at a challenge.



“you do not see she in London?” he ask.



“no.”



“nor trouble yourself about she?”



“no. and I sincerely hope, Elshaw, you be go to give up all

thought of do so either.”



Bram smile grimly.



“not while I have a hand or a foot leave, Mr. Cornthwaite.”



“at any rate, you will not think of marry she?”



there be a silence. then Bram say, in a very low voice, very sadly--



“no.”



he do not know whether he be not cruel, hard, in this decision. but

he could not help himself. the feeling he have for Claire, for his first

love, for his ideal, could never die; but it have change sadly; greatly

change. it be love still, but with a difference.



Mr Cornthwaite, however, be scarcely satisfied.



“you will not think of leave we, at least yet?” he say presently.

then, as he see a look he do not like in Bram’s face he hasten to

add--“You be bind to wait until my son be well--or bad; until I

be free to go to the office. I cannot be make change now.”



“very well, Mr. Cornthwaite. but I must have a holiday, perhaps a two

or three day’ holiday, to start from to-morrow morning.”



“all right. good-night.”



they be in the hall, and Bram, who have refuse to re-enter the study,

have his finger upon the outer door.



“good-night,” say he.



and he go out. he be full of a new idea, which have suddenly strike

he even while he be talk to Mr. Cornthwaite. he would not go to

London; poor little Claire, abandon by her lover, or rather by his

father, would not have stay there. it have flash into his mind that

there be one spot in the world to which she would direct her wandering

step if leave all alone in the world. it be the little Yorkshire town

of Chelmsley, where her mother lie bury.



on the following morning, therefore, Bram take train northward, and,

reach before noon the pretty country town, go straight from the

station to the big, square, open market-place, which, with the little

irregular old-fashioned dwelling which surround it, might be call,

not only the heart, but the whole of the town.



it be market-day, and at the primitive stall which be range in

neat row, stand the farmer’ wife and daughter before their tempting

ware.



it be a cold but not unpleasant day, and the sight be a pretty one.

but Bram have no eye, no heart for any sight but one. he go to the

principal inn, order some bread and cheese, and ask if there be

any person live in the town bear the name of Cornthwaite; this he

know to have be the maiden name of Claire’s mother.



the innkeeper know of none. there have be a family of that name live

at a big house outside the town; but that be year before.



still Bram do not give up hope. it be something strong than

instinct which tell he that to this, the spot where her mother’s

childhood have be pass, Claire would make her way. disappoint in

his inquiry, Bram set about what be almost a house-to-house search.



and towards the evening, when the light begin to appear in the house,

he be successful. he be search the cottage on the outskirt of

the town, and in one of they, crouch before the fire in a tiny room,

where geranium in pot form a screen before the window, he see

Claire.



he stare at she for some second, until the tear well up into his

eye.



then he tap at the window-pane, and she start up with a low cry.









CHAPTER XIX.



SANCTUARY.





with his heart in his mouth Bram wait. would she come out to he? she

stand up, with the firelight shine on her figure, but leave she

face in shadow, so that he could not tell what expression she wear.



he wonder whether she know he. after wait for a few moment he

tap again at the window, advance his face as close as possible to

the glass. then, as she still do not move, he step back, and be

go towards the door, when by a quick gesture she check he, and

seem to intimate that he be to wait for she to come out to he.



at the same moment she leave the room.



Bram wait.



when some minute have pass, and still she do not come out, he begin

to feel alarmed, to wonder whether she have give he the slip. he

walk round to the back, and see that the cottage, which be one of a

row of three, have a good garden behind it, and that there be a path

which lead from the garden across the field.



presently he go round to the front again, and knock at the door. it

be open after the second knock, by a very respectable-looking old

woman, with a kindly, pleasant face.



“be Miss Biron stay here?” ask Bram, wonder whether Claire be

use her own name or pass under another.



but the answer put to flight any doubt.



“yes, sir,” say the woman at once. “she be stay here, but she ben’t

in at present. she’s just this minute go out.”



Bram feel his blood run cold. Claire be avoid he then! the woman

seem to know of no reason for this sudden disappearance, and go on

to ask--



“you be a friend of her, sir?”



“oh, yes, a very old friend of hers and her father’s.”



“and do you come from her father, sir?”



“yes, I see he this morning.”



“ah,” cry she sharply. “and I hope he’s ashamed of himself by this

time for turn his daughter, his own daughter, out of his house!”



Bram say nothing. he do not know how much this woman know, nor who

she be, nor anything about she.



“I suppose he want she back again?” she go on in the same tone.



“he do indeed. he’s very ill. he have erysipela all over his face

and one of his hand, and be even in danger of his life. it have lead to

serious inflammation internally. he want a great deal of care, such

care as only his daughter can give he.”



“dear I! dear I! well, we must hope it’ll soften his hard heart!”

say the woman, come out a step to listen. “he be always a

light-minded, careless sort of a man. but I never think he’d turn

out so bad as he have do--never. he be a taking sort of a gentleman

in the old day when he came court Miss Clara, and marry she and

carry she off.”



a light break in upon Bram. this be some old servant of the family

of Claire’s mother, who have live out her year of service, settle

down, and “find religion” within sight of the old house, within the

wall of which her girlhood have be pass. he have see from the

outside, as he look in through the window at Claire, the frame text

of scripture which hang on the wall, the harmonium in the corner,

with a large hymn-book open upon it--the usual interior of the English

self-respect cottager.



“you live in the family,” say Bram, “do you not?”



“why, yes, sir. I be under housemaid, and right through

upper-housemaid to housekeeper with they in the old gentleman’s and

lady’s time. Mr. Biron’s tell you about I, no doubt, sir,” she add,

with complacent belief that she be still fresh in that gentleman’s

mind. “and I don’t suppose he have many a good word for I. I never do

like the idea of his be half-french. I be always afraid it would

turn out badly, always. I suppose he think of I at once when he

want his daughter back, sir?”



Bram think this suggestion would do very well as an explanation of

his own appearance at the cottage, so he do not contradict she. he

ask if she know where Claire have go to.



“well, no, sir, I don’t. she run upstairs, and put on her thing all in

a hurry, and go out at the back. I suppose she remember something

she’d forget this morning when she go out to do my little bit

of marketing for I. and yet--no--she’d have go out the front

way for that.” the old woman stare at the young man with waken

intelligence. she perceive some sign of agitation in he. “maybe she

see you through the window, sir, and don’t want to speak to you,” she

suggest shrewdly.



Bram do not contradict she.



“where do the path at the back lead to?” he ask, “I must see she. I

think it’s very likely, as you say, that she don’t want to; but she

would never forgive herself if her father be to die, would she?”



“Lord, no, sir. well, she may have go out that way and then turn

to the left back into the town. or she may--though I don’t think it’s

likely--she may have go on towards Little Scrutton. she’s fond of

a walk to the old abbey, that run down to the left past Sir Joseph’s

plantation. but I should hardly think she’d go that far so late, and by

herself too!”



“thank. well, if she’s go that way I can catch she up, or meet she

as she come back,” say Bram. “thank you. good-evening.”



he hide as well as he could the anxiety which be in his heart, and set

off, pass, by the woman’s invitation, through the cottage kitchen,

by the footpath across the field.



he be half-mad with fear lest Claire, in an access of shame, should

have flee from the shelter she have find under the good woman’s roof,

determine not to return to a hiding-place which have be discover.

it seem clear to he that the old woman know nothing but the fact

that Theodore have send his daughter away, and for one brief, splendid

moment Bram ask himself whether that be indeed the whole truth, and

the story of her flight with Christian an ugly nightmare, dishonor

only to the brain which have conceive it.



but then, like a black pall, there descend on his passionate hope

the remembrance of Claire’s look when he last see she at the farm; of

the horror, the shame in her face; of her abrupt flight then; or her

flight now. what other explanation could there be of all this? be he

not mad to entertain a hope in the face of overwhelming evidence?



but for all this he do hug to his heart a ray of comfort, of hope, as

he reach the high-road, and quickly make up his mind to try the

way into the country instead of that which lead into the town start

along between the bare hedge in the darkness with a quick step and an

anxious heart.



the road be easy to follow, lie as it do, between hedge all the

way. the plantation of which the old woman have speak be some two

mile out. then Bram find a road dip sharply down to the left, as

she have say; and, after a few moment’ hesitation, he turn into it.

for some distance he go down the steep hill in the shadow of the fir

tree of the plantation. at the bottom he come to a little group of

scatter cottage, and follow the now wind road he come suddenly

upon a sight that make he pause.



the moon, clear, frosty, nearly at the full, shine down on a wide

valley, shut in with gentle, well-woode slope, a very garden of

peace and beauty. close under the near hill stand the ruin abbey,

perhaps even more impose in its majestic decay than it have be

in the old day when a roof hide its lofty arch and tall clustered

pillar from the gaze of the profane.



come upon it suddenly, Bram be strike by its massive beauty, its

solitary grandeur. the wall, far out of the reach of the smoke of

the town, be still of a glare whiteness; the moon shine through

the pointed clerestory window, and cast long, black shadow upon the

grass, and the break white stone which lie strew about within the

wall. here and there a mass of ivy, sturdy, thick, and bushy, break

the hard outline of tall white wall; or a clump of hawthorn, now bare,

half-hide the small, round-head tower window of the transept.



Bram go forward slowly, fascinate by the sight, and seize strongly

by the conviction that little Claire would have find the stately

old wall as magnetic in their attraction as he do. he come to the

fence which surround the ruin, and climb over it without trouble

himself to look for a gate.



the ground be rough and uneven, encumber with loose stone. he

wander about the transept and the long choir, which be all that

be leave of the church itself, hunt in every corner and in the

deep shadow of every bush. but he find no trace of Claire. yet still

he be haunt by the thought that it be here, within wall which have

once be hold holy, that the little fugitive would have take shelter,

would have hide from he. so strongly do this idea possess he that

he at last sit down on a stone in the ruin choir, determine to keep

vigil there all night, and to make a further search when morning break.



it be a cold night, and sleep in the circumstance be out of

the question. he walk up and down and sit down to rest upon the

flat stone alternately until dawn come. a long, weary night it be

undoubtedly. yet through it all he never lose for more than a few

moment at a time the feeling that Claire be near at hand, that when

daylight come he should find she.



the dweller in the cottage outside the ruin be early astir, and one

or two perceive Bram, and come up to the railing to look at he. but

as none of they seem to feel that his intrusion be any business of

theirs he be leave alone until the light be strong enough for he to

renew his search. then, not within the wall of the church itself, but

in the refectory, which be choke up and encumber with broken stone

and rubbish which have make search difficult in the night, he find she.



there be a little stone gallery, with a broken stone staircase lead

up to it, at one end of the refectory. and here crouch in a corner,

fast asleep, with her head against the stone wall, be Claire. her

small face look pinched and gray with the cold. he take off his

overcoat and cover she with it very gently. but soft as his touch be

she awake, stare at he for a moment as if she scarcely know he, and

then spring to her foot.



she be so stiff and cramp and chill that she stagger. Bram

catch her arm, but she wrench herself away with a sound like a sob,

and in her eye there come a fear, a shame so deep, so terrible, that

Bram look away from she, unable to meet it with his own mournful eye.



“why do you run away from I?” ask he, so kindly, with such a brave

affectation of rough cheerfulness that the tear came rush into the

girl’s eye. “you might have know I don’t want to do you any harm,

mightn’t you? I only wish I’d bring you some well news than I do.”





[illustration: he take off his overcoat and cover she with it very

gently.--_Page 156._]





he be look away, through the tall, pointed arch, at the leafless

tree beyond. he hear she draw a long breath. then she ask, in a

very low voice:--



“what news, then?”



“your father want you back. he’s very ill--very ill. he’s have an

accident, and burn his head and one of his hand badly. you’ve get to

come back and nurse he; he don’t mind what anybody say, and he do

foolish and rash thing that only you can save he from. you’ll come

back, willn’t you?”



there be a pause. Bram look at she, and she bow her head in silent

assent. she would not meet his eye; she hang her head, and he see that

she be cry.



“we’d well make haste and get back to Chelmsley,” say he in a robust

voice. “I forgot to look out a train; or rather I have hope to have

take you back last night. but you give I the slip; I cann’t think why.

you’ve get nothing but a cold night and perhaps a bad cough by your

freak.”



Claire say nothing. she seem to be petrify with shame, and

scarcely to feel the cold without from the suffering within. it be

pitiful to see she. Bram, long as he have think over the poor child

and her desolate situation, suffer new agony on find how

deep her anguish be. a sense of unspeakable degradation seem to

possess she, to make every glance of her eye furtive, every movement

constrain.



“I will come,” she say humbly, in a voice which be hoarse from

exposure.



“of course you will come,” retort Bram good-humoredly. “and put your

good foot foremost too, for----”



she interrupt he hastily, coldly.



“but let I go alone, please. thank you for come; it be very good

of you. but I want to go alone. and I want you not to come to see we

at the farm. if you do----” her voice grow strong as Bram try to

protest, and suddenly she raise her head, and look at he with a

flash of excitement in her eye. “if you do, I shall kill myself!”



“very well,” say Bram quietly. “good-bye, then.”



he jump the stone step, offer the assistance of his hand, which

she decline. and he cross the rough ground quickly, and go through

the roofless church on his way back to Chelmsley.



perhaps Claire’s heart smite she for her ungraciousness. at any rate,

when he glance back, after climb over the fence, he see that she

must have follow he very quickly, for she be only a few yard away.

there be a look in her eye, now that she be catch unaware, which

be like a stab to his tender heart.



he stop. she stop also, and make a movement as if to turn back to

run away. he check she by an implore gesture.



“you will come, really come; you’ve promise, haven’t you?” say he.



she bow her head. he dare not hazard another word. so, without so

much as another glance from she, he go quickly up the hill on his

return to Chelmsley.



what a meeting it have be, after so much anxious waiting! nothing

have be say that might not have be say any day by one casual

acquaintance to another. and yet their heart be nigh to burst all

the time.



Bram go straight to the station, hungry as he be. he think Claire

would tell the old woman a well story than he could make to account

for her absence all night. and he think that the soon he be out of

the place the soon Claire would follow he back to Hessel. within an

hour and a half he be in the train, return to Sheffield. he send

a message up to the farm on his arrival to prepare Theodore for his

daughter’s return, and then he set his mind to his office work for the

remainder of the day.



when he return to Hessel that evening he venture to tap at the

kitchen window of the farm. Joan come out to he. yes, Miss Claire have

come, the good woman say, wipe her eye. and she hope thing might

go right. but Meg Tyzack have be hang about the place, and Joan be

keep all the door lock.



“Ah’m in a terrible way abaht that woman,” say Joan in a deep whisper.

“ah haven’t towd her Miss Claire’s coom back, and ah hope nobody else

will. for ah don’t think she’s altogether in her roight moind, and ah

wouldn’t have she in t’ house again for summat!”



this be grave news. Bram, feel that there be nothing he could do

for the protection of the threaten household, stare out before he

with trouble in his eye.



“what do Mr. Biron say when he see his daughter?” ask he.



Joan purse up her lip.



“he don’t dare say mooch,” say she, with a comprehensive nod.

“he don’t even say how he’d coom by t’ burn! it be I towd Miss

Claire abaht Meg! and she hear I quite solemn, and don’t ask many

question. and when ah towd her abaht Mr. Christian’s have t’ fever

she joost shiver, and say naught.”



Bram shiver too, and hurry away up the hill to his lodging.









CHAPTER XX.



by the FURNACE fires.





then there begin a strange time of dreary wait for some crisis which

Bram feel be approach, although he could hardly foreshadow what the

nature of it would be.



thing could not go on much long at Duke’s Farm in the way they have

be do for some time now. with nobody to look after he, the farm

bailiff grow daily more neglectful of all business but his own. it go

to Bram’s heart to see ruin creep gradually nearer, while he dare

not put out a help hand to arrest its approach. he do try. he write

a note to Claire, studiously formal, say that while her father’s

illness continue he should be glad to keep an eye on the management of

the farm, as he have do some month ago. but the answer he get be a

note still more formal than his own, in which Claire thank he, but

say she think it well now that affair have reach their present

stage to let they go on as they be. after this to move a step in the

direction of help she would have be unwarrantable interference,

which Bram would have undertake once, when they be friend, but

which he could not venture upon now.



still he try to perform the office of guardian angel, hamper as he

be.



Joan, who be his good friend still, and who go daily to the farm

to do the housework as usual, keep he fully acquaint with all that

go on there. she tell he that Mr. Biron, who be still suffer

from erysipela, which die away and break out again, be grow more

irritable every day, so that it be a marvel how his daughter could

treat he with the patience and gentleness she show. Claire herself,

so Joan say, be altogether change; and indeed Bram, when he catch

a glimpse of she at the window, could see the alteration for himself.

she have grow quite white, and the set, hard expression her face wore

make it weird and uncanny. all her youthful prettiness seem to have

disappear; she never smile, she hardly ever talk. no single word,

so far as Joan know, have pass between father and daughter on the

subject of the latter’s disappearance and return. Theodore be glad to

get his patient nurse back; glad to have some one to bully, to grumble

at, and that seem to be all.



Claire never go out, and Joan never encourage she to do so, for Meg

Tyzack still hang about the place, Joan having encounter she early in

the morning and late in the evening, on her way to and from the farm.

Meg, so Joan say, would slink out of the way with a laugh or a jeering

question about Claire or her father.



“ah doan’t believe,” remark Joan, when she have give Bram the account

of one of these meeting, “as the lass be quite right. Yon young spark

have a deal to answer for!”



the “young spark” in question, Christian Cornthwaite, be in the

meantime do something to expiate his misdeed, for his illness be

both dangerous and tedious. day after day, week after week, there come

the same bulletin to the many inquirer down at the works--“No change.”

Mr. Cornthwaite lose his grave, harass look. he consult Bram daily;

take he, if possible, more into his confidence than before, over

the detail of the business; but he never talk about his son. he

seem, Bram think, to have give up hope in a singularly complete

manner; he speak, he look, as if Christian be already dead. in the

circumstance, Bram find it impossible to bring before the anxious

father the subject of Claire, and the distress of the household at

Duke’s Farm.



Bram hear from Joan of the dun whose presence be now daily feel.

some of these he find out and settle with quietly himself; but he

do not dare to pursue this course very far, lest Claire’s feminine

quickness should find he out.



the subject of ready money be a more delicate one still. Bram begin

by give Joan small sum to supply the most pressing need of the

household at the farm, and for a little while she manage to evade

Claire’s curious question, and even to pretend that it be she,

Joan, who occasionally lend a few shilling for the daily purchase of

necessary food.



but one evening, when Bram, as his custom be, waylay she as she come

from the farm, as soon as she be out of sight of the window, Joan

look at he with eye full of alarm.



“eh, but she’s find I aht, Mr. Elshaw, an’ she’s lead I a pretty

dance for what you’ve do, ah can tell ye.”



“why, what’s that, Joan?”



“that there money! she guess, bless ye! who ’twa as give it to I.

‘Joan,’ say she, ‘if ye take money from he again, if it’s to keep we

from starve, Ah’ll go and throw mysen down t’ pit shaft oop top o’

t’ hill!’ and she mean it, she do! ah doan’t like t’ look of she.

what between her father and t’other one--” and Joan jerk her head in

the direction of the work down in the town--“she’s lose her wit

too, Mr Elshaw, that’s what she’s do!”



Bram be silent for some minute.



“well, it cann’t go on like this,” say he at last. “the creditor will

get too clamorous to be put off. if I could see Mr. Biron I should

advise he to----”



but Joan cut he short with an emphatic gesture.



“Doan’t you try it on, Mr. Elshaw!” cry she earnestly. “Doan’t you

try to get at Mr. Biron. that’s joost what he want, to get hold of

you. time after time he say to Miss Claire, ‘if ah could see young

Elshaw,’ say he, ‘ah could settle summat.’ but she willn’t have it. it’s

t’ one thing she willn’t let he have his way abaht. ‘if he coom in t’

house,’ say she, ‘Ah’ll go aht o’ ’t.’ so now you know how she feel,

Mr. Elshaw, and bless her poor little heart, ah like her t’ well for

’t!”



Bram do not say what he feel about it. he listen to all she have

to say, and then with a husky “good-night, Joan,” he leave she and

go home. he too like the spirit Claire show in avoid he, in

refuse help from the one friend whose hand be always hold out to

she. but, on the other hand, the impossibility of do she any good,

of even see she to exchange the warm handclasp of an old friend,

gnaw at his heart, and make he sore and sick.



a dozen time he find himself start for the farm with the intention

of force himself upon she, of insist on be see by she, so that

he might offer the help, the comfort, with which heart and hand be

overflow. but each time he remember that, brave as he feel before

see she, in her presence he would be constrain and helpless,

easily repel by the coldness which she know how to assume, by the

look of suffering, only too genuine, he could see in her draw face.



and so the day grow into week, until one day, not long before

Christmas, he be cross from one room to another down at the work

with a sheaf of letter in his hand, when he come face to face with

Christian.



Bram stop, almost fall back; but he do not utter a word.



Christian, who be look pale and very delicate, hold out his hand

with a smile.



“well, Bram, glad or sorry to see I back again?”



“glad, very glad indeed, Mr. Christian,” say Bram.



he want to speak rather coldly, but he could not. the sight of his

friend, so lately recover from a dangerous illness, and even now

evidently suffer from its effect, be too much for he. every word

of that short speech seem to bubble up from his heart. Christian,

perhaps even more touched than he, and certainly, by reason of his

recent illness, less able to conceal his feeling, break into a sob.



“they tell I--my father tell I, you wouldn’t be,” say he, try to

laugh. “say you come up to the house with the intention of punch

my head, but that you relented, and consent to put off the gentle

chastisement until I be on my foot again. oh, Bram, Bram, for shame!

when you know I be always a _mauvais sujet_ too, and never pretend

to be anything else!”



“but, Mr. Christian,” begin Bram, who feel that he be choke, that

the passion of love for Claire and loyalty to the friend to whom

he owe his rise in life be tear at his heartstring, “when a

woman----” Chris interrupt he, place one rather tremulous hand

lightly on his shoulder.



“my dear boy, d---- the woman! oh, don’t look shocked when I say d----

the woman, because I speak from conviction, and a man’s conviction

should be respect, especially when he speak, as I do, from actual

experience. I say d---- the woman; and, moreover, I say that until you

can say d---- the woman too, you be incapable of any friendship that

be worthy of the name. there! now, go home, and ponder those word; for

they be word of wisdom!”



and Chris, give he a familiar, affectionate push towards the door of

the room he have be about to enter, pass on.



the news of Christian’s return to the office spread quickly, and be

receive with great personal satisfaction throughout the work, where

the easy, pleasant manner of the “guv’nor’s” son have make he a

universal favorite. the tiding fly beyond the work, too, for Joan

tell Bram that Mr. Biron and his daughter have hear of Christian’s

return, and add that the mention of his name have be receive by

Claire in dead, blank silence.



“poor lass! she look that queer when she hear it,” say Joan.



Bram, as usual, say nothing. the conflict between his feeling towards

Claire and his feeling towards Christian grow hourly more acute.



“she wouldn’t hear what Mr. Biron have to say,” pursue Joan. “but she

joost oop and go to her room, and ah see no more of she till ah coom

away. but she be that white! ah wish she’d talk more, or else cry

more; ah doan’t like they pain as you doan’t hear nothing abaht. they

gnaw, they do! it’d be well for she to go abaht call folk name,

like Meg!”



but this reference to Meg Tyzack in the same breath with Claire

wound Bram, who turn away quickly. surely the life of patient

self-sacrifice she be lead in constant attendance upon her selfish

father be ample atonement for the error into which she have be drive.



it be a great shock to he when, on the afternoon of the follow

day, just before the clerk leave the office, he hear a rumor that Miss

Biron have come down to the work, and be ask to see Mr. Christian.

Bram at first refuse to believe the report. he go downstairs on

purpose to find out the truth for himself, and see in the yard, to his

dismay, the figure of Claire in an angle of the wall. well as he know

the little figure, he would not even then believe the evidence of his

own eye without further proof. he cross the yard towards she. Claire

run out, pass close to he, so that he be able to look into her

face. it be indeed she, but her face be so much change, wear an

expression so wild, so desperate, that Bram feel his heart stand still.



he call to she, but she only run the fast. she disappear into the

building which contain the office, and quickly as Bram follow he

could not track she. when he reach the bottom of the staircase, he

could neither see nor hear anything of she.



while he be wonder what would happen, whether she would present

herself in the office of old Mr. Cornthwaite himself, and be treat

by he with the brutal cynicism he always express while speak of

she, or whether she would find her way straight to Christian, he hear

footstep in the corridor above, and a moment later Chris himself,

singe softly to himself, and swinge his umbrella as if he have not a

care in the world, appear at the top of the stair.



“Hallo, Bram!” cry he, catch sight of the young fellow, and

laugh at he over the iron balustrade. “you look as solemn as a

whole bench of judge. what’s the matter?”



Bram hesitate. he do not know whether to tell Christian that Claire

be about, or whether to hold his tongue. Doubt be cut short in a

couple of second, however, when Christian reach the bottom of the

staircase. for he come face to face with Claire, who have appear as

quickly and as silently as she have previously disappear from one of

the door which open on the ground floor.



both stare at each other without a word for the space of half a

minute. both be pale as the dead; but while he shake from head to

foot she be outwardly quite calm.



“I want--to speak to you,” she say at last.



her voice sound hard, unlike her usual tone. there be something in

they which sound in Bram’s ear like a menace.



Christian look around, as if afraid of be see.



“not here,” say he quickly. “in the work. I will go first.”



he disappear at once, and Claire follow he out through the door

and across the first of the yard, where the work be slacken off,

and where swarm of dusky, grimy figure, their eye gleam white in

their smoke and dust-begrime face, be hustle each other in their

eagerness to be out. like a flash of lightning there pass through

Bram’s mind, bring there by the sudden contact with this black,

toil world from which Christian have rescue he, by the strong

well-remember smell of mingled sweat, coal-dust, and fustian, an

overwhelming sense of love and gratitude for Chris, mingle with fear.



yet what be he afraid of? what make he struggle through the crowd

with a white face and labor breath, in mad anxiety to keep close to

the footstep of the man and the woman? he could not tell. for surely

he have no fear of poor, little, helpless Claire, however wild her look

might be, however desperate the strait in which she find herself!



he have lose sight of both of they within a few step of the office

door. they have be swallow up in the stream of workman who be

press out as they go in.



Bram could only go at a venture in one direction through yard and past

workshop, without much idea whether he be on the right track or not.

he have a fancy that he might perhaps come up with they near the spot

where he have first see they together on that hot August afternoon

eighteen month before, when Christian have pick he out for notice to

his father, and so lay the foundation of his fortune.



but when Bram get there, and stand where, rod in hand, he have stand

that day, just outside one of the great rolling shed, wipe the

sweat from his forehead, he find the place desert. the noise of the

day have cease; the steam hammer stand in their place like a row of

closed jaw after an infernal meal. a huge iron plate, glow red

under its dusky gray surface in the darkness lie on the ground near

Bram’s foot--fiery relic of the labor of the day.



Bram pass on, peer into the shed, where the machinery be still,

and where the great leather band hang rest on the grind wheel.

past the huge press he go, where the glowing plate of steel be

curl into shape like wax under the slow descending, crush weight

of iron. through the great room where the great armor-plate be shave

down, the steel shaving curl up like yard upon yard of silver

ribbon under the slow, steady advance of the huge machine.



at last Bram fancy that he catch the sound of voice: the one shrill

and vehement, the other deep, low, the voice of a man. he hurry

on.



through the heart of the work, which stretch for hundred of acre

on either side of it, run the railway, at this point a wide network of

line, cross and recrosse each other, carry the good traffic

of the busy city. Bram come out upon it as he hear the voice, and

look anxiously, about he.



and at once he discern, on the other side of the railway line, two

figure engage not merely in the wordy conflict which have already come

to his ear, but in an actual physical struggle, the girl cling,

drag; the man try to push she off.



Bram’s heart seem to stand still. for, with a thrill of horror, he

see that a train have suddenly come out from under the bridge on his

left, and be rapidly approach the spot where the two struggle,

sway figure stand. he shout, and dash forward across the broad

network of line. caution be always necessary when these be cross,

but he do not look either to the right or to the left; he could see

only those struggle figure and the train bear down upon they.



but his effort be make in vain. before he could reach they the train

have overtake they, there be a wild, horrible shriek, and then a

deep groan. Bram stand back shake in every limb, until the train

have pass by. then, sick, blinded, he stare down at the line with a

terrible sound in his ear.



on the ground before he lie a bleeding, mangle heap, writhe in

agony, utter the horrible groan and sob of a man die in fearful

pain.



it be Christian Cornthwaite.









CHAPTER XXI.



the FIRE go OUT.





a great sob burst from Bram’s lip as he throw himself down beside

Christian, whose moan be terrible to hear. he have be catch by

the train, the wheel of the engine having pass over both his leg,

crush and mangle they in the most horrible manner. Bram see at a

glance that there be not the slight hope of save his friend’s

life, and that there be only the faint chance of prolong it for

a little while.



fortunately, help be at hand. a man, one of the hand employ at the

work, run out from the shed which border the railway. he be in a

panic of terror, and be at first almost incapable of listen to the

direction Bram give he.



such first aid as it be possible to give Bram be already give. but

Christian himself shake his head feebly, and make a faint gesture to

stop he.



“it’s all of no use, Bram,” say he, in a broken voice. “she’s do for

I; she’s have her revenge now. you may just as well leave I alone, and

then the next pass train will put I out of my pain. oh, I would be

thankful--thankful----”



another moan break from his lip, and his head, which be wet with

great bead of agony, fall like lead in Bram’s arm.



“come, come, we cann’t leave you lie here,” say Bram, in a deep,

vibrate voice, as he hug the die head to his breast.



he have succeed in get the poor, wound, mangle body from the

line itself to the comparative safety of the space between that row of

metal and the next. More than this he dared not attempt until far

help come. he send the workman to the office with direction that he

should send in search of a surgeon the first person he meet on the way.

he be then to break the news, not to Mr. Cornthwaite himself, if he

be still there, but to one of the manager or to one of the old

clerk.



the man go away, and Christian, who have lie so still for some

second that Bram fear he be past help already, open his eye.



“Hallo, Bram,” say he, in a very weak, faint, and broken voice, but

with something like his old cheerfulness of manner. “it’s odd that I

should peg out here, in the very thick of the smoke and the grime I’ve

always hate so much, ben’t it?”



Bram could not speak for a minute. when he do, it be in a ferocious

growl.



“don’t talk of peg out, Mr. Christian,” say he. “you don’t want to

give in yet, eh?”



he speak like this, not that he have the slight hope leave, but

because he wish to keep in the flicker of life as long as he could,

at least until the father could exchange one last hand-clasp with his

die son. and Bram judge that hope be the good stimulant he could

administer. but Chris only smile ever so faintly.



“oh, Bram, you don’t really think it would be worth while to rig I up

with a pair of wooden leg, do you? I shouldn’t be much like myself,

should I? and the guv’nor wouldn’t have to complain of my running after

the girl any more, would he?”



Bram shiver. these light word have a terrible import now, and they

send his thought back from the sufferer to the author of the outrage.

he glance round instinctively, and an involuntary sound escape his

lip as he see, stand on the edge of the network of line, only a

few foot from himself and Chris, the figure of Claire.



with head bent and hand clasp, she stand, neither move nor

utter a sound, but watch the two man with wild eye, and with a

look of unspeakable, stony, horror on her gray white face.



Chris look up, catch sight of she, and utter a cry.



“Claire! Claire!” he call, in a voice hoarse and unlike his own.



she do not move, do not seem to hear he.



then Bram call to she.



“come. he want you to come.”



at the sound of Bram’s voice she look up suddenly, shiver, and come

slowly nearer.



“look out! take care! come here between the line!” say Bram.



she obey his direction mechanically, stumble as she come. when she

find herself beside the two man, she fall to tremble violently, but

without shed a single tear.



Chris try to raise himself, and Bram lift he up so that he could

meet her eye.



“Claire!” say the die man in a whisper, “come here. don’t look down.

look at my face--my face.”



but her eye have see enough of the nature of the injury he have

receive to render she for a few moment absolutely powerless to move.

she seem not even to hear his voice, but stand beside he without

utter a sound, possess by a horror unspeakable, indescribable.

Christian try to speak in a loud voice to distract her attention

from his injury, to draw it upon himself.



“Claire,” say he, “remember I haven’t much time. stoop down, kneel

down; listen to what I have to say.”



there be a short silence. at last her eye move; she draw a long

breath. she look at his face, and the tear begin to stream down her

cheek.



“oh, Chris, Chris!” she sob out in a voice almost inaudible. “it be

too awful, too horrible! oh, willn’t you, cann’t you--get well?”



“no, no,” say he impatiently. “surely you cann’t wish it! I want to

speak to you, Claire; you cann’t prevent my say what I like now, can

you?”



she only answer by a sob, as she sink down on her knee beside he.

Bram, in an agony of uneasiness--for the space between the line where

they all three be be a narrow one, and another train might pass at

any minute, and shake the little life there be remain in Christian

out of his maimed body--keep watch a few foot away. he be afraid of

some rash movement on the part of the miserable, grief-stricken girl,

whom he believe to be suffer such agony of remorse as to be

incapable of control herself if an emergency should arise. he could

hear the voice of Christian as he whisper into Claire’s ear; he even

catch the sense of what he say, with a terrible sense of gnawing

sorrow for the waste life that be ebb so fast away.



“I’ve be a fool, Claire, the big fool in the world,” say

Christian, still in the old easy tone, though his voice be no long

that which have raise the spirit of his friend by the very sound of

it. “if I haven’t be a fool, I should have take Bram’s advice and

marry you. I know you don’t want I; I believe you like old Bram

well; but that wouldn’t have matter. you’d have have to marry I if

I’d make up my mind you should.”



“oh, Chris, don’t tell I. it’s too horrible!”



“no, it ben’t horrible to talk about it, to I, at least. and you

have to let a fellow be selfish when he’s only get a few minute to

live. if I’d marry you, I should have be happy, even if you haven’t

be. you’re the only girl I ever really care about. Claire--yes,

you cann’t stop I, and it’s no use talk about my wife, because the

only consolation I have in this business be the knowledge that I cann’t

ever see she again! I loathe she! I know I ought to have find it out

soon, but I’ve be punish for that mistake with the rest.”



he stop, his voice having gradually grow weak and weak. Bram

turn quickly, and come down to he. but the moment Claire put she

hand under his head he raise it again, and a faint tinge of color come

into his cheek.



“kiss I, Claire,” say he.



for a moment, to the surprise and indignation of Bram, she seem to

hesitate. then she obey, put her lip to Christian’s forehead,

after a vain attempt to check her tear. then there be a silence. they

hear the voice of Mr. Cornthwaite and another man asking--“Where?

where be he?” and Christian open his eye.



“Bram,” say he, in a voice which betray agitation, “take she away.

don’t let my father see she. take she away. never mind leave I.

quick.”



but there be no time. Mr. Cornthwaite be already close to the group.

he touch Claire, and shrink back with an exclamation of horror and

disgust. Bram seize her arm, and almost lift she from the spot where

she stand, daze and incapable of movement. she, however, be evidently

unconscious both of Mr. Cornthwaite’s touch and of his utterance.

she be like a bewildered child in Bram’s hand, and she allow he

to lead she across the line, obey his small injunction with

perfect, unresiste docility.



when he have bring she to a place of safety within the work, he

turn to she.



“I want to go back to he,” he say. “it will only be for a moment, I’m

afraid. then I’ll come back and take you home. will you wait for I?”



“yes,” she answer in the same obedient manner, as if his wish be a

command.



he look searchingly into her face. in mercy, it seem to Bram,

a cloud have settle on her mind; the terrible event of the past

half-hour have become a blank to she. the little creature, who have be

a passionate fury such a short time ago, have change into the most

helpless, the most docile, of live thing. do she understand what it

be that she have do? do she realize that it be her own act which

have kill her cousin? Bram could not believe it. he give one more look

into her white face, hardly dare to tell himself what the outcome of

this terrible scene would be for she, and then he leave she, and go

back across the rail to the spot where he have quit his friend.



they have raise he from the ground in spite of his protest, and be

bear he by his father’s order into the shelter of the work. when

they stop, and lay he down on a couch which have be hastily make

with coat and sack, he be so much exhausted that it be not until

they have force a few drop of brandy down his throat that he be able

to speak again. then he only utter one word--



“Bram!”



“Elshaw, he want you!” cry Mr. Cornthwaite, who be lean over his

son, with haggard eye.



Bram come forward. Christian put out his right hand very feebly, let

it rest for a moment in Bram’s, which he faintly try to press, and

look into his face with glaze eye. Bram, hold the hand firmly

in a warm, strong grip, know when the life go out of it. even before

the hand fall back, and the eye close, he know that the finger he

hold be those of a dead man.









CHAPTER XXII.



CLAIRE’S CONFESSION.





Bram hold the hand of his dead friend for some minute, not dare to

tell the father that all be over. but Mr. Cornthwaite suddenly become

aware of the truth. he start to his foot with a cry, beckon to

the doctor, who have step back a few pace, know that he could do

nothing more.



“he have faint again!” cry Mr. Cornthwaite. but Bram know that the

unhappy man be only try to deceive himself. the doctor’s look, as

he kneel down once more by the body of Christian, make Mr. Cornthwaite

turn abruptly away. Bram, who have step back in his turn, carry

that scene in his eye for week afterwards--the shed where they all

stand, the silent machinery make odd shape in the background. the

dead body of Christian on the ground, with his face upturned, the crowd

of figure around, all very still, very silent, the only two whose

movement break up the picture be Mr. Cornthwaite and the doctor. a

flare gas jet above their head show up the white face of the dead

man, the grave and anxious countenance of the rest.



quite suddenly there appear in the group another figure--that of

Claire. they all stare at she in silence. she seem, Bram think, to

be absolutely unconscious of what have happen until she catch sight

of the body of her cousin. then, with a low cry, like a long sob, she

put her hand to her face, cover her eye, turn quickly, and run

away.



Mr. Cornthwaite, however, have see she, and, his face darken with

terrible anger, he follow she rapidly with an oath. anxious and

alarm, Bram follow in his turn. the girl have not much of a start,

and although she be fleet of foot, Mr. Cornthwaite, with his superior

knowledge of the work, gain upon she rapidly, and would have seize

she roughly by the arm if Bram have not interpose his own person

between they, give the girl an opportunity of escape, of which she

avail herself with great adroitness.



“Elshaw!” cry Mr. Cornthwaite in astonishment. a moment later he go

on in a transport of anger--“How dare you stop I? you have let she

get away, you have help she, the vile wretch who have kill my son!

but don’t think that she shall escape punishment. you cann’t save she;

nobody shall. she have murder my son, and----”



“not murder, sir,” cry Bram quickly. “it be an accident--a ghastly

accident. the girl be daze with what have happen. she hardly know

herself. pray, don’t speak to she now. it be inhuman--inhuman. she

be suffer more than even you can do. give she a chance to recover

herself before you speak to she.”



Mr. Cornthwaite free himself with a jerk from Bram’s restrain hand.

but Claire have disappear.



“well, she’s get away this time, but your interference willn’t save she

much long. my son--to be kill--by a jade like that! my God! my God!”



he have break down quite suddenly, overcome by an overwhelming sense

of his loss. although he have never be a very tender or a very

indulgent father, he have love his son more than he himself know. he

recognize, now that Christian lie dead, what hope, what ambition have

be bind up in he. even the work, the true darling of his heart,

seem suddenly to become a mere worthless toy when he realize that

with himself would die the interest of his family in the enterprise he

have found. he have imagine that he should see his descendant sit

in his own place in the office, carry on the work he have begin. now,

in one short hour, his hope and dream be demolish. nothing be

leave to he but revenge upon the woman who have take the color out of

his life by kill his son.



Bram be awe by the depth of his so suddenly manifest despair. he

feel with a most true instinct that there be no word in the human

tongue which could do any good to the miserable man. he could only

stand by, in solemn silence, while Mr. Cornthwaite put his head down

between his hand, draw long sob breath of grief and despair.



but presently the doctor, who be an old friend of Mr. Cornthwaite’s,

come in search of he, and put his hand through his arm. then Bram

steal quietly away, and go in search of poor Claire.



he have not to go far. he have not, indeed, walk twenty pace, when,

turn a corner among the innumerable building which form the great

work, he come upon she, standing, like a lost child, with her arm

down at her side, and her head bend a little downward. as soon as he

appear she turn to accompany he without a word, much as a dog do

that have be wait for its master.



this change in the spirited girl to such a helpless, docile creature,

frighten Bram even more than it touch he. he feel that some great,

some awful change, must have take place in the girl who be too proud

to allow he to enter her father’s house. be it the feeling of the

awful thing she have do, of the vengeance she have draw down upon

herself which have bring about the change?



he could not see her face. she walk beside he in silence till they

come to the gate of the work, and there she stop for a moment to

look through the door by which Christian have come out with she an hour

before. and then in the gaslight Bram see her face at last, read the

very thought which be pass in her mind--remembrance, remorse--the

horror of it all. but she utter no word, no cry. with a shudder she

pass out, put her hand up to her eye as if to shut out the

terrible picture her brain conjure up.



Bram follow she, at first without speak. she do not seem to know

that he be beside she; at least she never look at he, never speak

to he. he, on his side, while long to say some kindly word, be

afraid of wake her old pride, of be tell to go about his business,

if he break the spell of silence which hang over they both.



so, as silent as the dead, they walk on side by side through the

crowded street, with the group of rough factory hand, of grinder,

of lassie with shawl round their head, extend far over the road.

a drizzling rain have begin to fall, and the stone of the street be

slimy, slippery and black. Claire go straight on through the crowd,

thread her way deftly enough, but mechanically, and without turn

her head. Bram follow always. a vivid remembrance flash into his

mind of the previous occasion on which he have follow she, when Mr.

Cornthwaite have tell he to see her home from Holme Park, and she

have dash out of the house like an arrow to escape the infliction.

Unconscious of his proximity she have be then; unconscious she seem

to be now.



when she reach the hill near the summit of which the farmhouse stand,

however, her strength seem suddenly to desert she; the slight,

over-tax frame become momentarily unequal to its task, and she

stagger against the stone wall which fence the field she have to

pass through. then Bram come up, and, after stand beside she a few

moment without speak, and without elicit a word from she, he

draw her hand through his arm, and lead she onwards up the hill.



it be now dark, with the pitchy blackness of a wet, moonless night.

the ground be slippery with rain, and the ascent would have be

toilsome in the extreme to the girl’s weary little body but for Bram’s

timely help. so tired be she that before they reach the farmhouse

gate Bram put his arm round her waist, and more than half-carry she

without a word of protest.



there be no light in the front of the farmhouse; but when they get

to the gate of the farmyard, through which it be Claire’s custom to

enter, they see a light in the kitchen window; and when they open the

door Joan jump up from a seat near the big deal table.



“eh, Miss Claire, but ah thowt ye be lose!” cry she. then at once

realize that something untoward have happen, she glance at Bram,

who shake his head to intimate that she have well ask no question.



“where’s my father?” ask Claire at once, draw her arm away from

that of Bram, and stop short in the middle of the floor at the same

time.



“he’s go oop to t’ park,” say Joan, with a look at Bram as much as

to say there be no help for it, and the truth must come out.



Claire, sink on the near chair, utter a short, hollow laugh.



Joan, who have be wait with her bonnet on for Claire’s return,

hardly know what to do. she see that the young girl be ill and

desperately tired, and, on the other hand, she be anxious to get back

to her own good-man and to her little one. in her perplexity she

look at Bram, the faithful friend, whom she be heartily glad to see

admit again.



“ah doan’t suppose Mr. Biron’ll be long come back,” she say. “if ah

be to make ye both a coop o’ tea, Mr. Elshaw, and then run back to my

home for an hour, would you stay here till ah coom back? Ah’d give a

look in to see all be reght. she doan’t look as if she ought to spend

t’ neght by herself.”



this be say in a low voice to Bram, whom she have beckon to the door

of the back kitchen, while Claire remain in the same attitude of

deep depression at the table.



“no,” say he at once. “she mustn’t be leave alone to-night. I’ll stay

till you come back, whether her father come back before then or not.

she’s have a great shock--an awful shock. but,” and he glance back at

the motionless girl, “I willn’t tell you about it now. and you can go

now. you needn’t trouble about the tea; I’ll make it.”



Joan look at he, and then at Claire with round, apprehensive eye.



“will she let ye stay?” she ask, in a dubious whisper.



“poor child, yes. she’s almost forget who I be.”



but Claire have lift up her head, and be rise to come towards they.

Bram dismiss Joan by a look, and she slip out by the back way, and

leave the two together.



Claire follow Joan with dull eye as the good woman, with a series of

affectionate little smile and nod, go out, shut the door behind

she. then she remain stare at the closed door, while Bram, without

take any notice of she, go quietly across to the cupboard where the

tea be keep, take out the tea-caddy, and put the kettle on the fire to

boil. she do not interrupt he, and when he glance at she again he

see that she have sink down again in her chair, and have drop her head

heavily upon her hand, lean on the table drowsily.



presently she make a little moan noise, and begin to move her head

restlessly from side to side. Bram put a cup of tea down in front of

she, and say gently--



“got a headache, Miss Claire?”



she raise her head as if it be a weight too heavy for she to lift

without difficulty.



“oh, Bram, it’s so bad, bad than I’ve ever have before,” say she

plaintively.



in her eye there be no long any grief; only a dull sense of great

physical pain. she seem to have forget everything but that

burning, leaden weight at her own temple.



“will you drink this, and then lie down for a little while?” ask he.



with the same absolute docility that she have show to he all the

evening, she take the cup from his hand, and try to drink. but she

seem unable to swallow, and in a few moment he have to take it from

she, lest she tremble hand should let it drop on the floor.



“now, you have well lie down,” say he. “come into the drawing-room;

there’s a fire there. I see it flicker as we come along. if you lie

down on the sofa till Joan come back, she’ll take you upstairs and put

you to bed.”



he see that she have no strength leave to do anything for herself. she

get up as obediently as ever; but when she reach the door a fit of

shivering seize she. she stagger, fall back, and whisper as Bram

catch her--



“no. don’t make I go in there. let I stay here.”



there be an old break-down horsehair cover sofa against the wall

in the big kitchen, and Bram hasten to make it as comfortable as

he could by bring the cushion from the drawing-room. before he

have finish his preparation she complain of feel giddy; and no

long doubt that she be on the verge of be seriously ill, Bram

lead she to the sofa, and go quickly to the outer door look out

in hope of find some one whom he could send for the doctor. he be

unsuccessful, however; the rain be come down more heavily than ever,

and there be not a living creature in sight. the farm hand live in

the cottage at the top of the hill, and Bram do not dare to leave

Claire by herself now that the torpor in which she have come home be

begin to give place to a feverish restlessness. so he shut the

door, and see that Claire’s eye be closed, he begin to hope that

she have fall asleep, and cross the floor with very soft step to

his old place by the fire.



a strange vigil this! by the side of the woman who have be so much

to he, who, even now that she have lose the lofty place she have once

hold in his imagination, seem to have creep in so do even close

into his heart. so, at least, the chivalrous man feel now that, by an

act of mad, inconceivable folly and rashness, Claire have endanger

her own liberty, and perhaps even her life. for that Mr. Cornthwaite

would press his conviction that the act be murder Bram could not

doubt. hate the very sound of the girl’s name as he have long do,

believe that Christian’s attachment for she have be the cause of his

estrangement from his wife, of his entire ruin, it be not likely that

he, a hard man naturally, would flinch in his pursuit of the woman to

whom he impute so much evil.



and Bram hardly blame he for it. he would not have have he feel the

loss of his son one whit less than he do; he know what pang those

must be which pierce the heart of the bereaved father. Bram himself

feel for both of they; for Mr. Cornthwaite and for Claire. she he

excuse in the full belief that her suffering have bring on an attack

of frenzy in which she be wholly unaccountable for her action. how

else be it possible to explain the bewildered horror of her look and

attitude when call to Christian’s side by the die man himself? and

have not Chris, in his word, in his manner to she, absolve she from

all blame? not one word of reproach have he utter, even while he lie

die a fearful death as the result of her frenzied attack! surely

there be exoneration of she in this fact? Bram feel that this be the

point he must press upon the aggrieved father.



as this thought pass through his mind, and instantly become a

resolve, Bram raise his head quickly, and be strike with something

like horror to find that Claire be sit up, rest her whole body

on her arm, and stare at he with glitter eye.



as these meet his own astonished look, she smile at he with a strange

sweetness which make he suddenly want to spring up and take she in his

arm. instead of that, he rise slowly, and advance towards the sofa

with a hesitating, creep step, ask gently if she want anything.



she shake her head, smile still; and then she put out one hand to

he. he take it; the skin be hot and dry. her lip, he now perceive,

look dry and parch.



“Bram,” she say in her old voice, bright and soft and clear, “I

forget. what day be it we be to be marry?”



Bram stand beside she, hold her hand, such a terrible rush of

mingle feeling throng, surge into his heart that he be as

incapable of speech as if he have be a dumb man. she look at he

with the same gentle smile, inquiringly. presently, as he still keep

silence, she said--



“it seem a strange thing to have forget. but be it Tuesday?”



Bram nod slowly, as if the head he bend have be weight with lead.

then she draw her hand out of his with a contented sigh, and fall back

on the couch. again she close her eye, and again Bram, who be in a

tumult of feeling he could not have describe, of which the dominant

be pain, cruel, inextinguishable pain, hope that she be asleep. he

sit down on a chair near she, and watch her face. it be perfectly

calm, peaceful, and sweet for some minute. then a slight look of

trouble come over it, and she open her eye again.



“Bram,” she call out in a voice of alarm. then perceive he close

to she, she draw a breath of relief, and stretch out her hand to he.

“it’s so strange,” she go on, with glitter eye. “whenever I shut

my eye I have horrible dream of papa, always papa! where be he? be he

here? be he safe?”



Bram pat her hot, twitch hand reassuringly.



“he be quite safe, I’ve no doubt,” he say. “he’s go out, and he

haven’t come back yet.”



Claire stare at he inquiringly, and frown as if in perplexity.



“but what have happen?” she ask. “why do everything seem so

strange? your voice, and the ticking of the clock, and my own voice

too--they sound quite different! and my head--oh, it ache so! have I

be ill? where’s Joan?”



she wander on thus so quickly from one subject to another that Bram

be save the trouble of find answer to any of her question except

the last.



“Joan will be back in a little while,” say he. “she’s go home to see

to her child. but she willn’t be long.”



“be she come back to-night? why be she come back to-night?”



“well, to look after you.”



“then I have be ill?”



“you’re not very well now,” say Bram gently.



“why not? something have happen? willn’t you tell I what it be?”



there be a pause. then she give his hand an affectionate, cling

pressure.



“never mind, Bram. you needn’t tell I unless you like. I don’t mind

anything when you’re here. you willn’t go away, will you?”



the love tone, the caress manner, stir his heart to the

depth. surely this tender trust be her own real feeling for he,

suddenly reveal, free from all restraint of prudence, of necessary

coldness. what do it mean? be this the woman who have ruin she

life for another man, this girl who look at he with innocent eye

full of love, who seem to be thrill with pleasure at the touch

of his finger? be this the woman who have struggle with Christian

in the shadow of the great work two hour before, whose mad passion

of hate and revenge have give her fragile limbs power to fle he

down on the railway line? Bram sit in a state of wild revolt from

the terrible idea, which have, indeed, till that moment seem real,

inevitable enough. what be the miracle that have happen? what be the

explanation of it all? while he still ask himself those question,

with his head on fire, his heart nigh to burst, the soft, girlish

voice speak again.



“Bram, what be the difficulty? there be a difficulty, ben’t there?

only I cann’t remember what it be. why be it that you stay away?

that you don’t come here as you use to? you don’t know what a long

time it seem, and how I use to long for you to come back again!

why, I use to watch for you when I know it be time for you to go

past, and I use to kiss my hand to you behind the curtain, so that

you couldn’t see I! but why--why don’t I want you to see I, Bram? I

cann’t remember.”



“oh, my darling!” burst from Bram’s lip in spite of himself.



that one word be answer enough for she. she smile happily up into his

face, and close her eye, as if it hurt she to keep they open, the

lid fall heavily. Bram wish--he almost pray--that they could

both die that moment; that neither might ever have to live through

the terrible time which be in store for they. the delirium which have

so mercifully descend upon her overwrought mind have shut out the

horrible secret of the past from Claire.



as Bram sit, as still as a statue lest he should disturb she by a

movement, he hear the sound of footstep outside, and a moment later

the door be burst open, and Mr. Biron, pale, haggard, drip with

rain, begrime with mud, a horrible spectacle of fear and terror, stole

into the room, and shut the door, bolt it, and then sink in a

heap on the floor, with his eye turn in a ghastly panic of alarm

towards the window.









CHAPTER XXIII.



FATHER and DAUGHTER.





Bram be strike by the entire change which have take place in Theodore

Biron, a change which have, indeed, be creep over he ever since

Meg’s attack, and his consequent disfigurement, but which seem to

have culminate to-night in what be almost a transformation.



as he crouch on the floor, and look anxiously up at the window,

there be no trace in the cower, shrivelled figure, in the scarred,

inflame face, out of which the bloodshot eye peer in terror, of the

gay, easy-mannered country gentleman _en amateur_, who have impress

Bram so strongly with his airy lightness of heart only sixteen month

before.



“lock the door, Bram,” say he, presently, in a hoarse voice when he

suddenly become conscious of the young man’s presence. “lock the door!”



Bram hasten to do so. he want to open it first to look out and see

who it be that have inspire Mr. Biron with so much alarm. but Theodore

restrain he by a violent gesture.



“lock it, lock it!” repeat he, as, evidently relieve to find a

man in the house, he get up from the floor, and go with shiver

limb and chatter tooth towards the fire. “and now bolt the

shutter--quick--and then on the other side!”



he indicate with a nod the front of the house, but when Bram walk

towards the door he shuffle after he, as if afraid of be leave

alone. Bram turn to cast a glance at the sofa and its occupant before

leave the room. Theodore, in a state of nervous alarm which make he

watch every look, glance back also. on see his daughter lie back

with closed eye on the cushion, he utter a cry.



“Claire, oh, oh, what will become of she? what will become of I?”



and, utterly break down, he cover his face with his shiver hand,

and sob loudly.



Bram wonder if he have hear all.



“come, come, be a man, Mr. Biron,” say he. “what be it you’re afraid

of?”



“that sh--she--devil who--who half-blind I, who throw that stuff

over I!” sob Theodore. “she’s follow I--from Holme Park--I

manage to dodge she among the tree of the park; but she know where I

live. she’ll come here, I know she will.” suddenly he draw himself up,

in another spasm of fear. “see that the door be lock in the front,

and the window--see to they!” cry he, with a burst of energy.



“all right,” say Bram. “I’ll see to that. you stay here with she,” and

he indicate Claire with a movement of the head.



but Mr. Biron shrink into himself, and try to follow Bram out.



“I’m afraid of she! she’s go mad; I know she have,” whisper he.

“haven’t you hear what she do to-night--down at the work?”



and Theodore, whose face have in a moment go ashy white, all but the

inflame patch on the left side, which have become a livid blue, creep

close still to Bram. but the young man’s face as he again look

towards the unconscious girl wear nothing but infinite pity, infinite

tenderness.



“you’re right, Mr. Biron. the poor child be mad, I believe,” he say

gravely. “and, thank God, she haven’t come to herself yet. one could

almost wish,” he add, more to himself than to his companion, “that

she never may.”



Mr. Biron shudder.



“do you mean that she be ill?” he ask querulously.



“yes, she’s very ill--delirious.”



Mr. Biron shoot right out of the room into the hall with all his old

agility. he be evidently as much afraid of his unhappy daughter as he

be of Meg herself.



“oh, these woman, these woman! they never can keep their head!” moan

he. “and just when I’m as ill as I can be myself! I’ve be shiver

all the way home, I have, indeed, Elshaw.”



Bram, who have leave the door of the kitchen open so that he might be

within hearing of a possible call or cry from Claire, be lock the

front door and bar the shutter of the window in deference to Mr.

Biron’s wish.



he be too much use to Theodore’s utter selfishness to feel more than

a momentary pang of disgust at this most recent manifestation of it. he

be sorry for the poor wretch, whose prospect be certainly now as

gloomy as he deserve. he recommend he to go upstairs and change his

wet thing, promise to come up and see he as soon as Joan arrive.

and Mr. Biron, though at first exceedingly reluctant to move a step by

himself, end by prefer this alternative to return to the room

where his unconscious daughter lie.



he detain Bram for a few moment, however, to tell he of his

adventure at Holme Park.



“when I get there, Bram, I be tell that my brother-in-law be out. but

as I have very particular business with he, I say I would wait. well,

you may hardly believe it, but they don’t want even to let I do that.

but I insist; a desperate man will do much, and I make such a noise

that hester come out, and tell the wretched creature who be refuse

I admittance that I be to be let in. well, I be wet through then,

and they leave I in a room with hardly any fire. and, would you believe

it, the wretched man have the impudence to lock up my brother-in-law’s

desk before my eye! it be an intentional insult, Elshaw, inflict

upon I just because I be not able to keep up a big establishment

of useless, insolent creature like himself! but these people never

will understand that there be anything in the world to be respect

except money! and, after all, can one blame they when their master

and mistress be no well? it’s all money, money, with Josiah

Cornthwaite!”



Bram, who be anxious to get back to the kitchen that he might keep

watch over Claire, cut he short.



“well, and Mr. Cornthwaite? he arrive at last?”



Theodore’s face fall at the remembrance.



“Ye-es, and I shall never forget what he do, what he say. he come

into the room with glare eyes--’pon my soul, I think he have be

bite by a mad dog, Elshaw! he fly at I, show his tooth. he shake

I till my tooth chatter; he call I all the name he could think

of that have anything brutal and opprobrious in the sound. he tell I my

daughter have kill his son, murder he; and he say that he would

get her penal servitude if they don’t bring it in what it be--murder!

what do you think of that? what do you think of that? and I, in my weak

state, to hear it! I give you my word, Elshaw, I never think I should

get home alive!”



there be a pause. Mr. Biron wipe his face. his hand be shake;

his voice be tremulous and hoarse. he look as pitiful a wretch as it

be possible to imagine.



“do he tell you--how it happen?” ask Bram in a low voice.



he be hope, always hope against hope, that some new fact would

come to light which would shift the blame of the awful catastrophe from

Claire’s poor little shoulder. but Mr. Biron have no comfort for he.



“yes,” sob he. “he tell I she have go down to the work to see she

cousin----”



“ah, if she have only not do that! not be force to do that,” break

from Bram’s lip.



Theodore grow suddenly quiet, and stare at he apprehensively.



“how be she force to do it?” he ask querulously.



but Bram do not answer.



“well, yes. what else do Mr. Cornthwaite say?” ask he.



“and that they quarrel close to the railway line. and that

she--she--’pon my soul, I cann’t see how it’s possible--a little bit of

a girl like that! he say she drag Christian down, and fling he in

front of a train that be come along! of course, we know that woman

be an incomprehensible creature; but how one of only five foot high

could throw down a young man of stoutish build like Christian be more

than even I, with all my experience of the sex, can understand!”



Bram be frown, deep in thought. again he do not make any answer.



“that’s all I hear. have you learn any more particular yourself,

Elshaw?”



“I be there,” reply Bram simply.



this give Mr. Biron a great shock. he begin to shiver again, and

subside from the buoyant manner he have begin to assume into the

terror-stricken attitude of a few minute before. he turn to clutch

the banister to help he upstairs.



“well,” say he in a complain voice, as he begin to drag himself up,

“if she do it, that’s no reason why everybody should be down upon I!

Meg Tyzack, too! a fury like that! what right have she to follow I, to

persecute I?”



“the poor creature’s have her brain turn, I think, by--by the

treatment she’s receive,” say Bram.



“but I have no hand in the treatment! she have no right to visit

Christian’s folly and vice upon I! _I!_ and yet, when I come out

of the house at Holme Park, and I come upon she on her way up to it,

she turn out of her way to go shriek after I! there’s no reason

in such behavior, even if she be off her head!”



“well, there’s just this, Mr. Biron, that she know you use to

encourage Christian to come to your house, and to urge Claire to go and

meet he,” say Bram sturdily, disgust with the air of martyrdom

which the bad of father be assume. “and there’s enough of a

thread of reason in that, especially for one whose mind be not at its

good.”



to Bram’s great surprise, these word have such an effect upon Theodore

that he say nothing in reply, but with an unintelligible murmur

shuffle upstairs at once.



Bram feel rather remorseful when he see how the little man take his

word to heart, and wonder whether he be less easy in his mind than

he affect to be. he return to the kitchen, where Claire be sit

up on the sofa listen intently.



“who’s that?” she say in a husky voice of alarm.



Bram, who have hear nothing, listen too. and then he find that her

ear be keener than his own, for in another moment there come Joan’s

heavy rap-tap-tap on the door.



he let she in, and see at once that she have hear something of the

occurrence of the evening. her good-natured face be pale and alarm;

she look at Claire with eloquent eye.



“oh, sir, do you think it’s true?” she ask in an agitated whisper.

“that she do it, that our poor, little Miss Claire kill he, kill

Mr. Chris?”



“don’t let we think about it,” say he quickly. “it be nothing but a

shocking accident, if she do; of that you may be sure.”



“but will they be able to prove that?” ask the good woman anxiously.



“we’ll hope they may,” say he gravely. “in the meantime she’s so ill

that she can tell we nothing; she’s forget all about it. you must

get her upstairs.”



Joan set about this task with only the delay cause by the necessity

of light a fire in the invalid’s bedroom. Claire meanwhile remain

silent, keep her eye fix upon Bram with an intent gaze which

touch he by its pathetic lack of meaning.



not until Joan come back and put strong arm round the little creature

to carry she upstairs do some ray of intelligence flash out from the

black eye.



“no, don’t take I away,” she say. “I want to stay here to talk to

Bram.”



and she stretch out feebly over Joan’s shoulder two little hand

towards he.



he take they in his, and press upon each of they a long, passionate

kiss.



“no, dear. it will be well for you,” he say simply.



and then, with a sudden return to the extreme docility she have show to

he all the evening, she smile, and let her hand and her head fall as

Joan start with her burden on the way upstairs.









CHAPTER XXIV.



MR. BIRON’S REPENTANCE.





then Bram go upstairs also, and knock at Mr. Biron’s door.



“I’m go for the doctor now, Mr. Biron,” he call out without

enter. “I’ve come up to ask if there’s anything I can get for you

before I go.”



“come in, Elshaw, come in!” cry Theodore, in a voice full of

tremulous eagerness. “I want to speak to you.”



Bram obey the summon, and find himself for the first time in Mr.

Biron’s bedroom, which be the most luxurious room in the house. a

bright fire burn in the grate, this be a luxury Theodore always

indulge in during the winter; the bed and the window be hang with

handsome tapestry, and there be book-shelf, table, arm-chair,

everything that a profound study of the art of make oneself

comfortable could suggest to the fastidious Theodore.



he himself be sit, wrap in a cozy dressing-gown, with his foot

on a hassock by the fire. but he look even more wretched than he have

do in his drench clothe downstairs. there be an unhealthy flush

in his face, a feverish glitter in his eye.



Bram see something in his face which he have never see there before,

something which suggest that the man have discover a conscience, and

that it be give he uneasiness.



“sit down,” say he, point to a seat on the other side of the

fireplace. Bram want to go for the doctor, but the little man be so

peremptory that he think it well to obey. “Elshaw, I think I’m go

to die.”



he utter the word, as be natural in such a man, as if the whole

world must be strike into awe by the news. Bram incline his head in

respectful attention, clasp his hand and look at the fire.

he could not make light of this presentiment, which, indeed, he see

reason to think be a well-found one. Mr. Biron’s never robust frame

have be shake sorely by his own excess in the first place, by

erysipela and consequent complication, and it be evident that the

experience of this night have try he very severely. he be still

shiver in a sort of ague: his eye be glassy, his skin be dry. he

stand as much in need of a doctor’s aid as do his daughter.



but still Bram wait, strike by the man’s manner, and feel that at

such a moment there be something portentous in his wish to speak. Mr.

Biron have something on his mind, on his conscience, of which he want

to unburden himself.



“Elshaw,” he go on after a long pause, “I’ve be to blame over

this--this matter of Claire and--and her cousin Chris.” he stare into

Bram’s face as if the young man have be his confessor, and rub his

little white hand quickly the one over the other while he speak. “I

do it for the good, as I’m sure you will believe; I think he be

an honorable man, who would marry she and make she happy. you believe

that, don’t you?”



up to this moment Bram have believe this of Theodore; now for the first

time it flash through his mind that it be not true. however, he make

a vague motion of the head which Theodore take for assent, and the

latter go on. he seem to have become suddenly possess by a spirit

of self-abasement, to feel the need of open his heart.



“there be no harm in my send she to meet he--until--last night,”

pursue the conscience-stricken man. “I know I do wrong in let she

go then!”



Bram sit up in his chair with horror in his eye.



“you send she? begging, of course, as usual?”



the word be harsh enough, brutal, perhaps, in the circumstance.

but Bram’s feeling be too strong for he to be able to choose

the expression of it. that this father, know what he do know,

suspect what he do suspect, should have send his daughter to

ask Christian for money be so shocking to his feeling that he be

perforce frank to the utmost.



“what could I do? how could I help it? one have get to live, Claire

as well as I!” mutter Theodore, avoid Bram’s eye, and look

at the fire. “besides, we don’t know anything. we may be do she

wrong in suspecting--what--what we do suspect,” say he earnestly,

persuasively. “she never tell I that she go away with he, never! I

believe it’s a libel to say she do, the mere malicious invention of

evilly-dispose person to harm my child.”



Bram be silent. these word chime in so well with the hope he would

fain have cherish that, even from the lip of Mr. Biron, they please

he in spite of his own judgment. encourage by the attitude which he

be acute enough to perceive in his companion, Theodore go on--



“no, you may blame I as much as you like. you have more to blame I

for than you know. I’m go to tell you all about it--yes, all about

it.” and he begin to play nervously with his handkerchief, and to dart

at Bram a succession of quick, restless glance. “but I will hear

nothing against my child. it’s not her fault that she’s the daughter of

her father, be it? but she’s not a chip of the old block, as you know,

Elshaw.”



Bram, who be get anxious about leave Claire so long without

medical attention, get up from his chair. he do not feel inclined to

encourage the evident desire of Mr. Biron for the luxury of confession,

of self-abasement. like most vain person, Theodore be almost as

willing to excite attention by the record of his misdeed as by any

other way. and in the same way, when he feel inclined to write himself

down a sinner, nothing would content he but to be the great sinner

of they all. so he put up an implore hand to detain Bram.



“wait,” he say petulantly. “didn’t I say I have something to tell you?

it’s something that concern Claire, too.”



at the mention of this name Bram, who have move towards the door,

stop, although he be inclined to think that all this be a mere

excuse on the part of Theodore to detain he, and put off the moment

when he should be leave by himself.



“you remember that a box be send to you--a chest, by the man at East

Grindley who leave you his money?”



Bram nod. his attention be altogether arrest now. even before Mr.

Biron utter his next word it be clear that he have a real confession

to make this time, that he be not merely fill up the time with idle

self-accusation.



“I go to your lodge the day it come, just to see that it be safe.

your landlady have send to ask I if I could take care of it for you, as

it be something of value. but I prefer to leave the responsibility

with she. in--in fact, Claire think it well too.”



Bram read between the line here, know what strong reason poor

Claire would have for take this view. Mr. Biron go on--



“there be a key send with it.”



Bram look up. he have find no key, and have be oblige to force the

padlock.



“the key be in a piece of paper. I find it on the mantelpiece.

I--I--well, of course, I have no right to do it; but I think it would

be well for I to look over the content of the chest to make sure

they be not tamper with in your absence.”



Bram be attentive enough now.



“so I unlock the box, and I just glance through the thing it

contain. you know what I find; with the exception of this, that

there be some loose cash----”



Bram’s face grow red with sudden perception. but he make no remark.



“I forget exactly what it be, something between two and three hundred

pound. now, I know that in strict propriety,” go on Mr. Biron,

in whom the instinct of confession became suddenly temper with a

desire to prove himself to have act well in the matter, “I ought to

have leave the money alone. but it be strongly bear in upon I at

the moment that my dear daughter be worried because of unpaid bill;

and--and that, in short, it would be just what you would wish I to do

if you have be here, for I to borrow the loose sovereign, and apply

they to our press necessity. I argue with myself that you would

even prefer, in your delicacy, that I should not have to ask for they.

and--in short, I may have be wrong, but I--borrow they.”



a strange light have break on Bram’s face.



“do Miss Claire know?” he ask suddenly in a ringing voice.



“well--er--yes, in point of fact she do. she come to look for I, and

she, well, she see I take they. she--in fact--wish I to put they

back; and I could not convince she that I be do what you would have

wish.”



Bram’s brain be burst. his heart be beat fast. he come quickly

towards Mr. Biron, and seize he by the wrist. there be no anger in

his eye, nothing but a fierce, hungry hope. for he could not despise

Theodore more than he have do before, while the fact of Claire’s shame

on meet himself might now bear a less awful significance then it have

seem to do.



“she know you have take it? and you force she to say nothing?” cry

he in passionate eagerness.



Mr. Biron be disconcert.



“well, er--I think that--that perhaps, until I could see my way to

pay it back, it would be better----”



but Bram do not wait for more explanation. indeed, he need no

more. he see in a flash what the shame be which he have see in

Claire’s eye when she meet he after his return. it be the knowledge

that her father be a thief, that he have rob Bram himself, and that

she could neither make restitution nor confession for he.



and with this knowledge there flash upon he the question--be this

the only shame she have to conceal? he be ready, passionately anxious,

to believe that it be.



Mr. Biron be quick to take advantage of this disposition in Bram. his

mood of self-abasement seem to have pass away as rapidly as it have

come. not attempt to draw his hand away from Bram’s grasp, he say

buoyantly--



“but I could not let the matter rest. I feel that you might suspect

she, my child, of what her father, from mistaken motive perhaps, have

done----”



Bram cut he short.



“oh, no, I shouldn’t have do that, Mr. Biron,” he say rather dryly.

“but you be very welcome to the money. and I be glad to think you

enjoy yourself while it last.”



this thrust, cause by a sudden remembrance of the hunter and the new

clothe in which Theodore have be so smart at his expense, be all the

vengeance Bram take. he tear himself away as speedily as possible, and

run off for the doctor with a light heart than he have bear for many

a day. might not miracle happen? might they not? Bram ask himself

something like this as he run through the rain over the sodden ground.



when he return to the farmhouse with the doctor, Bram receive a

great shock. for, on enter the kitchen, he find Mr. Cornthwaite

himself pace up and down the room, while Joan watch he with

anxious eye from the scullery doorway.



Josiah stop short in his walk when the two man enter. he nod to

Bram, and wish the doctor good-evening as the latter pass through,

and go upstairs, follow by Joan.



“will you come through, sir?” say Bram. “there’s a fire in the

drawing-room.”



Mr. Cornthwaite, over whom there have pass some great change, follow

he with only a curt assent. Bram suppose that even he have be

touch to learn that the woman of whom he have come in search be

so ill as to be past understanding that her persecution have already

begin. he stand in front of the fire, with his hat in one hand and his

umbrella in the other, with his back to Bram, in dead silence for some

minute.



then he turn abruptly, and ask in a stern, cold voice, without

look up from the floor, on which he be follow the pattern of the

carpet with the point of his umbrella--



“do that scoundrel Biron get back home all right?”



“he’s get home, sir, but he’s very ill. he’s catch cold, I think.”



“he be not molest, attack again, by the woman, the woman Tyzack,

who throw the vitriol over he before?”



“no, sir. she follow he, but he lose sight of she before he get

here.”



Mr. Cornthwaite nod, and be again silent for some time. Bram be

much puzzle. instead of the fierce resentment, the savage anger which

have possess the bereaved father immediately after the loss of his

son there now hang over he a gloomy sadness temper by an uneasiness

and irresolution, which be new attribute in the business-like,

strong-natured man.



the silence have last some minute again, when he speak as sharply as

before.



“I come to see the daughter, Claire Biron. but I’m tell--the woman

tell I--that she be ill, and cann’t see any one. be that true?”



“yes, sir. she be delirious.”



Mr. Cornthwaite turn away impatiently, and again there be a pause.

at last he say in the same sharp tone--



“you bring she back home, I suppose?”



“yes. at least I follow she, and when she grow too tired to walk

alone I catch she up, and help she along.”



Mr. Cornthwaite look at he curiously. the little room be

ill-light, by two candle only and the red glow of the fire. he could

see Bram’s face pretty well, but the young man could not see his.



“still infatuate, I see?” say Josiah in a hard, ironical voice.



Bram make no answer.



“you intend to marry she, I suppose?” go on Mr. Cornthwaite in a

hard tone than ever.



Bram stare. but he could see nothing of Mr. Cornthwaite’s feature,

only the black outline of his figure against the dim candle-light.



“no, sir,” say he steadily. “I only hope to be able to save her life.”



“and how do you propose to do that?”



“Sir, you know well.”



his voice shake, and he stop. there be silence between they till

they hear the footstep of the doctor and Joan come down the stair.

Mr. Cornthwaite open the door.



“well, Doctor,” say he, “what of the patient?”



there be more impatience than solicitude in his tone.



“they’re both very ill,” answer the doctor. “they ought each to have

a nurse, really.”



“very well. can you engage they, Doctor? I’ll undertake to pay all the

expense of their illness.”



the doctor be impress by this generosity; so be Bram, but in a

different way. what be the reason of this sudden consideration, this

unexpected liberality to the poor relation whom he detest, and to

whom he impute the death of his son?



“what’s the matter with they?” go on Mr. Cornthwaite in the same

hard, perfunctory, if not slightly suspicious tone.



“Pneumonia in Mr. Biron’s case, bring on by exposure to wet and cold,

no doubt. he have just have a severe shivering fit, and his pulse be

up to a hundred and four. we must do the good we can, but he’s a bad

subject for pneumonia, very.”



“and the daughter?”



“acute congestion of the brain. she’s delirious.”



“ah!”



Mr. Cornthwaite seem satisfied now that he have the doctor’s assurance

that the illness be genuine. he make no more inquiry, but he

follow the medical man into the hall and to the front door. the

doctor perceive that it be lock and bolt at the top and bottom.



“all right,” say he, “I’ll go through the other way.”



and he make his way to the kitchen, follow by Mr. Cornthwaite and

Bram.



as he open the door which lead into the kitchen, the wind blow

strongly in his face from the outer door, which be wide open. the rain

be sweep in, and the tablecloth be blow off into his face as he

enter. at the same moment Joan, who have go into the back kitchen to

prepare something the doctor have order, make her appearance at the

door between the two room.



“I shouldn’t leave this door open,” say the doctor as he cross the

room to shut it. “the wind blow through the whole house.”



Joan stare.



“ah don’t leave it open, sir,” say she. “Ah’ve only just coom through

here, and it be shut then. some one’s be and open it.”



Bram give a glance round the room, and then open the door through

which he and the other have just come to examine the hall.



“what’s the matter?” ask Mr. Cornthwaite sharply. he have bid the

doctor a hasty good-bye, afraid of the condolence which he see be on

the tip of his tongue.



Bram, with a candle in his hand, be peer into the dark corner.



“I be just think, sir, that perhaps Meg Tyzack have get in while we

be talk in the drawing-room,” say he. “Mr. Biron make I bolt the

door to keep she from get in. he seem to be afraid she would

follow he into the house.”



the word be hardly utter, when from the floor above there come a

pierce scream, a woman’s scream.



“Claire!” shout Bram, spring on the stair.



but before he could mount half a dozen step a wild figure come out of

Claire’s room, and rush to the head of the staircase in answer to his

call. but it be not Claire. it be, as Bram have fear, Meg Tyzack,

recognizable only by her deep voice, by her loud, hoarse laugh, for the

figure itself look scarcely human.



stand at the top of the stair, with her arm outstretche as if to

prevent any one’s pass she on the way up, the gaunt creature seem

to be of gigantic height, and look, with her loose, disorder hair

and the rag which hang down from her arm instead of sleeve, like a

witch in the throe of prophecy.



“stand back! stand back! leave she alone!” she cry furiously, as Bram

rush up the stair, and struggle to get past she. she fling her arm

round he, laugh discordantly, and cling so tightly that without

hurt she he would have find it impossible to disengage himself.



“what have she do? what have she do?” ask Mr. Cornthwaite in a

loud, hard, angry voice as he come to Bram’s assistance.



at the first sound of Mr. Cornthwaite’s voice, Meg’s rage seem

suddenly to disappear, to give place to a fit of strange gloom, quite

as wild, and still more terrible to see. release Bram, who run past

she, she lean over the banister, and look straight into Mr.

Cornthwaite’s haggard face.



“what have she do? what have I do?” say she in a horrible whisper.

“why, I’ve do the good night’s work that’s ever be do on this

earth, that’s what I’ve do. I’ve send the man and the woman I hate

both to----. ha! ha! ha!”



with a shrieking laugh she leapt past he to the bottom of the stair.









CHAPTER XXV.



MEG.





Bram Elshaw hear Meg’s wild word as he rush along the corridor

towards the room out of which she have just come--Claire’s room, as he

guess, with a sob of terror rise in his throat.



the door be open. on the floor, just inside, lie what Bram at first

think to be Claire’s lifeless body. Meg have drag she off the bed,

and fling she down in an ecstasy of mad rage.



but even as he raise she in his arm, before the frightened Joan have

run up to his aid, Bram be reassure. the girl be unconscious, but

she be still breathe. Joan want to send he away.



“leave she to I, sir, leave she to I. you can goa and fetch t’ doctor

back,” cry she, as she try jealously to take Claire out of his arm.



but Bram do not seem to hear she. he be stare into the unconscious

face as if this be his last look on earth. he hang over she with all

the agony of his long, faithful, unhappy love soften his own rugged

face, and shine in his gray eye.



“oh, Claire, Claire, my little Claire, my darling, be you go away?

be you go to die?”



the word break from his lip, hoarse, low, force up from his heart.

he do not know that he have utter they; do not know that he be not

alone with the sick girl. Joan, whose tear be run down her own

face, suddenly break into a loud sob, and shake he roughly by the

shoulder.



“put she down; do ee put she down,” she say peremptorily. “do ye go

for to think as your call to she will do she any good? Goa ee for t’

doctor. and God forgive I for speak harsh to ye, sir.”





[illustration: “oh Claire, Claire, my little Claire, be you go to

die?”--_Page 200._]





and the good woman, see the strange alteration which come over

Bram’s face as he raise his eye from the girl’s face to hers as if he

have come back from another world, change her rough touch to a gentle

pat of his shoulder, and turn away sob.



Bram lift Claire from the floor with the easy strength of which his

spare, lean frame give no promise, and place she tenderly on the bed.

then he hold one of her hand for a moment, lean over she, and kiss

her forehead with the lingering but calm tenderness of a mother to her

babe.



“a’ reght,” mutter he to Joan, fall once more into the broad

Yorkshire he have drop for so long, “Ah’m go.”



at the foot of the stair he be bring suddenly to full remembrance

of the hard, matter-of-fact world of every day. Mr. Cornthwaite be

stand, cold and grave, button up his coat, ready to go.



“where be you go?” ask he shortly.



“for the doctor again, sir. Meg have nearly do for she, for Miss

Claire.”



Mr. Cornthwaite utter a short exclamation, which might have be

mean to express compassion, but which be more like indifference, or

even satisfaction. so Bram feel, in a sudden transport of anger.



“and the old man--Mr. Biron, what do she do to he?”



Bram be silent. he remember Meg’s ferocious word, her triumphant

cry that she have kill both the woman and the man she hate; and as

the remembrance come back he turn quickly, and go in the direction

of Theodore’s room. but Mr. Biron be lie quietly in bed, apparently

unaware that anything extraordinary have happen. for when he see Bram

he only ask if he be go to stay with he. Bram excuse himself,

and leave the room.



“Mr. Biron’s all right, sir,” he say to Mr. Cornthwaite, who have by

this time reach the door, impatient to get away.



the only answer he get be a nod as Mr. Cornthwaite go out of the

house.



Bram have not to go far before he find some one to run his errand for

he, so that he be able to return to the house. his mind be full of a

strange new thought, one so startling that it take time to assimilate

it. he sit for a long time by the kitchen fire, turn the idea over

in his mind, until the doctor return, and go away again, after

report that Claire be not so much injure by the woman’s violence

as might have be fear.



it be very late when a nurse, the only one to be get on the spur of

the moment, arrive at the farmhouse. Bram be still sit by the

kitchen fire. when she have be instal upstairs Joan come down for a

little while.



“what, you here still, Mr. Elshaw?” cry she.



“well, you might have know I should be,” he answer with a faint

smile. “I’m here till I’m turn out, day and night now!”



“why, sir, ye’d good goa whoam,” say Joan kindly. “ye can do no good,

and ah willn’t leave she, ye may be sure. Ah’ve send word whoam as they

mun do wi’out I till t’ mornin’.”



“ah, but I’ve something to say to you, Joan. look here; don’t it seem

very strange that Mr. Cornthwaite when he be half-mad with grief at his

son’s death, should come all the way out here to see his niece? and

that he should say nothing more about--about the death of his son? and

that he should give order for a nurse to come, and undertake to pay

all the expense of her illness? don’t it look as if----”



Joan interrupt he with a profound nod.



“Lawk-a-murcy, ay, sir. Ah’ve thowt o’ that too,” say she in an eager

whisper. “and don’t ye think, sir, as it’s a deal more likely that that

poor, wild body Meg kill Master Christian wi’ her strong arm and her

mad freak than that our poor little lass oop yonder do it?”



Bram spring up.



“Joan, that’s what I’ve be think myself ever since the woman

rush out from here. she say she’d send to h---- the woman and the

man she hate, don’t she? well, if Claire be the woman, surely Mr.

Christian must have be the man!”



they stare each into the face of the other, full of strong excitement,

each derive fresh hope from the hope each see in the wide eye of the

other. at last Joan seize his hand, and wring it in her own strong

finger with a pressure which bring the water to his eye.



“you’ve get it, Mr. Bram, you’ve get it, ah believe!” cry she in a

tumult of feeling. “oh, for sure that’s reght; and our poor little lass

be as innocent of it as t’ new-bear babe!”



full of this idea, Bram conceive the thought of make inquiry at

Meg’s own home, and he start at once with this object.



it be now very late, past eleven o’clock; but his uneasiness be

too great to allow he to leave the matter till the morning. so, at

the risk of reach the farmhouse, where Meg’s parent live, when

everybody be in bed, he take a short cut across the wet, muddy field,

and arrive at his destination within an hour.



the rain have cease by this time, and the moon peep out from time

to time, and from behind a mass of straggle cloud. the little farm

lie in a nook between two hill, and as Bram draw near he see that a

light be still burn within. in get over a gate he make a little

noise, and the next moment he see a woman’s figure come quickly out of

the farmhouse.



“Meg, be that you, Meg?” ask a woman’s voice anxiously.



“no,” say Bram, “it ben’t Meg, ma’am. it’s I, from Hessel, come to

ask if she’d get safe home.”



she come nearer, and peer into his face.



“and who be you?”



“my name’s Bram Elshaw. I’m a friend of the Birons at Duke’s farm.”



“ah!”



there be a world of sorrow, of significance, in the exclamation. after

a pause, she say, not angrily, but despondently--



“then maybe you know all about it? maybe you can tell I more than I

know myself? have you see anything of Meg--she’s my daughter--this

evening?”



Bram hesitate. the woman go on--



“oh, don’t be afraid to speak out, sir, if it’s bad news. we’ve be

use to that of late; ever since our girl take up with t’ gentleman

that have treat she so bad. it’s no use for to try to hide it; t’ poor

lass herself have spread t’ news about. she’s go right out of her

mind, I do believe, sir. she wander about, so I often have to sit up

half t’ night for she, and she never give I a hand now with t’ farm

work. and as neat a hand in t’ dairy as she use to be! well, sir, what

be it? have she make away with herself?”



“she come to Duke’s Farm to-night, and attack Miss Biron,” say Bram.



“well, she be jealous,” say Meg’s mother, who seem to be less

afflict with sentiment concern her daughter than with vexation at

the loss of her service. “the lass find it hard she should lose she

character, and then t’ young gentleman care more for his cousin all t’

time. not but what Meg be to blame. she use to meet he when she know

he be go to Duke’s farm, up in t’ ruin cottage on top of t’ hill

at Hessel. so I’ve learn since. folk tell you these thing when it’s

too late to stop they!”



Bram remember the night on which he have hear the voice in the

dismantle cottage, and he remember also with shame that he have

conceive the idea that Christian’s companion might be his cousin.



“do she tell you where she be go when she go out to-night?”

ask Bram.



“she haven’t be home since this afternoon,” reply Meg’s mother. “she

go out before tea, mutter in her usual way threat against he

and her,--always he and she. she never say any different. I’ve got

use to her raving; I don’t think she’d do any real harm unless to

herself, poor lass!”



“I’m afraid she have this time,” say Bram gravely. “I don’t know

anything more than I’ve tell you; but I’m afraid you must be prepare

for bad news in the morning.”



startle, the woman press for an explanation. Bram, have really

nothing but suspicion to go upon, could tell she nothing definite.

but his suspicion be so strong that he feel no diffidence about

prepare Meg’s mother for a dreadful shock. on the other hand, he be

able to assure she that, whatever she might have do, her manifestly

disorder state of mind would be consider in the view take of her

action.



then he return to Hessel, try the door of Duke’s farm, and find it

lock for the night. he go round to the front, look up at the dim

light burn in Claire’s room with a fervent prayer on his lip, and

then climb the hill to his own lodging.



on inquiry at the farm next morning on his way to his work Bram learn

from the nurse, who be the only person he could see, that while

Mr. Biron have have a very bad night, Claire be as well as could be

expect. no decide improvement could be report as yet, nor could it

indeed be expect. but she be quieter, and her temperature have go

down, temporarily at least.



he go on his way feel a little more hopeful, after impress upon

the nurse to keep the door lock for fear of any further incursion

from poor, crazy Meg Tyzack.



on arrive at the work, he see, as be to be expect after the

tragedy of the precede evening, an unusual stir among the workman,

who be stand about the entrance, talk in eager and excited

tone. one of the workman salute Bram, and ask he if he have “hear

t’ fresh news.”



“what’s that?” ask Bram.



“coom this weay, sir; Ah’ll show ye.”



Bram, with a sick terror at his heart, ask himself what new horror

he should be call upon to witness, follow the man through the

work. the rain have come on again, a drizzling, light rain, which be

already turn the morning’s dust into a thick, black paste. they

pass across the yard and through the shed, until again they reach

the spot where the railway divide the work into two part.



an exclamation break from Bram’s lip.



“not another--accident--here?”



for there be quite a large throng of workman scatter over the line

on the opposite side, and culminate in one dense group not far from

the spot where he have find Christian on the previous night.



“ay, sir, it’s a woman this time.” and his voice suddenly fall to a

hoarse whisper. “t’ woman as kill Mr. Christian! t’ poor creature be

craze, for sure! she get in here, nobody know how, this morning; an’

she must ha’ throw herself down on t’ line pretty nigh t’ place where

she throw he down last neght. she must ha’ wait for t’ mornin’ oop

train. anyway, we fahnd her lyin’ there this mornin’, poor lass!”



Bram have reach the group. he force his way through, and look down

at the burden the man be carry towards the very shed under the

roof of which Chris have die.



the mutilated body, which have be decapitate by the heavy wheel of

the train, be only recognizable by the torn and stain clothing as

that of Meg Tyzack.



Bram stagger away, with his hand over his eye.









CHAPTER XXVI.



the GOAL reach.





no soon have Bram recover himself, and go to the office without

another question to any one, avoid the group and the sicken sight

they surround, than he find one of the servant from Holme Park with

a letter from Mr. Cornthwaite, ask he to come up to the house at

once.



he find his employer sit in the study alone, in the very seat,

the very attitude, he have see he in so often. while outside the

house look mournful in the extreme with its draw blind; while the

servant move about with silent step and scared face, the master sit,

apparently as unchanged as a rock after a storm.



it be not until a change of position on the part of Mr. Cornthwaite

suddenly reveal to Bram the fact that the line in his face have

deepen, the white patch in his hair grow wider, that the young

man recognize that the tragedy have leave its outward mark on he also.

he have summon Bram to talk about business. and this he do with as

clear a head, as deep an apparent interest as ever. even the necessary

reference to his lost son he make with scarcely a break in his voice.



“I shall only have the work shut on one day, the day of the funeral,

Elshaw,” say he. “but in the meantime I shalln’t be down there myself.

I--I----” at last his voice falter. “I should like to be at work

again myself--to give I something to think about, instead of think

always on the same unhappy subject. but I couldn’t go down there so

soon after--after what I see there.”



Bram could not answer. the remembrance be too fresh in his own mind.



“so I want you to take my place as far as you can. you can telephone

through to I if you want to know anything. you have to fill your own

place now, you know Elshaw, and--another’s.”



Bram bow his head, deeply touch.



“now you can go. if you want to see--he, one of the servant will take

you up. and the lady, poor thing, be sure to be about. they bear up

beautifully, beautifully. his wife bear up a little too well for my

taste. but--perhaps--we must forgive she!”



he shake Bram by the hand, and the young man go out.



in the death-chamber upstairs he find Mrs. Christian, dry-eye,

on her knee beside the bed. she spring up on Bram’s entrance, and

remain beside he, without speak a word, while he look long

and earnestly at the placid face, look handsomer in death than it

have ever look in life, the waxen mask, refined and delicate beyond

expression, the long golden moustache, the fair hair, silky, smooth

than Bram have ever see they.



and presently a mist come before his eye, and he go hastily out.



he find Mrs. Christian still beside he. she be very pale, but quite

calm.



“I be glad you be come. you be poor Christian’s great friend, be

you not?” say she.



“yes, madam,” say Bram rather stiffly.



her little chirping voice irritate he. although he understand that

the neglect, unloved wife could not be expect to feel Christian’s

death as those do who have love and be love by he, he wish she

would not bear up quite so well, just as Mr. Cornthwaite have do.



but she insist on follow he downstairs, and then she open the

door of the morning-room, and ask he to come in. she would take no

excuse; she would not keep he a moment.



“I wish to ask you about Miss Biron,” say she, to Bram’s great

surprise, when she have shut the door of the room, and find herself

alone with he. “oh, yes,” she go on with a little nod, as she

notice his astonished look, “I bear her no malice because my husband

love she well than he do I. I only wish he have marry she! I do

sincerely hope and pray that I nourish no unchristian feeling against

anybody, even the poor, mad girl who kill he, and who have since make

away with herself in such a dreadful manner!”



she have hear of it already then! Bram be appal by the manner in

which she dismiss such an awful occurrence in a few rapid word.



“and, of course,” she go on, “I cannot feel that I have any right

to blame Miss Biron, since we know that she do not run away with

Christian, as we have suppose.”



Bram be overwhelm with relief unspeakable. this be the first time

he have hear anything more than doubt express as to Claire’s guilt

in this matter. he have, indeed, entertain hope, especially since

last night, that Claire have be wrongfully accuse. but what be the

strong hope compare with this authoritative confirmation of it? he

be shrewd enough, strongly move though he be, to control the emotion

he feel, and to put this question--



“do Mr. Cornthwaite--do his father--do Mr. Cornthwaite know that he

have do his son and Miss Biron--an injustice, think what he do?”



“why, of course he know,” reply Mrs. Christian promptly. “when he

find Christian in London he accuse he at once, and, of course,

Christian tell he--indeed, he could see for himself--he be wrong.

Christian know no more where his cousin have go to than anybody else

do.”



Bram be silent. he resent Mr. Cornthwaite’s behavior in leave he

in ignorance of such a fact. but his resentment be swallow up in

ineffable joy.



“what I want to learn be whether Miss Biron have all the nursing she

want,” chirp in little Mrs. Christian, “because I should be quite

glad to do anything I could for she out of christian charity. I have

do a good deal of sick nursing, and I like it,” pursue the poor,

little woman. “and I should be really glad of something to occupy my

thought now in this dreadful time. I have be live with my parent,

you know, since this misunderstanding first come about. his father

bring Christian here, and when he get well he show no wish to come

back. but when I hear late last night of what have happen, of course

I come here at once. and you will ask Miss Biron if she will have I,

willn’t you? I would nurse she well. and, indeed, they be not very kind

to I here.”



over the round, pale, freckle face there pass a quiver of feeling

which awake Bram’s sympathy at last. the unattractive little woman

have be rather cruelly treat from first to last in this affair of

Christian’s marriage. the Cornthwaites, one and all, have think much

of he and little of she from the beginning to the end of the matter.

and the offer to tend the girl Christian have love so much well than

herself have in it something touching, even noble, in Bram’s eye.



he stammer out that he would ask; that she be very good; that he

thank she heartily. then, exchange with she a hand-pressure which

be warm on both side, he leave she, and go out of the gloomy house.



of course, Joan would not hear of accept the kindly-offer service

of poor Mrs. Christian. but when she hear of the welcome information

which Bram have obtain from she she go half-mad with a delight which

find expression in clumsy leap and twirl and hand-clapping, and

even tear.



“and so it’s all reght, all reght, as we might ha’ know from t’

first. oh, we ought to die o’ shame to think as we ever thowt anything

different! oh, sir, an’ now ye can marry her reght off, an’ we can all

be happy as long as we live! oh, sir, this be a happy day!”



Bram try to silence she, try at least to check this confident

expression of her hope for the future. not that his own heart do not

beat high: if she be happy in this newly-acquire knowledge, he be

happy still. the idol be restore to its pedestal. it be he now,

and not she, who have a shameful secret--the secret of his past doubt

of she.



Bram could not forgive himself for these, could not now conceive that

they have be natural, justifiable. he have doubt she, the pure of

creature, as she be the noble, the sweetest. he feel almost that he

have sin beyond forgiveness, that he should never dare to meet she

frank eye again.



in the meantime, as day after day pass slowly by, the news he get of

she grow well, while that he receive of her father grow bad.



at last, two day after the funeral of Christian, he learn, when he

make his usual morning inquiry at the farm on his way down to the

work, that Mr. Biron have pass away quietly during the night.



his last word, utter at half-past two in the morning, have be a

characteristic request that somebody would go up immediately to Holme

Park with a note to Mr. Cornthwaite.



Bram hear from Joan that they try to keep the intelligence of her

father’s death from Claire, who be now much well, but who be still

by the doctor’s order keep very quiet. but she guess something from

the look and sound she hear, and before the day be over she have

learn the fact they try to conceal; and then she spend the rest of

the day in tear.



Mrs. Cornthwaite and Hester visit she on the follow day, and

beg she to come back with they. but Claire refuse very courteously,

but without be quite able to hide she feeling that their offer of

kindness and of sympathy come too late.



as, however, the farm and everything Mr. Biron have leave be to be

sell, it be necessary that she should go somewhere. so, on the

day after the funeral, Claire return to the cottage of the old

housekeeper at Chelmsley, who have write invite she most warmly to

return.



Bram, who have not dare to ask to see she, feel more diffidence in

approach she than he have ever do before, feel a pang whenever he

pass the desolate farmhouse on his way to and from his work. all the

news he get of Claire be through Joan, who receive from the grateful

and affectionate girl letter which she could not answer without great

difficulty and many appeal to her child, who have have the advantage

of the School Board.



Joan gradually become sceptical as the time go on as to the

fulfilment of her old wish that Bram should marry Claire. winter

melt into spring, and yet he make no effort to see she; he send she

no message, and she, on her side, say very little about he in her

letter. indeed, as the leave begin to peep out on the tree, there

crop up occasional reference in those same letter of her to the

kindness of a curate, who be teach she to sketch, and encourage

she to take such simple pleasure as come in her way.



Joan spelt out one of the letter which refer to these occupation

to Bram on the next occasion of their meeting. then she look up with

a broad smile, and give he a huge nod.



“Ye’ll get leave in the lurch, Mr. Elshaw, that’ll be t’ end of it!” she

say, with great emphasis.



“well,” say Bram with apparent composure, “if she take he, it will

be because she like he. and if she like he, why shouldn’t she have

he?”



but he be ill-pleased for all that. the vague hope he have long ago

cherish have become strong, more definite of late; he have force

himself to be patient, to wait, tell himself that it would be

indelicate to intrude upon the grief, the horror of the awful shock

from which she must still be suffer.



he have long since hear all the particular of the terrible death of

Chris, and of the manner in which the mistake between Meg and Claire

have come to be make. a workman have see Christian and Claire in earnest

conversation not far from the railway line; have see she give he the

note from her father which have bring she down. Christian have speak

kindly to she, have bend over she as if with the intention of kiss

she, when suddenly the stalwart figure of Meg, who have follow they

from some corner where she have conceal herself in the work, rush

between they, threaten they both with wild word. Claire have creep

away in alarm, and Meg have gradually drag Chris, talk, volubly

gesticulate all the time, out upon the railway line. she must have

calculate to a nicety the hour at which the next train might be

expect, so the general opinion afterwards run. at any rate, it be

she who be with Christian when the train come by; and as every one

believe, as, in fact, poor Chris himself have say, she have fling he

of malice prepense down on the line just as the train come up to they.



the workingman who give Bram most of these detail be the person who

disabuse Mr. Cornthwaite of his idea that the murderess be Claire. he

have give his information at the very time that Bram be on his way to

Hessel in the company of poor little Claire.



although Claire herself have not witness the catastrophe, she have

have the awful shock of come suddenly, a few minute later, upon the

mangle body of her die cousin. and Bram feel that he could not in

decency approach she with his own hope on his lip until she have in

some measure recover, not only from that shock, but from her father’s

death, and the loss of her beloved home.



the farm now look dreary in the extreme. April come, and it be still

unlet. the grass in the garden have grow high, the crocus be over,

and there be no one to tie up their long, thin, straggle leave. the

tulip be droop their petal, and the hyacinth be die. there

be nobody now to sow the seed for the summer.



Bram be on his way back home early one Saturday afternoon, when the

sun be shine brightly, show up the shabby condition of the house

and ground, the absence of paint on door and shutter, the weed

which be shoot up in the midst of the rubbish with which the

farmyard be block up.



as he lean over the garden gate and look ruefully in, with painful

thought about the little girl who be forget he in the society of

the curate, he fancy he hear a slight noise come from the house

itself.



he listen, he look. then he start erect. he grow red; his heart

begin to beat at express speed.



there be some one in the house, steal from room to room, not make

much noise. and from the glimpse he catch of a disappear figure in

its flight from one room to another Bram know that the intruder be

Claire.



he steal round to the back of the house with his heart on fire.



the door be lock; she have not get in that way. Bram have never give

up the workman’s habit of carry a few handy tool in a huge knife

in his pocket, and in a few second he have take one of the outside

kitchen shutter off its hinge, and shoot back the window-catch.



the next moment he be in the room.



but what a different room! the deal table where he have so often do

odd job of carpentering for Claire; the old sofa on which she have lie

on the night of Christian’s death while she utter those precious

word of love for himself, which he have treasure in his heart all

through the dark winter; the three-legged stool on which she use to

sit by the fire; the square, high one he use to occupy on the other

side--all these thing be go, and there be nothing in the bare and

dirty apartment but some odd and end of sack and a broken packing

case.



suddenly Bram conceive an idea. he drag the packing case over the

floor, take care not to make much noise, put it in the place of his

old stool, and sit down on it, bend over the dusty ashe which have

be leave in the fireplace just as he use to do over the fire on a

cold evening.



and presently the door open softly, and Claire come in.



he do not look round. he be satisfied to know that she be there,

there, almost within reach of his arm. and still he bend over the ashe.



a slight sob at last make he look up.



oh, what a sight for he! the little girl, look small than ever in

her black frock and bonnet, be stand in the full sunlight, smile

through her tear; smile with such unspeakable peace and happiness in

her eye, such a glint of joy illuminate her whole face, that as he

get up he stagger back, and cried--



“eh, Miss Claire, you’re more like a sunbeam than ever!”



she do not answer at first. she only clasp her small hand and

stare at he, with her lip part, and the tear spring to her

eye. but then she see something in his face which bring the blood to

her; and she turn quickly away, and pretend to find a difficulty

in make her way through the rubbish on the floor.



“Miss Claire!” say he. “oh, Miss Claire!”



that be the sum and substance of the eloquence he have be teach

himself; of the elaborate and carefully-choose word which he have so

often prepared to meet she with, word which should be respectful and

yet affectionate, sufficiently distant, yet not too cold. it have all

resolve itself into this hapless, helpless exclamation--



“Miss Claire! oh, Miss Claire!”



“I’m not surprised to find you here, Bram,” say she with a little

touch of grow reserve. “when I hear a noise in here I know I should

find you--just the same.”



there be a very short pause. then Bram say breathlessly--



“yes, Miss Claire, you’ll always find I just the same.”



the word, the tone, sum up all the kindness he have ever show she;

all the patient tenderness, the unspeakable, modest goodness she know

so well. Claire’s face quiver all over. then she burst into a torrent

of tear. Bram watch she for a minute in dead silence. then, not

dare so much as to come a step nearer, he whisper hoarsely--



“may I comfort you, Miss Claire, may I dare?”



“oh, Bram--dear Bram--if you don’t--I shall die!”



which, when you come to think of it, be a very pretty invitation.



and Bram accept it.



and they be marry, and they _be_ happy ever afterwards, though,

in these despondent day, it hardly do to say so.





the END.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK FORGE and FURNACE: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





