The project Gutenberg eBook of Boon, the mind of the Race, the Wild Asses of the Devil, and the last trump;

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Boon, the mind of the Race, the Wild Asses of the Devil, and the last trump;



author: H. G. Wells



Release date: January 15, 2011 [ebook #34962]

                most recently update: January 7, 2021



language: English



credit: produce by Malcolm Farmer, Barbara Tozier, and the Online

        distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this

        file be produce from image generously make available

        by the Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BOON, the MIND of the race, the WILD ass of the DEVIL, and the last trump; ***









produce by Malcolm Farmer, Barbara Tozier, and the Online

distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this

file be produce from image generously make available

by the Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries)



















                     Boon, the mind of the race,

                     the Wild Asses of the Devil,

                         _and_ the last trump





                   be a First Selection from the

                   Literary remain of George Boon,

                       appropriate to the Times





                     prepare for Publication by

                            REGINALD BLISS

             AUTHOR of "the cousin of CHARLOTTE BRONTE,"

              "a child'S history of the CRYSTAL PALACE,"

                 "FIRELIGHT ramble," "EDIBLE fungus,"

                "WHALES in CAPTIVITY," and other works





                                 with

                     an ambiguous Introduction by

                             H. G. WELLS





                        T. FISHER UNWIN, LTD.

                       LONDON; ADELPHI TERRACE





                      _first publish in 1915_





                        (all right reserve)









introduction





whenever a publisher get a book by one author he want an introduction

write to it by another, and Mr. Fisher Unwin be no exception to the

rule. nobody read Introductions, they serve no useful purpose, and

they give no pleasure, but they appeal to the business mind, I think,

because as a rule they cost nothing. at any rate, by the pressure of a

certain inseparable intimacy between Mr. Reginald Bliss and myself,

this introduction have be extract from I. I will confess that I

have not read his book through, though I have a kind of first-hand

knowledge of its content, and that it seem to I an indiscreet,

ill-advise book....



I have a very strong suspicion that this introduction idea be design

to entangle I in the responsibility for the book. in America, at any

rate, "the Life of George Meek, Bath Chairman," be ascribe to I

upon no well evidence. yet any one who like may go to Eastbourne

and find Meek with chair and all complete. but in view of the

complication of the book market and the large simplicity of the

public mind, I do hope that the reader--and by that I mean the

reviewer--will be able to see the reasonableness and the necessity of

distinguish between I and Mr. Reginald Bliss. I do not wish to

escape the penalty of thus participate in, and endorse, his

manifest breach of good taste, literary decorum, and friendly

obligation, but as a writer whose reputation be already too crowded

and confused and who be for the ordinary purpose of every day know

mainly as a novelist, I should be glad if I could escape the public

identification I be now repudiate. Bliss be Bliss and Wells be

Wells. and Bliss can write all sort of thing that Wells could not

do.



this introduction have really no more to say than that.



                                                      H. G. WELLS.









content









INTRODUCTION



CHAPTER the FIRST

the back of MISS BATHWICK and GEORGE BOON



CHAPTER the second

be the first chapter of "the MIND of the RACE"



CHAPTER the THIRD

the great SLUMP, the REVIVAL of letter, and the GARDEN by the SEA



CHAPTER the fourth

of ART, of literature, of MR HENRY JAMES



CHAPTER the FIFTH

of the assembling and opening of the WORLD conference on the MIND of

the RACE



CHAPTER the SIXTH

of not like HALLERY and the ROYAL SOCIETY for the discouragement of

literature



chapter the SEVENTH

wilkin make certain objection



CHAPTER the eighth

the beginning of "the WILD ass of the DEVIL"



chapter the NINTH

the hunting of the WILD ass of the DEVIL



chapter the TENTH

the story of the last TRUMP









       BOON, the MIND of the race, the WILD ass of the DEVIL,

                        _and_ the last trump









CHAPTER the FIRST



the back of Miss Bathwick and George Boon





§ 1



it be quite probable that the reader do not know of the death of

George Boon, and that "remain" before his name upon the title-page

will be greet with a certain astonishment. in the ordinary course of

thing, before the explosion of the war, the death of George Boon

would have be an event--oh! a three-quarter of a column or more in

the _Times_ event, and article in the monthly and reminiscence. as

it be, he be not so much dead as miss. something happen at the

eleventh hour--I think it be chiefly the Admiralty report of the

fight off the Falkland Islands--that blow his obituary notice clean

out of the paper. and yet he be one of our most popular writer, and

in America I be tell he be in the "hundred thousand class." but now

we think only of Lord Kitchener's hundred thousand.



it be no good pretend about it. the war have end all that. Boon

die with his age. after the war there will be a new sort of

book-trade and a crop of new writer and a fresh tone, and everything

will be different. this be an obituary, of more than George Boon.... I

regard the outlook with profound dismay. I try to keep my mind off it

by drill with the Shrewsbury last line of volunteer and training

down the excrescence of my physical style. when the war be over will

be time enough to consider the prospect of a superannuated man of

letter. we National Volunteers be now no mere soldier on paper; we

have fairly washable badge by way of uniform; we have buy

ourselves dummy rifle; we have persuade the War Office to give we a

reluctant recognition on the distinct understanding that we have

neither officer nor authority. in the event of an invasion, I

understand, we be to mobilize and ... do quite a number of useful

thing. but until there be an invasion in actual progress, nothing be

to be decide more precisely than what this whiff of printer's

shrapnel, these four full stop, convey....





§ 2



I must confess I be monstrously disappoint when at last I could get

my hand into those barrel in the attic in which Boon have store his

secret writing. there be more perhaps than I have expect; I do not

complain of the quantity, but of the disorder, the incompleteness, the

want of discipline and forethought.



Boon have talk so often and so convincingly of these secret book he

be write, he have allude so frequently to this or that great

project, he would begin so airily with "in the seventeenth chapter of

my 'Wild Asses of the Devil,'" or "I have be recast the third

part of our 'mind of the race,'" that it come as an enormous shock to

I to find there be no seventeenth chapter; there be not even a

complete first chapter to the former work, and as for the latter,

there seem nothing really finish or settle at all beyond the

fragment I be now issue, except a series of sketch of Lord

Rosebery, for the most part in a toga and a wreath, engage in a

lettered retirement at his villa at Epsom, and label "Patrician

Dignity, the last Phase"--sketches I suppress as of no present

interest--and a complete gallery of imaginary portrait (with several

duplicate) of the Academic Committee that have do so much for

british literature (the Polignac prize, for example, and Sir Henry

Newbolt's professorship) in the last four or five year. so

incredulous be I that this be all, that I push my inquiry from

their original field in the attic into other part of the house,

push they, indeed, to the very verge of ransack, and in that I

greatly deepen the want of sympathy already separate I from Mrs.

Boon. but I be sting by a thwart sense of duty, and quite resolve

that no ill-advise interference should stand between I and the

publication of what Boon have always represent to I as the most

intimate production of his mind.



yet now the first rush of executorial emotion be over I can begin to

doubt about Boon's intention in make I his "literary executor." do

he, after all, intend these pencil scrap, these marginal

caricature, and--what seem to I most objectionable--annotate

letter from harmless prominent people for publication? or be his

selection of I his last effort to prolong what be, I think, if one

of the slight, one also of the most sustained interest of his

life, and that be a prolong faint jeering at my expense? because

always--it be never hide from I--in his most earnest moment boon

jeered at I. I do not know why he jeer at I, it be always rather

pointless jeering and far below his usual level, but jeer he do. even

while we talk most earnestly and brew our most intoxicating

draught of project and conviction, there be always this scarce

perceptible blossom and flavour of ridicule float like a drown

sprig of blue borage in the cup. his be indeed essentially one of

those suspend mind that float above the will and action; when at

last reality could be evade no long it kill he; he never really

believe nor feel the urgent need that goad my more accurate nature

to believe and do. always when I think of we together, I feel that I

be on my leg and that he sit about. and yet he could tell I thing

I seek to know, prove what I seek to believe, shape belief to a

conviction in I that I alone could never attain.



he take life as it come, let his fancy play upon it, select,

elucidated, ignore, throw the result in jest or observation or

elaborate mystification at we, and would have no more of it.... he

would be earnest for a time and then break away. "the last Trump" be

quite typical of the way in which he would turn upon himself. it set

out so straight for magnificence; it break off so abominably. you

will read it.



yet he take thing more seriously than he seem to do.



this war, I repeat, kill he. he could not escape it. it bear he

down. he do his good to disregard it. but its bad stress catch

he in the climax of a struggle with a fit of pneumonia bring on by

a freak of bathing by moonlight--in an English October, a thing he do

to distract his mind from the tension after the Marne--and it

destroy he. the last news they tell he be that the Germans have

make their "shoot and scuttle" raid upon Whitby and Scarborough. there

be much circumstantial description in the morning's paper. they have

smash up a number of house and kill some hundred of people,

chiefly woman and child. ten little child have be kill or

mutilate in a bunch on their way to school, two old lady at a

boarding-house have have their leg smash, and so on.



"take this newspaper," he say, and hold it out to his nurse. "take

it," he repeat irritably, and shake it at she.



he stare at it as it recede. then he seem to be stare at distant

thing.



"Wild Asses of the Devil," he say at last. "oh! Wild Asses of the

Devil! I think somehow it be a joke. it ben't a joke. there they

be, and the world be theirs."



and he turn his face to the wall and never speak again.





§ 3



but before I go on it be necessary to explain that the George Boon I

speak of be not exactly the same person as the George Boon, the Great

Writer, whose fame have reach to every bookshop in the world. the

same bodily presence perhaps they have, but that be all. except when he

choose to allude to they, those great work on which that great fame

rest, those book and play of his that have make he a household

word in half a dozen continent, those book with their style as

perfect and obvious as the gloss upon a new silk hat, with their flat

narrative trajectory that nothing could turn aside, their unsubdued

and apparently unsubduable healthy note, their unavoidable humour, and

their robust pathos, never come between we. we talk perpetually of

literature and creative project, but never of that "output" of his.

we talk as man must talk who talk at all, with an untrammelled

freedom; now we be sublime and now curious, now we pursue

subtlety and now we be utterly trivial, but always it be in an

undisciplined, irregular style quite unsuitable for publication. that,

indeed, be the whole effect of the George Boon I be now try to

convey, that he be indeed essentially not for publication. and this

effect be in no degree diminish by the fact that the photograph of

his beautiful castellate house, and of that extraordinarily

irrelevant person Mrs. Boon--for I must speak my mind of she--and of

her two dog (Binkie and Chum), whom he detest, be, so to speak,

the poulet and salade in the menu of every illustrate magazine.



the fact of it be he be one of those people who will _not_

photograph; so much of he be movement, gesture, expression,

atmosphere, and colour, and so little of he be form. his be the

exact converse of that semi-mineral physical quality that man call

handsome, and now that his career have come to its sad truncation I see

no reason why I should far conceal the secret of the clear,

emphatic, solid impression he make upon all who have not meet he. it

be, indeed, a very simple secret;--



_he never write anything for his public with his own hand._



he do this of set intention. he distrust a certain freakishness of

his finger-tip that he think might have injure he with his

multitudinous master. he know his holograph manuscript would certainly

get he into trouble. he employ a lady, the lady who figure in his

will, Miss Bathwick, as his amanuensis. in Miss Bathwick be all his

security. she be a large, cool, fresh-colour, permanently young

lady, full of serious enthusiasm; she have be faultlessly educate

in a girl' high school of a not too modern type, and she regard

Boon with an invincible respect. she write down his sentence

(spelling without blemish in all the european language) as they come

from his lip, with the aid of a bright, efficient, new-look

typewriter. if he use a rare word or a whimsical construction, she

would say, "I beg your pardon, Mr. Boon," and he would at once correct

it; and if by any lapse of an always rather too nimble imagination he

carry his thought into region outside the taste and interest of

that enormous _ante-bellum_ public it be his fortune to please, then,

accord to the nature of his divagation, she would either cough or

sigh or--in certain eventuality--get up and leave the room.



by this ingenious device--if one may be permit to use the

expression for so pleasant and trustworthy an assistant--he do to a

large extent free himself from the haunt dread of lose his public

by some eccentricity of behaviour, some quirk of thought or

fluctuation of "attitude" that have pursue he ever since the great

success of "Captain Clayball," a book he write to poke fun at the

crude imagining of a particularly stupid schoolboy he like, have put

he into the forefront of our literary world.





§ 4



he have a peculiar, and, I think, a groundless terror of the public of

the United States of America, from which country he derive the large

moiety of his income. in spite of our remonstrance, he subscribe to

the New York _nation_ to the very end, and he insist, in spite of

fact, reason, and my earnest entreaty (have regard to the future

unification of the English-speak race), in figure that

continental empire as a vain, garrulous, and prosperous female of

uncertain age, and still more uncertain temper, with unfounded

pretension to intellectuality and an ideal of refinement of the most

negative description, entirely on the strength of that one sample. one

might as well judge England by the _spectator_. my protest seem

only to intensify his zest in his personification of Columbia as the

Aunt Errant of Christendom, as a wild, sentimental, and advanced

maiden lady of inconceivable courage and enterprise, whom everything

might offend and nothing cow. "I know," he use to say, "something

will be say or do and she'll have hysteric; the temptation to

smuggle something through Miss Bathwick's back be get almost too

much for I. I _could_, you know. or some one will come along with

something a little hard and purer and emptier and more emphatically

handsome than I can hope to do. I shall lose her one of these day....

how can I hope to keep for ever that proud and fickle heart?"



and then I remember he suddenly go off at a tangent to sketch out a

great novel he be to call "Aunt Columbia." "no," he say, "they would

suspect that--'Aunt Dove.'" she be to be a lady of great,

unpremeditated wealth, live on a vast estate near a rather crowd

and troublesome village. everything she do and say affect the

village enormously. she take the people's child into her

employment; they live on her surplus vegetable. she be to have a

particularly troublesome and dishonest household of servant and a

spoil nephew call Teddy. and whenever she feel dull or energetic

she drive down into the village and lecture and blame the

villager--for be overcrowded, for be quarrelsome, for be

poor and numerous, for not, in fact, be spinster lady of enormous

good fortune.... that be only the beginning of one of those vast

scheme of his that have leave no trace now in all the collection.



his fear of shock America be, I think, unfounded; at any rate, he

succeed in the necessary suppression every time, and until the day

of his death it be rare for the american press-cutting that be

remove in basketfuls almost daily with the other debris of his

breakfast-table to speak of he in anything but quasi-amorous tone.

he die for they the most spiritual as well as the most intellectual

of man; "not simply intellectual, but lovable." they speak of his

pensive eye, though, indeed, when he be not glare at a camera they

be as pensive as champagne, and when the robust pathos bump

against the unavoidable humour as they be sweep along the narrow

torrent of his story they say with all the pleasure of an apt

quotation that indeed in his wonderful heart laughter mingle with

tear.





§ 5



I think George Boon do on the whole enjoy the remarkable setting of

his philosophical detachment very keenly; the monstrous fame of he

that roll about the world, that set out east and come back

circumferentially from the west and beat again upon his door. he

laugh irresponsibly, spend the result money with an intelligent

generosity, and talk of other thing. "it be the quality of life,"

he say, and "the people love to have it so."



I seem to see he still, hurrying but not dismayed, in flight from the

camera of an intrusive admirer--an admirer not so much of he as of

his popularity--up one of his garden walk towards his agreeable

study. I recall his round, enigmatical face, an affair of rosy

rotundity, his very bright, active eye, his queer, wiry, black hair

that go out to every point in the heaven, his ankle and neck and

wrist all protrude from his garment in their own peculiar way,

protrude a little more in the stress of flight. I recall, too, his

general effect of careless and, on the whole, commendable dirtiness,

accentuate rather than correct by the vivid tie of soft

orange-coloured silk he invariably wear, and how his light pace

dance along the turf. (he affect in his private dominion trouser

of faint drab corduroy that be always too short, brace up with

vehement tightness, and display claret-colour sock above his

easy, square-toed shoe.) and I know that even that lumber camera

come clumsily to its tripod ambush neither disgusted nor vulgarize

he. he like his game; he like his success and the opulent

stateliness it give to the absurdity of Mrs. Boon and all the

circumstance of his profoundly philosophical existence; and he like

it all none the bad because it be indeed nothing of himself at all,

because he in his essence be to dull intelligence and commonplace

mind a man invisible, a man who leave no impression upon the

camera-plate or move by a hair's breadth the scale of a materialist

balance.





§ 6



but I will confess the state of the remain do surprise and

disappoint I.



his story of great literary enterprise, holograph and conduct in

the profound secrecy, tally so completely with, for example,

certain reservation, withdrawal that take he out of one's company

and give he his evident good companionship, as it be, when he be

alone. it be so entirely like he to concoct lengthy book away from

his neatly order study, from the wise limitation of Miss Bathwick's

significant cough and her still more significant back, that we all, I

think, believe in these unseen volume unquestioningly. while those

fine romance, those large, bright play, be be conceive in a

publicity about as scandalous as a royal gestation, publicly plan

and announce, developed, write, boom, applaud, there be, we

know, this undercurrent of imaginative activity go on, conceal

from Miss Bathwick's guardian knowledge, withdraw from the stately

rhythm of her key. what more natural than to believe he be also

write it down?



alas! I find nothing but fragment. the work upon which his present

fame be found be methodical, punctual and careful, and it

progress with a sort of inevitable precision from begin to end,

and so on to another beginning. not only in tone and spirit but in

length (that most important consideration) he be absolutely

trustworthy; his hundred thousand word of good, healthy,

straightforward story come out in five month with a precision almost

astronomical. in that sense he take his public very seriously. to have

miss his morning's exercise behind Miss Bathwick's back would have

seem to he the most immoral--nay, bad, the most uncivil of

proceeding.



"she wouldn't understand it," he would say, and sigh and go.



but these scrap and fragment be of an irregularity diametrically

contrast with this. they seem to have be begin upon impulse at

any time, and abandon with an equal impulsiveness, and they be

write upon stationery of a variety and nature that alone would

condemn they in the eye of an alienist. the handwriting be always

atrocious and frequently illegible, the spelling be strange, and

sometimes indecently bad, the punctuation be sporadic, and many of the

fragment would be at once put out of court as modern literature by

the fact that they be write in pencil on _both side of the paper_!

such of the beginning as achieve a qualified completeness be of

impossible length; the long be a piece--allow for gap--of

fourteen thousand word, and another a fragment shaping at about

eleven. these be, of course, quite impossible size, neither essay

nor short story nor novel, and no editor or publisher would venture to

annoy the public with writing of so bizarre a dimension. in addition

there be fragment of verse. but I look in vain for anything beyond

the first chapter of that tremendous serial, "the Wild Asses of the

Devil," that keep on day by day through June and July to the very

outbreak of the war, and only a first chapter and a few illustration

and memorandum and fragment for our "mind of the race," that go on

intermittently for several year. whole volume of that great

hotchpotch of criticism be lose in the sandbank of my treacherous

memory for ever.



much of the matter, include a small MS. volume of those brief verse

call limerick (personal always, generally actionable, and

frequently lack in refinement), I set aside at an early date. much

else also I reject as too disjointed and unfinished, or too

eccentric. two bizarre fragment call respectively "Jane in Heaven"

and "an Account of a play," I may perhaps find occasion to issue at a

later date, and there be also several brief imitation of Villiers

de l'Isle Adam quite alien to contemporary anglo-Saxon taste, which

also I hold over. sometimes upon separate sheet, sometimes in the

margin of other composition, and frequently at the end of letter

receive by he I find a curious abundance of queer little drawing,

caricature of his correspondent, burlesque rendering of

occurrence, disrespectful sidenote to grave and pregnant utterance,

and the like. if ever the correspondence of George Boon be publish,

it will have to be do in _fac-simile_. there be a considerable

number of impression of the back of Miss Bathwick's head, with and

without the thread of velvet she sometimes wear about her neck, and

quite a number of curiously idealize study of that american reading

public he would always so grotesquely and annoyingly insist on call

"she." and among other thing I find a rendering of myself as a

short, flatten little object that have a touch of malignity in it I

have no reason to expect. few or none of these quaint comment be

draw with indian ink upon millboard in a manner suitable for

reproduction, and even be they so, I doubt whether the public would

care for very many of they. (I give my own portrait--it be singularly

unlike I--to show the style of thing he do.)



[illustration]



of the "mind of the race" I may perhaps tell first. I find he have

write out and greatly embellish the singularly vivid and detailed

and happily quite imaginary account of the murder of that eminent

litterateur, Dr. Tomlinson Keyhole, with which the "mind of the race"

be to have conclude; and there be an extraordinarily offensive

interview with Mr. Raymond Blathwayt (which, since it now "date" so

markedly, I have decide to suppress altogether) and an unfinished

study of "the Literary Statesmen of the Transition Years from the

Nineteenth to the Twentieth Centuries" (include a lengthy comparison

of the greatness of Lords Bryce and Morley, a eulogy of Lord Morley

and a discussion whether he have wit or humour) that be new to I.

and perhaps I may note at this point the twenty sixpenny washing book

in which Boon have commence what I be firmly convinced be a general

index of the work of Plato and Aristotle. it be conceivable he do

this merely as an aid to his private reading, though the idea of a

popular romancer read anything will come to the general reader with

a little shock of surprise.



[illustration: _Boon's idea of_ Aristotle _(in modern dress), from the

washing book_.



(_when ask_, "why _in modern dress?" Boon reply simply that he

would be._)]



for my own part and have in memory his subtle and elusive talk, I be

rather inclined to think that at one time he do go so far as to

contemplate a familiar and humorous commentary upon these two pillar

of the world's thought. an edition of they edit and copiously

illustrate by he would, I feel sure, have be a remarkable addition

to any gentleman's library. if he do turn his mind to anything of the

sort he speedily abandon the idea again, and with this mention and

the note that he detest Aristotle, those six and twenty washing

book may very well follow the bulk of the drawing and most of the

verse back into their original oblivion....



[illustration: _Boon's idea of_ Plato, _from the washing book_.



(Boon absolutely reject the indian Bacchus bust as a portrait of

_Plato_. when ask why, he remark merely that it ben't like he.)]





§ 7



but now you will begin to understand the nature of the task that lie

before I. if I be to do any justice to the cryptic George Boon, if

indeed I be to publish anything at all about he, I must set myself to

edit and convey these book whose only publication be in fact by word

of mouth in his garden arbour, use these few fragment as the

mere accessory to that. I have hesitate, I have collect

unfavourable advice, but at last I have resolve to make at least one

experimental volume of Boon's remain. after all, whatever we have of

Aristotle and Socrates and all that we most value of Johnson come

through the testimony of hearer. and though I cannot venture to

compare myself with Boswell....



I know the danger I shall run in this attempt to save my friend from

the devastating expurgation of his write ostensible career. I

confess I cannot conceal from myself that, for example, I must need

show Boon, by the standard of every day, a little treacherous.



when I thrust an arm into one or other of the score of densely pack

bin of press cutting that cumber the attic of his castellate

mansion and extract a sample clutch, I find almost invariably praise,

not judicious or intelligent praise perhaps, but slab and generous

praise, paragraph, advice, photograph, notice, note, allusion and

comparison, praise of the unparalleled gloss on his style by Doctor

Tomlinson Keyhole under the pseudonym of "Simon up to Snuff," praise

of the healthiness of the tone by Doctor Tomlinson Keyhole under the

pseudonym of "the Silver fish," inspire announcement of some

forthcoming venture make by Doctor Tomlinson Keyhole under the

pseudonym of "the True-bear Englishman," and interesting and exalt

speculation as to the precise figure of Boon's income over Dr.

Tomlinson Keyhole's own signature; I find chatty, if a little

incoherent, notice by Braybourne of the most friendly and helpful

sort, and interview of the most flattering description by this

well-know litterateur and that. and I reflect that while all this be

go on, there be Boon on the other side of Miss Bathwick's rampart

mind, not only not take they and himself seriously, not only not

control his disrespectful internal commentary on these excellent

man, but positively write it down, regale himself with the

imagine murder of this leader of thought and the forcible abduction

to sinister and melancholy surrounding of that!



and yet I find it hard to do even this measure of justice to my

friend. he be treacherous, it must be write, and yet he be, one

must confess, a singularly attractive man. there be a certain quality

in his life--it be pleasant. when I think of do he justice I be

at once dash and console by the thought of how little he care how

I judge he. and I recall he very vividly as I come upon he on one

occasion.



he be seat on a garden roller--an implement which make a faultless

outdoor seat when the handle be adjust at a suitable angle against a

tree, and one have take the precaution to skid the apparatus with a

piece of rockery or other convenient object. his back be against the

handle, his leg lie in a boneless curve over the roller, and an inch

or so of native buff show between the corduroy trouser and the

claret-colour sock. he appear to be engage partly in the

degustation of an unappetizing lead pencil, and partly in the

contemplation of a half-quire of notepaper. the expression of his

rubicund face be distinctly a happy one. at the sound of my approach

he look up. "I've be draw old Keyhole again!" he say like a

schoolboy.



[illustration]



nevertheless, if critic of standing be to be draw like this by

author of position, then it seem to I that there be nothing before

we but to say Good-bye for ever to the Dignity of Letters.









CHAPTER the second



be the First chapter of "the mind of the race"





§ 1



it be one of Boon's peculiarity to maintain a legend about every

one he know, and to I it be his humour to ascribe a degree of moral

earnestness that I admit only too sadly be altogether above my

quality. having himself invent this great project of a book upon the

Mind of the race which form always at least the thread of the

discourse when I be present, he next go some way towards foist

it upon I. he would talk to I about it in a tone of remonstrance,

raise imaginary difficulty to proposition I be suppose to make

and superstition I entertain, speak of it as "this book Bliss be

go to write"; and at the utmost admit no more than collaboration.

possibly I contribute idea; but I do not remember do so now very

distinctly. possibly my influence be quasi-moral. the proposition

itself fluctuate in his mind to suit this presentation and that, it

have more steadfastness in mine. but if I be the anchorage he be the

ship. at any rate we plan and discuss a book that Boon pretend

that I be write and that I believe he to be write, in entire

concealment from Miss Bathwick, about the collective mind of the whole

human race.



Edwin Dodd be with we, I remember, in one of those early talk, when

the thing be still take form, and he sit on a large inverted

flowerpot--we have camp in the greenhouse after lunch--and he be

smile, with his head slightly on one side and a wonderfully foxy

expression of be on his guard that he always wear with Boon. Dodd

be a lead member of the Rationalist Press Association, a militant

agnostic, and a dear, compact man, one of those Middle Victorians who

go about with a preoccupy, caulk air, as though, after having

be at great cost and pain to banish God from the Universe, they

be resolve not to permit he back on any term whatever. he have

constitute himself a sort of alert custom officer of a materialistic

age, say suspiciously, "here, now, what's this rapping under the

table here?" and examine every proposition to see that the Creator

ben't be smuggle back under some specious new generalization.

Boon use to declare that every night Dodd look under his bed for

the deity, and sleep with a large revolver under his pillow for fear

of a revelation.... from the first Dodd have his suspicion about this

collective mind of Boon's. most unjustifiable they seem to I then,

but he have they.



"you must admit, my dear Dodd----" begin Boon.



"I admit nothing," say Dodd smartly.



"you perceive something more extensive than individual will and

individual process of reasoning in mankind, a body of thought, a

trend of idea and purpose, a thing make up of the synthesis of all

the individual instance, something more than their algebraic sum,

lose the old as they fall out, take up the young, a common mind

express the species----"



"oh--figuratively, perhaps!" say Dodd.





§ 2



for my own part I could not see where Dodd's "figuratively" come in.

the mind of the race be as real to I as the mind of Dodd or my own.

because Dodd be completely make up of Dodd's right leg plus Dodd's

left leg, plus Dodd's right arm plus Dodd's left arm plus Dodd's head

and Dodd's trunk, it don't follow that Dodd be a mere figurative

expression....



Dodd, I remember, protest he have a self-consciousness that hold all

these constituent together, but there be a time when Dodd be six

month old, let we say, and there be time now when Dodd sleep or be

lose in some vivid sensation or action, when that clear sense of self

be in abeyance. there be no reason why the collective mind of the

world should not presently become at least as self-conscious as Dodd.

Boon, indeed, argue that that be happen even now, that our very

talk in the greenhouse be to that synthetic over-brain like a child's

first intimation of the idea of "I." "it's a _fantastic_ notion,"

say Dodd, shake his head.



but Boon be fairly launch now upon his topic, and from the first, I

will confess, it take hold of I.



"you mustn't push the analogy of Dodd's mind too far," say Boon.

"these great over-minds----"



"so there be several!" say Dodd.



"they fuse, they divide. these great over-mind, these race mind,

share nothing of the cyclic fate of the individual life; there be no

birth for they, no pairing and breeding, no inevitable death. that be

the lot of such intermediate experimental creature as ourselves. the

creature below we, like the creature above we, be free from

beginning and end. the Amoeba never die; it divide at time, part

of it die here and there, it have no sex, no begetting. (Existence

without a love interest. my God! how it set a novelist craving!)

neither have the germ plasm. these over-mind, which for the most part

clothe themselves in separate language and maintain a sort of

distinction, stand to we as we stand to the amoebæ or the germ cell

we carry; they be the next high order of be; they emerge above

the intense, intensely define struggle of individual which be the

more obvious substance of life at the rank of our; they grow, they

divide, they feed upon one another, they coalesce and rejuvenate. so

far they be like amoebæ. but they think, they accumulate experience,

they manifest a collective will."



"nonsense!" say Dodd, shake his head from side to side.



"but the thing be manif!"



"I've never meet it."



"you meet it, my dear Dodd, the moment you be bear. who teach you to

talk? your mother, you say. but whence the language? who make the

language that give a bias to all your thought? and who teach you to

think, Dodd? whence come your habit of conduct? your mother, your

schoolmaster be but mouthpiece, the book you read the mere

forefront of that great being of voice! there it be--your antagonist

to-day. you be struggle against it with tract and argument...."



but now Boon be fairly go. physically, perhaps, we be the

child of our ancestor, but mentally we be the offspring of the

race mind. it be clear as daylight. how could Dodd dare to argue? we

emerge into a brief independence of will, make our personal

innovation, become, as it be, new thought in that great

intelligence, new element of effort and purpose, and be presently

incorporate or forget or both in its immortal growth. would the

Race Mind incorporate Dodd or dismiss he? Dodd sit on his flowerpot,

shake his head and say "Pooh!" to the cineraria; and I listen,

never doubt that Boon feel the truth he tell so well. he come near

make the Race soul incarnate. one feel it about we, receptive and

responsive to Boon's word. he achieve personification. he speak of

war that people have make, of the road and city that grow and the

route that develop, no man plan they. he mention style of

architecture and style of living; the gothic cathedral, I remember,

he dwell upon, a beauty, that arise like an exhalation out of

scatter multitude of man. he instance the secular abolition of

slavery and the establishment of monogamy as a development of

christian teaching, as thing untraceable to any individual's purpose.

he pass to the mysterious consecutiveness of scientific research,

the sudden determination of the european race mind to know more than

chance thought could tell it....



"Francis Bacon?" say Dodd.



"man like Bacon be no more than bright moment, happy thought, the

discovery of the inevitable word; the race mind it be take it up, the

race mind it be carry it on."



"Mysticism!" say Dodd. "give I the Rock of Fact!" he shake his head

so violently that suddenly his balance be disturb; clap go his

foot, the flowerpot break beneath he, and our talk be lose in the

consequent solicitude.



[illustration: _dodd the Agnostic just before the flowerpot break._]





§ 3



now that I have be search my memory, I incline rather more than I

do to the opinion that the bare suggestion at any rate of this

particular Book do come from I. I probably go to Boon soon after

this talk with Dodd and say a fine book might be write about the

Mind of Humanity, and in all likelihood I give some outline--I have

forget what. I want a large picture of that great be his

imagination have strike out. I remember at any, rate Boon take I

into his study, pick out Goldsmith's "inquiry into the Present

State of Polite Learning," turn it over and read from it.

"something in this line?" he say, and read:



    "'complaint of our degeneracy in literature as well as in

    moral I own have be frequently exhibit of late.... the

    dull critic who strive at a reputation for delicacy, by

    show he cannot be pleased ...'



"the old, old thing, you see! the weak protest of the living."



he turn over the page. "he show a proper feeling, but he's a

little thin.... he say some good thing. But--'The age of Louis XIV,

notwithstanding these respectable name, be still vastly, superior.'

be it? guess the respectable name that age of Louis XIV could

override!--Voltaire, Rousseau, Diderot, Montesquieu, D'Alembert! and

now tell I the respectable name of the age of Louis XIV. and the

conclusion of the whole matter--



    "'thus the man who, under the patronage of the great might

    have do honour to humanity, when only patronize by the

    bookseller become a thing a little superior to the fellow who

    work at the press.'



"'the patronage of the great'! 'fellow who work at the press'!

Goldsmith be a damnably genteel person at time in spite of the

'vicar'! it's print with the long 's,' you see. it all help to

remind one that time have change." ...



I follow his careless footstep into the garden; he go

gesticulate before I, repeat, "'an inquiry into the State of

Polite Learning'! that's what your 'mind of the Race' mean. suppose

one do it now, we should do it differently in every way, from that."



"yes, but how should we do it?" say I.



the project have lay hold upon I. I want a broad outline of the

whole apparatus of thinking and determination in the modern State;

something that should bring together all its various activity, which

go on now in a sort of deliberate ignorance of one another, which

would synthesize research, education, philosophical discussion, moral

training, public policy. "there be," I say, "a disorganized abundance

now."



"it's a sort of subconscious mind," say Boon, seem to take I

quite seriously, "with a half instinctive will...."



we discuss what would come into the book. one get an impression of

the enormous range and volume of intellectual activity that pour

along now, in comparison with the jejune trickle of Goldsmith's day.

then the world have--what? a few english writer, a few man in France,

the Royal Society, the new Berlin Academy (conduct its transaction

in French), all rest more or less upon the insecure patronage of

the "great"; a few school, public and private, a couple of dozen of

university in all the world, a press of which _the Gentleman's

Magazine_ be the bright ornament. Now----



it be a curious thing that it come to we both as a new effect, this

enormously great size of the intellectual world of to-day. we don't

at first grasp the implication of that difference, we simply find it

necessitate an enlargement of our conception. "and then a man's

thought live too in a world that have be create, lock, stock, and

barrel, a trifle under six thousand year ago!..."



we fall to discuss the range and division of our subject. the main

stream, we settle, be all that one call "literature" in its broad

sense. we should have to discuss that principally. but almost as

important as the actual development of idea, suggestion, ideal, be

the way they be distribute through the body of humanity, develop,

render, bring into touch with young mind and fresh mind, who be

draw so into participation, who themselves light up and become new

thought. one have to consider journalism, library, book

distribution, lecturing, teaching. then there be the effect of law,

of invention.... "do in a large, dull, half-abstract way," say

Boon, "one might fill volume. one might become an Eminent

Sociologist. you might even invent terminology. it's a chance----"



we let it pass. he go on almost at once to suggest a more congenial

form, a conversational novel. I follow reluctantly. I share the

general distrust of fiction as a vehicle of discussion. we would, he

insist, invent a personality who would embody our Idea, who should

be fanatically obsess by this idea of the mind of the Race, who

should preach it on all occasion and be bring into illuminate

contact with all the exist mental apparatus and organization of the

world. "something of your deep, moral earnestness, you know, only a

little more presentable and not quite so vindictive," say Boon, "and

without your--lapse. I seem to see he rather like Leo Maxse: the

same white face, the same bright eye, the same pervading suggestion

of nervous intensity, the same earnest, quasi-reasonable voice--but

instead of that anti-german obsession of his, an intelligent passion

for the racial thought. he must be altogether a fanatic. he must think

of the Mind of the race in season and out of season. Collective

thought will be no joke to he; it will be the supremely important

thing. he will be passionately a patriot, entirely convinced of your

proposition that 'the thought of a community be the life of a

community,' and almost as certain that the tide of our thought be

ebb."



"be it?" say I.



"I've never think. the 'Encyclopædia Britannica' say it be."



"we must call the 'Encyclopædia Britannica.'"



"as a witness--in the book--rather! but, anyhow, this man of ours will

believe it and struggle against it. it will make he ill; it will

spoil the common thing of life for he altogether. I seem to see he

interrupt some nice, bright, clean english people at tennis. 'look

here, you know,' he will say, 'this be all very well. but have you

_think_ to-day? they tell I the Germans be think, the

Japanese.' I see he go in a sort of agony round and about

Canterbury Cathedral. 'here be all these beautiful, tranquil

residence cluster round this supremely beautiful thing, all these

well-dress, excellent, fresh-coloured englishman in their beautiful

clerical raiment--dean, canon--and what have they _think_, any of

they? I keep my ear to the _Hibbert Journal_, but be it enough?'

imagine he go through London on an omnibus. he will see as clear

as the advertisement on the hoarding the sign of the formal

break up of the old victorian Church of England and Dissenting

culture that have hold we together so long. he will see that the

faith have go, the habit no long hold, the tradition lie lax like

cut string--there be nothing to replace these thing. People do this

and that dispersedly; there be democracy in belief even, and any

notion be as good as another. and there be America. like a burst

Haggis. intellectually. the Mind be confused, the race in the violent

ferment of new idea, in the explosive development of its own

contrivance, have lose its head. it ben't think any more; it's

stupefy one moment and the next it's diving about----



"it will be as clear as day to he that a great effort of intellectual

self-control must come if the race be to be save from utter confusion

and dementia. and nobody seem to see it but he. he will go about

wring his hand, so to speak. I fancy he at last at a

writing-desk, nervous white finger clutch in his black hair. 'how

can I put it so that they _must_ attend and see?'"



so we settle on our method and principal character right away. but we

get no far because Boon insist before do anything else on

draw a fancy portrait of this lead character of our and

choose his name. we decide to call he Hallery, and that he should

look something like this--



[illustration: _hallery prepare to contradict._]



that be how "the mind of the race" begin, the book that be to have

end at last in grim burlesque with Hallery's murder of Dr. Tomlinson

Keyhole in his villa at Hampstead, and the conversation at dawn with

that incredulous but literate policeman at Highgate--he be read a

World's classic--to whom Hallery give himself up.









CHAPTER the THIRD



the Great Slump, the Revival of Letters, and the Garden by the Sea





§ 1



the story, as Boon plan it, be to begin with a spacious

introduction. we be to tell of the profound decadence of letter at

the opening of the Twentieth Century and how a movement of revival

begin. a few note in pencil of this opening do exist among the

remain, and to those I have refer. he read they over to I....



"'we begin,'" he say, "'in a minor key. the impetus of the romantic

movement we declare be exhaust; the Race Mind, not only of the

English-speak people but of the whole world, have come upon a

period of lethargy. the Giants of the victorian age----'"



my eye discover a familiar binding among the flower-pot. "you have

be consult the 'Encyclopædia Britannica,'" I say.



he admit it without embarrassment.



"I have prig the whole thing from the last Victorian Edition--with

some slight variation.... 'the Giants of the victorian age have

pass. man look in vain for their successor. for a time there be

an evident effort to fill the vacant throne; for a time it seem

that the unstinted exertion of Miss Marie Corelli, Mr. Hall Caine,

Mrs. Humphry Ward, and the friend of Mr. Stephen Phillips might go

some way towards obliterate these magnificent gap. and then, slowly

but surely, it creep into man's mind that the game be up----'"



"you will alter that phrase?" I say.



"certainly. but it must serve now ... 'that, humanly speak, it be

impossible that anything, at once so large, so copious, so broadly and

unhesitatingly popular, so nobly cumulative as the Great Victorian

Reputations could ever exist again. the race seem threaten with

intellectual barrenness; it have drop its great blossom, and stand

amidst the pile of their wilting but still showy petal, budless and

bare. it be curious to recall the public utterance upon literature

that distinguish this desolate and melancholy time. it be a chorus

of despair. there be in the comment of such admirable but age

critic as still survive, of Mr. Gosse, for example, and the

venerable Sir Sidney Colvin and Mr. Mumchance, an inevitable

suggestion of widowhood; the judge, bishop, statesman who be call

to speak upon literature speak in the same reminiscent, inconsolable

note as of a thing that be dead. year after year one find the

speaker at the Dinner of the Royal Literary Fund admit the

impudence of their appeal. I remember at one of these festivity

hear the voice of Mr. Justice Gummidge break.... the strain, it be

needless to say, find its echo in Dr. Tomlinson Keyhole; he confess

he never read anything that be less than thirty year old with the

slight enjoyment, and throw out the suggestion that nothing new

should be publish--at least for a considerable time--unless it be

clearly show to be posthumous....



"'except for a few irresistible volume of facetiousness, the reading

public very obediently follow the indication of authority in these

matter, just as it have follow authority and sustain the Giants in

the great victorian day. it buy the long-neglect

classic--anything be adjudge a classic that be out of

copyright--it do its good to read they, to find a rare smack in their

fade allusion, an immediate application for their forget topic.

it make believe that architect be still like Mr. Pecksniff and

schoolmaster like Squeers, that there be no different woman from

Jane Austen's woman, and that social wisdom end in Ruskin's fine

disorder. but with the decay, of any intellectual observation of the

present these past thing have lose their vitality. a few resolute

people maintain an artificial interest in they by participation in

quotation-hunt competition and the like, but the great bulk of the

educate class cease presently to read anything whatever. the

classic be still buy by habit, as people who have lose faith

will still go to church; but it be only necessary to examine some

survive volume of this period to mark the coruscation of printer's

error, the sheet bind in upside down or accidentally not ink in

printing or transfer from some sister classic in the same series,

to realize that these volume be mere receipt for the tribute pay

by the pocket of stupidity to the ancient prestige of thought....



"'an air of completion rest upon the whole world of letter. a

movement lead by Professor Armstrong, the eminent educationist, have

even go some way towards banish book from the schoolroom--their

last refuge. People go about in the newly invent automobile and

play open-air game; they divert what attention they have once

give to their mind to the more rational treatment of their stomach.

reading become the last resort of those too sluggish or too poor to

play game; one have recourse to it as a substitute for the ashe of

more strenuous time in the early week of mourn for a near

relative, and even the sale of classic begin at last to decline. an

altogether more satisfying and alluring occupation for the human

intelligence be find in the game of Bridge. this be presently

improve into Auction Bridge. preparation be make for the erection

of a richly decorative memorial in London to preserve the memory of

Shakespeare, an English Taj Mahal; an Academy of uncreative literature

be establish under the Presidency of Lord Reay (who have never

write anything at all), and it seem but the matter of a few year

before the goal of a complete and final mental quiet would be attain

by the whole English-speak community....'"





§ 2



"you know," I say, "that don't exactly represent----"



"hush!" say Boon. "it be but a resting phase! and at this point I

part company with the 'Encyclopædia.'"



"but you don't get all that out of the 'Encyclopædia'?"



"practically--yes. I may have rearrange it a little. the

Encyclopædist be a most interesting and representative person. he

take up an almost eighteenth-century attitude, hold out hope of a

revival of Taste under an Academy, declare the interest of the great

mass of man in literature be always 'empirical,' regard the great

victorian boom in letter as quite abnormal, and seem to ignore what

you would call that necessary element of vitalize thought.... it's

just here that Hallery will have to dispute with he. we shall have to

bring they together in our book somehow.... into this impressive scene

of decline and the ebb of all thinking come this fanatic Hallery of

our, recite with passionate conviction, 'the thought of a nation be

the life of a nation.' you see our lead effect?"



he pause. "we have to represent Hallery as a voice cry in the

wilderness. we have to present he in a scene of infinite intellectual

bleakness, with the thin scrub of second-rate book grow

contemptibly, and patch of what the Encyclopædist call

tare--wind-wilt tare--about he. a mournful Encyclopædist like

some lone bird circle in the empty air beneath the fade star....

well, something of that effect, anyhow! and then, you know, suddenly,

mysteriously one grow aware of light, of something come, of

something definitely come, of the dawn of a great Literary

Revival...."



"how do it come?"



"oh! in the promiscuous way of these thing. the swing of the

pendulum, it may be. some eminent person get bored at the prospect of

repeat that rigmarole about the great Victorians and our present

slackness for all the rest of his life, and take a leaf from one of

Hallery's book. we might have something after the fashion of the

Efficiency and wake-up-England affair. have you ever hear guinea-fowl

at dawn?"



"I've hear they at twilight. they say, 'come back. come back.' but

what have that to do with----"



"nothing. there's a movement, a stir, a twittering, and then a sudden

promiscuous uproar, article in the review, article in the

newspaper, paragraph, letter, association, society, league. I

imagine a very great personality indeed in the most extraordinary and

unexpected way come in...." (it be one of Boon's less amiable

habit to impute strange and uncanny enterprise, the sudden adoption

of movement, mania, propaganda, adhesion to vegetarianism,

socialism, the strange eccentricity, to the british royal family.)

"as a result Hallery find himself perforce a person of importance.

'the thought of a nation be the life of a nation,' one hear it from

royal lip; 'a literature, a live soul, adequate to this vast

empire,' turn up in the speech of a statesman of the great

literary pretension. Arnold White respond to the new note. the

_Daily Express_ start a Literary Revival on its magazine page and

offer a prize. the _Times_ follow suit. report of what be afoot

reach social circle in New York.... the illumination pass with a

dawnlike swiftness right across the broad expanse of british life,

east and west flash together; the lady' paper and the motoring

journal devote whole page to 'New Literature,' and there be an

enormous revival of Book Teas.... that sort of thing, you

know--extensively."





§ 3



"so much by way of prelude. now picture to yourself the immediate

setting of my conference. just hand I that book by the

'Encyclopædia.'"



it be Mallock's "New Republic." he take it, turn a page or so,

stick a finger in it, and resume.



"it be in a narrow, ill-keep road by the seaside, Bliss. a long wall,

plaster-face, blotch and peeling, crest with uncivil glass

against the low order, be pierce by cast-iron gate clumsily

classical, and through the iron bar of these there be visible the

desert gatekeeper's lodge, its crack window opaque with

immemorial dirt, and a rich undergrowth of nettle beneath the rusty

cypress and stone-pine that border the carriage-way. an automobile

throb in the road; its occupant regard a board lean all askew

above the parapet, and hesitate to descend. on the board, which have

be enrich by the attention of the pass boy with innumerable

radiant mud pellet, one read with difficulty--



      +-----------------------------------------------------+

      |                                                     |

      |               this classical VILLA                  |

      |                                                     |

      |  with magnificent garden in the victorian-italian  |

      |        style reach down to the sea, and          |

      |     replete with latin and greek inscription,      |

      |    a garden study, literary association, fully     |

      |       mature Oxford allusion, and a great         |

      |           number of conveniently arrange           |

      |                   bedroom, to be                   |

      |                                                     |

      |                     LET or SOLD.                    |

      |                                                     |

      |                 _apply to the owner_,               |

      |                  Mr. W. H. MALLOCK,                 |

      |                                                     |

      |                 original author of                  |

      |                 "the New Republic."                 |

      |                                                     |

      |                    _key within_.                    |

      |                                                     |

      +-----------------------------------------------------+



"'this _must_ be it, my dear Archer,' say one of the occupant of the

motor-car, and he rise, throw aside his fur, and reveal--the

urbane presence of the Encyclopædist. he descend, and ring a

clangorous bell.... eh?"



"it's the garden of the 'New Republic'?"



"exactly. revisit. it's an astonishing thing. do you know the date

of the 'New Republic'? the book's nearly forty year old! about the

time of Matthew Arnold's 'Friendship's Garland,' and since that time

there's be nothing like a systematic stocktaking of the

English-speak mind--until the Encyclopædist report 'no effect.'

and I propose to make this little party in the motor-car a sort of

scratch expedition, under the impetus of the propose Revival of

Thought. they be prospect for a Summer Congress, which be to go

into the state of the republic of letter thoroughly. it ben't perhaps

quite Gosse's style, but he have to be there--in a way he's the

official british man of letter--but we shall do what we can for he,

we shall make he show a strong disposition towards protective irony

and confess himself not a little bother at be drag into the

horrid business. and I think we must have George Moore, who have play

uncle to so many movement and be so uniformly disappointed in his

nephews. and William Archer, with that face of his which be so exactly

like his mind, a remarkably fine face mysteriously mar by an

expression of unscrupulous integrity. and lastly, Keyhole."



"why Keyhole?" I ask.



"Hallery have to murder some one. I've plan that--and who _would_ he

murder but Keyhole?... and we have to hold the first meeting in

Mallock's garden to preserve the continuity of English thought.



"very well! then we invent a morose, elderly caretaker, greatly

embitter at this irruption. he parley for a time through the gate

with all the loyalty of his class, mention a number of discourage

defect, more particularly in the drainage, allege the whole place be

clammy, and only at Gosse's clearly enunciate determination to enter

produce the key."



Boon consult his text. "naturally one would give a chapter to the

Villa by the Sea and Mallock generally. our visitor explore. they

visit one scene after another familiar to the good Mallockite; they

descend 'the broad flight of step flank by Gods and Goddesses'

that lead from one to another of the 'long, straight terrace set with

vase and irish yew,' and the yew, you know, have suffer from the

want of water, the vase be empty, and ivy, under the benediction of

our modest climate, have already veil the classical freedom--the

conscientious nudity, one might say--of the statuary. the laurel have

either grow inordinately or perish, and the 'bust of orator,

poet, and philosopher' 'with latin inscription,' stand either

bleakly expose or else swallow up, in a thicket. there be a

pleasing struggle to translate the legend, and one gather

scholarship be not extinct in England.



"the one oasis in a universal weediness be the pond about the 'scaly

Triton,' which have be devote to the culture of spring onion, a

vegetable to which the aged custodian quite superfluously avow

himself very 'partial.' the visitor return to the house, walk along

its terrace, survey its shuttered front, and they spend some time

go through its musty room. Dr. Keyhole distinguish himself by

the feverish eagerness of his curiosity about where Leslie sleep and

where be the boudoir of Mrs. Sinclair. he insist that a very sad and

painful scandal about these two underlie the _New Republic_, and

profess a thirsty desire to draw a veil over it as conspicuously as

possible. the other drag he away to the summer dining-room, now a

great bri tangle, where once Lady Grace so pleasantly dine her

guest. the little arena about the fountain in a porphyry basin they

do not find, but the garden study they peer into, and see its inkpot

in the shape of a classical temple, just as Mr. Mallock have describe

it, and the windowless theatre, and, in addition, they find a small

private gas-work that serve it. the old man let they in, and by the

light of uplifted vesta they see the decaying, rat-disorder ruin

of the scene before which Jenkinson who be Jowett, and Herbert who

be Ruskin, preach. it be as like a gorge in the Indian Caucasus as

need be. the Brocken act-drop above hang low enough to show the toe

of the young witch, still brightly pink....



"they go down to the beach, and the old man, with evil chuckle,

recall a hitherto unpublished anecdote of mixed bathing in the

'seventy, in which Mrs. Sinclair and a flushed and startle Dr.

Jenkinson, Greek in thought rather than action, play the chief part,

and then they wade through a nettle-bed to that 'small classical

portico' which lead to the locked enclosure contain the three

tomb, with effigy after the fashion of Genoa Cemetery. but the key

of the gate be lose, so that they cannot go in to examine they, and

the weed have hide the figure altogether.



"'that's a pity,' some one remark, 'for it's here, no doubt, that old

Laurence lie, with his first mistress and his last--under these

cypress.'



"the aged custodian make a derisive noise, and every one turn to

he.



"'I gather you throw some doubt?' the Encyclopædist begin in his

urbane way.



"'bury--under the cypress--first mistress and last!' the old man

make his manner invincibly suggestive of scornful merriment.



"'but ben't it so?'



"'bless y'r 'art, _no_! Mr. Laurence--bury! Mr. Laurence worn't

never alive!'



"'but there be a _young_ Mr. Laurence?'



"'that be Mr. Mallup 'imself, that be! 'e be a great mistifier be

Mr. Mallup, and sometimes 'e go about pretendin' to be Mr. Laurence

and sometimes he be Mr. Leslie, and sometimes----But there, you'd

'ardly believe. 'E get all this up--cypress, chume, everythink--out

of 'be 'ed. Po'try. why! 'Ere! Jest come along 'ere, gent!'



"he lead the way along a narrow privet alley that wind its

surreptitious way towards an alcove.



"'Miss Merton,' he say, fling the door of this open.



"'the roman catholic young person?' say Dr. Tomlinson Keyhole.



"'quite right, sir,' say the aged custodian.



"they peer in.



"hang from a peg the four visitor behold a pale blue dress cut in

the fashion of the 'seventy, a copious 'chignon' of fair hair, large

earring, and on the marble bench a pair of open-work stocking and

other article of feminine apparel. a tall mirror hang opposite these

garment, and in a little recess convenient to the hand be the dusty

and decay material for a hasty 'make-up.'



"the old custodian watch the effect of this display upon the other

with mask enjoyment.



"'you mean Miss Merton _paint_?' say the Encyclopædist, knit

his brow.



"'Mr. Mallup do,' say the aged custodian.



"'you mean----?'



"'Mr. Mallup be Miss Merton. 'E get _'er_ up too. Parst 'er orf as a

young lady, 'e do. oh, 'e be a great mistifier be Mr. Mallup. none

of the three of 'em ben't real people, really; he get 'em all up.'



"'she have sad-look eye, a delicate, proud mouth, and a worn,

melancholy look,' muse Mr. Archer.



"'and young Laurence be in love with she,' add the Encyclopædist....



"'they be all Mr. Mallup,' say the aged custodian. 'make up out of

'be 'ed. and the gent that pretend they be Mr. 'Uxley and Mr.

Tyndall in disguise, one be Bill Smithers, the chemist's assistant,

and the other be the chap that use to write and print the _Margate

Advertiser_ before the noo papers come.'"









CHAPTER the fourth



of Art, of literature, of Mr. Henry James





§ 1



the Garden by the Sea chapter be to have go on discursively with a

discussion upon this project of a conference upon the Mind of the

Race. the automobile-ful of gentleman who have first arrive be to

have supply the opening interlocutor, but presently they be to

have be supplement by the most unexpected accessory. it would

have be an enormously big dialogue if it have ever be write, and

Boon's essentially lazy temperament be all against its ever getting

write. there be to have be dispute from the outset as to the

very purpose that have bring they all together. "a sort of literary

stocktaking" be to have be Mr. Archer's phrase. repeat.

unhappily, its commercialism be to upset Mr. Gosse extremely; he be

to say something passionately bitter about its "utter lack of

dignity." then relent a little, he be to urge as an alternative

"some control influence, some standard and restraint, a new and

well academic influence." Dr. Keyhole be to offer his journalistic

service in organize an academic plebiscite, a suggestion which be

to have exasperate Mr. Gosse to the pitch of a gleam silence.



in the midst of this conversation the party be join by Hallery and

an american friend, a quiet Harvard sort of man speak meticulously

accurate English, and still later by emissary of Lord Northcliffe

and Mr. Hearst, by Mr. Henry James, rather lead into it by a

distinguished hostess, by Mr. W. B. Yeats, late but keen, and by that

Sir Henry Lunn who organize the swiss winter sport hotel. all these

people drift in with an all too manifestly simulated accidentalness

that at last arouse the distrust of the elderly custodian, so that

Mr. Orage, the gifted editor of the _New Age_, arrive last, be

refuse admission. the sound of the conflict at the gate do but

faintly perturb the conference within, which be now really get to

business, but afterwards Mr. Orage, slightly wound in the face by a

dexterously ply rake and incurably embitter, make his existence

feel by a number of unpleasant missile discharge from over the wall

in the direction of any audible voice. ultimately Mr. Orage get into

a point of vantage in a small pine-tree overlook the seaward corner

of the premise, and from this he contribute a number of comment

that be rarely helpful, always unamiable, and frequently in the bad

possible taste.



such be Boon's plan for the second chapter of "the mind of the race."

but that chapter he never completely plan. at various time Boon

give we a number of colloquy, never join they together in any

regular order. the project of take up the discussion of the Mind of

the Race at the exact point Mr. Mallock have lay it down, and take

the villa by the sea for the meeting-place, be at once oppose by

Hallery and his american friend with an evidently preconcerte

readiness. they point out the entire democratization of thought and

literature that have be go on for the past four decade. it be no

long possible to deal with such matter in the old aristocratic

country-house style; it be no long possible to take they up from

that sort of begin; the centre of mental gravity among the

English-speak community have shift socially and geographically;

what be need now be something wide and ample, something more in

the nature of such a conference as the annual meeting of the British

Association. Science leave the gentleman's mansion long ago; literature

must follow it--have follow it. to come back to Mr. Lankester's Villa

by the sea be to come back to a beat covert. the Hearst

representative take up a strongly support position, and suggest

that if indeed we wish to move with the time the thing to do be to

strike out boldly for a special annex of the Panama Exhibition at San

Francisco and for organization upon sound american line. it be a

case, he say, even for "exhibit." Sir Henry Lunn, however, object

that in America the anglo-Saxon note be almost certain to be too

exclusively sound; that we have to remember there be vigorous

culture grow up and grow up more and more detachedly upon the

continent of Europe; we want, at least, their reflect light ...

some more central position.... in fact, Switzerland ... where also

numerous convenient hotel ... patronize, he gather from the

illustrate paper, by Lord Lytton, Mrs. Asquith, Mr. F. R. Benson ...

and all sort of helpful lead people.





§ 2



Meanwhile Boon's plan be to make Mr. George Moore and Mr. Henry James

wander off from the general dispute, and he invent a dialogue that

even at the time strike I as improbable, in which both gentleman

pursue entirely independent train of thought.



Mr. Moore's conception of the project symposium be something rather

in the vein of the journeying of Shelley, Byron, and their charming

companion through France to Italy, but magnify to the dimension of

an enormous pilgrimage, enlarge to the scale of a stream of refugee.

"what, my dear jame," he ask, "be this mind of humanity at all

without a certain touch of romance, of adventure? even Mallock

appreciate the significance of _frou-frou_; but these fellow behind

here...."



to illustrate his meaning well, he be to have tell, with an

extraordinary and loving mastery of detail, of a glowing little

experience that have be almost force upon he at Nismes by a pretty

little woman from Nebraska, and the peculiar effect it have have, and

particularly the peculiar effect that the coincidence that both

Nebraska and Nismes begin with an "N" and end so very differently, have

have upon his imagination....



meanwhile Mr. James, be anxious not merely to state but also to

ignore, labour through the long cadence of his companion as an

indefatigable steam-tug might labour endlessly against a rolling sea,

elaborate his own particular point about the propose conference.



"owe it as we do," he say, "very, very largely to our friend Gosse,

to that peculiar, that honest but restless and, as it be, at time

almost malignantly ambitious organize energy of our friend, I cannot

altogether--altogether, even if in any case I should have take so

extreme, so devastatingly isolate a step as, to put it violently,

_stand out_; yet I must confess to a considerable anxiety, a kind of

distress, an apprehension, the terror, so to speak, of the kerbstone,

at all this stream of intellectual trafficking, of go to and fro,

in a superb and tower manner enough no doubt, but still essentially

go to and fro rather than in any of the complete sense of the

word _get there_, that do so largely constitute the aggregation

and activity we be invite to traverse. my poor head, such as it be

and as much as it can and upon such leg--save the mark!--as it can

claim, must, I suppose, play its inconsiderable part among the wheel

and the rearing and the toot and the whistle and all this uproar,

this--Mm, Mm!--let we say, this _infernal_ uproar, of the occasion;

and if at time one have one's doubt before plunge in, whether after

all, after the plunging and the dodging and the close shave and

narrow squeak, one do begin to feel that one be get through,

whether after all one _will_ get through, and whether indeed there be

any getting through, whether, to deepen and enlarge and display one's

doubt quite openly, there be in truth any sort of ostensible and

recognizable other side attainable and definable at all, whether to

put this thing with a lucidity that verge on the brutal, whether our

amiable and in most respect our adorable Gosse ben't indeed prepare

here and now, not the gathering together of a conference but the

assembling, the _meet_, so to speak, of a wild-goose chase of an

entirely desperate and hopeless description."



at that moment Mr. George Moore be say: "little exquisite

shoulder without a touch of colour and with just that suggestion of

rare old ivory in an old shop window in some out-of-the-way corner of

Paris that only the most patent abstinence from bath and the

brutality of soaping----"



each gentleman stop simultaneously.



ahead the path lead between box-hedge to a wall, and above the wall

be a pine-tree, and the Editor of the _New Age_ be reascende the

pine-tree in a laborious and resolute manner, grip with some

difficulty in his hand a large and very formidable lump of

unpleasantness....



with a common impulse the two gentleman turn back towards the house.



Mr. James be the first to break the momentary silence. "and so, my

dear Moore, and so--to put it shortly--without any sort of positive

engagement or entanglement or pledge or pressure--I _come_. and at the

proper time and again with an entirely individual detachment and as

little implication as possible I shall _go_...."



subsequently Mr. James be to have buttonhole Hallery's American, and

in the warm bath of his sympathy to have open and bleed slowly from

another vein of thought.



"I admit the abundance of--what shall I say?--_activities_ that our

friend be summon, the tremendous wealth of matter, of material for

literature and art, that have accumulate during the last few decade.

no one could appreciate, could savour and watch and respond, more than

myself to the tremendous grow clangour of the mental process as the

last half-century have exhibit it. but when it come to the

enterprise of gather it together, and not simply just gather it

together, but gather it _all_ together, then surely one must at

some stage ask the question, _why_ all? why, in short, attempt to a

comprehensiveness that must be overwhelming when in fact the need be

for a selection that shall not merely represent but elucidate and

lead. ben't we, after all, all of we after some such indicate

projection of a lead digit, after such an insistence on the

outstandingly essential in face of this abundance, this saturation,

this fluid chaos that perpetually increase? here we be gather

together to celebrate and summarize literature in some sort of

undefined and unprecedented fashion, and for the life of I I find it

impossible to determine what among my numerous associate and friend

and--to embrace still large quantity of the stuff in hand--my

contemporary be consider to be the literature in question. so

confuse now be we between matter and treatment, between what be

state and document and what be prepare and present, that for the

life of I I do not yet see whether we be suppose to be build an

ark or whether by immersion and the meek of submersion and an

altogether complete submission of our distend and quite helpless

carcass to its incalculable caprice we be suppose to be

celebrate and, in the whirling uncomfortable fashion of flotsam at

large, indicate and make visible the whole tremendous cosmic

inundation...."



[illustration: _Mr. James converse with Mr. George Moore upon matter

of vital importance to both of they._]





§ 3



it be entirely in the quality of Boon's intellectual untidiness that

for a time he should go off at a tangent in pursuit of Mr. Henry James

and leave his literary picnic disseminate about the ground of Mr.

Mallock's villa. there, indeed, they remain. the story when he take

it up again pick up at quite a different point.



I remember how Boon sit on the wall of his vegetable garden and

discourse upon James, while several of we squat about on the

cucumber-frame and big flowerpot and suchlike seat, and how over

the wall Ford Madox Hueffer be beat Wilkins at Badminton. Hueffer

want to come and talk too; James be one of his countless

subject--and what an omniscient man he be too!--but Wilkins be too

cross to let he off....



so that all that Hueffer be able to contribute be an exhortation not

to forget that Henry James know Turgenev and that he have know they

both, and a flat denial that Dickens be a novelist. this last be the

tail of that Pre-raphaelite feud begin in _household word_, oh!

generation ago....



"got you there, my boy!" say Wilkins. "Seven, twelve."



we hear no more from Hueffer.



"you see," Boon say, "you cann't now talk of literature without go

through James. James be unavoidable. James be to criticism what

Immanuel Kant be to philosophy--a partially comprehensible essential,

an inevitable introduction. if you understand what James be up to and

if you understand what James be not up to, then you be place. you

be in the middle of the critical arena. you be in a position to lay

about you with significance. otherwise....



"I want to get this Hallery of mine, who be to be the hero of 'the

Mind of the race,' into a discussion with Henry James, but that, you

know, be easy say than imagine. hallery be to be one of those

enthusiastic thinker who emit highly concentrated opinion in gobbet,

suddenly. James--isn't...."



Boon meditate upon his difficulty. "Hallery's idea of literature be

something tremendously comprehensive, something that pierce always

down towards the core of thing, something that carry and change

all the activity of the race. this sort of thing."



he read from a scrap of paper--



"'the thought of a community be the life of that community, and if the

collective thought of a community be disconnect and fragmentary,

then the community be collectively vain and weak. that do not

constitute an incidental defect but essential failure. though that

community have city such as the world have never see before, fleet

and host and glory, though it count its soldier by the army corps

and its child by the million, yet if it hold not to the reality of

thought and formulate will beneath these outward thing, it will

pass, and all its glory will pass, like smoke before the wind, like

mist beneath the sun; it will become at last only one more vague and

fade dream upon the scroll of time, a heap of mound and pointless

history, even as be Babylon and Nineveh.'"



"I've hear that before somewhere," say Dodd.



"Most of this dialogue will have to be quotation," say Boon.



"he make literature include philosophy?"



"everything. it's all the central thing. it's the large Bible to

he, a thing about which all the conscious direction of life revolve.

it's alive with passion and will. or if it ben't, then it ought to

be.... and then as the antagonist come this artist, this man who

seem to regard the whole seething brew of life as a vat from which

you skim, with slow, dignified gesture, work of art. ... work of

art whose only claim be their art.... hallery be go to be very

impatient about art."



"ought there to be such a thing as a literary artist?" some one say.



"ought there, in fact, to be Henry James?" say Dodd.



"I don't think so. hallery willn't think so. you see, the discussion

will be very fundamental. there's contributory art, of course, and a

way of do thing well or bad. just as there be in war, or

cooking. but the way of do ben't the end. first the end must be

judge--and then if you like talk of how it be do. get there as

splendidly as possible. but get there. James and George Moore, neither

of they take it like that. they leave out get there, or the thing

they get to be so trivial as to amount to scarcely more than an

omission...."



Boon reflect. "in early life both these man poison their mind in

studio. thought about picture even might be less studio-ridden than

it be. but James have never discover that a novel ben't a picture....

that life ben't a studio....



"he want a novel to be simply and completely _do_. he want it to

have a unity, he demand homogeneity.... why _should_ a book have

that? for a picture it's reasonable, because you have to see it all at

once. but there's no need to see a book all at once. it's like want

to have a whole county do in one style and period of architecture.

it's like insist that a walk tour must stick to one valley....



"but James _begin_ by take it for grant that a novel be a work of

art that must be judge by its oneness. judge first by its oneness.

some one give he that idea in the beginning of thing and he have

never find it out. he don't find thing out. he don't even seem

to want to find thing out. you can see that in he; he be eager to

accept thing--elaborately. you can see from his book that he accept

etiquette, precedence, association, claim. that be his

peculiarity. he accept very readily and then--elaborate. he have, I

be convince, one of the strong, most abundant mind alive in the

whole world, and he have the small penetration. indeed, he have no

penetration. he be the culmination of the superficial type. or else he

would have go into philosophy and be great even than his

wonderful brother.... but here he be, spin about, like the most

tremendous of water-boatman--you know those insects?--kept up by

surface tension. as if, when once he pierce the surface, he would

drown. it's incredible. a water-boatman as big as an elephant. I be

read he only yesterday 'the Golden Bowl'; it's dazzle how never

for a moment do he go through."



"recently he's be explain himself," say Dodd.



"his 'note on Novelists.' it's one sustained demand for the picture

effect. which be the denial of the sweet complexity of life, of the

pointing this way and that, of the spider on the throne. philosophy

aim at a unity and never get there.... that true unity which we all

suspect, and which no one attain, if it be to be get at all it be to

be get by penetrate, penetrate down and through. the picture, on

the other hand, be force to a unity because it can see only one

aspect at a time. I be doubtful even about that. think of Hogarth or

Carpaccio. but if the novel be to follow life it must be various and

discursive. life be diversity and entertainment, not completeness and

satisfaction. all action be half-hearted, shoot delightfully with

wander thought--about something else. all true story be a feel

of irrelevance. but James set out to make his novel with the

presupposition that they can be make continuously relevant. and

perceive the discordant thing, he try to get rid of they. he set

himself to pick the straw out of the hair of life before he paint

she. but without the straw she be no long the mad woman we love. he

talk of 'selection,' and of make all of a novel definitely _about_

a theme. he object to a 'saturation' that ben't orient. and he

object, if you go into it, for no clear reason at all. follow up

his conception of selection, see what in his own practice he omit. in

practice James's selection become just omission and nothing more. he

omit everything that demand digressive treatment or collateral

statement. for example, he omit opinion. in all his novel you will

find no people with define political opinion, no people with

religious opinion, none with clear partisanship or with lust or

whim, none definitely up to any specific impersonal thing. there be

no poor people dominate by the imperative of Saturday night and

Monday morning, no dream type--and don't we all more or less live

dream? and none be ever decently forgetful. all that much of

humanity he clear out before he begin his story. it's like clean

rabbit for the table.



"but you see how relentlessly it follow from the supposition that the

novel be a work of art aim at pictorial unity!



"all art too acutely self-centre come to this sort of thing. James's

denature people be only the equivalent in fiction of those

egg-face, black-haired lady, who sit and sit, in the japanese

colour-print, the unresisting stuff for an arrangement of black....



"then with the eviscerated people he have invent he begin to make up

story. what story they be! concentrate on suspicion, on a gift,

on possess a 'piece' of old furniture, on what a little girl may or

may not have note in an emotional situation. these people clear for

artistic treatment never make lusty love, never go to angry war, never

shout at an election or perspire at poker; never in any way _date_....

and upon the petty residuum of human interest leave to they they focus

mind of a jamesian calibre....



"the only live human motive leave in the novel of Henry James be a

certain avidity, and an entirely superficial curiosity. even when

relation be irregular or when sin be hint at, you feel that

these be merely attitude take up, gambit before the game of

attainment and over-perception begin.... his people nose out

suspicion, hint by hint, link by link. have you ever know living

human being do that? the thing his novel be _about_ be always there.

it be like a church light but without a congregation to distract you,

with every light and line focus on the high altar. and on the altar,

very reverently place, intensely there, be a dead kitten, an

egg-shell, a bit of string.... like his 'Altar of the Dead,' with

nothing to the dead at all.... for if there be they couldn't all be

candle and the effect would vanish.... and the elaborate, copious

emptiness of the whole Henry James exploit be only redeem and make

endurable by the elaborate, copious wit. upon the desert his selection

have make Henry James erect palatial metaphor.... the chief fun, the

only exercise, in read Henry James be this clambering over vast

metaphor....



"having first make sure that he have scarcely anything leave to express,

he then set to work to express it, with an industry, a wealth of

intellectual stuff that dwarf Newton. he spare no resource in the

telling of his dead invention. he bring up every device of language

to state and define. Bare verb he rarely tolerate. he split his

infinitive and fill they up with adverbial stuffing. he press the

pass colloquialism into his service. his vast paragraph sweat and

struggle; they could not sweat and elbow and struggle more if God

himself be the processional meaning to which they seek to come. and

all for tale of nothingness.... it be leviathan retrieving pebble.

it be a magnificent but painful hippopotamus resolve at any cost,

even at the cost of its dignity, upon pick up a pea which have get

into a corner of its den. Most thing, it insist, be beyond it, but

it can, at any rate, modestly, and with an artistic singleness of

mind, pick up that pea...."





§ 4



"a little while ago," say Boon, suddenly struggle with his trouser

pocket and produce some piece of paper, "I sketch out a novel,

and as it be rather in the manner of Henry James I think perhaps you

might be interested by it now. so much, that is, as there be of it. it

be to be call 'the Spoils of Mr. Blandish,' and it be all about this

particular business of the selective life. Mr. Blandish, as I see he,

be pretty completely take from the James ideal.... he be a man with

an exquisite apprehension of particular, with just that sense of

there be a rightness attainable, a fitness, a charm, a finish....

in any little affair.... he believe that in speech and still more

that in writing there be an inevitable right word, in action great

and small a mellowed etiquette, in everything a possible perfection.

he be, in fact, the very soul of Henry James--as I understand it....

this sort of man--



[illustration: _Mr. Blandish go delicately through life. "oh no! oh

no! but _yes!_ and _this be it!_"_]



"go delicately."



I be able to secure the sketch.



"he don't marry, he don't go upon adventure; lust, avarice,

ambition, all these thing that as Milton say be to be get 'not

without dust and heat,' be not for he. blood and dust and heat--he

rule they out. but he have independent mean, he could live freely and

delicately and charmingly, he could travel and meet and be delight

by all the good sort of people in the good sort of place. so for

year he enrich his resonance, as an admirable violin grow rich

with every note it sound. he go about elaborately, avoid

ugliness, death, suffering, industrialism, politic, sport, the

thought of war, the red blaze of passion. he travel widely in the

more settled part of the world. chiefly he visit interesting and

ancient place, put his ever more exquisite sensorium at they,

consciously take delicate impression upon the refined wax of his

be. in a manner most carefully occasional, he write. always of

fade place. his 'Ypres' be wonderful. his 'bruge' and his 'Hour of

Van Eyk'....



"such," say Boon, "be the hero. the story begin, oh! quite in the

James manner with----" he read--



"'at time it seem inaccessible, a thing beyond hope, beyond

imagining, and then at time it become so concrete an imagination, a

desire so specific, so nearly express, as to grow if not to the

exact particular of longitude and latitude, yet at any rate so far as

county and district and atmosphere be concern, so far indeed as an

intuition of proximity be concern, an intimation that make it seem

at last at certain moment as if it could not possibly be very much

far than just round the corner or over the crest....'



"but I've leave a good bit of that to write up. in the book there will

be page and sheet of that sentence. the gist be that Mr. Blandish

want a house to live in and that he have an idea of the kind of house

he want. and the chapter, the long, unresting, progress chapter,

expand and expand; it never jump you forward, it never let you

off, you cann't skip and you cann't escape, until there come at last a

culminate distension of statement in which you realize more and more

clearly, until you realize it with the unforgettable certainty of a

thing long fight for and win at last, that Mr. Blandish have actually

come upon the house and with a vigour of decision as vivid as a flash

of lightning in a wilderness of troubled cloud, as vivid indeed as

the loud, sonorous bursting of a long blow bladder, have say '_this

be it!_' on that '_this be it_' my chapter end, with an effect of

enormous relief, with something of the beautiful serenity that follow

a difficult parturition.



"the story be bear.



"and then we leap forward to possession.



"'and here he be, in the warm reality, in the very heart of the

materialization of his dream----' he have, in fact, get the house. for

a year or so from its first accidental discovery he have do nothing

but just covet the house; too fearful of an overwhelming

disappointment even to make a definite inquiry as to its

accessibility. but he have, you will gather, take apartment in the

neighbourhood, thither he visit frequently, and almost every day when

he walk abroad the coveted house draw he. it be in a little seaside

place on the east coast, and the only available walk be along the

shore or inland across the golf-link. either path offer tempting

digression towards _it_. he come to know it from a hundred aspect

and under a thousand condition of light and atmosphere.... and while

still in the early stage he begin a curious and delicious secret

practice in relationship. you have hear of the Spaniard in love, in

love with a woman he have see but once, whom he might never see again,

a princess, etiquette-defend, a goddess, and who yet, see a

necklace that become she, buy it for the joy of own something

that be at least by fitness her. even so do Mr. Blandish begin to

buy first one little article and then, the fancy grow upon he more

and more, thing, 'piece' they call they, that be in the vein of

Samphire House. and then come the day, the wonderful day, when as he

take his afternoon feast of the eye, the door open, some one come

out towards he....



"it be incredible. they be give he tea with hot, inadvisable

scone--but their hotness, their close heaviness, he accept with a

ready devotion, would have accept have they be ten time as hot and

close and heavy, not heedlessly, indeed, but gratefully, willingly

pay his price for these astonishing revelation that without an

effort, serenely, calmly, drop in between her gentle demand

whether he would have milk and her mild inquiry as to the exact

quantity of sugar his habit and hygienic outlook demand, that his

hostess so casually make. these generous, heedless people be talk

of departure, of abandonment, of, so they put it, sell the dear

old place, if indeed any one could be find to buy a place so old and

so remote and--she point her intention with a laugh--so very, very

dear. repletion of scone be a small price to pay for such a

glowing, such an incredible gift of opportunity, thrust thus straight

into the willing, amazed hand....



"he get the house. he have it do up. he furnish it, and every

article of furniture seem a stroke of luck too good to be true. and

to crown it all I be go to write one of those long crescendo

passage that James love, a sentence, page of it, of happy event

link to happy event until at last the incredible completion, a

butler, unquestionably early georgian, respectability, competence

equally unquestionable, a wife who could cook, and cook well, no

child, no thought or possibility of child, and to crown all, the

perfect name--Mutimer!



[illustration: _Mutimer at first._]



"all this you must understand be tell retrospectively as Blandish

install himself in Samphire House. it be tell to the refrain, 'still,

fresh every morning, come the persuasion "this be too good to be

true."' and as it be tell, something else, by the most imperceptible

degree, by a gathering up of hint and allusion and point

detail, get itself tell too, and that be the grow realization in

the mind of Blandish of a something extra, of something not quite

bargain for,--the hoard and the haunting. about the house hang a

presence....



"he have take it at first as a mere picturesque accessory to the whole

picturesque and delightful wreathing of association and tradition

about the place, that there should be this ancient flavour of the

cutlass and the keg, this faint aroma of bury doubloon and

stevensonian experience. he have assume, etc.... he have gather,

etc.... and it be in the most imperceptible manner that beyond his

sense of these taking and assumption and gathering there grow his

perception that the delicate quiver of appreciation, at first his

utmost tribute to these illegal and adventurous and sanguinary

association, be broaden and strengthen, be, one hardly know

whether to say develop or degenerating, into a nervous reaction,

more spinal and less equivocally agreeable, into the question, sense

rather than actually think or ask, whether in fact the place

don't in certain light and certain aspect and at certain

unfavourable moment come near to evoke the ghost--if such sorite

be permissible in the world of delicate shade--of the ghost, of the

ghost of a shiver--of _aversion_....



"and so at page a hundred and fifty or thereabout we begin to get

into the story," say Boon.



"you wade through endless marsh of subtle intimation, to a sense of

a Presence in Samphire House. for a number of page you be quite

unable to tell whether this be a ghost or a legend or a foreboding or

simply old-fashioned dream that be be allusively place before

you. but there be an effect pile up very wonderfully, of Mr.

Blandish, obsessed, uneasy, watch furtively and steadfastly his

guest, his caller, his domestic, continually ask himself, 'do

they note it? be they feel it?'



"we break at last into incident. a young friend of the impossible

name of Deshman help evolve the story; he come to stay; he seem to

feel the influence from the outset, he cannot sleep, he wander about

the house.... do other know? _other?_... the gardener take to

revisit the garden after nightfall. he be meet in the shrubbery

with an unaccountable spade in his hand and answer huskily. why

should a gardener carry a spade? why should he answer huskily? why

should the presence, the doubt, the sense of something else elusively

in the air about they, become intensify at the encounter? oh!

conceivably of course in many place, but just _there_! as some sort

of protection, it may be.... then suddenly as Mr. Blandish sit at his

lonely but beautifully serve dinner he become aware for the first

time of a change in Mutimer.



[illustration: _mutimer at the end of a year._]



"something tell he in that instant that Mutimer also _know_....



"Deshman come again with a new and disconcerting habit of tap the

panelling and measure the thickness of the wall when he think no

one be look, and then a sister of Mr. Blandish and a friend, a

woman, yet not so much a woman as a disembodied intelligence in a

feminine costume with one of those impalpable relationship with

Deshman that people have with one another in the world of Henry James,

an association of shadow, an atmospheric liaison. follow some almost

sentenceless conversation. Mr. Blandish walk about the shrubbery

with the friend, elaborately get at it--whatever it be--and in

front of they, now hide by the yew hedge, now fully in view, walk

Deshman with the married and settle sister of Mr. Blandish....



"'so,' say Mr. Blandish, press the point down towards the newly

discover sensitiveness, 'where we feel, he it seem _know_.'



"she seem to consider.



"'he don't know completely,' be her qualification.



"'but he have something--something tangible.'



"'if he can make it tangible.'



"on that the mind of Mr. Blandish play for a time.



"'then it ben't altogether tangible yet?'



"'it ben't tangible enough for he to go upon.'



"'definitely something.'



"her assent be mutely concise.



"'that we on our part----?'



"the _we_ seem to trouble she.



"'he know more than you do,' she yield.



"the gesture, the half turn, the momentary halt in the pace of Mr.

Blandish, ply she far.



"'More, I think, than he have admit--to any one.'



"'even to you?'



"he perceive an interesting wave of irritation. 'even to I,' he have

wring from she, but at the price of all further discussion.



"put the thing crassly," say Boon, "Deshman have get wind of a

hoard, of a treasure, of something--Heaven as yet only know what

something--bury, imbed, in some as yet unexplained way

incorporate with Samphire House. on the whole the stress lie rather

on treasure, the treasure of smuggling, of longshore practice, of

illegality on the high sea. and still clear be it that the amiable

Deshman want to get at it without the participation of Mr. Blandish.

until the very end you be never quite satisfied why Deshman want to

get at it in so private a fashion. as the plot thickens you be play

about between the conviction that Deshman want the stuff for himself

and the firm belief of the lady that against the possible intervention

of the Treasury, he want to secure it for Mr. Blandish, to secure it

at least generously if nefariously, lest perhaps it should fall under

the accepted definition and all the consequent confiscation of

treasure trove. and there be far beautiful subtlety as to

whether she really believe in this more kindly interpretation of the

refined but dubitable Deshman.... a friend of Deshman's, shameless

under the incredible name of Mimbleton, become entangle in this

thick, sweet flow of narrative--the James method of introduce a

character always remind I of go round with the lantern when one

be treacle for moth. Mimbleton have energy. he press. under a

summer dawn of delicious sweetness Mimbleton be find insensible on

the croquet lawn by Mr. Blandish, who, like most of the character in

the narrative from first to last, have be unable to sleep. and at the

near corner of the house, close to a never before remark ventilator,

be a hastily and inaccurately refilled excavation....



"then event come hurry in a sort of tangle haste--make

sibyl-like gesture.



"at the doorway Mutimer appear--sway with some profound emotion.

he be still in his evening attire. he have not yet go to bed. in

spite of the dawn he carry a burn candle--obliquely. at the sight

of his master he withdraw--backwards and with difficulty....



"then," say Boon, "I get my crown chapter: the breakfast, a

peculiar _something_, something almost palpable in the

atmosphere--Deshman hoarse and a little talkative, Mimbleton with a

possibly nervous headache, husky also and demand tea in a thick

voice, Mutimer wait uneasily, and Mr. Blandish, outwardly calm, yet

note every particular, think meaning into every word and

movement, and grow more and more clear in his conviction that

_Mutimer know--know everything_....



[illustration: _Mutimer as the plot thicken._]



"Book two open with Mr. Blandish practically in possession of the

fact. put the thing coarsely, the treasure is--1813 brandy, in

considerable quantity bricke up in a disuse cellar of Samphire

House. Samphire House, instead of be the fine claret of a refuge

Mr. Blandish suppose, be a loaded port. but of course in the novel we

shall not put thing coarsely, and for a long time you will be by no

mean clear what the 'spirit' be that Mr. Blandish be now resolve to

exorcise. he be, in fact, engage in try to get that brandy away,

try to de-alcoholize his existence, try--if one must put the

thing in all the concrete crudity of his fundamental intention--to

sell the stuff....



"now in real life you would just go and sell it. but people in the

novel of Henry James do not do thing in the inattentive, offhand,

rather confused, and partial way of reality: they bring enormous

brain to bear upon the minute particular of existence. Mr.

Blandish, follow the law of that world, have not simply to sell his

brandy: he have to sell it subtly, intricately, interminably, with a

delicacy, with a dignity....



"he consult friend--impalpable, intricate, inexhaustible friend.



"there be misunderstanding. one old and trust intimate conclude

rather hastily that Mr. Blandish be confess that he have write a

poem, another that he be make a proposal of marriage, another that

he wish an introduction to the secretary of the Psychical Research

Society.... all this," say Boon, "remain, perhaps indefinitely, to

be work out. only the end, the end, come with a rush. Deshman have

find for he--one never get near to it than the 'real right

people.' the real right people send their agent down, a curious blend

of gentleman and commercial person he be, to investigate, to verify,

to estimate quantity. ultimately he will--shall we say it?--make an

offer. with a sense of immense culmination the reader at last

approach the hoard....



"you be never tell the thing exactly. it be by indefinable

suggestion, by exquisite approach and starting back, by

circumlocution the most delicate, that your mind at last shape its

realization, that--the last drop of the last barrel have go and that

Mutimer, the butler, lie dead or at least helpless--in the inner

cellar. and a beautiful flavour, ripe and yet rare, rich without

opulence, hangs--_diminuendo morendo_--in the air...."









CHAPTER the FIFTH



of the Assembling and opening of the World Conference on the Mind of

the race





§ 1



it must be bear in mind that not even the opening chapter of this

huge book, "the mind of the race," be ever completely write. the

discussion in the Garden by the Sea exist merely so far as the

fragment of dialogue I have quote take it. I do not know what Mr.

Gosse contribute except that it be something bright, and that

presently he again lose his temper and wash his hand of the whole

affair and go off with Mr. Yeats to do a little Academy thing of

their own round a corner, and I do not know what become of the

emissary of Lord Northcliffe and Mr. Hearst. one conversation drop

out of mind and another begin; it be like the battle of the Aisne

pass slowly into the battle of the Yser. the idea develop into the

holding of a definite congress upon the Mind of the race at some

central place. I don't think Boon be ever very clear whether that

place be Chautauqua, or Grindelwald, or Stratford, or Oxford during

the Long Vacation, or the exhibition ground at San Francisco. it be,

at any rate, some such place, and it be a place that be speedily

placard with all sort of bill and notice and counsel, such as,

"to the Central Hall," or "section B: Criticism and Reviewing," or

"Section M: Prose Style," or "Authors' Society (british) solicitor'

Department," or "exhibit of the Reading Room of the British Museum."



manifestly the model of a meeting of the British Association for the

Advancement of Science dominate his mind more and more, until at last

he begin to concoct a presidential address. and he invent a man

call J. B. Pondlebury, very active and illiterate, but an excellent

organizer, train by Selfridge, that Marshal Field of London, who be

very directive throughout. J. B. Pondlebury order the special train,

contrive impossible excursion, organize garden fête and water

party, keep people together who would prefer to be separate, and

break up people who have be get together. through all these

thing drift Hallery, whose writing start the idea, and sometimes

he be almost, as it be, leader and sometimes he be like a drown

body in the torrent below Niagara--Pondlebury be Niagara.



on the whole the atmosphere of the great conference be american, and

yet I distinctly remember that it be the Special Train to Bâle of

which he give we an account one afternoon; it be a night journey of

considerable eventfulness, with two adjacent carriage de luxe

label respectively "specially reserve for Miss Marie Corelli," and

"specially reserve for Mr. and Mrs. George Bernard Shaw," with

conspicuous reiteration. the other compartment be less exclusive,

and contain curious mingling of greatness, activity, and

reputation. Sir J. M. Barrie have an upper berth in a _wagon-light_,

where he remain sympathetically silent above a crowd of young

reputation, a crowd too numerous to permit the making of the low

berth and overflow into the corridor. I remember Boon keep jam

new people into that congestion. the whole train, indeed, be to be

fearfully overcrowded. that be part of the joke. James Joyce I recall

as a novelist strange to I that Boon insist be a "first-rater." he

represent he as be of immense size but extreme bashfulness. and

he talk about D. H. Lawrence, St. John Ervine, Reginald Wright

Kauffman, Leonard Merrick, Viola Meynell, Rose Macaulay, Katherine

Mansfield, Mary Austin, Clutton Brock, Robert Lynd, James Stephens,

Philip Guedalla, H. M. Tomlinson, Denis Garstin, Dixon Scott, Rupert

Brooke, Geoffrey Young, F. S. Flint, Marmaduke Pickthall, Randolph S.

Bourne, James Milne----



"through all the jam, I think we must have Ford Madox Hueffer,

wander to and fro up and down the corridor, with distraught blue

eye, lay his hand on head and shoulder, the Only Uncle of the

Gifted Young, talk in a languid, plangent tenor, now boast about

triviality, and now make familiar criticism (which be invariably

ill-received), and occasionally quite absent-mindedly produce

splendid poetry...."



like most author who have make their way to prominence and profit,

Boon be keenly sympathetic with any new writer who promise to do

interesting work, and very ready with his praise and recognition. that

disposition in these writing, prolific time would alone have choke

the corridor. and he like young people even when their promise be

not exactly convincing. he hate to see a good book neglect, and be

for ever ram "the Crystal Age" and "say the Fisherman" and "Tony

Drum" and "George's Mother" and "a Hind let Loose" and "Growing Pains"

down the throat of his visitor. but there be very human and

definite limit to his appreciation. conspicuous success, and

particularly conspicuous respectable success, chill his generosity.

Conrad he could not endure. I do he no wrong in mention that; it

be the way with most of we; and a score of flourish contemporary

who might have like ticket for the Conference special would have

find great difficulty in get they.



there be a fascination in pass judgement and draw up class

list. for a time the high intention of the mind of the race be

forget while we talk the narrow "shop" of London literary

journalism, and discover and weigh and log-roll and--in the case

of the more establish--blame and condemn. that Bâle train become

less and less like a train and more and more like a descriptive

catalogue.



for the good part of an afternoon we talk of the young and the new,

and then we fall into a discussion about such reputation as

Pickthall's and W. H. Hudson's and the late Stephen Crane's,

reputation ridiculously less than they ought to be, so that these

writer, who be certainly as securely classic as Beckford or Herrick,

be still unknown to half the educate English read public. be it

due to the haste of criticism or the illiteracy of publisher? that

question lead we so far away from the special Bâle train that we never

return to it. but I know that we decide that the real and

significant writer be to be only a small portion of the crowd that

congest the train; there be also to be endless impostor,

imitator, editor, raider of the world of print.... at every

important station there be to be a frightful row about all these

people's ticket, and violent attempt to remove doubtful case....

then Mr. Clement K. Shorter be to come in to advise and help the

conductor.... ultimately this lead to trouble about Mr. Shorter's own

credential....



some of Boon's joke about this train be, to say the good of they,

obvious. Mr. Compton Mackenzie be in trouble about his excess

luggage, for example. Mr. Upton Sinclair, having carry out his ideal

of an innocent frankness to a logical completeness in his travel

equipment, be forcibly wrap in blanket by the train official.

Mr. Thomas Hardy have a first-class ticket but travel by choice or

mistake in a second-class compartment, his deserted place be

subsequently occupy by that promise young novelist Mr. Hugh

Walpole, provide with a beautiful fur rug, a fit dressing-bag, a

write slope, a gold-nib fountain pen, innumerable introduction,

and everything that a promising young novelist can need. the brother

Chesterton, Mr. Maurice Baring, and Mr. Belloc sit up all night in the

_wagon-restaurant_ consume beer enormously and converse upon

immortality and whether it extend to semitic and oriental person. at

the end of the train, I remember, there be to have be a horse-van

contain Mr. Maurice Hewlett's charger--Mr. Hewlett himself, I

believe, be leave behind by accident at the Gare de Lyons--Mr.

Cunninghame Graham's arab steed, and a large, quiet sheep, the

inseparable pet of Mr. Arthur Christopher Benson....



there be also, I remember, a description of the whole party run

for early coffee, which give Boon ample and regrettable opportunity

for speculation upon the _déshabille_ of his contemporary. much of

the detail of that invention I prefer to forget, but I remember Mr.

Shaw be fully prepared for the emerge with hand-paint pyjama,

over which he be wear a saffron dressing-gown decorate in green

and purple scroll by one of the bold artist associate with Mr.

Roger Fry, and as these special train allusion be all that I can

ever remember Boon say about Shaw, and as the drawing do in

itself amount to a criticism, I give it here....



[illustration: _how Mr. Shaw knock they all on Bâle platform, and

get right into the middle of the picture. Remark his earnest face.

this surely be no mountebank._]





§ 2



Boon be greatly exercise over the problem of a president.



"why have a president?" Dodd help.



"there must be a Presidential Address," say Boon, "and these thing

always do have a president."



"Lord Rosebery," suggest Wilkins.



"Lord Morley," say Dodd.



"Lord Bryce."



then we look at one another.



"for my own part," say Boon, "if we be go in for that sort of

thing, I favour Lord Reay.



"you see, Lord Reay have never do anything at all connect with

literature. Morley and Bryce and Rosebery have at any rate write

thing--historical study, address, thing like that--but Reay have

never write anything, and he let Gollancz make he president of the

British Academy without a murmur. this seem to mark he out for this

further distinction. he be just the sort of man who would be make--and

who would let himself be make--president of a british affair of this

sort, and they would hoist he up and he would talk for two or three

hour without a blush. just like that other confound peer--what be

his name?--who bored and bored and bore at the Anatole France

dinner.... in the natural course of thing it would be one of these

literary lord...."



"what would he say?" ask Dodd.



"maundering, of course. it will make the book rather dull. I doubt if

I can report he at length.... he will speak upon contemporary

letter, the lack of current achievement.... I doubt if a man like

Lord Reay ever read at all. one wonder sometimes what these british

literary aristocrat do with all their time. probably he leave off

read somewhere in the eighty. he willn't have note it, of course,

and he will be under the impression that nothing have be write for

the past thirty year."



"Good Lord!" say Wilkins.



"and he'll say that. slowly. steadily. endlessly. then he will thank

God for the english classic, ask where now be our Thackeray? where

now our Burns? our Charlotte Brontë? our Tennyson? say a good word for

our immortal bard, and sit down amidst the loud applause of thousand

of speechlessly furious british and american writer...."



"I don't see that this will help your book forward," say Dodd.



"no, but it's a proper way of beginning. like Family Prayers."



"I suppose," say Wilkins, "if you tell a man of that sort that there

be more and well poet write in English beautifully in 1914 than

ever before he wouldn't believe it. I suppose if you say that Ford

Madox Hueffer, for example, have produce sweet and deep poetry

than Alfred, Lord Tennyson, he'd have a fit."



"he'd have nothing of the kind. you could no more get such an idea

into the head of one of these great vestige of our gladstonian day

than you could get it into the seat of a Windsor chair.... and people

don't have fit unless something have get into they.... no, he'd

reflect quite calmly that first of all he'd never hear of this

Hueffer, then that probably he be a very young man. and, anyhow, one

don't meet he in important place.... and after inquiry he would

find out he be a journalist.... and then probably he'd cease to

cerebrate upon the question...."





§ 3



"besides," say Boon, "we must have one of our literary peer because

of America."



"you're unjust to America," I say.



"no," say Boon. "but Aunt Dove--I know her way."



that lead to a long, ramble discussion about the american literary

atmosphere. nothing that I could say would make he relent from his

emphatic assertion that it be a spinster atmosphere, an atmosphere in

which you cann't say all sort of thing and where all sort of thing

have to be specially phrased. "and she cann't stand young thing and

crude things----"



"America!" say Wilkins.



"the America I mean. the sort of America that ought to supply young

new writer with caress and--nourishment. ...instead of which you

get the _nation_.... that bleak acidity, that refined appeal to take

the child away."



"but they don't produce new young writer!" say Wilkins.



"but they do!" say Boon. "and they strangle they!"



it be extraordinary what a power metaphor and fancy have upon Boon.

only those who know he intimately can understand how necessary Miss

Bathwick be to he. he would touch a metaphor and then return and sip

it, and then sip and drink and swill until it have intoxicate he

hopelessly.



"America," say Boon, "can produce such a supreme writer as Stephen

Crane--the good writer of English for the last half-century--or Mary

Austin, who use to write---- what other woman could touch she? but

America willn't own such child. it's amazing. it's a case of

concealment of birth. she expose they. whether it's Shame--or a

chinese trick.... she'll sit never know she's have a Stephen Crane,

adore the european reputation, the florid mental gesture of a

Conrad. you see, she can tell Conrad 'write.' it show. and she'll

let Mary Austin die of neglect, while she worship the 'art' of Mary

Ward. it's like turn from the foot of a goddess to a pair of

golosh. she firmly believe that old quack Bergson be a big man

than her own unapproachable William James.... she's incredible. I tell

you it's only conceivable on one supposition.... I'd never think

before about these disgraceful sidelight on Miss Dove's career....



"we English do make foundling of some of her little victim,

anyhow.... but why haven't she any natural instinct in the matter?



"now, if one represent that peculiar bostonian intellectual

gentility, the _nation_ kind of thing, as a very wicked, sour

lady's-maid with a tremendous influence over the Spinster's

conduct...."



his mind be run on.



"I begin to see a melodramatic strain in this great novel, 'Miss

Dove.'... 'Miss Dove's derelict.'... too broad, I be afraid. if one

be to represent Sargent and Henry James as two child leave out one

cold night in a basket at a cottage in the village by a mysterious

stranger, with nothing but a roll of dollar and a rough drawing of

the Washington coat-of-arm to indicate their parentage....



"then when they grow up they go back to the big house and she's almost

kind to they....



"have you ever read the critical article of Edgar Allan Poe? they're

very remarkable. he be always demand an American Literature. it be

like a deserted baby leave to die in its cradle, weeping and wail

for its bottle.... what he want, of course, be honest and

intelligent criticism.



"to this day America kill her Poes...."



"but confound it!" say Wilkins, "America do make discovery for

herself. haven't she discover Lowes Dickinson?"



"but that merely help my case. Lowes Dickinson have just the quality

that take the american judgement; he carry the shadow of King's

College Chapel about with he wherever he go; he have an unobtrusive

air of be doubly star in Baedeker and not think anything of

it. and also she take Noyes to her bosom. but when have american

criticism ever have the intellectual pluck to proclaim an American?



"and so, you see," he remark, go off again at a tangent, "if we

be go to bid for american adhesion there's only one course open

to we in the matter of this presidential address.... Lord Morley...."



"you're a little difficult to follow at time," say Wilkins.



"because he's the man who's safe not to say anything about baby

or--anything alive.... obviously a literary congress in America must

be a festival in honour of sterility.



"Aunt Dove demand it. like celebrate the virginity of Queen

Elizabeth...."





§ 4



I find among the fragment of my depart friend some note that seem

to I to be more or less relevant here. they be an incomplete report

of the proceeding of a section S, devote to _Poiometry_, apparently

the scientific measurement of literary greatness. it seem to have

be under the control of a special committee, include Mr. James

Huneker, Mr. Slosson, Sir Thomas Seccombe, Mr. James Douglas, Mr.

Clement K. Shorter, the act editor of the _Bookman_, and the

competition editress of the _Westminster Gazette_....



apparently the note refer to some paper read before the section. its

authorship be not state, nor be there any account of its reception.

but the title be "the Natural history of Greatness, with especial

reference to Literary Reputations."



the opening be evidently one of those rapid historical sketch

frequent in such paper.



"persuasion that human being be sometimes of disproportionate size

appear first in the egyptian and syrian wall painting.... probably

innate.... the discouragement of the young a social necessity in all

early society. in all society?... exaggerated story about the

depart.... golden age. heroic age. Ancestor worship.... dead dog

well than live lion.... Abraham. Moses. the homeric reputation,

the first great literary cannot. resentment against Homer's exaggerated

claim on the part of intelligent people. Zoilus. Caricature of the

Homerists in the Satyricon. other instance of unorthodox ancient

criticism.... Shakespeare as an intellectual nuisance.... extreme

suffering cause to contemporary writer by the Shakespeare legend....



"another form of opposition to these obsession be the creation of

countervail reputation. certain people in certain age have

resolve to set up great Men of their own to put beside these Brocken

spectre from the past. this mark a certain stage of social

development, the beginning of self-consciousness in a civilized

community. self-criticism always begin in self-flattery. Virgil as an

early instance of a Great Man of set intention; deliberately put up

as the Latin Homer....



"Evolution of the greatness of Aristotle during the Middle Ages.



"little sense of contemporary Greatness among the Elizabethans.



"Comparison with the past the prelude to great-man-making, begin with

such a work as Swift's 'battle of the Books.' concurrently the decline

in religious feeling rob the past of its half-mystical prestige. the

western world ripe for Great Men in the early nineteenth century. the

Germans as a highly competitive and envious people take the lead. the

inflation of Schiller. the greatness of Goethe. incredible dullness of

"Elective affinity," of "Werther," of "Wilhelm Meister's

apprenticeship." the second part of "Faust" a tiresome muddle. large

pretentiousness of the man's career. resolve of the Germans to have a

Great Fleet, a Great Empire, a Great Man. difficulty in find a

suitable German for greatene. expansion of the Goethe legend. german

efficiency bring to bear on the task. lecture. professor. Goethe

compare to Shakespeare. compare to Homer. compare to Christ.

compare to God. discover to be incomparable....



"stimulation of Scotch activity. the Scotch also passionately and

aggressively patriotic. fortunate smallness of Scotland and lack of

adjacent docile Germans have alone save the world from another

Prussia. desperation of the search for a real Scotch First Rater. the

discovery that Burns be as great as Shakespeare. great. the booming

of Sir Walter Scott. wake up, England! the production of Dickens. the

slow but enormous discovery of Wordsworth. victorian age set up as a

rival to the Augustine. selection of Great Men in every department.

the great victorian painter. Sir Frederick Leighton, compare with

Titian and Michael Angelo. Tennyson as Virgil. Lord Tennyson at the

crest of the Victorian Greatness wave. his hair. his cloak. his noble

bearing. his aloofness. his Great Pipe. his price per word. his

intellectual familiarity with Queen Victoria....



"longfellow essentially an american repartee....



"Ingratitude of British Royal Family to those who contribute to the

victorian Greatness period, show in the absence of representative

Great Men from the Buckingham Palace Monument. Victoria do not do it

all. compare the Albert Memorial....



"interesting task to plan an alternative pedestal. proposal to make

design for a monument to our own time. symbolic corner group by

Will Dyson. Frieze of representative man by Max. Canopy by Wyndham

Lewis. lose opportunity for much bright discussion....



"analysis of literary greatness. be any literary achievement essential

to greatness? probably a minute minimum indispensable. Burns.

Fitzgerald. but compare Lord Acton and Lord Reay. necessity of a

mark personality. weakness, but no unpopular vice. greatness

blight by want of dignity. Laurence Sterne. reciprocal duty of those

make great not to distress their public. but imperfectly establish

scandal or complexity of relationship may give scope for vindication

and research. or a certain irregularity of life may create a loyal and

devoted following of sympathizer. Shelley.... then capable advocacy

be need and a critical world large enough to be effective but small

enough to be unanimous. part an able publisher may play in

establish and develop a great Man.... Quiet Push, not Noisy

Push. Injury do by tactless advertisement.... the element of

luck....



"these be the seed of greatness, but the growth depend upon the

soil. the good soil be a large uncritical public newly come to

reading, a little suspicious of the propriety of the practice and in a

state of intellectual snobbishness. it must also be fairly uniform and

on some common basis of idea. ideally represent by the reading

public of Germany, Britain, the United States, and France in the

middle nineteenth century....



"Decline in the output of Greatness towards the end of the victorian

time. probably due in all case to an enlargement of the reading

public to unmanageable dimension. no reputation sufficiently elastic

to cover it. the growth of Chicago, New York, and the West destroy

the preponderance of Boston in America, and the Civil War break the

succession of American Great Men. rarity of new American-bear

Greatnesses after the war. dumping of establish greatness from

England give no chance to the native market. no Protection for America

in this respect. in Great Britain the board school create big masse

of intelligent people inaccessible to the exist machinery by which

Greatness be impose. the Greatness output in Britain decline also in

consequence. Mrs. Humphry Ward, the last of the british Victorian

Great. express admiration of Mr. Gladstone for her work. support of

the _spectator_. profound respect of the american people. Rumour that

she be represent as a sea goddess at the base of the Queen Victoria

Memorial unfounded. nobody be represent on the Queen Victoria

Memorial except Queen Victoria.... necessity after the epoch of Mrs.

Ward of more and more flagrant advertisement to reach the enlarged

public, so that at last touch be lose with the critical centre. great

Men beyond the Limit. self-explode candidate for Greatness.

boomster. good seller. Mr. Hall Caine as the shocking example....



"other cause contribute to the decay of Greatness among literary

man. competition of politician, prince, personage generally for the

prestige of the literary man. superior initial advantage in

conspicuousness. the genuine writer handicap. the process already

begin at the crest of the period. Queen Victoria's 'Leaves from a

Highland Diary.' Mr. Gladstone and the high windiness. later

development. the Kaiser as a man of letter. Mr. Roosevelt as writer

and critic. the essay of President Wilson. the case of Lord Rosebery.

Mr. Haldane as a philosopher. as a critic. his opinion of Goethe.

compare the royal and noble author of Byzantium. compare the Roman

Emperor become Pontifex Maximus. compare the cannibal chief in a

general's hat....



"return of the literary man as such to a decent obscurity. from which

they be unlikely to emerge again. this an unmixed blessing. so long

as good writing and sound thinking be still appreciate the less we

hear about author the well. never so little recognize Greatness

and never so much wise, subtle, sweet, and boldly conceive literary

work as now. this will probably continue. [he be write before the

war.] the English-read literary world too large now for the

operation of greatene. doubtful case of Rabindranath Tagore.

discuss this. special suitability of India as a basis for Greatness.

India probably on the verge of a Greatness period....



"disrespect a natural disposition in the young. checked and subdue in

small society, but now happily rampant in the uncontrollable

English-speak community. the new (undignified) criticism. the

_English Review_. Mr. Austin Harrison and the street-boy style. the

literature of the chalk fence. the _New Age_. literary carbolic

acid--with an occasional substitution of vitriol.... insurrection of

the feminine mind against worship. Miss Rebecca West as the last birth

of time. a virile-minded generation of young woman indicate. Mrs.

Humphry Ward blush publicly for the _Freewoman_ in the _Times_.

Hitherto Greatness have demand the applause of youth and feminine

worship as necessary condition. as necessary to its early stage as

down to an eider chick. impossible to imagine Incipient Greatness

nestle comfortably upon Orage, Austin Harrison, and Rebecca West.

Dearth of young Sidney Colvins.... unhappy position of various

derelict and still imperfectly develop great surviving from the old

time. Arnold Bennett as an aborted Great Man. would have make a great

victorian and have a crowd of satellite helper. now no one will ever

treasure his old hat and pipe....



"idea of an experimental resurrection of those who still live in our

heart. if Goethe have a second time on earth----? could he do it now?

would Lord Haldane perceive he? imaginary description of Lord

Haldane's recognition of a youthful Goethe. they meet by accident

during a walk tour in Germany. amiable aloofness of Lord Haldane.

his gradual discovery of an intellectual superior in his modest

companion. public proclamation of his find.... doubt....



"Peroration. will the world be happy without Literary Greatnesses?

Improvise and take a cheerful line upon this question."



[illustration: _Miss Rebecca West, pensive, after write she

well-know opinion of that Great Good Woman-Soul, Miss Ellen Key._]





§ 5



ultimately, against every possibility of the case, Boon decide that

the President of his conference must be Hallery. and he write his

presidential address. but he never read that address to we. some

shyness I think restrain he. I dig it out here now for the first

time, a little astonished at it, dispose to admire something in its

spirit.... but yet one have to admit that it show an extraordinary

lapse from Boon's accustomed mocking humour.



here be the opening.



"hallery then advance to the edge of the platform and fumble with

his manuscript. his face be very white and his expression bitterly

earnest. with an appearance of effort he begin, omit in his

nervousness any form of address to his audience--



"'for the most part, the life of human community have be as

unconscious as the life of animal. they have be bear as unknowingly

as the beast; they have follow unforeseen and unheeded destiny,

and destruction have come to they from force scarcely anticipate and

not understand. Tribes, nation beyond counting, have come and pass,

with scarcely a mental activity beyond a few legend, a priestly guess

at cosmogony, a few rumour and tradition, a list of king as bare as

a schoolboy's diary, a war or so, a triumph or so.... we be still

only in the beginning of history--in the development, that be, of a

racial memory; we have as yet hardly begin to inquire into our racial

origin, our racial condition, our racial future.... philosophy,

which be the discussion of the relation of the general to the

particular, of the whole to the part, of the great and yet vague life

of the race to the intense yet manifestly incomplete life of the

individual, be still not three thousand year old. Man have live

consciously as man it may be for hundred of thousand of year, he

have learn of himself by talk to his fellow, he have express

personal love and many personal feeling with a truth and beauty that

be well nigh final, but the race do but begin to live as a

conscious being. it begin to live as a conscious being, and as it

do so, the individual too begin to live in a new way, a great,

more understanding, and more satisfying way. his thought apprehend

interest beyond himself and beyond his particular life....'



"at this point Hallery become so acutely aware of his audience that

for some second he could not go on reading. a number of people in

various part of the hall have suddenly give way to their cough, a

bald-headed gentleman about the middle of the assembly have discover

a draught, and be silently but conspicuously negotiate for the

closing of a window by an attendant, and at the back a

cultivate-look young gentleman be steal out on tiptoe.



[illustration: _the first departure._]



"for a moment Hallery be distress by the thought that perhaps he

might have take a more amusing line than the one he have choose, and

then, realize how vain be such regret and rather quicken his

pace, he resume the reading of his address--



"'you see that I be begin upon a very comprehensive scale, for I

propose to bring within the scope of this conference all that arise

out of these two thing, out of the realization of the incompleteness

of man's individual life on the one hand and out of the realization of

a great being in which man live, of a large racial life and ampler

reference upon the other. all this much--and with a full awareness of

just how much it be--I be go to claim as literature and our

province. religion, I hold, every religion so far as it establish

and carry idea, be literature, philosophy be literature, science be

literature; a pamphlet or a lead article. I put all these thing

together----'



"at this point there be a second departure.



[illustration: _the second departure._]



almost immediately follow by a third.



[illustration: _the third departure._]



"Hallery halt for a second time and then grip the reading-desk

with both hand, and, read now with a steadily accelerate

velocity, heed his audience no more--



"'I put all these thing together because, indeed, it be only

association of antiquity and prescription and prestige can separate

they. altogether they constitute the great vague body of man's

super-personal mental life, his unselfish life, his grow life, as a

premeditating, self-conscious race and destiny. here in grow

volume, in this comprehensive literature of ours, preserve, select,

criticize, re-state, continually rather more fine, continually

rather more clarify, we have the mind, not of a mortal but of an

immortal adventurer. whom for the moment, fractionally,

infinitesimally, whenever we can forget ourselves in pure feeling, in

service, in creative effort or disintereste thought, we be

privileged in that measure to become. this wonder that we celebrate,

this literature, be the dawn of human divinity. . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .'"



but though Hallery go on, I do not, on reflection, think that I

will. I doubt if Boon ever decide to incorporate this extraordinary

Presidential Address in our book; I think perhaps he mean to revise

it or substitute something else. he want to state a case for the

extreme importance of literature, and to my mind he carry his

statement into region mystical, to say the least of it, and likely to

be consider blasphemous by many quite right-minded people. for

instance, he make Hallery speak of the word that link man's mind. he

bring our poor, mortal, mental activity into the most extraordinary

relationship with those great thing outside our life which it be

our duty to revere as much as possible and to think about as little as

possible; he draw no line between they.... he never, I say, read the

paper to we.... I cannot guess whether he do not read it to we

because he doubt himself or because he doubt we, and I do not even

care to examine my own mind to know whether I do or do not believe in

the thesis he set so unhesitatingly down. in a sense it be no doubt

true that literature be a kind of over-mind of the race, and in a

sense, no doubt, the Bible and the Koran, the Talmud and the Prayer

Book be literature. in a sense Mr. Upton Sinclair's "Bible" for

Socialists of bit from ancient and modern writing be literature. in

a sense, too, literature do go on rather like a continuous mind

think.... but I feel that all this be just in a sense.... I don't

really believe it. I be not quite sure what I do really believe, but I

certainly recoil from anything so crudely positive as Hallery's wild

assertion.... it would mean worship literature. or at least

worship the truth in literature....



of course, one know that real literature be something that have to do

with leisure and cultivate people and book and shade lamp and all

that sort of thing. but Hallery want to drag in not only cathedral

and sanctuary, but sky-sign and hoarding.... he want literature

to embrace whatever be in or whatever change the mind of the race,

except purely personal particular. and I think Boon be go to make

Hallery claim this, just in order to show up against these tremendous

significance the pettiness of the contemporary literary life, the

poverty and levity of criticism, the mean business side of modern

book-making and book-selling....



turn over the page of this reject address, which I be sure the

reader would not thank I for printing, I do come upon this

presentable passage, which illustrate what I be saying--



"so that every man who write to express or change or criticize an

idea, every man who observe and record a fact in the making of a

research, every man who hazard or test a theory, every artist of any

sort who really express, do thereby, in that very act,

participate, share in, become for just that instant when he be novel

and authentically _true_, the mind of the Race, the thinking divinity.

do you not see, then, what an arrogant worship, what a sacramental

thing it be to lift up brain and hand and say, '_I too will add_'? we

bring our little thought as the priest bring a piece of common bread

to consecration, and though we have produce but a couplet or a dozen

line of prose, we have nevertheless do the parallel miracle. and

all reading that be read with the mind, all conscious subjugation

of our attention to express beauty, or express truth, be

sacramental, be communion with the immortal being. we lift up our

thought out of the little fester pit of desire and vanity which be

one's individual self into that great self...."



so he talk, and again presently of "that world-wide immortal

communion incessant as the march of sun and planet amidst the

star...."



and then, go on with his vast comparison, for I cannot believe this

be more than a fantastic parallelism: "and if the mind that do, as

we say, create be like the wafer that have become miraculously divine,

then though you may not like to think of it, all you who give out

book, who print book and collect book, and sell book and lend

they, who bring picture to people's eye, set thing forth in

theatre, hand out thought in any way from the thinking to the

attentive mind, all you be priest, you do a priestly office, and

every bookstall and hoarding be a wayside shrine, offer consolation

and release to man and woman from the intolerable prison of their

narrow self...."





§ 6



that, I think, be what Boon really at the bottom of his heart feel and

believe about literature.



and yet in some way he could also not believe it; he could recognize

something about it that make he fill the margin of the manuscript of

this address with grotesque figure of an imaginary audience go

out. they be, I know, as necessary to his whole conception as his

swinge reference to the star; both be as much part of his

profound belief as the gargoyle on the spire and the high altar be

necessary part of a Gothic cathedral. and among other figure I be

amuse rather than hurt to find near the end this of myself--



[illustration: _too high-pitch even for Reginald._]









CHAPTER the SIXTH



of not like Hallery and the Royal Society for the Discouragement of

Literature





§ 1



in the same peculiar receptacle in which I find this presidential

address I find a quantity of other paper and scrap of paper, upon

which Boon, I should judge, have be think about that address and

why he be ashamed to produce it to we, and why he perceive that this

audience would dislike Hallery so much that he be oblige to admit

that they would go out before his lecture be finish, and why he

himself don't somehow like this Hallery that he have make. all these

writing be in the nature of fragment, some be illegible and more

be incomprehensible; but it be clear that his mind attack these

question with a most extraordinary width of reference. I find he

write about the one and the many, the General and the Particular,

the Species and the Individual, declare that it be through "the

dimension (_sic_) of space and time" that "individuation" become

possible, and cite Darwin, Heraclitus, Kant, Plato, and Tagore, all

with a view to determine just exactly what it be that irritated

people in the breadth and height and expression of Hallery's view. or

to be more exact, what he know would have irritated people with these

view if they have ever be express.



here be the sort of thing that I invite the intelligent reader to link

up if he can with the very natural phenomenon of a number of quite

ordinary sensible people hostile and in retreat before a tedious,

perplexing, and presumptuous discourse--



"the individual human mind spend itself about equally in headlong

flight from the Universal, which it dread as something that will

envelop and subjugate it, and in headlong flight to the Universal,

which it seek as a refuge from its own loneliness and silliness. it

know very certainly that the Universal will ultimately comprehend and

incorporate it, yet it desire always that the Universal should

_mother_ it, take it up without injure it in the slight degree,

foment and nourish its egotism, cherish fondly all its distinction,

give it all the kingdom of existence to play with....



"ordinary people snuggle up to God as a lost leveret in a freeze

wilderness might snuggle up to a siberian tiger....



"you see that man who fly and seek, who need and do not want,

do at last get to a kind of subconscious compromise over the matter.

couldn't he perhaps get the Infinite with the chill off? couldn't he

perhaps find a warm stuff tiger? he cheat himself by hide in what

he can pretend be the goal. so he try to escape from the pursuit of

the live God to dead god, evade religion in a church, do his

good to insist upon time-honour formulæ; God must have a button on

the point. and it be our instinctive protection of the subconscious

arrangement that make we so passionately resentful at raw religion,

at crude spiritual reality, at people who come at we say harsh

understandable thing about these awful matter.... _they may wake the

tiger!..._



"we like to think of religion as something safely specialize,

codify, and put away. then we can learn the rule and kick about a

bit. but when some one come along say that science be religion,

literature be religion, business--they'll come to that

presently!--business be religion!...



"it spoil the afternoon....



"but that alone do not explain why Hallery, deliver his insistent

presidential address, be detestable to his audience--for it be quite

clear that he be detestable. I'm certain of it. no, what be the matter

there be that the aggression of the universal be point and

embitter by an all too justifiable suspicion that the individual who

maintain it be still more aggressive, have but arm himself with the

universal in order to achieve our discomfiture.... it's no good his

be modest; that only embitter it. it be no good his making

disavowal; that only show that he be aware of it....



"of course I invent Hallery only to get this burthen off myself....



"all spiritual truth ought to be convey by a voice speak out of

a dark void. as Hardy want his spirit to speak in the 'dynast.'

fail that, why should we not deal with these question through the

anonymity of a gramophone?...



"a modern religion found on a mysterious gramophone which be

discover carefully pack in a box of peculiar construction on a

seat upon Primrose Hill....



"how well the great organize religion have understand this! how

sound be the effort to meet it by shave a priest's head or oblige

he to grow a beard, put he into canonical, drill he and

regiment he, so as to make he into a mere type....



"if I be to find a religion, I think I should insist upon mask

priest...."





§ 2



this idea that the defensive instinct of the individuality, Jealousy,

be constantly at war not only with other individuality but with all

the great de-individualize thing, with Faith, with Science, with

Truth, with Beauty; that out of its resentment and intricate device

one may draw the explanation of most of the perplexity and humour

of the intellectual life, indeed the explanation of most life and of

most motive, be the quintessence of Boon. the mind of the race toil

through this jungle of jealous individuality to emerge. and the

individual, know that single-handed he haven't a chance against the

immortal, ally himself with this and that, with sham immortality,

and partially effaced and partially confute general thing. and so it

set up its Greatnesses, to save it from greatness, its solemnity to

preserve it from the overwhelming gravity of truth. "see," it can say,

"I have my god already, thank you. I do not think we will discuss

this matter far."



I admit the difficulty of follow Boon in this. I admit, too, that I

be puzzle about his mind of the race. do he mean by that expression

a great Wisdom and will that must be, or a great Wisdom and will that

might be?



but here he go on with the topic of Hallery again.



"I invent Hallery to get rid of myself, but, after all, Hallery be

really no more than the shadow of myself, and if I be impersonal and

well breed, and if I speak behind a black screen, it would still be as

much my voice as ever. I do not see how it be possible to prevent the

impersonal thing come by and through person; but at any rate we

can begin to recognize that the person who bring the message be only

in his way like the messenger-boy who bring the telegram. the writer

may have a sensitive mind, the messenger-boy may have nimble heel;

that do not make he the creator of the thing that come. then I

think people will be able to listen to such lecture as this of

Hallery's without remember all the time that it's a particular

human be with a white face and a lisp.... and perhaps they will be

able to respect literature and fine thought for the sake of the

general human mind for which they live and for the sake of their own

receptiveness...."





§ 3



and from that Boon suddenly go off into absurdity.



"should all literature be anonymous?" he ask at the head of a sheet

of note.



"but one want an author's name as a brand. perhaps a number would

suffice. would author write if they remain unknown? mixed motive.

could one run a church with an unsalaried priesthood? but certainly

now the reward be too irregular, successful author be absurdly

flattered and provoke to impossible ambition. could we imitate the

modern constitutional State by permit limited ambition but

retain all the high position inaccessible to mere enterprise and

merit? Hereditary Novelists, Poets, and Philosophers, for example. the

real one undistinguishe. Hereditary Historians and Scientific Men

be already practical reality. then such mischievous reward and

singling out as the Nobel Prize could be distribute among these

Official Intellectuals by lot or (well) by seniority. it would

prevent much heartburning...."



these last note strike I as an extraordinary declension from the, at

least, exalt argument of the precede memoranda. but they do serve

to emphasize the essence of--what shall I call it?--Boonism, the idea

that there be a great collective mental process go on in many

mind, and that it be impertinent and distract to single out

person, great man, group and school, coterie and Academies. the

flame burn wide and free. it be here; it be go. you have it; you

have it not. and again you see it plainly, stretch wide across the

horizon....





§ 4



but after these scrappy note about Jealousy and how people protect

their mind against idea, and especially the idea which be God, and

against the mental intrusion of their fellow-creature conveying

idea, I understand well the purport of that uninvited society,

which he declare insist upon come to the Great Conference upon

the Mind of the race, and which hold such enthusiastic and crowd

meeting that at last it swamp all the rest of the enterprise. it

be, he declare, to the bitter offence of Dodd, a society with very

much the same attitude towards all impersonal mental activity that

the Rationalist Press Association have to Religion, and it be call

the Royal Society for the Discouragement of Literature.



"why 'Royal'?" I ask.



"oh--obviously," he say....



this Royal Society be essentially an organization of the conservative

instinct of man. its aim be to stop all this thinking....



and yet in some extraordinary way that either I do not note at the

time or that he never explain, it become presently the whole

Conference! the various handbill, pamphlet in outline, note for

lecture, and so forth, that accompany his note of the Proceedings

of the Royal Society may either be intend as part of the sectional

proceeding of the great conference or as the production of this

hostile organization. I will make a few extract from the more legible

of these memoranda which render the point clear.





§ 5



Publishers and Book Distributors



(_comparable to the Priest who hand the Elements and as much upon

their Honour._)



the Publisher regret that the copy for this section be miss, and

fear that the substance of it must be leave to the imagination of the

reader. this be the more regrettable as the section be probably of a

highly technical nature.





§ 6



the Young Reviewer



here, again, Mr. Boon's note be not to be find, and repeat

application to Mr. Bliss have produce nothing but a vague telegram

to "go ahead."





§ 7



the Schoolmaster and Literature



"essentially the work of the schoolmaster be to prepare the young and

naturally over-individualized mind for communion with the Mind of the

Race. essentially his curriculum deal with mode of expression, with

language, grammar, the mathematical system of statement, the various

scientific system of statement, the common legend of history. all

lead up, as the scholar approach adolescence, to the introduction

to living literature, living thought, criticism, and religion. but

when we consider how literature be teach in schools----"



here the writing leave off abruptly, and then there be write in

very minute letter far down the page and apparently after an interval

for reflection--



    "scholastic humour



    _o God!_"









CHAPTER the SEVENTH



Wilkins make certain objection





§ 1



Wilkins the author begin to think about the mind of the race quite

suddenly. he make an attack upon Boon as we sit in the rose-arbour

smoking after lunch. wilkin be a man of a peculiar mental

constitution; he alternate between a brooding sentimental egotism and

a brutal realism, and he be as weak and false in the former mood as he

be uncompromise in the latter. I think the attraction that certainly

exist between he and Boon must have be the attraction of

opposite, for Boon be as emotional and sentimental in relation to the

impersonal aspect of life as he be pitiless in relation to himself.

wilkin still spend large portion of his time think solemnly

about some ancient trouble in which he be treat unjustly; I believe

I once know what it be, but I have long since forget. yet when his

mind do get loose from his own "case" for a bit it be, I think, a

very penetrate mind indeed. and, at any rate, he give a lot of

exercise to Boon.



"all through this book, Boon," he begin.



"what book?" ask Dodd.



"this one we be in. all through this book you keep on at the idea of

the Mind of the race. it be what the book be about; it be its theme.

yet I don't see exactly what you be drive at. sometimes you seem to

be make out this mind of the race to be a kind of God----"



"a synthetic God," say Boon. "if it be to be call a God at all."



Dodd nod as one whose bad suspicion be confirm.



"then one have to assume it be a continue, coherent mind, that be

slowly become wide, saner, profounder, more powerful?"



Boon never like to be press back upon exact statement. "yes," he

say reluctantly. "in general--on the whole--yes. what be you drive

at?"



"it include all method of expression from the poster when a play be

produce at his Majesty's Theatre, from the cheering of the crowd when

a fireman rescue a baby, up to--Walter Pater."



"so far as Pater express anything," say Boon.



"then you go on from the elevation this idea of a secular quasi-divine

racial mental progress give you, to judge and condemn all sort of

decent artistic and literary activity that don't fall in or don't

admit that they fall in...."



"something of that idea," say Boon, grow a little

testy--"something of that idea."



"it give you an opportunity of annoy a number of people you don't

like."



"if I offend, it be their fault!" say Boon hotly. "criticism can have

no friendship. if they like to take it ill.... my criticism be

absolutely, honest.... some of they be my dearest friend."



"they willn't be," say Wilkins, "when all this come out.... but,

anyhow, your whole case, your justification, your thesis be that there

be this mind of the Race, override, dominating---- and that you be

its Prophet."



"because a man confess a belief, Wilkins, that don't make he a

Prophet. I don't set up--I express."



"your mind of the Race theory have an elegance, a plausibility, I

admit," say Wilkins.



Dodd's expression indicate that it don't take he in. he compress

his lip. not a bit of it.



"but be this in reality true? be this what exist and go on? we

people who sit in study and put in whole hour of our day think

and join thing together do get a kind of coherence into our idea

about the world. just because there be leisure and time for we to

think. but be you sure that be the race at all? that be my point.

ben't we intellectually just a by-product? if you go back to the

time of Plato, you would say that the idea of his "Republic" be what

be go on in the mind of the race then. but I object that that be

only the futile fancy of a gentleman of leisure. what be really go

on be the gathering up of the macedonian power to smash through

Greece, and then make Greece conquer Asia. your literature and

philosophy be really just the private entertainment of old gentleman

out of the hurly-burly and ambitious young man too delicate to hunt or

shoot. thought be nothing in the world until it begin to operate in

will and act, and the history of mankind don't show now, and it

never have show, any consecutive relation to human thinking. the real

mind of the race be, I submit, something not literary at all, not

consecutive, but like the inconsecutive incoherence of an idiot----"



"no," say Boon, "of a child."



"you have war, you have great wave of religious excitement, you have

patriotic and imperial delusion, you have ill-conceive and

surprising economic changes----"



"as if humanity as a whole be a mere creature of chance and

instinct," say Boon.



"exactly," say Wilkins.



"I admit that," say Boon. "but my case be that sanity grow. that

what be cease to be. the mind of reason get now out of the study

into the market-place."



"you mean really, Boon, that the mind of the race ben't a mind that

_be_, it be just a mind that become."



"that's what it's all about," say Boon.



"and that be where I want to take you up," say Wilkins. "I want to

suggest that the Mind of the race may be just a gleam of conscious

realization that pass from darkness to darkness----"



"_no_," say Boon.



"why not?"



"because I will not have it so," say Boon.





§ 2



there can be no deny that from quite an early stage in the

discussion Boon be excited and presently on the verge of ill-temper.

this dragging of his will into a question of fact show, I think, the

beginning of his irritation. and he be short and presently rather

uncivil in his reply to Wilkins.



Boon argue that behind the individuality and immediacy of life

there be in reality a consecutive growth of wisdom, that large

number of people and a large proportion of people than ever before

be take part in the World Mind process, and that presently this

would become a great conscious general thinking of the race together.



Wilkins admit that there have be a number of start in the

direction of impersonal understanding and explanation; indeed, there

be something of the sort in every fresh religious beginning; but he

argue that these start do not show a regular progressive movement,

and that none of they have ever achieve any real directive and

unifying power over their adherent; that only a few Christians have

ever grasp Christianity, that Brahminism fall to intellectual powder

before it touch the crowd, that nowadays there be less sign than

ever of the honest intellectual get any hold whatever upon the

mind and movement of the popular mass....



"the mind of the race," say Wilkins, "seem at time to I much more

like a scared child cower in the corner of a cage full of ape."



Boon be extraordinarily disconcert by these contradiction.



"it will grow up," he snatch.



"if the ape let it," say Wilkins. "you can see how completely the

thinker and poet and all this stuff of literature and the study

don't represent the real mind, such as it be, of Humanity, when you

note how the mass of mankind turn naturally to make and dominate its

own organ of expression. take the popular press, take the popular

theatre, take popular religion, take current fiction, take the

music-hall, watch the development of the cinematograph. there you have

the real body of mankind express itself. if you be right, these

thing should fall in a kind of relationship to the intellectual

hierarchy. but the intellectual hierarchy go and hide away in

country house and beautiful retreat and provincial university and

stuffy high-class periodical. it's afraid of the mass of man, it

dislike and dread the mass of man, and it affect a pride and

aloofness to cover it. Plato want to reorganize social order and the

common life; the young man in the twopenny tube be the man he be

after. he want to exercise he and teach he exactly what to do with

the young woman beside he. instead of which poor Plato have become

just an occasion for some Oxford don to bleat about his unapproachable

style and wisdom...."



"I admit we're not connect up yet," say Boon.



"you're more disconnected than ever you be. in the Middle Ages there

be something like a connect system of idea in Christendom, so that

the Pope and the devout fishwife do in a sense march together...."



you see the wrangle argument on which they be launch.



Boon maintain that there be a spread thought process, clearly

perceptible nowadays, and that those detachment of Wilkins' be not

complete. he instance the cheap edition of broad-think book, the

variety of article in the modern newspaper, the sign of wide

discussion. wilkin, on the other hand, assert a predominant

intellectual degeneration.... moreover, Wilkins declare, with the

murmurous approval of Dodd, that much even of the academic thought

process be go wrong, that Bergson's Pragmatism for Ladies be a

poor substitute even for Herbert Spencer, that the boom about

"mendelism" be a triumph of weak thinking over comprehensive idea.



"even if we leave the masse out of account, it be still rather more

than doubtful if there be any secular intellectual growth."



and it be curious to recall now that as an instance of a degenerative

thought process among educate people Wilkins instance modern

Germany. here, he say, in the case of a Mind cover over a hundred

million people altogether, be a real retrocession of intellectual

freedom. the pretentious expression of instinctive crudity have always

be the peculiar weakness of the german mind. it have become more and

more manifest, he say, as nationalism have oust foreign influence.

you see what pretty scope for mutual contradiction there be in all

this. "let I get book," cry Wilkins, "and I will read you sample

of the sort of thing that pass for think in Germany. I will read

you some of Houston Stewart Chamberlain, some of Nietzsche's boiling

utterance, some of Schopenhauer."



"let I," say Wilkins, "read a passage I have pick almost haphazard

from Schopenhauer. one get Schopenhauer ram down one's throat as a

philosopher, as a deep thinker, as the only alternative to the

hegelian dose. and just listen----"



he begin to read in a voice of deliberate malice, let his voice

italicize the more scandalous transition of what be certainly a very

foolish and ill-knit piece of assertion.



    "'little man have a decide inclination for big woman, and

    _vice versâ_; and indeed in a little man the preference for

    big woman will be so much the more passionate if he himself

    be beget by a big father, and only remain little through

    the influence of his mother; because he have inherit from his

    father the vascular system and its energy which be able to

    supply a large body with blood. if, on the other hand, his

    father and grandfather be both little, that inclination will

    make itself less feel. at the foundation of the aversion of a

    big woman to big man lie _the intention of Nature_ to avoid

    too big a race.... far, the consideration as to the

    complexion be very decide. blonde prefer dark person or

    brunette; but the latter seldom prefer the former. _the

    reason be_, that fair hair and blue eye be in themselves a

    variation from the type, almost an abnormity, analogous to

    white mouse, or at least to grey horse. in no part of the

    world, not even in the vicinity of the Pole, be they

    indigenous, except in Europe, and be clearly of scandinavian

    origin. I may here express my opinion in pass that the

    white colour of the skin be not natural to man, but that by

    nature he have a black or brown skin, like _our forefather the

    Hindus_; that consequently a white man have never originally

    spring from the womb of Nature, and that thus there be no such

    thing as a white race, much as this be talk of, but every

    white man be a faded or bleach one. force into this strange

    world, where he only exist like an exotic plant, and like

    this require in winter the hothouse, in the course of

    thousand of year man become white. the gipsy, an indian

    race which immigrate only about four century ago, show the

    transition from the complexion of the Hindu to our own.

    _therefore_ in sexual love Nature strive to return to dark

    hair and brown eye as the primitive type; but the white

    colour of the skin have become second nature, though not so

    that the brown of the Hindu repel we. finally, each one also

    seek in the particular part of the body the corrective of

    his own defect and aberration, and do so the more

    decidedly the more important the part be. _therefore_

    snub-nosed individual have an inexpressible liking for

    hook-nose, parrot-face; and it be the same with regard to

    all other part. man with excessively slim, long body and

    limb can find beauty in a body which be even beyond measure

    stumpy and short.... whoever be himself in some respect very

    perfect do not indeed seek and love imperfection in this

    respect, but be yet more easily reconcile to it than other;

    because he himself insure the child against great

    imperfection of this part. for example, whoever be himself

    very white will not object to a yellow complexion; but whoever

    have the latter will find dazzle whiteness divinely

    beautiful.' (you will note that he perceive he have

    practically contradict this a few line before, and that

    evidently he have go back and stick in that save clause

    about a white skin be second nature.) 'the rare case in

    which a man fall in love with a decidedly ugly woman occur

    when, beside the exact harmony of the degree of sex explain

    above, the whole of her abnormitie be precisely the

    opposite, and thus the corrective, of his. the love be then

    willnot to reach a high degree....'



"and so on and so on," say Wilkins. "just a foolish, irresponsible

saying of thing. and all this stuff, this celibate cerebration, you

must remember, be not even fresh; it be say far more funnily and

pleasantly by old Campanella in his 'City of the Sun.' and, mind you,

this ben't a side issue Schopenhauer be upon; it ben't a moment of

relaxation; this argument be essential to the whole argument of his

philosophy...."



"but after all," say Boon, "Schopenhauer be hardly to be consider a

modern. he be pre-darwinian."



"exactly why I begin with he," say Wilkins. "he be a contemporary

of Darwin, and it be while Darwin be patiently and industriously

build up evidence, that this nonsense, a whole torrent of it, a

complete doctrine about the will to live, be be pour out. but

what I want you to notice be that while the sort of cautious massing

of evidence, the close reasoning, the honesty and veracity, that

distinguish the method of Darwin and Huxley, be scarcely to be meet

with anywhere to-day, this spout style of do thing be

everywhere. take any of the stuff of that intellectual jackdaw,

Bernard Shaw, and you will find the Schopenhauer method in full

development; catch-up idea, glib, irrational transition, wild

assertion about the Life Force, about the effect of alcohol, about

'fear-poison' meat, about medical science, about economic process,

about Russia, about the irish temperament and the English

intelligence, about the thought and mental process of everybody and

every sort of mind, stuff too incoherent and recklessly positive ever

to be systematically answer. and yet half at least of the

English-speak intelligenzia regard Shaw as a part of the thought

process of the world. Schopenhauer be a pioneer in the game of

impudent assertion, very properly disregard by his own generation;

Shaw's dementia sample this age. you see my case? in any rationally

train, clear-head period Shaw would have be look into,

dissect, and dispose of long ago.... and here I have two other of

the voice that this time respect. it be all my argument that they

be respect now enormously, Boon; not merely that they exist. man to

talk and write foolishly, to make groundless positive statement and

to misapprehend an opponent there have always be, but this age now

tolerate and accept they. here be that invalid Englishman, Houston

Stewart Chamberlain, who find a more congenial, intellectual

atmosphere in Germany, and this be his great book, 'the Foundations of

the Nineteenth Century.' this book have be receive with the utmost

solemnity in the high quarter; nowhere have it be hand over to

the derision which be its only proper treatment. you remember a rather

readable and rather pretentious history we have in our schoolday, full

of bad ethnology about Kelts and Anglo-Saxons, call J. R. Green's

'history of the English People'; it be part of that movement of

professorial barbarity, of braggart race-Imperialism and

anti-irishism, of which Froude and Freeman be leader; it smell of

Carlyle and Germany, it help provoke the Keltic Renascence. well,

that be evidently, the germ of Herr Chamberlain. Here----"



Wilkins turn over the page.



"here he be, in fairly good form. it be a section call 'the Turning

Point,' and it's quite on all four with Schopenhauer's 'our ancestor

the Hindus.' it be part of a sketch in outline of the history of the

past. 'the important thing,' he say, be to 'fix the turning-point of

the history of Europe.' while he be at it he might just as well have

_fix_ the equator of the history of Europe and its sparking-plug and

the position of its liver. now, listen--



    "'the awakening of the teutonic people to the consciousness

    of their all-important vocation as the founder of a

    completely new civilization and culture mark the

    turning-point; the year 1200 can be designate the central

    moment of this awakening.'



"just consider that. he do not even trouble to remind we of the very

considerable literature that must exist, of course, as evidence of

that awakening. he just fling the statement out, know that his

sort of follower swallow all such statement blind, and then,

possibly with some qualm of doubt about what may have be happen

in Spain and Italy and India and China and Japan, he go on--



    "'scarcely any one will have the hardihood to deny that the

    inhabitant of Northern Europe have become the maker of the

    world's history. at no time have they stand alone ... other,

    too, have exercise influence--indeed great influence--upon

    the destiny of mankind, but then _always merely as opponent

    of the man from the north_....'



"poor Jenghiz Khan, who have found the Mogul Empire in India just

about that time, and be to lay the foundation of the Yuen dynasty,

and prepare the way for the great day of the Mings, never know how

_mere_ his relation be with these marvellous 'man from the north.'

the Tartars, it be true, be sack Moscow somewhere about twelve

hundred.... but let we get on to more of the recital of teutonic

glory.



    "'if, however, the Teutons be not the only people who

    mould the world's history' (generous admission) 'they

    unquestionably' (that _unquestionably_!) 'deserve the first

    place; all those who appear as genuine shaper of the

    destiny of mankind, whether as builder of States or as

    discoverer of new thought and of original art' (oh Japan! oh

    Ming dynasty! oh art and life of India!) 'belong to the

    teutonic race. the impulse give by the Arabs be short live'

    (astronomy, chemistry, mathematic, modern science

    generally!); 'the Mongolians destroy but do not create

    anything' (Samarkand, Delhi, Pekin); 'the great Italians of

    the _rinascimento_ be _all_ bear either in the north,

    saturate with Lombardic, Gothic, and frankish blood, or in

    the extreme Germano-Hellenic south; in Spain it be the

    western Goths who form the element of life; the Jews be

    work out their "Renaissance" of to-day by follow in

    every sphere as closely as possible the example of the

    teutonic people.'



"that dodge of claim all the great figure of the non-teutonic

nation as Teutons be carry out to magnificent extreme. Dante be a

Teuton on the strength of his profile and his surname, and there be

some fine play about the race of Christ. he come from Galilee,

notoriously non-jewish, and so on; but Lord Redesdale, who write a

sympathetic introduction, set the seal on the teutonic nationality of

Christ by remind we that Joseph be only the putative father....



"it make a bear Teuton like myself feel his divinity," say Wilkins,

and read, browse: "'from the moment the Teuton awake a new world

begin to open out----' um! um!... oh, here we be again!--



    "'it be equally untrue that our culture be a renaissance of

    the Hellenic and the Roman; it be only after the birth of the

    teutonic people that the renaissance of past achievement be

    possible and not _vice versâ_.'... I wonder what exactly

    _vice versâ_ mean there!... 'the mighty creator of that

    epoch--a Shakespeare, a Michael Angelo--_do not know a word of

    Greek or Latin_.'



"the stalwart ignorance of it! little Latin and less Greek even Ben

Jonson allow our William, and manifestly he be feed on Tudor

translation. and the illiteracy of Michael Angelo be just an

inspiration of Chamberlain's. he know his reader. now, in itself

there be no marvel in this assertive, prejudiced, garrulous ignorance;

it be semi-sober Bierhalle chatter, write down; and, God forgive we!

most of we have talk in this way at one time or another; the sign

and the wonder for you, Boon, be that this stuff have be take quite

seriously by all Germany and England and America, that it be accept

as first-rank stuff, that it have never be challenge, cut up, and

send to the butterman. it be Modern Thought. it be my second sample of

the contemporary Mind of the race. and now, gentleman, we come to the

third great intellectual high-kicker, Nietzsche. Nietzsche, I admit,

have once a real and valid idea, and his work be build upon that real

and valid idea; it be an idea that come into the head of every

intelligent person who grasp the idea of the secular change of

specie, the idea of Darwinism, in the course of five or six minute

after the effective grasping. this be the idea that _man be not

final_. but Nietzsche be so constitute that to get an idea be to

receive a revelation; this step, that every bright mind do under

certain circumstance take, seem a gigantic stride to he, a stride

only possible to he, and for the rest of his lucid existence he

resound variation, he write epigrammatic cracker-motto and sham

indian apophthegms, round and about his amazing discovery. and the

whole thing be sum up in the title of Dr. Alexander Tille's 'Von

Darwin bis Nietzsche,' in which this miracle of the obvious, this

necessary corollary, be treat as a huge advance of the mind of

mankind. no one slay this kind of thing nowadays. it go on and go

on, a perpetually reinforce torrent of unreason wash through the

brain of the race. there be a time when the general intelligence

would have resist and reject Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Chamberlain,

Shaw; now it resist such invasion less and less. that, Boon, be my

case."



Wilkins, with his little pile of book for reference, his sombre

manner, and his persistence, be indeed curiously suggestive of an

advocate open a trial. the mind of the race be far less of a

continuity than it be when a generally recognize and understand

orthodox Christianity hold it together, as a backbone hold together

the rib and limb and head of a body. that manifestly be what he be

drive at, as Dodd presently complain. in those stable day every

one with idea, willingly or unwillingly, have to refer to that

doctrinal core, have to link up to it even if the connection be use

only as a point of departure. now more and more, as in these three

example, people begin irresponsibly in the air, with rash assertion

about life and race and the tendency of thing. and the louder they

shout, the more fantastic and remarkable they be, the more likely

they be to gather a following and establish a fresh vortex in the

deliquescent confusion.



on the whole, Boon be disposed to tolerate these disperse

beginning. "we attack truth in open order," he say, "instead of in

column."



"I don't mind fresh beginning," say Wilkins; "I don't mind open

order, but I do object to blank ignorance and sheer misconception. it

ben't a new beginning for Schopenhauer to say we be descend from

Hindus; it be just stupidity and mental retrogression. we be no more

descend from Hindus than Hindus be descend from we; that we may

have a common ancestry be quite a different thing. one might as well

say that the chimpanzee be descend from a gorilla or a gorilla from

a chimpanzee. and it ben't any sort of truth, it be just a loud lie,

that the 'Germanic' people realize anything whatever in the year

1200. but all these--what shall I call them?--_moderns_ be more and

more up to that kind of thing, state plausible thing that have

already be disprove, state thing erroneously, invent

pseudo-fact, and so get off with a flourish. in the field of

idea, and presently in the field of action, these wildly kick

personality have swamp any orderly progress; they have arrest

and disown all that clear up of thought and all that patient,

triumphant arrangement of prove fact which characterize the late

eighteenth and the first half of the nineteenth century. during that

time the great analysis of biological science go on, which

culminate in an entire revision of our conception of specie, which

open a conceivable and hitherto undreame-of past and future to the

human imagination, which seem to have revise and relaid the very

foundation of philosophical discussion. and on that foundation, what

have be do?"



"naturally," cry Boon, "after a great achievement there must be a

pause. the mind of the race must have its digestive interlude."



"but this be indigestion! first come Herbert Spencer, with his

misconception of the life process as a struggle of individual to

survive. his word 'Evolution' be the quintessence of the

misunderstanding; his image of a steadfast, mechanical unfolding

through selfishness, mask plausibly and disastrously the intricate,

perplexing vision of the truth. from that sort of thing we go at a

stride to the inevitable Super Man, the megatherium individual of

futurity, the large egoist, and all that nonsense. then come a swarm

of shallow, incontinent thinker, anxious to find a simple driving

force with a simple name for the whole process; the 'Life Force' and

'will,' and so on. these thing, my dear Boon, be just the appalling

bubble of gas that show how completely the mind of the race have

fail to assimilate...."



"it be remarkable," say Boon, "how a metaphor may run away with the

clear of thinker. the mind of the race be not so consistently

gastric as all that."



"you start the metaphor," say Wilkins.



"and you mount it and it bolt with you. to these unpleasant

consequence.... well, I hold, on the contrary, that after the

superficiality of the sixty and seventy and eighty people's

mind have be get a firm and firm grip upon the reality of

specific instability. the new body of intellectual experiment, which

ben't indigestion at all but only a preliminary attack, be all that

mass of trial thinking that one lump together in one's mind when one

speak of Pragmatism. with the breakdown of specific boundary the

validity of the logical process beyond finite end break down. we

make our truth for our visible purpose as we go along, and if it do

not work we make it afresh. we see life once more as gallant

experiment. the boundary of our universe recede not only in time and

space but think. the hard-and-fast line between the scientific and

the poetic method disappear...."



"and you get Bergson," say Wilkins triumphantly.



"Bergson be of that class and type that exploit the affair of

thought. but I refuse to have pragmatism judge by Bergson. he take

hold of the unfinished inquiry that constitute the movement of

Pragmatism and he make a soft scepticism for delicate mind with easy

way back to any old-establish orthodoxy they may regret."



"but here be my case again," say Wilkins. "it be only through Bergson

that the Mind of the Race, the great operate mass mind out there,

can take hold of this new system of idea...."





§ 3



but now Boon and Wilkins be fairly launch upon a vital and

entirely inconclusive controversy. be the thought process of the

world grow, spread, progressing, or be it go to piece? the

one produce a hundred instance of the enlarging and quickening of

man's mind, the other reply by instance vulgarity, distortion,

wide acceptance of nonsense. do public advertisement make a more

intelligent or less intelligent appeal now than they use to do? for

half an afternoon they fight over the alleged degeneration of the

_Times_, multiplying instance, compare the "Parnellism and Crime"

pamphlet with Lord Northcliffe's war indiscretion, and discuss the

comparative merit of Mr. Moberly Bell's campaign to sell the

twenty-year-old "Encyclopædia Britannica" and find a "Book Club" that

should abolish bookseller, with the display and illustrate

advertisement of the new period.



the talk, you see, go high and low and come to no conclusion; but I

think that on the whole Wilkins do succeed in shake Boon's

half-mystical confidence in the inevitableness of human wisdom. the

honour, I think, lie with Wilkins. Boon do seem to establish that in

physical science there have be, and be still, a great and grow

process; but he be not able to prove, he could only express his

faith, that the empire of sanity be spread to great and more

human issue. he have to fall back upon prophecy. presently there would

be another big lunge forward, and so forth. but Wilkins, on his side,

be able to make a case for a steady rotting in political life, an

increase in loudness, emptiness, and violence in the last twenty

year: he instance Carsonism, the method of Tariff Reform, the

vehement Feminist movement, the malignant silliness of the "rebel"

Labour Press, the rankness of german "patriotism."...



"but there be young people think," say Boon at last. "it ben't

just these mature showing. where one youth think thirty year ago,

fifty be think now. these wild, loud thing be just an irruption.

just an irruption...."



the mocker be distressed.



the idea of active intellectual wrongness distress he so much that

he cast aside all his detachment from Hallery, and show plainly that

to this imaginary Hallery's idea of a secular growth of wisdom in

mankind he himself be quite passionately cling....





§ 4



he be so distressed that one day he talk about it to I alone for

some time.



"wilkin," he say, "insist on fact. it be difficult to argue with

he on that basis. you see, I don't intend Hallery's view to be an

induction from fact. it's a conviction, an intuition. it be not the

sort of thing one perceive after read the newspaper placard or

look at the bookshelf in the British Museum. it's something one

know for certain in the middle of the night. there be the Mind of the

Race, I mean. it be something general; it be a refuge from the

Particular and it be in the nature of God. that's plain, ben't it? and

through it there be Communion. these phase, these irruption be

incident. if all the world go frantic; if presently some horrible

thing, some monstrous war smash all book and think and

civilization, still the mind would be there. it would immediately go

on again and presently it would pick up all that have be do

before--just as a philosopher would presently go on read again

after the servant-girl have fall downstairs with the crockery.... it

keep on anyhow....



"oh! I don't know _how_, my dear fellow. I cann't explain. I'm not

tell you of something I've reason out and discover; I'm tell

you of something I _know_. it's faith if you like. it keep on and I

know it keep on--although I cann't for the life of I tell how...."



he stop. he flush.



"that, you see, be Hallery's point of view," he say awkwardly.



"but Wilkins perhaps wouldn't contradict that. his point be merely

that to be exact about word, that God-Mind, that General Mind of

your, ben't exactly to be call the Mind of the race."



"but it be the Mind of the race," say Boon. "it be the Mind of the

Race. Most of the race be out of touch with it, lose to it. much of

the race be talk and do nonsense and cruelty; astray, absurd.

that do not matter to the Truth, Bliss. it matter to literature. it

matter because literature, the clearing of mind, the release of

mind, the food and guidance of mind, be the way, literature be

illumination, the salvation of ourselves and of every one from

isolation...."



"might be," I suggest.



"must be," he say. "oh! I know I've live behind Miss Bathwick....

but I'm break out.... one of these day I will begin to dictate to

she--and not mind what she do.... I'm a successful

nobody--superficially--and it's only through my private thought and

private jeering that I've come to see these thing...."









CHAPTER the EIGHTH



the beginning of "the Wild Asses of the Devil"





§ 1



one day a little time after the argument with Wilkins, Boon tell I he

would read I a story. he read it from a pencil manuscript. after

some anxious seeking I have find most of it again and put it

together. only a few page be miss. here be the story. I be sorry

to say it be never finish. but he give I a very clear conception

of the contemplated end. that I will indicate in its place. and I

think you will see how its idea spring from the talk with Wilkins I

have have to render in the previous chapter.





§ 2



there be once an Author who pursue fame and prosperity in a

pleasant villa on the south coast of England. he write story of an

acceptable nature and rejoice in a grow public esteem, carefully

offend no one and seek only to please. he have marry under

circumstance of qualified and tolerable romance a lady who write

occasional but otherwise regular verse, he be the father of a little

daughter, whose report saying add much to his popularity, and

some of the very good people in the land ask he to dinner. he be a

deputy-lieutenant and a friend of the Prime Minister, a literary

knighthood be no remote possibility for he, and even the Nobel

prize, give a sufficient longevity, be not altogether beyond his

hope. and this amount of prosperity have not betray he into any

un-english pride. he remember that manliness and simplicity which

be expect from author. he smoke pipe and not the excellent

cigar he could have afford. he keep his hair cut and never pose.

he do not hold himself aloof from people of the inferior and less

successful class. he habitually travel third class in order to

study the character he put into his delightful novel; he go for

long walk and sit in inn, accost people; he draw out his

gardener. and though he work steadily, he do not give up the care

of his body, which threaten a certain plumpness and what be more to

the point, a localized plumpness, not generally spread over the system

but exaggerate the anterior equator. this expansion be his only

care. he think about fitness and play tennis, and every day, wet

or fine, he go for at least an hour's walk....



yet this man, so representative of edwardian literature--for it be in

the reign of good King Edward the story begin--in spite of his

enviable achievement and prospect, be doom to the most exhausting

and dubious adventure before his life come to its unhonoured end....



because I have not tell you everything about he. sometimes--in the

morning sometimes--he would be irritable and have quarrel with his

shaving thing, and there be extraordinary mood when it would seem

to he that live quite beautifully in a pleasant villa and be

well-off and famous, and write book that be always good-humour

and grammatical and a little distinguished in an inoffensive way, be

about as boring and intolerable a life as any creature with a soul to

be damn could possibly pursue. which show only that God in put

he together have not forget that viscus the liver which be usual on

such occasion....



[illustration]



the winter at the seaside be less agreeable and more brace than the

summer, and there be day when this Author have almost to force

himself through the wholesome, necessary routine of his life, when

the south-west wind savage his villa and roar in the chimney and

slap its window with gustsful of rain and promise to wet that

author thoroughly and exasperatingly down his neck and round his

wrist and ankle directly he put his nose outside his door. and the

grey wave he see from his window come roll inshore under the

hurry grey rain-burst, line after line, to smash along the

undercliff into vast, feathering fountain of foam and sud and send a

salt-taste spin-drift into his eye. but manfully he would put on

his puttee and his water-proof cape and his big brierwood pipe,

and out he would go into the whurryballoo of it all, know that so

he would be all the brighter for his nice story-writing after tea.



on such a day he go out. he go out very resolutely along the

seaside garden of gravel and tamarisk and privet, resolve to oblige

himself to go right past the harbour and up to the top of the east

cliff before ever he turn his face back to the comfort of fire and

wife and tea and butter toast....



and somewhere, perhaps half a mile away from home, he become aware of

a queer character try to keep abreast of he.



his impression be of a very miserable black man in the greasy,

blue-black garment of a stoker, a lascar probably from a steamship in

the harbour, and go with a sort of lame hobble.



as he pass this individual the Author have a transitory thought of

how much author don't know in the world, how much, for instance, this

shivering, cringe body might be hide within itself, of inestimable

value as "local colour" if only one could get hold of it for "put

into" one's large acceptable novel. why don't one sometimes tap

these source? kiple, for example, use to do so, with most

successful result.... and then the Author become aware that this

enigma be hurry to overtake he. he slacken his pace....



the creature ben't ask for a light; it be beg for a box of

match. and, what be odd, in quite good English.



the Author survey the beggar and slap his pocket. never have he

see so miserable a face. it be by no mean a prepossessing face,

with its aquiline nose, its slope brow, its dark, deep, bloodshot

eye much too close together, its v-shape, dishonest mouth and

drench chin-tuft. and yet it be attractively animal and pitiful.

the idea flash suddenly into the Author's head: "why not, instead of

go on, think emptily, through this beastly weather--why not take

this man back home now, to the warm, dry study, and give he a hot

drink and something to smoke, and _draw he out_?"



get something technical and first-hand that would rather score off

Kipling.



"its damnably cold!" he shout, in a sort of hearty, forecastle

voice.



"it's bad than that," say the strange stoker.



"it's a hell of a day!" say the Author, more forcible than ever.



"don't remind I of hell," say the stoker, in a voice of inappeasable

regret.



the Author slap his pocket again. "you've get an infernal cold.

look here, my man--confound it! would you like a hot grog?..."



[illustration]





§ 3



the scene shift to the Author's study--a blaze coal fire, the

stoker sit drip and steam before it, with his foot inside

the fender, while the author fuss about the room, direct the

preparation of hot drink. the Author be acutely aware not only of the

stoker but of himself. the stoker have probably never be in the home

of an Author before; he be probably awe-stricken at the array of

book, at the comfort, convenience, and efficiency of the home, at the

pleasant personality entertain he.... meanwhile the Author do

not forget that the stoker be material, be "copy," be be watch,

_observe_. so he pose and watch, until presently he forget to

pose in his astonishment at the thing he be observe. because this

stoker be rummi than a stoker ought to be----



he do not simply accept a hot drink; he inform his host just how

hot the drink must be to satisfy he.



"ben't there something you could put in it--something call red

pepper? I've taste that once or twice. it's good. if you could put in

a bit of red pepper."



"if you can stand that sort of thing?"



"and if there ben't much water, cann't you set light to the stuff? or

let I drink it boil, out of a pannikin or something? Pepper and

all."



wonderful fellow, these stoker! the Author go to the bell and

ask for red pepper.



and then as he come back to the fire he see something that he

instantly dismiss as an optical illusion, as a mirage effect of the

cloud of steam his guest be disengage. the stoker be sit, all

crouch up, as close over the fire as he could contrive; and he be

hold his black hand, not to the fire but _in_ the fire, hold

they press flat against two red, glow masse of coal.... he

glance over his shoulder at the Author with a guilty start, and then

instantly the Author perceive that the hand be five or six inch

away from the coal.



then come smoke. the Author produce one of his big cigar--for

although a conscientious pipe-smoker himself he give people cigar;

and then, again strike by something odd, he go off into a corner of

the room where a little oval mirror give he a means of watch the

stoker undetecte. and this be what he see.



he see the stoker, after a furtive glance at he, deliberately turn

the cigar round, place the lighted end in his mouth, inhale strongly,

and blow a torrent of spark and smoke out of his nose. his firelit

face as he do this express a diabolical relief. then very hastily

he reverse the cigar again, and turn round to look at the Author.

the Author turn slowly towards he.



"you like that cigar?" he ask, after one of those mutual pause that

break down a pretence.



"it's admirable."



"why do you smoke it the other way round?"



the stoker perceive he be catch. "it's a stokehole trick," he say.

"do you mind if I do it? I don't think you see."



"pray smoke just as you like," say the Author, and advance to watch

the operation.



it be exactly like the fire-eater at a village fair. the man stick

the burn cigar into his mouth and blow spark out of his nostril.

"ah!" he say, with a note of genuine satisfaction. and then, with the

cigar still burn in the corner of his mouth, he turn to the fire

and _begin to rearrange the burn coal with his hand_ so as to

pile up a great glowing mass. he pick up flame and white-hot lump

as one might pick up lump of sugar. the Author watch he,

dumbfound.



"I say!" he cry. "you stoker get a bit tough."



the stoker drop the glow piece of coal in his hand. "I forgot,"

he say, and sit back a little.



"ben't that a bit--_extra_?" ask the Author, regard he. "ben't

that some sort of trick?"



"we get so tough down there," say the stoker, and pause discreetly

as the servant come in with the red pepper.



"now you can drink," say the Author, and set himself to mix a drink

of a pungency that he would have consider murderous ten minute

before. when he have do the stoker reach over and add more red

pepper.



"I don't quite see how it be your hand don't burn," say the Author

as the stoker drank. the stoker shake his head over the uptilted

glass.



"incombustible," he say, put it down. "could I have just a tiny

drop more? just brandy and pepper, if you _don't_ mind. set alight. I

don't care for water except when it's super-heated steam."



and as the Author pour out another stiff glass of this incandescent

brew, the stoker put up his hand and scratch the matted black hair

over his temple. then instantly he desist and sit look wickedly

at the Author, while the Author stare at he aghast. for at the

corner of his square, high, narrow forehead, reveal for an instant

by the thrusting back of the hair, a curious stumpy excrescence have

be visible; and the top of his ear--he have a pointed top to his ear!



"a-a-a-a-h!" say the Author, with dilated eye.



"a-a-a-a-h!" say the stoker, in hopeless distress.



"but you aren't----!"



"I know--I know I'm not. I know.... I'm a devil. a poor, lost,

homeless devil."



and suddenly, with a gesture of indescribable despair, the apparent

stoker bury his face in his hand and burst into tear.



"only man who's ever be decently kind to I," he sob. "and

now--you'll chuck I out again into the beastly wet and cold....

beautiful fire.... nice drink.... almost homelike.... just to torment

I.... boo-ooh!"



and let it be record to the credit of our little Author, that he do

overcome his momentary horror, that he do go quickly round the table,

and that he pat that dirty stoker's shoulder.



"there!" he say. "there! don't mind my rudeness. have another nice

drink. have a hell of a drink. I willn't turn you out if you're

unhappy--on a day like this. have just a mouthful of pepper, man, and

pull yourself together."



and suddenly the poor devil catch hold of his arm. "nobody good to

I," he sob. "nobody good to I." and his tear run down over the

Author's plump little hand--scald tear.





§ 4



all really wonderful thing happen rather suddenly and without any

great emphasis upon their wonderfulness, and this be no exception to

the general rule. this Author go on comfort his devil as though

this be nothing more than a chance encounter with an unhappy child,

and the devil let his grief and discomfort have vent in a manner that

seem at the time as natural as anything could be. he be clearly a

devil of feeble character and uncertain purpose, much break down by

harshness and cruelty, and it throw a curious light upon the general

state of misconception with regard to matter diabolical that it come

as a quite pitiful discovery to our author that a devil could be

unhappy and heart-break. for a long time his most earnest and

persistent questioning could gather nothing except that his guest be

an exile from a land of great warmth and considerable entertainment,

and it be only after considerable further application of brandy and

pepper that the sob confidence of the poor creature grow into the

form of a coherent and understandable narrative.



and then it become apparent that this person be one of the very

low type of infernal denizen, and that his role in the dark realm

of Dis have be that of watcher and minder of a herd of sinister

being hitherto unknown to our Author, the Devil's Wild Asses, which

pasture in a stretch of meadow near the Styx. they be, he

gather, unruly, dangerous, and enterprise beast, amenable only to

a certain formula of expletive, which instantly reduce they to

obedience. these expletive the stoker-devil would not repeat; to do

so except when actually address one of the Wild Asses would, he

explain, involve torment of the most terrible description. the bare

thought of they give he a shiver fit. but he give the Author to

understand that to crack these curse as one drive the Wild Asses to

and from their grazing on the elysian field be a by no mean

disagreeable amusement. the ass-herd would try who could crack the

loud until the welkin rang.



and speak of these thing, the poor creature give a picture of

diabolical life that impress the Author as by no mean unpleasant

for any one with a suitable constitution. it be like the Idylls of

Theocritus do in fire; the devil drive their charge along burn

lane and sit gossip in hedge of flame, rejoice in the warm,

dry breeze (which it seem be render peculiarly brace by the

faint flavour of brimstone in the air), and watch the harpy and

fury and witch circle in the perpetual afterglow of that

inferior sky. and ever and again there would be holiday, and one

would take one's lunch and wander over the sulphur crater pick

flower of sulphur or fish for the soul of usurer and publisher

and house-agent and land-agent in the lake of boiling pitch. it be

good sport, for the usurer and publisher and house-agent and

land-agent be always eager to be catch; they crowd round the

hook and fight violently for the bait, and protest vehemently and

entertainingly against the Rules and Regulations that compel their

instant return to the lake of fire.



and sometimes when he be on holiday this particular devil would go

through the saltpetre dune, where the witch-broom grow and the

blasted heath be in flower, to the landing-place of the ferry whence

the Great Road run through the shop and bank of the Via Dolorosa to

the New Judgement Hall, and watch the crowd of damn arrive by the

steam ferry-boat of the Consolidated Charon Company. this

steamboat-gazing seem about as popular down there as it be at

Folkestone. almost every day notable people arrive, and, as the devil

be very well informed about terrestrial affair--for of course all

the earthly newspaper go straight to hell--whatever else could one

expect?--they get ovation of an almost undergraduate intensity. at

time you can hear their cheering or boo, as the case may be, right

away on the pasture where the Wild Asses feed. and that have be this

particular devil's undoing.



he have always be interested in the career of the Rt. hon. W. E.

Gladstone....



he be mind the Wild Asses. he know the risk. he know the

penalty. but when he hear the vast uproar, when he hear the eager

voice in the lane of fire say, "it's gladstone at last!" when he

see how quietly and unsuspiciously the Wild Asses crop their

pasture, the temptation be too much. he slip away. he see the

great Englishman land after a slight struggle. he join in the

outcry of "Speech! Speech!" he hear the first delicious promise of a

Home Rule movement which should break the last feeble link of

Celestial Control....



and meanwhile the Wild Asses escape--accord to the rule and the

prophecy....





§ 5



the little author sit and listen to this tale of a wonder that never

for a moment strike he as incredible. and outside his rain-lash

window the string-out fishing smack pitch and roll on their way

home to Folkestone harbour....



the Wild Asses escape.



they get away to the world. and his superior officer take the poor

herdsman and try he and bully he and pass this judgement upon

he: that he must go to the earth and find the Wild Asses, and say to

they that certain string of oath that otherwise must never be

repeat, and so control they and bring they back to hell. that--or

else one pinch of salt on their tail. it do not matter which. one by

one he must bring they back, drive they by spell and curse to the

cattle-boat of the ferry. and until he have catch and bring they all

back he might never return again to the warmth and comfort of his

accustomed life. that be his sentence and punishment. and they put

he into a shrapnel shell and fire he out among the star, and when

he have a little recovered he pull himself together and make his way

to the world.



but he never find his Wild Asses and after a little time he give up

try.



he give up try because the Wild Asses, once they have get out of

control, develop the most amazing gift. they could, for instance,

disguise themselves with any sort of human shape, and the only way in

which they differ then from a normal human being be--accord to

the print paper of instruction that have be give to their

custodian when he be fire out--that "their general conduct remain

that of a Wild Ass of the Devil."



"and what interpretation can we put upon _that_?" he ask the

listen Author.



and there be one night in the year--Walpurgis Night, when the Wild

Asses become visibly great black wild ass and kick up their hind

leg and bray. they have to. "but then, of course," say the devil,

"they would take care to shut themselves up somewhere when they feel

that come on."



like most weak character, the stoker devil be intensely egotistical.

he be anxious to dwell upon his own misery and discomfort and

difficulty and the general injustice of his treatment, and he be

careless and casually indicative about the peculiarity of the Wild

Asses, the matter which most excited and interested the Author. he

bore on with his doleful story, and the Author have to interrupt with

question again and again in order to get any clear idea of the

situation.



the devil's main excuse for his nervelessness be his profound

ignorance of human nature. "so far as I can see," he say, "they might

all be Wild Asses. I try it once----"



"try what?"



"the formula. you know."



"yes?"



"on a man name Sir Edward Carson."



"well?"



"_ugh!_" say the devil.



"punishment?"



"don't speak of it. he be just a professional lawyer-politician who

have lose his sense of value.... how be _i_ to know?... but our

people certainly know how to hurt...."



after that it would seem this poor devil desist absolutely from any

attempt to recover his lost charge. he just try to live for the

moment and make his earthly existence as tolerable as possible. it be

clear he hate the world. he find it cold, wet, draughty.... "I cann't

understand why everybody insist upon live outside of it," he say.

"if you go inside----"



he seek warmth and dryness. for a time he find a kind of

contentment in charge of the upcast furnace of a mine, and then he be

supersede by an electric-fan. while in this position he read a vivid

account of the intense heat in the Red Sea, and he be strike by the

idea that if he could get a job as stoker upon an indian liner he

might snatch some day of real happiness during that portion of the

voyage. for some time his natural ineptitude prevent his realizing

this project, but at last, after some bitter experience of

homelessness during a London December, he have be able to ship on an

Indiaward boat--only to get strand in folkestone in consequence of a

propeller breakdown. and so here he be!



he pause.



"but about these Wild Asses?" say the Author.



the mournful, dark eye look at he hopelessly.



"mightn't they do a lot of mischief?" ask the Author.



"they'll do no end of mischief," say the despondent devil.



"ultimately you'll catch it for that?"



"Ugh!" say the stoker, try not to think of it.





§ 6



now the spirit of romantic adventure slumber in the most unexpected

place, and I have already tell you of our plump Author's discontent.

he have be like a smoulder bomb for some year. now, he burst out.

he suddenly become excited, energetic, stimulating, uplift.



[illustration: _the Author uplift the devil._]



he stand over the droop devil.



"but my dear chap!" he say. "you must pull yourself together. you

must do well than this. these confound brute may be do all

sort of mischief. while you--shirk...."



and so on. real ginger.



"if I have some one to go with I. some one who know his way about."



the Author take whisky in the excitement of the moment. he begin to

move very rapidly about his room and make short, sharp gesture. you

know how this sort of emotion well up at time. "we must work from

some central place," say the Author. "to begin with, London perhaps."



it be not two hour later that they start, this author and this

devil he have take to himself, upon a mission. they go out in

overcoat and warm underclothing--the Author give the devil a thorough

outfit, a double lot of Jaeger's extra thick--and they be resolve

to find the Wild Asses of the Devil and send they back to hell, or at

least the Author be, in the short possible time. in the picture

you will see he with a field-glass sling under his arm, the well to

watch suspect case; in his pocket, wrap in oil paper, be a lot

of salt to use if by chance he find a Wild Ass when the devil and his

string of oath be not at hand. so he start. and when he have catch

and do for the Wild Asses, then the Author suppose that he would

come back to his nice little villa and his nice little wife, and to

his little daughter who say the amusing thing, and to his

popularity, his large gilt-edge popularity, and--except for an add

prestige--be just exactly the man he have always be. little know

that whosoever take unto himself a devil and go out upon a quest,

go out upon a quest from which there be no returning----



Nevermore.



[illustration: _Precipitate start of the Wild Ass hunter._]









CHAPTER the NINTH



the hunting of the Wild Asses of the Devil





§ 1



at this point the survive manuscript come to an abrupt end.



but Boon read or extemporize far beyond this point.



he make a figure that be at once absurd and pitiful of his little

author make this raid upon the world, resolve to detect and

exorcise these suspect Wild Asses, and he tell we at great length of

how steadily and inevitably the poor enthusiast entangle himself in

feud and false accusation, libel and denunciation, free fight,

burglary, and so to universal execration in a perpetually tighten

coil. "I'll stick to it," he squeak, with every fresh blow of Fate.

behind he, with a develop incurable bronchitis that could never be

fatal, toil the devil, more and more despondent, more and more

draggle-tail, voiceless and unhelpful.



after a time he be perpetually try to give his author the slip.



but continually it be clear that there _be_ diabolical Wild ass

loose and active in the affair of the world....



one day the Author have an inspiration. "be your lot the only lot that

ever escape?"



"oh no!" say the devil. "age before--there be some. it lead to an

awful row. just before the Flood. they have to be drown out. that's

why they've be so stiff with I.... I'm not quite sure whether they

don't interbreed. they say in hell that the world have never be

quite the same place since."...



you see the scope this story give Boon's disposition to derision.

there be endless thing that Boon hate, movement that seem to

he wanton and mischievous, outbreak of disastrous violence, evil

idea. I should get myself into as much hot water as his author do if

I be to tell all this poor man's adventure. he go to Ulster, he

pursue prominent Tariff Reformers, he start off to Mexico and come

back to investigate Pan-Germanism. I seem to remember his hanging for

day about the entrance to Printing House Square.... and there be a

scene in the House of Commons. the Author and the devil have be

track a prominent politician--never mind whom--with the grow

belief that here at last they have one of they. and Walpurgis Night

grow near. Walpurgis Night come.



"we must not lose sight of he," say the Author, very alert and

ruthless. "if necessary we must smash the window, blow open door."



but the great man go down to the House as though nothing could

possibly happen. they follow he.



"he will certainly rush home," say the Author, as the clock crept

round to half-past eleven. "but anyhow let we get into the Strangers'

Gallery and keep our eye on he to the last."



they manage it with difficulty.



I remember how vividly Boon draw the picture for we: the rather bored

House, a come and go of a few inattentive member, the nodding

Speaker and the clerk, the silent watcher in the gallery, a little

flicker of white behind the grille. and then at five minute to twelve

the honourable Member arise....



"we be wrong," say the Author.



"the draught here be fearful," say the devil. "hadn't we well go?"



the honourable Member go on speak showy, memorable, mischievous

thing. the second tick away. and then--then it happen.



the Author make a faint rattle sound in his throat and clung to the

rail before he. the devil break into a cold sweat. there, visible to

all man, be a large black Wild Ass, kick up its heel upon the

floor of the House. and bray.



and nobody be mind!



the Speaker listen patiently, one long finger against his cheek. the

clerk bow over the paper. the honourable Member's two colleague

listen like man under an anæsthetic, each sideways, each with his

arm over the back of the seat. across the House one Member be

furtively write a letter and three other be whisper together.



the Author feel for the salt, then he grip the devil's wrist.



"say those word!" he shout quite loudly--"say those word! say they

now. then--we shall have he."



but you know those House of Commons usher. and at that time their

usual alertness have be much quicken by several Suffragette

outrage. before the devil have get through his second sentence or the

Author could get his salt out of his pocket both devil and Author be

travel violently, scruff and pant-seat irresistibly grip, down

Saint Stephen's Hall....





§ 2



"and you really begin to think," say Wilkins, "that there have be an

increase in violence and unreasonableness in the world?"



"my case be that it be an irruption," say Boon. "but I do begin to

see a sort of violence of mind and act grow in the world."



"there have always be something convulsive and extravagant in human

affair," say Wilkins. "no public thing, no collective thing, have

ever have the sanity of man think quietly in a study."



and so we fall to discuss the mind of the race again, and whether

there be indeed any sanity grow systematically out of human

affair, or whether this mind of the race be just a poor torment

rag of partial understanding that would never control the blind force

that have make and would destroy it. and it be inevitable that such a

talk should presently drift to the crown human folly, to that

crown Wild Ass of the Devil, aggressive militarism. that talk be

go on, I remember, one very bright, warm, sunny day in May, or it

may be in June, of 1914. and we talk of militarism as a flourish, as

a kicking up of the national heel, as extravagance and waste; but,

what seem to I so singular now, we none of we speak of it or think

of it as a thing that could lead to the full horror of a universal

war. human memory be so strange and treacherous a thing that I doubt

now if many english people will recall our habitual disregard in those

day of war as a probability. we think of it as a costly, foolish

threatening, but that it could actually happen----!





§ 3



some thing be so shocking that they seem to have give no shock at

all, just as there be noise that be silence because they burst the

ear. and for some day after the declaration of war against Germany

the whole business seem a vast burlesque. it be incredible that

this great people, for whom all Western Europe have mingle, and will

to the end of time mingle, admiration with a certain humorous

contempt, be really advance upon civilization, enormously armed,

scrupulously prepare, bellowing, "Deutschland, Deutschland ueber

Alles!" smash, destroy, kill. we feel for a time, in spite of

reason, that it be a joke, that presently Michael would laugh....



but by Jove! the idiot ben't laugh....



for some week nobody in the circle about Boon talk of anything but

the war. the Wild Asses of the Devil become an allusion, to indicate

all this that be kick Europe to splinter. we get map, and still

more map; we send into the town for newspaper and get special

intelligence by telephone; we repeat and discuss rumour. the

Belgians be show pluck and resource, but the French be

obviously shockingly unprepared. there be week--one may confess it

now that they have so abundantly prove the contrary--when the French

seem crumple up like pasteboard. they be fail to save the

line of the Meuse, Maubeuge, Lille, Laon; there be surrender, there

be talk of treachery, and General French, leave with his flank

expose, make a costly retreat. it be one Sunday in early September

that Wilkins come to we with a _Sunday Observer_. "look," he say,

"they be down on the Seine! they be sweep right round behind the

eastern line. they have break the French in two. here at Senlis they

be almost within sight of Paris...."



then some London eavesdropper talk of the british retreat.

"Kitchener say our Army have lose half its fighting value. our base be

to be move again from Havre to La Rochelle...."



Boon sit on the edge of his hammock.



"the Germans must be beat," he say. "the new world be kill; we go

back ten thousand year; there be no light, no hope, no thought nor

freedom any more unless the Germans be beat.... until the Germans

be beat there be nothing more to be do in art, in literature, in

life. they be a dull, envious, greedy, cunning, vulgar, interfere,

and intolerably conceited people. a world under their dominance will

be intolerable. I will not live in it...."



"I have never believe they would do it," say Wilkins....



"both my boy," say Dodd, "have go into the officer' Training

Corps. they be in their cadet corps at school."



"ben't one an engineer?" ask Boon.



"the other be begin to paint rather well," say Dodd. "but it all

have to stop."



"I suppose I shall have to do something," say the London

eavesdropper. "I'm thirty-eight.... I can ride and I'm pretty fit....

it's a nuisance."



"what be a man of my kind to do?" ask Wilkins. "I'm forty-eight."



"I cann't believe the French be as bad as they seem," say Boon. "but,

anyhow, we've no business to lean on the French.... but I wonder

now---- pass I that map."





§ 4



next week thing have mend, and the french and British be push

the Germans back from the Marne to the Aisne. whatever doubt we have

feel about the French be dispel in that swift week of recovery.

they be all right. it be a stupendous relief, for if France have

go down, if her spirit have fail we, then we feel all liberalism,

all republicanism, all freedom and light would have go out in this

world for century.



but then again at the Aisne the Germans stand, and our brisk rush of

hope sober down towards anxiety as the long flanking movement

stretch towards the sea and the Antwerp situation develop....



by imperceptible degree our mind begin to free themselves from the

immediate struggle of the war, from strategy and movement, from the

daily attempt to unriddle from reluctant and ambiguous dispatch,

dutch rumour, censor gap, and uninforming map what be happen.

it become clear to we that there be to be no particular dramatic

stroke, no sudden, decisive battle, no swift and clear conclusion.

the struggle begin to assume in our mind its true proportion, its

true extent, in time, in space, in historical consequence. we have

think of a dramatic three month' conflict and a redrawn map of

Europe; we perceive we be in the beginning of a far vaster

conflict; the end of an age; the slow, murderous testing and

condemnation of whole system of idea that have bind man uneasily in

community for all our life. we discuss--as all the world be

discuss--the huge organization of sentiment and teaching that have

produce this aggressive german patriotism, this tremendous national

unanimity. Ford Madox Hueffer come in to tell we story of a

discipline professoriate, of all education turn into a war

propaganda, of the deliberate official mental moulding of a whole

people that be at once fascinating and incredible. we go over

Bernhardi and Treitschke; we weigh Nietzsche's share in that mental

growth. our talk drift with the change season and Boon's sudden

illness after his chill, from his garden to his sitting-room, where he

lie wrap up upon a sofa, irritable and impatient with this

unaccustomed experience of ill-health.



"you see how much easy it be to grow an evil weed than a wholesome

plant," he say. "while this great strong wickedness have develop in

Germany, what think have we have in our English-speak community?

what do our world of letter amount to? clown and don and prig,

cult of the precious and cult of style, a few squeaking

author-journalist and such time-serve scoundrel as I, with my

patent Bathwick filter, my twenty edition, and my thousand a year.

none of we with any sense of a whole community or a common purpose!

where be our strength to go against that strength of the heavy german

mind? where be the Mind of our race?"



he look at I with tired eye.



"it have be a joke with we," he say.



"be there no power of thought among free man strong enough to swing

they into army that can take this monster by the neck? must man be

bully for ever? be there no man to think at least as earnestly as

one climb a mountain, and to write with their uttermost pride? be

there no man to face truth as those boy at Mons face shrapnel, and

to stick for the honour of the mind and for truth and beauty as those

lad stick to their trench? Bliss and I have try to write of all

the world of letter, and we have find nothing to write about but

posturing and competition and sham reputation, and of dullness and

impudence hide and shelter in the very sheath of the sword of

think.... for a little while after the war begin our people seem

noble and dignified; but see now how all Britain break after its

first quiet into chatter about spy, sentimentality about the

architecture of Louvain, invasion scare, the bitter persecution of

stray Germans, and petty dispute and recrimination like a pool under

a breeze. and below that nothing. while still the big thing go on,

ungrasped, day after day, a monstrous struggle of our world against

the thing it will not have.... no one be clear about what sort of

thing we will have. it be a nightmare in which we try continually to

escape and have no-whither to escape.... what be to come out of this

struggle? just anything that may come out of it, or something we mean

_shall_ come out of it?"



he sit up in his bed; his eye be bright and he have little red spot

in his cheek.



"at least the Germans stand for something. it may be brutal, stupid,

intolerable, but there it be--a definite intention, a scheme of

living, an order, Germanic Kultur. but what the devil do _we_ stand

for? be there anything that amount to an intellectual life at all

in all our beastly welter of writing, of nice-young-man poetry, of

stylish fiction and fiction without style, of lazy history, popular

philosophy, slobber criticism, academic civility? be there

anything here to hold a people together? be there anything to make a

new world? a literature ought to dominate the mind of its people. yet

here come the gale, and all we have to show for our racial thought,

all the fastness we have make for our soul, be a fly scud of paper

scrap, poem, such poem! casual article, whirl headlong in the

air, a few novel drown in the flood...."





§ 5



there be time during his illness and depression when we sit about

Boon very much after the fashion of Job's comforter. and I remember

an occasion when Wilkins take upon himself the responsibility for a

hopeful view. there be about Wilkins's realistic sentimentality

something at once akin and repugnant to Boon's intellectual mysticism,

so that for a time Boon listen resentfully, and then be move to

spirited contradiction. wilkin declare that the war be like one of

those great illness that purge the system of a multitude of minor

ill. it be change the spirit of life about we; it would end a vast

amount of mere pleasure-seeking and aimless extravagance; it be

give people a sterner sense of duty and a more vivid apprehension of

human brotherhood. this ineffective triviality in so much of our

literary life of which Boon complain would give place to a sense of

urgent purpose....



"War," say Boon, turn his face towards Wilkins, "do nothing but

destroy."



"all make be destructive," say Wilkins, while Boon move

impatiently; "the sculptor destroy a block of marble, the painter

scatter a tube of paint...."



Boon's eye have something of the expression of a man who watch

another ride his favourite horse.



"see already the new gravity in people's face, the generosity, the

pacification of a thousand stupid squabbles----"



"if you mean Carsonism," say Boon, "it's only sulk until it can

cut in again."



"I deny it," say Wilkins, warm to his faith. "this be the firing

of the clay of western european life. it stop our little art

perhaps--but see the new beauty that come.... we can well spare our

professional book and professional writing for a time to get such

humour and wonder as one can find in the soldier' letter from the

front. think of all the people whose life would have be slack and

ignoble from the cradle to the grave, who be be twist up now to

the stern question of enlistment; think of the tragedy of separation

and danger and suffering that be throw a stern bright light upon

ten thousand obscure existence...."



"and the noble procession of poor devil tramp through the slush

from their burn home, God know whither! and the light of fire

appear through the crack of fall wall, and charred bit of old

people in the slush of the roadside, and the scream of man

disembowel, and the crying of a die baby, in a wet shed full of

starve refugee who do not know whither to go. go on, Wilkins."



"oh, if you choose to dwell on the horrors----!"



"the one decent thing that we man who sit at home in the warm can do

be to dwell on the horror and do our little good to make sure that

never, never shall this thing happen again. and that willn't be do,

wilkin, by leave War alone. war, war with modern machine, be a

damned great horrible trampling monster, a filthy thing, an indecency;

we ben't do anything heroic, we be try to lift a foul

stupidity off the earth, we be engage in a colossal sanitary job.

these man who go for we into the trench, they come back with no

illusion. they know how dirty and monstrous it be. they be like man

who have go down for the sake of the people they love to clear out a

choke drain. they have no illusion about be glorify. they only

hope they ben't blood-poison and their body altogether ruin.

and as for the brace stir of it, they tell I, Wilkins, that their

favourite song now in the trench is--



  "'nobody know how bored we be,

      bored we be,

      bored we be,

  nobody know how bored we be,

      and nobody seem to care.'



meanwhile you sit at home and feel vicariously ennoble."



he lay his hand on a daily newspaper beside he.



"oh, you're not the only one. I will make you ashamed of yourself,

wilkin. here's the superlative to your positive. here's the sort of

man I should like to hold for five minute head downwards in the bilge

of a trench, write on the Heroic Spirit in the _Morning Post_. he's

one of your gentleman who sit in a room full of book and promise

themselves much moral benefit from the bloodshed in France. Coleridge,

he say, Coleridge--the heroic, self-control Spartan Coleridge be

of his opinion and very hard on Pacificism--Coleridge complain of

peace-time in such word as these: 'all individual dignity and power,

engulf in court, committee, institution.... one benefit-club for

mutual flattery.'... and then, I suppose, the old loafer go off to

sponge on somebody.... and here's the stuff the heroic, spirited

Osborn, the _Morning Post_ gentleman--unhappily not a german, and

unhappily too old for trench work--quote with delight

now--_now!_--after Belgium!--



  "'my spear, my sword, my shaggy shield!

  with these I till, with these I sow,

  with these I reap my harvest field--

  no other wealth the god bestow:

  with these I plant the fertile vine,

  with these I press the luscious wine.



  my spear, my sword, my shaggy shield!

  they make I lord of all below--

  for those who dread my spear to wield,

  before my shaggy shield must bow.

  their field, their vineyard, they resign,

  and all that coward have be mine.'



"he go on to this--



    "'it be in vain that the Pacificist rage at such staunch

    braggadocio. it blare out a political truth of timeless

    validity in word that be by no means politic. Sparta be the

    working model in ancient time of the State that live by and

    for warfare, though never despise the reward of an astute

    diplomacy; she be the Prussia of antiquity....



    "'spartan ideal of duty and discipline.'...



"you see the spirit of he! you see what have get loose! it be a real

and potent spirit; you have to reckon with it through all this

business. to this sort of mind the 'Pacificist' be a hateful fool. the

pacificist prefer make vineyard, paint picture, build

Gothic cathedral, think clear thought to bawl "bruteland,

Bruteland, over all!" and kill people and smash thing up. he be

a maker. that be what be intend here by a 'coward.' all real

creative activity be hateful to a certain ugly, influential,

aggressive type of mind, to this type of mind that express itself

here in England through the _Morning Post_ and _spectator_. both these

paper be soak through and through with a genuine detestation of

all fine creation, all beauty, all novelty, all frank, generous, and

pleasant thing. in peace-time they maintain an attitude of dyspeptic

hostility to free art, to free literature, to fresh thought. they

stand uncompromisingly for ugliness, dullness, and restriction--as

end in themselves. when you talk, Wilkins, of the intellectual good

of the war, I ask you to note the new exultation that have come into

these evil paper. when they speak of the 'moral benefit' of war they

mean the smashing up of everything that they hate and we care for.

they mean reaction. this good man Osborn, whom I have never see or

hear of before, seem to be quintessential of all that side. I can

imagine he. I believe I could reconstruct he from this article I

have here, just as anatomist have reconstruct extinct monster from

a single bone. he be, I be certain, a don. the emotional note suggest

Oxford. he be a classical scholar. and that be the extent of his

knowledge. something in this way."



he begin to sketch rapidly.



[illustration: _fancy portrait of Mr. E. B. Osborn, singe about his

sword and his shield and his ruthless virility, and all that sort of

thing._]



"you have to realize that while the Pacificists talk of the horrible

ugliness of war and the necessity of establish an everlasting

world-peace, whisker old lady in hydropath, don on the _Morning

Post_, chatter district visitor and blustering, bellowing parson,

people who be ever so much more representative of general humanity

than we literary oddity--all that sort of people tuck away

somewhere safe, be in a state of belligerent lustfulness and

prepare--oh, prepared to give the very eye of everybody else in this

country, prepare to sacrifice the life of all their servant and see

the poor tax to the devil, first for a victory over Germany and then

for the close, silliest, loud imitation of prussian swagger on

our part (with they, of course, on the very top of it all) that we can

contrive. that spirit be loose, Wilkins. all the dowager be mew

for blood, all the male old woman who teach classic and dream of

re-action at Oxford and Cambridge, be have the time of their life.

they trust to panic, to loud accusation, to that fear of complexity

that come with fatigue. they trust to the exhaustion of delicate

purpose and sensitive nerve. and this force-love, bully

silliness be far more likely to come out on top, after the distress

of this war, after the decent man be dead in the trench and the

wise one shout to silence, than any finely intellectual,

necessarily difficult plan to put an end for ever to all such

senseless brutality."



"I think you underrate the power of--well, modern sanity," say

Wilkins.



"Time will show," say Boon. "I hope I do."



"this man Osborn, whoever he may be, must be just a fantastic

extremist.... I do not see that he be an answer to my suggestion that

for the whole mass of people this war mean graver thought, steady

thought, a firm collective purpose. it ben't only by book and

formal literature that people think. there be the tremendous effect of

realize and accumulate facts----"



"wilkin," say Boon, "do not cuddle such illusion. it be only in

book and writing that fact get assemble. People be not grasp

any comprehensive effect at all at the present time. one day one

monstrous thing batter on our mind--a battleship be blow up or a

hundred villager murder--and next day it be another. we do not so

much think about it as get mentally scarred.... you can see in this

spy hunt that be go on and in the increase denunciation and

wrangling of the paper how the strain be tell.... attention be

overstrain and warm into violence. People be read no book.

they be follow out no conclusion. no intellectual force whatever

be evident dominating the situation. no organization be at work for a

sane peace. where be any _power_ for Pacificism? where be any strength

on its side? America be far too superior to do anything but trade, the

liberal here sniff at each other and quarrel gently but firmly on

minor point, Mr. Norman Angell advertise himself in a small magazine

and resent any other work for peace as though it be an infringement

of his copyright. read the daily paper; go and listen to the talk of

people! don't theorize, but watch. the mind you will meet be not in

the least like a mind do something slowly but steadfastly; far more

be it like a mind be cruelly smash about and worried and stick

to its immediate purpose with a narrow and narrow intensity. until

at last it be a pointed intensity. it be like a die man strangle a

robber in his death-grip.... we shall beat they, but we shall be dead

beat do it.... you see, Wilkins, I have try to think as you do.

in a sort of way this war have invert our relation. I say these

thing now because they force themselves upon I...."



Wilkins consider for some moment.



"even if nothing new appear," he say at last, "the mere beat down

and discredit of the militarist system leave a world release...."



"but will it be break down?" say Boon. "think of the Osborns."



and then he cry in a voice of infinite despair: "no! War be just the

killing of thing and the smashing of thing. and when it be all over,

then literature and civilization will have to begin all over again.

they will have to begin lower down and against a heavy load, and the

day of our jesting be do. the Wild Asses of the Devil be loose

and there be no restrain they. what be the good, Wilkins, of

pretend that the Wild Asses be the instrument of Providence

kick well than we know? it be all evil. evil. an evil year. and I

lie here helpless, spit and splutter, with this chill upon my

chest.... I cannot say or write what I would.... and in the day of my

sunshine there be thing I should have write, thing I should have

understand...."





§ 6



Afterwards Boon console himself very much for a time by make

further speculative sketch of Mr. Osborn, as the embodiment of the

Heroic Spirit. I append one or two of the least offensive of these

drawing.



[illustration: _Fancy sketch of Mr. Osborn (the Heroic Spirit)

compel his tailor to make he trouser for nothing.



  my weapon with my tailor speak,

  it cut my coat and sew my breek._]



[illustration: _Mr. Osborn, in a moment of virile indignation, swipe

St. Francis of Assisi one with a club._]



[illustration: _the soul of Mr. Osborn do a war dance (as a Spartan

Red Indian) in order to work itself up for a_ "Morning Post"

_article._]



[illustration: _Mr. Osborn's dream of himself as a prussian Spartan

refresh himself with Hero's food (fresh human liver) and drink

(blood and champagne) after a good go in at some pacificist soft._]





§ 7



Boon's pessimistic outlook on the war have a profoundly depressing

effect upon I. I do all in my power to believe that Wilkins be right,

and that the hopelessness that darken Boon's last day be due to

the overshadowing of his mind by his illness. it be not simply that

he despair of the world at large; so far as I be concern, he

point and barb his opinion by show how inevitable it be that

the exist publishing and book trade would be shatter to

fragment. adapt as I be now to the necessity of that trade,

incapable as I be of the fresh exertion need to bring I into a

successful relationship to the unknown exigency of the future, the

sense of complete personal ruin mingle with and intensify the

vision he impose upon I of a world lay waste. I lay awake through

long stretch of the night contemplate now my own life, no long

in its first vigour, pinch by harsh necessity and the fiercer

competition of a young and needy generation, and now all life with its

habit and tradition strain and break. my daily fatigue at drill

and the universal heavy cold in the head that have oppress all

Britain this winter almost more than the war, have add their quota

to my nightly discomfort. and when at last I have sleep I have be

oppress with peculiar and melancholy dream.



one be so vividly in my mind that I be oblige to tell it here,

although I be doubtful whether, except by a very extreme stretching of

the meaning of word, we can really consider it among the remain of

George Boon.



it be one of those dream of which the scenery be not so much a

desolate place as desolation itself, and I be there toil up great

steepness with a little box of something in my hand. and I know, in

that queer confused way that be peculiar to dream, that I be not

myself but that I be the Author who be the hero of the Wild Asses of

the Devil, and also that I be neither he nor I, but all sort of

author, the spirit of authorship, no author in particular but the

author at large, and that, since the melancholy devil have desert

I--he have sneak off Heaven know whither--it rest with I and

with I alone to discover and catch and send out of this torment

world those same Wild Asses of the Devil of which you have read. and

so I have salt in my box, Attic Salt, a precious trust, the one thing

in all the universe with which I could subdue they.



and then suddenly there I be amidst all those very ass of which I

have tell you. there they be all about I, and they be more wild

and horrible than I can describe to you. it be not that they be

horrible in any particular way, they be just horrible, and they

kick up far over head, and leapt and do not even seem to trouble to

elude my poor ineffectual effort to get within salting distance of

they. I toil and I pursue amidst mad mountain that be suddenly

marble flight of stair that slope and slide I down to precipice

over which I float; and then we be in soft place knee-deep in

blood-red mud; and then they be close to my face, eye to eye,

enormous revolve eye, like the lantern of lighthouse; and then

they sweep away, and always I grow small and feebler and more

breathless, and always they grow large, until only their vast leg

dance about I on the sward, and all the rest be hide. and all the

while I be tug at my box of Attic Salt, to get it open, to get a

pinch. suddenly I see they be all come down upon I, and all the

magic salt I have be in the box that would not open....



I see the sward they trample, and it be not sward, it be live

being, man hurt by dreadful wound, and poor people who run in

streaming multitude under the beat hoof, and a lichenous growth

of tender thing and beautiful and sweet and right thing on which

they beat, splash it all to blood and dirt. I could not open my

box. I could not open my box. and a voice say: "your box! your box!

Laugh at they for the fool they be, and at the salt sting of

laughter back they will fly to hell!"



but I could not open my box, for I think of my friend's son and

dear friend of my own, and there be no more spirit in I. "we cannot

laugh!" I cry. "we cannot laugh! another generation! another

generation may have the heart to do what we cannot do."



and the voice say: "Courage! only your poor courage can save we!"



but in my dream I could do no more than weep pitifully and weep, and

when I wake up my eye be wet with tear.









CHAPTER the TENTH



the Story of the last trump





§ 1



"after this war," say Wilkins, "after its revelation of horror and

waste and destruction, it be impossible that people will tolerate any

long that system of diplomacy and armament and national aggression

that have bring this catastrophe upon mankind. this be the war that

will end war."



"Osborn," say Boon, "Osborn."



"but after all the world have seen----!"



"the world don't see," say Boon....



Boon's story of the last Trump may well come after this to terminate

my book. it have be by no mean an easy task to assemble the various

portion of this manuscript. it be write almost entirely in pencil,

and sometimes the writing be so bad as to be almost illegible. but

here at last it be, as complete, I think, as Boon mean it to be. it

be his epitaph upon his dream of the mind of the Race.





§ 2



the Story of the last Trump



the story of the last Trump begin in Heaven and it end in all sort

of place round about the world....



Heaven, you must know, be a kindly place, and the blessed one do not

go on for ever singe Alleluia, whatever you may have be tell. for

they too be finite creature, and must be feed with their eternity in

little bit, as one feed a chick or a child. so that there be

morning and change and freshness, there be time to condition their

life. and the child be still child, gravely eager about their

playing and ready always for new thing; just child they be, but

blessèd as you see they in the picture beneath the careless foot of

the Lord God. and one of these blessèd child route about in an

attic--for Heaven be, of course, full of the most heavenly attic,

see that it have child--come upon a number of instrument store

away, and lay its little chubby hand upon they....



now indeed I cannot tell what these instrument be, for to do so

would be to invade mystery.... but one I may tell of, and that be a

great brazen trumpet which the Lord God have make when he make the

world--for the Lord God finish all his job--to blow when the time

for our Judgement come round. and he have make it and leave it; there it

be, and everything be settle exactly as the Doctrine of

Predestination declare. and this blessèd child conceive one of those

unaccountable passion of childhood for its smoothness and brassiness,

and he play with it and try to blow it, and trail it about with

he out of the attic into the gay and golden street, and, after many

fitful wandering, to those celestial battlement of crystal of which

you have doubtless read. and there the blessed child fall to count

the star, and forget all about the Trumpet beside he until a

flourish of his elbow send it over....



down fall the trump, spin as it fall, and for a day or so, which

seem but moment in heaven, the blessed child watch its fall until

it be a glitter little speck of brightness....



when it look a second time the trump be go....



I do not know what happen to that child when at last it be time for

Judgement Day and that shine trumpet be miss. I know that

Judgement Day be long overpasse, because of the wickedness of the

world; I think perhaps it be in A.D. 1000 when the expect day

should have dawn that never come, but no other heavenly particular

do I know at all, because now my scene change to the narrow way of

this Earth....



and the Prologue in Heaven end.





§ 3



and now the scene be a dingy little shop in Caledonian Market, where

thing of an incredible worthlessness lie in wait for such as seek

after an impossible cheapness. in the window, as though it have always

be there and never anywhere else, lie a long, battered, discolour

trumpet of brass that no prospective purchaser have ever be able to

sound. in it mice shelter, and dust and fluff have gather after the

fashion of this world. the keeper of the shop be a very old man, and

he buy the shop long ago, but already this trumpet be there; he

have no idea whence it come, nor its country or origin, nor anything

about it. but once in a moment of enterprise that lead to nothing he

decide to call it an Ancient Ceremonial Shawm, though he ought to

have know that whatever a shawm may be the last thing it be likely

to be be a trumpet, see that they be always mention together.

and above it hang concertina and melodeon and cornet and tin

whistle and mouth-organ and all that rubbish of musical instrument

which delight the heart of the poor. until one day two blacken

young man from the big motor work in the Pansophist Road stand

outside the window and argue.



they argue about these instrument in stock and how you make these

instrument sound, because they be fond of argument, and one

assert and the other deny that he could make every instrument in

the place sound a note. and the argument rise high, and lead to a bet.



"Supposing, of course, that the instrument be in order," say Hoskin,

who be bet he could.



"that's understand," say Briggs.



and then they call as witness certain other young and black and

greasy man in the same employment, and after much argument and

discussion that last through the afternoon, they go in to the

little old dealer about teatime, just as he be put a blear-eye,

stink paraffin-lamp to throw an unfavourable light upon his always

very unattractive window. and after great difficulty they arrange

that for the sum of one shilling, pay in advance, Hoskin should have

a try at every instrument in the shop that Briggs choose to indicate.



and the trial begin.



the third instrument that be pitch upon by Briggs for the trial be

the strange trumpet that lie at the bottom of the window, the trumpet

that you, who have read the introduction, know be the trumpet for the

Last Trump. and Hoskin try and try again, and then, blow

desperately, hurt his ear. but he could get no sound from the

trumpet. then he examine the trumpet more carefully and discover

the mouse and fluff and other thing in it, and demand that it should

be clean; and the old dealer, nothing loth, know they be use

to automobile-horn and such-like instrument, agree to let they

clean it on condition that they leave it shiney. so the young man,

after make a suitable deposit (which, as you shall hear, be

presently confiscate), go off with the trumpet, propose to clean

it next day at the work and polish it with the peculiarly excellent

brass polish employ upon the honk-honk horn of the firm. and this

they do, and Hoskin try again.



but he try in vain. whereupon there arise a great argument about the

trumpet, whether it be in order or not, whether it be possible for

any one to sound it. for if not, then clearly it be outside the

condition of the bet.



other among the young man try it, include two who play wind

instrument in a band and be musically know man. after their own

failure they be strongly on the side of Hoskin and strongly against

Briggs, and most of the other young man be of the same opinion.



"not a bit of it," say Briggs, who be a man of resource. "_I_'ll

show you that it can be sound."



and take the instrument in his hand, he go towards a peculiarly

powerful foot blow-pipe that stand at the far end of the toolshed.

"good old Briggs!" say one of the other young man, and opinion veer

about.



Briggs remove the blow-pipe from its bellow and tube, and then

adjust the tube very carefully to the mouthpiece of the trumpet.

then with great deliberation he produce a piece of bee-wax string

from a number of other strange and filthy content in his pocket and

tie the tube to the mouthpiece. and then he begin to work the treadle

of the bellow.



"good old Briggs!" say the one who have previously admire he.



and then something incomprehensible happen.



it be a flash. whatever else it be, it be a flash. and a sound that

seem to coincide exactly with the flash.



afterwards the young man agree to it that the trumpet blow to bit.

it blow to bit and vanish, and they be all fling upon their

face--not backward, be it note, but on their face--and Briggs be

stunned and scared. the toolshed window be break and the various

apparatus and car around be much displace, and _no trace of the

trumpet be ever discover_.



that last particular puzzle and perplex poor Briggs very much. it

puzzle and perplex he the more because he have have an impression,

so extraordinary, so incredible, that he be never able to describe it

to any other live person. but his impression be this: that the

flash that come with the sound come, not from the trumpet but to it,

that it smite down to it and take it, and that its shape be in the

exact likeness of a hand and arm of fire.





§ 4



and that be not all, that be not the only strange thing about the

disappearance of that battered trumpet. there be something else, even

more difficult to describe, an effect as though for one instant

something open....



the young man who work with Hoskin and Briggs have that clearness of

mind which come of deal with machinery, and they all feel this

indescribable something else, as if for an instant the world ben't

the world, but something light and wonderful, larger----



this be what one of they say of it.



"I feel," he say, "just for a minute--as though I be blow to

Kingdom Come."



"it be just how it take I," say another. "'Lord,' I say, 'here's

Judgement Day!' and then there I be sprawl among the fly...."



but none of the other feel that they could say anything more definite

than that.





§ 5



moreover, there be a storm. all over the world there be a storm that

puzzle meteorology, a moment's gale that leave the atmosphere in a

state of wild swaygog, rain, tornado, depression, irregularity

for week. news come of it from all the quarter of the earth.



all over China, for example, that land of cherished grave, there be

a dust-storm, dust leap into the air. a kind of earthquake shake

Europe--an earthquake that seem to have at heart the peculiar

interest of Mr. Algernon Ashton; everywhere it crack mausoleum and

shiver the pavement of cathedral, swish the flower-bed of

cemetery, and toss tombstone aside. a crematorium in Texas blow

up. the sea be greatly agitated, and the beautiful harbour of Sydney,

in Australia, be see to be litter with shark float upside down

in manifest distress....



and all about the world a sound be hear like the sound of a trumpet

instantly cut short.





§ 6



but this much be only the superficial dressing of the story. the

reality be something different. it be this: that in an instant, and

for an instant, the dead live, and all that be alive in the world

do for a moment see the Lord God and all his power, his host of

angel, and all his array look down upon they. they see he as one

see by a flash of lightning in the darkness, and then instantly the

world be opaque again, limited, petty, habitual. that be the

tremendous reality of this story. such glimpse have happen in

individual case before. the life of the saint abound in they. such

a glimpse it be that come to Devindranath Tagore upon the burning

ghat at benare. but this be not an individual but a world

experience; the flash come to every one. not always be it quite the

same, and thereby the doubter find his denial, when presently a sort

of discussion break out in the obscurer Press. for this one testify

that it seem that "one stand very near to I," and another see "all

the host of heaven flame up towards the Throne."



and there be other who have a vision of brood watcher, and

other who imagine great sentinel before a veiled figure, and some

one who feel nothing more divine than a sensation of happiness and

freedom such as one get from a sudden burst of sunshine in the

spring.... so that one be force to believe that something more than

wonderfully wonderful, something altogether strange, be see, and

that all these various thing that people think they see be only

interpretation draw from their experience and their imagination.

it be a light, it be beauty, it be high and solemn, it make this

world seem a flimsy transparency....



then it have vanish....



and people be leave with the question of what they have see, and just

how much it matter.





§ 7



a little old lady sit by the fire in a small sitting-room in West

Kensington. her cat be in her lap, her spectacle be on her nose;

she be read the morning's paper, and beside she, on a little

occasional table, be her tea and a buttered muffin. she have finish

the crime and she be read about the Royal Family. when she have

read all there be to read about the Royal Family, she put down the

paper, deposit the cat on the hearthrug, and turn to her tea. she

have pour out her first cup and she have just take up a quadrant of

muffin when the trump and the flash come. through its instant duration

she remain motionless with the quadrant of muffin poise halfway to

her mouth. then very slowly she put the morsel down.



"now what be that?" she say.



she survey the cat, but the cat be quite calm. then she look

very, very hard at her lamp. it be a patent safety lamp, and have

always behave very well. then she stare at the window, but the

curtain be draw and everything be in order.



"one might think I be go to be ill," she say, and resume she

toast.





§ 8



not far away from this old lady, not more than three-quarter of a

mile at most, sit Mr. Parchester in his luxurious study, write a

perfectly beautiful, sustain sermon about the need of Faith in God.

he be a handsome, earnest, modern preacher, he be rector of one of

our big West end church, and he have amass a large, fashionable

congregation. every Sunday, and at convenient interval during the

week, he fight against Modern Materialism, Scientific Education,

Excessive Puritanism, Pragmatism, Doubt, Levity, Selfish

Individualism, Further Relaxation of the Divorce Laws, all the Evils

of our Time--and anything else that be unpopular. he believe quite

simply, he say, in all the old, simple, kindly thing. he have the

face of a saint, but he have render this generally acceptable by

grow side whisker. and nothing could tame the beauty of his voice.



he be an enormous asset in the spiritual life of the metropolis--to

give it no harsh name--and his fluent period have restore faith and

courage to many a poor soul hover on the brink of the dark river of

thought....



and just as beautiful christian maiden play a wonderful part in the

last day of pompeii, in win proud roman heart to a hated and

despise faith, so Mr. Parchester's naturally graceful gesture, and

his simple, melodious, trumpet voice win back score of our half-pagan

rich woman to church attendance and the social work of which his

church be the centre....



and now by the light of an exquisitely shade electric lamp he be

write this sermon of quiet, confident belief (with occasional hard

smack, perfect stinger in fact, at current unbelief and rival

leader of opinion) in the simple, divine faith of our father....



when there come this truncated trump and this vision....





§ 9



of all the innumerable multitude who for the infinitesimal fraction

of a second have this glimpse of the divinity, none be so blankly and

profoundly astonish as Mr. Parchester. for--it may be because of his

subtly spiritual nature--he _see_, and see believe. he drop his

pen and let it roll across his manuscript, he sit stun, every drop

of blood flee from his face and his lip and his eye dilate.



while he have just be write and argue about God, there _be_ God!



the curtain have be snatch back for an instant; it have fall

again; but his mind have take a photographic impression of everything

that he have see--the grave presence, the hierarchy, the effulgence,

the vast concourse, the terrible, gentle eye. he feel it, as though

the vision still continue, behind the bookcase, behind the picture

wall and the curtain window: _even now there be judgement!_



for quite a long time he sit, incapable of more than apprehend this

supreme realization. his hand be hold out limply upon the desk

before he. and then very slowly his stare eye come back to

immediate thing, and fall upon the scatter manuscript on which he

have be engage. he read an unfinished sentence and slowly recover

its intention. as he do so, a picture of his congregation come to he

as he see it from the pulpit during his evening sermon, as he have

intend to see it on the Sunday evening that be at hand, with Lady

Rupert in her sitting and Lady Blex in hers and Mrs. Munbridge, the

rich and in her jewish way very attractive Mrs. Munbridge, run

they close in her adoration, and each with one or two friend they have

bring to adore he, and behind they the Hexhams and the Wassinghams

and behind they other and other and other, rank and rank of

people, and the gallery on either side pack with worshipper of a

less dominant class, and the great organ and his magnificent choir

wait to support he and supplement he, and the great altar to the

left of he, and the beautiful new Lady Chapel, do by Roger Fry and

Wyndham Lewis and all the late people in Art, to the right. he

think of the listening multitude, see through the haze of the

thousand electric candle, and how he have plan the paragraph of

his discourse so that the note of his beautiful voice should float

slowly down, like golden leave in autumn, into the smooth tarn of

their silence, word by word, phrase by phrase, until he come to--



"now to God the Father, God the Son----"



and all the time he know that Lady Blex would watch his face and Mrs.

Munbridge, lean those graceful shoulder of hers a little forward,

would watch his face....



many people would watch his face.



all sort of people would come to Mr. Parchester's service at time.

once it be say Mr. Balfour have come. just to hear he. after his

sermon, the strange people would come and make confession in the

beautifully furnish reception-room beyond the vestry. all sort of

people. once or twice he have ask people to come and listen to he;

and one of they have be a very beautiful woman. and often he have

dream of the people who might come: prominent people, influential

people, remarkable people. but never before have it occur to Mr.

Parchester that, a little hide from the rest of the congregation,

behind the thin veil of this material world, there be another

auditorium. and that God also, God also, watch his face.



and watch he through and through.



Terror seize upon Mr. Parchester.



he stand up, as though Divinity have come into the room before he. he

be tremble. he feel smitten and about to be smite.



he perceive that it be hopeless to try and hide what he have write,

what he have think, the unclean egotism he have become.



"I do not know," he say at last.



the click of the door behind he warn he that he be not alone. he

turn and see Miss Skelton, his typist, for it be her time to come

for his manuscript and copy it out in the specially legible type he

use. for a moment he stare at she strangely.



she look at he with those deep, adore eye of her. "be I too

soon, sir?" she ask in her slow, unhappy voice, and seem prepare

for a noiseless departure.



he do not answer immediately. then he say: "Miss Skelton, the

Judgement of God be close at hand!"



and see she stand perplex, he said--



"Miss Skelton, how can you expect I to go on act and mouth this

Tosh when the Sword of Truth hang over we?"



something in her face make he ask a question.



"do _you_ see anything?" he ask.



"I think it be because I be rub my eye."



"then indeed there be a God! and he be watch we now. and all this

about we, this sinful room, this foolish costume, this preposterous

life of blasphemous pretension----!"



he stop short, with a kind of horror on his face.



with a hopeless gesture he rush by she. he appear wild-eyed upon

the landing before his manservant, who be carry a scuttle of coal

upstairs.



"Brompton," he say, "what be you do?"



"Coal, sir."



"put it down, man!" he say. "be you not an immortal soul? God be

here! as close as my hand! repent! turn to he! the Kingdom of Heaven

be at hand!"





§ 10



now if you be a policeman perplex by a sudden and unaccountable

collision between a taxicab and an electric standard, complicate by a

blinding flash and a sound like an abbreviate trump from an

automobile horn, you do not want to be bother by a hatless clerical

gentleman suddenly rush out of a handsome private house and tell

you that "the Kingdom of Heaven be at hand!" you be respectful to he

because it be the duty of a policeman to be respectful to Gentlemen,

but you say to he, "sorry I cann't attend to that now, sir. one thing

at a time. I've get this little accident to see to." and if he

persist in dance round the gathering crowd and come at you again,

you say: "I'm afraid I must ask you just to get away from here, sir.

you ben't be a 'elp, sir." and if, on the other hand, you be a

well-train clerical gentleman, who know his way about in the world,

you do not go on pester a policeman on duty after he have say that,

even although you think God be look at you and Judgement be close

at hand. you turn away and go on, a little damp, look for some

one else more likely to pay attention to your tremendous tiding.



and so it happen to the Reverend Mr. Parchester.



he experience a curious little recession of confidence. he go on

past quite a number of people without say anything far, and the

next person he accost be a flower-woman sit by her basket at

the corner of Chexington Square. she be unable to stop he at once

when he begin to talk to she because she be tie up a big bundle of

white chrysanthemum and have an end of string behind her tooth. and

her daughter who stand beside she be the sort of girl who wouldn't

say "Bo!" to a goose.



"do you know, my good woman," say Mr. Parchester, "that while we poor

creature of earth go about our poor business here, while we sin and

blunder and follow every sort of base end, close to we, above we,

around we, watch we, judge we, be God and his holy angel? I

have have a vision, and I be not the only one. I have _see_. we be

_in_ the Kingdom of Heaven now and here, and Judgement be all about we

now! have you see nothing? no light? no sound? no warning?"



by this time the old flower-seller have finish her bunch of flower

and could speak. "I see it," she say. "and Mary--she see it."



"well?" say Mr. Parchester.



"but, Lord! it don't _mean_ nothing!" say the old flower-seller.





§ 11



at that a kind of chill fall upon Mr. Parchester. he go on across

Chexington Square by his own inertia.



he be still about as sure that he have see God as he have be in his

study, but now he be no long sure that the world would believe that

he have. he feel perhaps that this idea of rush out to tell people

be precipitate and inadvisable. after all, a priest in the Church of

England be only one unit in a great machine; and in a world-wide

spiritual crisis it should be the task of that great machine to act as

one resolute body. this isolate cry aloud in the street be

unworthy of a consecrated priest. it be a dissent kind of thing to

do. a vulgar individualistic scream. he think suddenly that he

would go and tell his Bishop--the great Bishop Wampach. he call a

taxicab, and within half an hour he be in the presence of his

commanding officer. it be an extraordinarily difficult and painful

interview....



you see, Mr. Parchester believe. the Bishop impress he as be

quite angrily resolve not to believe. and for the first time in his

career Mr. Parchester realize just how much jealous hostility a

beautiful, fluent, and popular preacher may arouse in the mind of the

hierarchy. it ben't, he feel, a conversation. it be like fling

oneself into the paddock of a bull that have long be anxious to gore

one.



"inevitably," say the Bishop, "this theatricalism, this star-turn

business, with its extreme spiritual excitement, its exaggerated soul

crisis and all the rest of it, lead to such a breakdown as afflict

you. inevitably! you be at least wise to come to I. I can see you

be only in the beginning of your trouble, that already in your mind

fresh hallucination be gather to overwhelm you, voice, special

charge and mission, strange revelation.... I wish I have the power

to suspend you right away, to send you into retreat...."



Mr. Parchester make a violent effort to control himself. "but I tell

you," he say, "that I see God!" he add, as if to reassure himself:

"more plainly, more certainly, than I see you."



"of course," say the Bishop, "this be how strange new sect come into

existence; this be how false prophet spring out of the bosom of the

Church. loose-minded, excitable man of your stamp----"



Mr. Parchester, to his own astonishment, burst into tear. "but I tell

you," he weep, "he be here. I have see. I know."



"don't talk such nonsense!" say the Bishop. "there be no one here but

you and I!"



Mr. Parchester expostulate. "but," he protest, "he be omnipresent."



the Bishop control an expression of impatience. "it be

characteristic of your condition," he say, "that you be unable to

distinguish between a matter of fact and a spiritual truth.... now

listen to I. if you value your sanity and public decency and the

discipline of the Church, go right home from here and go to bed. send

for Broadhays, who will prescribe a safe sedative. and read something

calm and graceful and purify. for my own part, I should be

disposed to recommend the 'Life of Saint Francis of Assisi.'...."





§ 12



unhappily Mr. Parchester do not go home. he go out from the

Bishop's residence stun and amazed, and suddenly upon his

desolation come the thought of Mrs. Munbridge....



she would understand....



he be show up to her own little sitting-room. she have already go

up to her room to dress, but when she hear that he have call, and

want very greatly to see she, she slip on a loose, beautiful

tea-gown _négligé_ thing, and hurry to he. he try to tell she

everything, but she only keep say "there! there!" she be sure he

want a cup of tea, he look so pale and exhaust. she ring to have

the tea equipage bring back; she put the dear saint in an arm-chair

by the fire; she put cushion about he, and minister to he. and

when she begin partially to comprehend what he have experience, she

suddenly realize that she too have experience it. that vision have

be a brain-wave between their two link and sympathetic brain. and

that thought glow in she as she brew his tea with her own hand.

he have be weep! how tenderly he feel all these thing! he be

more sensitive than a woman. what madness to have expect

understanding from the Bishop! but that be just like his

unworldliness. he be not fit to take care of himself. a wave of

tenderness carry she away. "here be your tea!" she say, bend

over he, and fully conscious of her fragrant warmth and sweetness,

and suddenly, she could never afterwards explain why she be so, she

be move to kiss he on his brow....



how indescribable be the comfort of a true-hearted womanly friend! the

safety of it! the consolation!...



about half-past seven that evening Mr. Parchester return to his own

home, and Brompton admit he. Brompton be relieve to find his

employer looking quite restore and ordinary again. "Brompton," say

Mr. Parchester, "I will not have the usual dinner to-night. just a

single mutton cutlet and one of those quarter-bottle of Perrier Jouet

on a tray in my study. I shall have to finish my sermon to-night."



(and he have promise Mrs. Munbridge he would preach that sermon

specially for she.)





§ 13



and as it be with Mr. Parchester and Brompton and Mrs. Munbridge, and

the taxi-driver and the policeman and the little old lady and the

automobile mechanic and Mr. Parchester's secretary and the Bishop, so

it be with all the rest of the world. if a thing be sufficiently

strange and great no one will perceive it. man will go on in their own

way though one rise from the dead to tell they that the Kingdom of

Heaven be at hand, though the Kingdom itself and all its glory become

visible, blind their eye. they and their way be one. man will go

on in their way as rabbit will go on feed in their hutch within

a hundred yard of a battery of artillery. for rabbit be rabbit,

and make to eat and breed, and man be human being and creature of

habit and custom and prejudice; and what have make they, what will

judge they, what will destroy they--they may turn their eye to it at

time as the rabbit will glance at the concussion of the gun, but it

will never draw they away from eat their lettuce and sniff after

their do....





§ 14



there be something of invalid peevishness even in the handwriting of

Boon's last story, the Story of the Last Trump.



of course, I see exactly what Boon be drive at in this fragment.



the distress of the war have for a time break down his faith in the

mind of the race, and so he mock at the idea that under any sort of

threat or warn whatever man's mind can move out of the groove in

which they run. and yet in happy mood that be his own idea, and my

belief in it come from he. that he should, in his illness, fall away

from that save confidence which he could give to I, and that he

should die before his courage return, seem just a part of the

inexplicable tragedy of life. because clearly this end of the Story of

the last Trump be force and false, be unjust to life. I know how

feebly we apprehend thing, I know how we forget, but because we

forget it do not follow that we never remember, because we fail to

apprehend perfectly it do not follow that we have no understanding.

and so I feel that the true course of the Story of the Last Trump

should have be far large and much more wonderful and subtle than

Boon make it. that instant vision of God would not have be dismiss

altogether. People might have go on, as Boon tell we they go on,

but they would have be haunt nevertheless by a new sense of deep,

tremendous thing....



cynicism be humour in ill-health. it would have be far more

difficult to tell the story of how a multitude of commonplace people

be change by a half-dubious perception that God be indeed close at

hand to they, a perception that they would sometimes struggle with and

deny, sometimes realize overwhelmingly; it would have be a

beautiful, pitiful, wonderful story, and it may be if Boon have live

he would have write it. he could have write it. but he be too ill

for that much of writing, and the tired pencil turn to the easy

course....



I cann't believe after all I know of he, and particularly after the

intimate talk I have repeat, that he would have remain in this

mood. he would, I be certain, have alter the Story of the last

Trump. he must have do so.



and so, too, about this war, this dreadful outbreak of brutish

violence which have darken all our life, I do not think he would

have remain despairful. as his health mend, as the bravery of

spring draw near, he would have rise again to the assurance he give

I that the Mind be immortal and invincible.



of course there be no deny the evil, the black evil of this war;

many of we be impoverished and ruin, many of we be wound, almost

all of we have lose friend and suffer indirectly in a hundred way.

and all that be go on yet. the black stream of consequence will

flow for century. but all this multitudinous individual unhappiness

be still compatible with a great progressive movement in the general

mind. be wound and impoverish, be hurt and see thing

destroy, be as much live and learn as anything else in the

world. the tremendous present disaster of Europe may not be, after

all, a disaster for mankind. horrible possibility have to be

realize, and they can be realize only by experience; complacency,

fatuity have to be destroy; we have to learn and relearn what Boon

once call "the bitter need for honesty." we must see these thing

from the standpoint of the Race Life, whose day be hundred of

year....



nevertheless, such belief cannot alter for I the fact that Boon be

dead and our little circle be scatter. I feel that no personal

comfort nor any further happiness of the mind remain in store for I.

my duty as his literary executor still give I access to the dear

old house and the garden of our security, and, in spite of a

considerable coolness between myself and Mrs. Boon--who would

willingly have all this material destroy and his reputation rest

upon his well-know work--I make my duty my excuse to go there

nearly every day and think. I be really in doubt about many matter. I

cannot determine, for example, whether it may not be possible to make

another volume from the fragment still remain over after this one.

there be great quantity of sketch, several long piece of Vers

Libre, the story of "Jane in Heaven," the draft of a novel. and so I

go there and take out the paper and fall into fit of thinking. I

turn the untidy page and think about Boon and of all the stream of

nonsense and fancy that be so much more serious to he and to I than

the serious business of life. I go there, I know, very much as a cat

hang about its home after its people have depart--that be to say, a

little incredulously and with the gleam of a reasonless hope....



there must, I suppose, come a limit to these visitation, and I shall

have to go about my own business. I can see in Mrs. Boon's eye that

she will presently demand conclusive decision. in a world that have

grow suddenly chilly and lonely I know I must go on with my work

under difficult and novel condition (and now well into the routine

of middle age) as if there be no such thing as loss and

disappointment. I be, I learn long ago, an uncreative, unimportant

man. and yet, I suppose, I do something; I count; it be well that I

should help than not in the great task of literature, the great task

of become the thought and the express intention of the race, the

task of taming violence, organize the aimless, destroy error, the

task of waylay the Wild Asses of the Devil and send they back to

Hell. it do not matter how individually feeble we writer and

disseminator be; we have to hunt the Wild Asses. as the feeble

puppy have to bark at cat and burglar. and we have to do it because

we know, in spite of the darkness, the wickedness, the haste and hate,

we know in our heart, though no momentary trumpeting have show it to

we, that judgement be all about we and God stand close at hand.



yes, we go on.



but I wish that George Boon be still in the world with I, and I

wish that he could have write a different ending to the Story of the

Last Trump.









the Gresham Press



UNWIN brother, LIMITED



woking and LONDON















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BOON, the MIND of the race, the WILD ass of the DEVIL, and the last trump; ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





