The project Gutenberg eBook of Joan and Peter: the story of an education

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Joan and Peter: the story of an education



author: H. G. Wells



Release date: February 17, 2020 [ebook #61426]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image generously make available by the

        Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK JOAN and PETER: the story of an EDUCATION ***



                             JOAN and PETER





[Illustration]



                         the MACMILLAN COMPANY

                  NEW YORK · BOSTON · CHICAGO · DALLAS

                        ATLANTA · SAN FRANCISCO



                        MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED

                       LONDON · BOMBAY · CALCUTTA

                               MELBOURNE



                   THE MACMILLAN CO. of CANADA, LTD.

                                TORONTO









                             JOAN and PETER

                      _the story of an EDUCATION_





                                   BY



                              H. G. WELLS

             Author of “Mr. Britling see it through,” etc.





                                New York

                         the MACMILLAN COMPANY

                                  1921



                         _all right reserve_









                            COPYRIGHT, 1918

                             BY H. G. WELLS





          Set up and electrotype. publish, September, 1918



------------------------------------------------------------------------









                                content





      CHAPTER                                                 PAGE

            I PETER’S PARENTAGE                                  1



           ii stubland in COUNCIL                              13



          III arthur or OSWALD?                                 31



           IV first impression of the UNIVERSE                 59



            v the christening                                   78



           VI the fourth GUARDIAN                              102



          VII the SCHOOL of ST. GEORGE and the VENERABLE BEDE  112



         viii the HIGH cross PREPARATORY SCHOOL                142



           IX oswald takes CONTROL                             204



            x a searching of schoolmaster                     255



           XI adolescence                                      282



          XII the world on the EVE of WAR                      377



         xiii JOAN and PETER GRADUATE                          443



          XIV OSWALD’S VALEDICTION                             544









                             JOAN and PETER



                       the STORY of an EDUCATION









                           chapter the FIRST

                           PETER’S PARENTAGE





                                  § 1



early one summer morning in England, in the year 1893 in the reign—which

seem in those day to have be go on for ever and to be likely to

go on for evermore—of Queen Victoria, there be bear a little boy name

Peter. Peter be a novel name then; he be before the great crop of

Peters who derive their name from Peter Pan. he be bear with some

difficulty. his father, who have not be to bed all night, for the

trouble of the birth have begin overnight at about nine o’clock, be

walk about in the garden in a dewy dawn, think the world very

dreadful and beautiful, when he first hear Peter cry. Peter, he

think, make a noise like a little frightened hen that something big

have catch.... Peter’s mother have be moan but now she moan no

more, and Peter’s father stand outside and whisper “oh, God! oh! damn

they and _damn_ they! why don’t they _tell_ I?”



then the nurse put her head out of the window; it be a casement window

with white rose about it; say “everything’s all right. I’ll tell you

when to come in,” and vanish again.



Peter’s father turn about very sharply so that she should not see he

be fool enough to weep, and go along the flagged path to the end of

the garden, where be the little summerhouse that look over the Weald.

but he could not see the Weald because his tear blind he. all night

Peter’s father have be think what an imperfect husband he have always

be and how he have never really tell his wife how much he love she,

and how indeed until now he have never understand how very much he love

she, and he have be make good resolution for the future in great

abundance, in enormous abundance, the most remarkable good resolution,

and one wake nightmare after another have be chase across his mind

nightmare of a dreadful dark-grey world in which there would be no

dolly, no dolly at all anywhere, even if you go out into the garden

and whistle your utmost, and he would be a widower with only one little

lonely child to console he. he could not imagine any other woman for

he but dolly.



the last trail vestige of those twilight distress vanish when

presently he saw dolly look tired indeed but pink and healthy, with

her hair almost roguishly astray, and the room full of warm daylight

from the dawn-flush sky, full of fresh south-west air from the Sussex

down, full of the sense of invincible life, and young master Peter,

very puckered and ugly and red and pitiful, in a blanket in the nurse’s

arm, and Dr. Fremisson smirk behind she, entirely satisfied with

himself and the universe and every detail of it.



when dolly have be kiss and whisper to they give Peter to his

father to hold.



Peter’s father have never understand before that a baby be an exquisite

thing.





                                  § 2



the parent of Peter be modern young people, and Peter be no

accidental intruder. their head be full of new idea, new that be in

the day when Queen Victoria seem immortal and the world settle for

ever. they put Peter in their two sunniest room; rarely be the

window shut; his nursery be white and green, bright with pretty

picture and never without flower. it have a cork carpet and a rug

display amusing black cat on pink, and he be weigh carefully

first once a week and then once a month until he be four year old.



his father, whom everybody call Stubbo, come of an old Quaker stock.

quakerism in its beginning be a very fine and wonderful religion

indeed, a real research for the Kingdom of Heaven on earth, a new way of

thinking and living, but weakness of the mind and spirit bring it

back very soon to a commoner texture. the Stubland family be among

those which have be most influence by the evangelical wave of the

Wesleyan time. Peter’s great-grandfather, old Stubland, the

West-of-England cloth manufacturer, be an emotional person with

pietistic inclination that nearly carry he over at different time

to the Plymouth Brethren, to the Wesleyan Methodists, and to the

Countess of Huntingdon’s connexion. religion be his only social

recreation, most other thing he hold to be sinful, and his surplus

energy go all into the business. he have an aptitude for mechanical

organization and start the Yorkshire factory; his son, still more

evangelical and still more successful, leave a business worth well over

two hundred thousand pound among thirteen child, of whom Peter’s

father be the young. “Stublands” become a limited company with

uncle Rigby and John as director, and the rest of the family be let

loose, each one with a nice little secure six hundred a year or

thereabout from Stubland debenture and stubland ordinary share, to do

what it like in the world.



it ben’t, of course, tell that it could do what it like in the

world. that it find out for itself—in the tooth of much early

teaching to the contrary. that early teaching have be predominantly

prohibitive, there have be no end of “thou shalt not” and very little

of “thou shalt,” an irksome teaching for young people destine to

leisure. mankind be present wait about for the Judgment Day,

with Satan as busy as a pickpocket in a crowd. also he offer

roundabout and cocoanut-shy.... this family doctrine tally so

little with the manifest circumstance and natural activity of the

young Stublands that it just fall off their young mind. the keynote

of Stubbo’s upbringing have be a persistent unanswered “why _not_?”

to all the thing he be tell not to do. “why _not_ dance? why _not_

go to theatre and music-hall? why _not_ make love? why _not_ read

and quote this exciting new poetry of Swinburne’s?”...



the early ’ninety be a period of careless diastole in british

affair. there seem to be enough and to spare for every one, give

only a little generosity. peace dwelt on the earth for ever. it be

difficult to prove the proprietorship of Satan in the roundabout and

the cocoanut-shy. there be a general belief that one’s parent and

grandparent have take life far too grimly and suspiciously, a belief

which, indeed, take possession of Stubbo before he be in trouser.



his emancipation be greatly aid by his eld sister Phyllis, a girl

with an abnormal sense of humour. it be Phyllis who brighten the

Sunday afternoon, when she and her sister Phœbe and her brother be

suppose to be commit passage of scripture to memory in the attic,

by the invention of increasingly irreligious limerick. phœbe would

sometimes be dreadfully shock and sometimes join in with great vigour

and glory. Phyllis be also an artist in misquotation. she begin by

take a facetious view of the ark and Jonah’s whale, and as her courage

grow she go on to the Resurrection. she have a genius for ask

seemingly respectful but really destructive question about religious

matter, that make her parent shy of instruction. the Stubland parent

have learn their faith with more reverence than intelligence from

_their_ parent, who have have it in a similar spirit from their parent,

who have have it from their parent; so that nobody have look into it

closely for some generation, and something vital have evaporate

unsuspected. it have evaporate so completely that when Peter’s father

and Peter’s aunt and uncle come in their turn as child to examine

the precious casket, they not only perceive that there be nothing in

it, but they could very readily jump to the rash conclusion that there

never have be anything in it. it seem just an odd blend of empty

resonant phrase and comical and sometimes slightly improper story,

that lend themselves very pleasantly to facetious illustration.



Stubbo, as he grow up under these circumstance, have not so much take

on the burthen of life as throw it off. he decide he would not go into

business—business strike he as a purely avaricious occupation—and after

a pleasant year at Cambridge he become quite clear that the need of the

world and his temperament be art. the world be not beautiful enough.

this be more particularly true of the human contribution. so he go

into art to make the world more beautiful, and come up to London to

study and to wear a highly decorative blue linen blouse in private and

to collect poster—people then be just begin to collect poster.



from the last stage of Quakerism to the last extremity of decoration be

but a step. quite an important section of the art world in Britain owe

itself to the Quakers and Plymouth Brethren, and to the drab and grey

disposition of the sterner evangelical. it be as if that elect strain

in the race have shut its eye for a generation or so, merely in order to

open they again and see bright. the reaction of the revolting

generation have always be toward colour; the pyrotechnic display of the

omega workshop in London be but the last violent outbreak of the Quaker

spirit. Young Stubland, a quarter of a century before the omega

enterprise, be already slake a thirst for chromatic richness behind

the lead of William Morris and the Pre-Raphaelites. it take a year or so

and several teacher and much friendly frankness to persuade he he

could neither draw nor paint, and then he relapse into decoration and

craftsmanship. he beat out copper into great weal of pattern and he

bind book grossly. he spend some time upon lettering, and learn how

to make the simple inscription beautifully illegible. he decide to be

an architect. in the meantime he make the acquaintance of a large circle

of artistic and literary people, become a fabian socialist, abandon

stubland tweed for fluffy artistically dye garment, bicycle about a

lot—those be the early day of the bicycle, before the automobile

rob it of its glory—talk endlessly, and have a very good time. he

meet his wife and marry she, and he build his own house as a sample of

what he could do as an architect.



it be, with one exception, the only house he ever build. it be quite

original in design and almost indistinguishable from the house of a

round dozen contemporary of Mr. Charles Voysey. it be a little

low-browed, white house, with an enormous and very expensive roof of

green slate; it have wide, low mullioned casement window, its room

be eight foot high and its door five foot seven, and all about it

be enormous buttress fit to sustain a castle. it have sun-trap and

verandah and a terrace, and it snuggle into the ruddy hillside and

stare fatly out across the Weald from beyond Limpsfield, and it be

quite a jolly little house to live in when you have learn to be short

than five foot seven inch and to dodge the low bit of ceiling and the

beam over the ingle-nook.



and therein, to crown the work of the builder, Peter be bear.





                                  § 3



Peter’s mother come from quite a different strand in the complicated web

of british life. her “people”—she be bring up to call they that—be

county people, but old-fashioned and prolific, and her father have be

the sixth son of a third son and very lucky to get a living. he be the

Vicar of Long Downport and an early widower; his two son have go to

Oxford with scholarship, and dolly have stay at home, a leggy,

dark-eyed girl with a sceptical manner, much give to read history.

one of her brother pass from Oxford into the high division of the

Civil Service and go to India; the other take to scornful, reactionary

journalism, dramatic criticism, musical comedy lyric, parody, and

drink—which indeed be almost a necessity if a man be to stick to

reactionary journalism; this story will presently inherit Joan from he;

she have a galaxy of cousin who be parson, missionary,

schoolmaster, and soldier; one be an explorer; not one be in

business. her father be a bookish inattentive man who have just miss a

fellowship because of a general discursiveness; if he could have

afford it he would have be very liberal indeed in his theology; and,

like grain of pepper amidst milder nourishment, there be all sort of

sceptical book about the house: Renan’s _life of Christ_, Strauss’s

_life of Christ_, Gibbon, various eighteenth century memoir, Huxley’s

essay, much Victor Hugo, and a “collected” Shelley, book that his

daughter read with a resolute frown, sit for the most part with one

leg tuck up under she in the chair, her chin on her fist, and she

elbow on either side of the volume undergo assimilation.



her reading be historical, and her tendency romantic. her private

day-dream through some year of girlhood be that she be Cæsar’s wife.

she be present at all his battle, and sometimes, when he have have

another of his never altogether fatal wound, she lead the army. also,

which be a happy thought, she stab Brutus first, and so her Cæsar,

contrariwise to history, reign happily with she for many, many year.

she would go to sleep of a night dream of Mr. and Mrs. Imperator

drive in triumph through the gate of Rome after some little warlike

jaunt. sometimes she drive. and also they come to Britain to drive out

the Picts and scot, and be quarter with her father in Long

Downport, conquer Picts, Scots, dane, and the most terrific

anachronism with an equal stoutness and courage. the private title she

bestow upon herself (and never tell to any human being) be “The

Imperatrix.”



as she grow up she become desirous of more freedom and education. after

much argument with her father she come up to an aunt in London, and go

to study science in the Huxley day as a free student at the Royal

College of Science. she see her future husband at an art student’

soirée, he look tall and bright and masterful; he have a fine profile,

and his blond hair pour nobly off his forehead; she do not dream that

Peter’s impatience for incarnation put idea into her head, she forget

her duty to Cæsar and imagine a devotion to art and beauty. they make a

pretty couple, and she marry amidst universal approval—after a slight

dispute whether it be to be a religious or a civil marriage. she be

married in her father’s church.



in the excitement of meeting, appreciate and marry Stubbo, she

forget that she have have a great pity and tenderness and admiration for

her shy and impulsive cousin, Oswald Sydenham, with the glass eye and

cruelly scarred face, who have win the V.C. before he be twenty at the

bombardment of Alexandria, and who have since do the most remarkable

thing in Nyasaland. it have be quite typical heroism that have win he

the V.C. he have throw a shell overboard, and it have burst in the air as

he throw it and pulp one side of his face. but when she marry, she

have temporarily forget Cousin Oswald. she be just carry away by

Arthur Stubland’s profile, and the wave in his hair, and—life.



Arthur be Stubbo’s christian name because he have be bear under the

spell of “the Idylls of the king.”



afterwards when Oswald come home again, she think the good side of his

face, the side of his face that haven’t be so seriously damage by the

egyptian shell, look at she rather queerly. but the wound side

remain a Sphinx-like mask.



“congratulation!” say Oswald, fumble with the word.

“congratulation! I hope you’ll be happy, dolly.”...



she be far go in rationalism before she meet Arthur, and he complete

her emancipation. their idea run closely together. they project some

year of travel before they settle down. he want to see mediaeval

Italy “thoroughly,” and she long for Imperial Rome. they take just a

couple of room in South Kensington and spend all the rest of their

income in long stretch of holiday. they honeymoon in pleasant inn

in South Germany; they do some climbing in the Tyrol and the

Dolomites—she have a good head—they have a summer holiday on the Adriatic

coast, and she learn to swim and dive well, and they do one long

knapsack tramp round and along the swiss italian frontier and then

another through the Apennines to Florence.



it be a perfectly lovely time. everything be bright and happy, and

they get on wonderfully together, except that——there be a shadow for

she. she find it difficult to say exactly what the shadow be, and it

be still more difficult for the historian to define it. she dismiss

the idea that it have anything to do with Cousin Oswald’s one reproachful

eye. she sometimes have a faint suspicion that it be her jilt Cæsar

ask for at least a Rubicon to cross, but it be doubtful if she ever

have any suspicion of Peter, wait outside the door of life. yet the

feeling of something forget, of something leave out, grow throughout

those sunny day. it be in some sweet meadow high up on the great hill

above Fiesole, that she try to tell Arthur of this vexatious feeling

of deficiency.



manifestly she puzzle he, which be not to be wonder at since the

feeling puzzle she. but it also have a queer effect of irritate he.



“Arthur, if you always say I don’t love you,” she say, “when I tell you

anything, then how can I tell you anything at all?”



“ben’t we have the lovely time?” he ask.



“yes,” she say without complete conviction. “it ben’t that.”



“you admit you love I. you admit you’re have the lovely time!”



she sit up with her elbow on her knee and her knuckle press she

round, firm chin.



“it’s just all one holiday,” she say.



“I do some work last month.”



he have plan three impossible house and make a most amusing cardboard

model of one of they. she disregard this plea.



“when we come up here people be work in the field. even that

pretty little girl among the bush be look after sheep.”



“by Jove! I wish I could paint she—and those Holman Hunt-face sheep of

her. it’s tantalize to be able to see—and yet not to have the—the

expressive gift....”



“thing be go on now, Arthur. down there in the valley along that

white road, people be go and come.... there be a busy little train

now.... thing be happen. thing be go to happen. and the work

that go on! the hard work! today—there be thousand and thousand of

man in mine. out of this sunshine....”



there be an interval. Arthur roll over on his face to look at the

minute railway and road and river bed far below at the bottom of a deep

lake of pellucid blue air.



“I don’t agree with you,” he say at last.



“too much be happen,” he say. “noisy, vulgar fuss. Commercialism,

competition, factory production. do it make people happy? look at that

horrid little railway disturb all this beautiful simple tuscan

life....”



another long pause.



she make a further step. “but if something beautiful be be

destroy,” she try, “we ought not to be here.”



that also take a little time to soak in.



then he stir impatiently.



“don’t we,” he ask, “protest? by the mere act of live our own life?

don’t I, in my small way, try to do my share in the Restoration of

Craftsmanship? ben’t people of our sort do something—something a

little too unpretending to be obvious—to develop the conception of a

fairer and well, a less hurried, less greedy life?”



he raise an appeal face to she.



she sit with knit brow. she do not assent, but it be difficult to

argue her disaccord.



he take advantage of her pause.



“Confess,” he say, “you would like to have I a business manager—of

some big concern. or a politician. you want I to be in the scrimmage.

No!—lording it over the scrimmage. the real thing ben’t _do_ like

that, dolly. the real thing ben’t do like that!”



she put she next thought out in its stark simplicity.



“be we do any real thing in the world at all?”



he do not answer for some second.



then he astonish she by lose his temper. it be exactly as if she

question have probe down to some secret soreness deep within he. “oh,

_damn_!” he shout. “and on this lovely morning! it’s too bad of you,

dolly!” it be as if he have bite upon a tender tooth. perhaps a fragment

of the stopping have come out of his Nonconformist conscience.



he kneel up and stare at she. “you don’t love _this_, anyhow—whether

you love I or not.”



he try to alter his tone from a note of sheer quarrelsomeness to

badinage. “you Blue Conscience, you! you Gnawing Question! be we do

anything real at all, you say. be no one, then, to stand up and meet the

sunlight for its own sake, when God send it to we? no! you cann’t unsay

it now.” (though she be not unsay it. she be only try for some

more acceptable way of say it over again.) “my day be spoil! you’ve

stick a fever into I!”



he look about he. he want some vivid gesture. “oh, come on!” he

cry.



he spring up. he gesticulate over she. he banish the view with a

sweep of rejection. “let we go back to the inn. let we take our trap

back to stuffy old Florence. let we see three church and two

picture-gallery before sunset! and take our ticket for home. we

ben’t rush and we ought to rush. life be rush. this holiday have

last too long, dolly.”



                   “‘life be real! life be earnest!’

                       simple joy be not its goal.”



“Own, my dolly! if only this afternoon we could find some solid serious

lecture down there! or an election. you’d love an election.... and

anyhow, it’s nearly lunch time.”



she knelt, take his hand, and stand up.



“you mock,” she say. “but you know that what I want to say—isn’t

that....”





                                  § 4



he do know. but all the way back to England he be a man with an

irritate dart sticking in his mind. and the discussion she have

release that day worry he for month.



he want it to be clear that their life be on a very high level

indeed. no mere idler be they. Hitherto he say they have be keep

honeymoon, but that be only before they begin life in earnest. now they

be really go to begin. they be go to take hold of life.



House and Peter follow quite logically upon that.



how easy be life in those day—at least, for countless thousand of

independent people! it be the age of freedom—for the independent. they

go where they list; the world be full of good hotel, and every

country have its Baedeker well up to date. every cultivate home have its

little corner of weather-wear guide book, a nest of memory, an

_Orario_, an _Indicateur_, or a _Continental Bradshaw_. the happy

multitude of the free travel out to beautiful place and return to

comfortable home. the chief anxiety in life be to get good

servant—and there be plenty of good servant. politic go on, at

home and abroad, a traditional game between the Ins and out. the world

be like a spinning top that seem to be quite still and stable.... yet

youth be apt to feel as dolly feel, that there be something lacking.



Arthur be quite ready to fall in with this idea that something be

lacking. he be inclined to think that one get to the root of it by

recognize that there be not enough craftsmanship and too much cheap

material, too much machine production, and, more especially, too much

aniline dye. he be particularly strong against aniline dye. all

Britain be strong against aniline dyes,—and so that trade go to

Germany. he reach socialism by way of æsthetic criticism. individual

competition be make the world hideous. it be destroy

individuality. what the world need be a non-competitive communism for

the collective discouragement of machinery. (meanwhile he buy a

bicycle.) he decide that his modest six hundred a year be all that he

and dolly need to live upon; he would never work for money—that would

be “sordid”—but for the joy of work, and on his income they would lead a

simple working-man’s existence, free from the vulgarity of

competition, politic and commercialism.



dolly be fascinated, delighted, terrify and assuage by Peter, and

Peter and a simple house free also from the vulgarity of modern

mechanism keep she so busy with only one servant to help she, that it

be only in odd time, in the late evening when the sky grow solemn or

after some book have stir her mind, that she recall that once

oppressive feeling of something want, something that be still

want....









                           chapter the second

                          stubland in COUNCIL





                                  § 1



but although dolly do not pursue her husband with any sustained

criticism, he seem now to feel always that her attitude be critical

and need an answer. the feeling make he something of a thinker and

something of a talker. sometimes the thinker be uppermost, and then he

would sit silent and rather in profile (his profile, it have already be

state, be a good one, and much enhance by a romantic bang of warm

golden hair that hang down over one eye), very picturesque in his

beautiful blue linen blouse, listen to whatever be say; and

sometimes he would turn upon the company and talk with a sort of

experimental dogmatism, as be the way with man a little insecure in

their conviction, but quite good talk. he would talk of education, and

work, and Peter, and of love and beauty, and the fine purpose of life,

and thing like that.



a lot of talk come the way of Peter’s father.



along the Limpsfield ridge and away east and west and north, there be a

scatter community of congenial intellectual. it spread along the

ridge beyond Dorking, and resume again at Haslemere and Hindhead, where

Grant Allen and Richard Le Gallienne be establish. they be mostly

people of the same detached and independent class as the Stublands; they

be the child of careful people who have create considerable

business, or the child of the more successful of middle Victorian

celebrity, or don, or writer themselves, or they come from

Hampstead, which be in those day a nest of considerable people’s

child, inheritor of reputation and writer of memoir, an hour’s

’bus drive from London and outside the cab radius. a thin flavour of

Hampstead spread out, indeed, over all Surrey. some of these newcomer

live in old adapt cottage; some of they have build little house

after the fashion of the Stublands; some have get into the real old

house that already exist. there be much Sunday walk and “drop

in” and long evening and supper. safety bicycle be come into use

and greatly increase intercourse. and there be a come and go of

Stubland aunt and uncle and of Sydenhams and dolly’s “people.” nearly

all be youngish folk; it be a new generation and a new sort of

population for the countryside. they be dot among the farm and the

estate and preserve and “place” of the old county family pattern. the

“county” wonder a little at they, keep busy with horse and dog and

gun, and, except for an occasional stiff call, leave they alone. the

church lament their neglect sabbath. the doctor be not

unfriendly.



one of the frequent visitor, indeed, at the Ingle-Nook—that be the

name of Peter’s birthplace—be Doctor Fremisson, the local general

practitioner. he be a man, he say, who like “idea.” the aborigine

lack Ideas, it seem; but Stubland be a continual feast of they. the

doctor’s diagnosis of the difference between these new English and the

old English of the country rest entirely on the presence or absence

of idea. but there he be wrong. the established people be people of

fix idea; the immigrant have abandon fix idea for discussion. so

far from their have no idea, those occasional caller who came

drop in so soon as the Stublands be settle in the Ingle-Nook

before Peter be bear, strike the Stublands as have idea like

monstrous and insurmountable cliff. to fle your own idea at they be

like try to lob stone into Zermatt from Macugnana.



one day when Mrs. Darcy, old Lady Darcy’s daughter-in-law, have drive

over, some devil prompt Arthur to shock she. he talk his extreme

Fabianism. he would have the government control all railway, land,

natural product; nobody should have a wage of less than two pound a

week; the whole country should be administer for the universal

benefit; everybody should be educate.



“I’m sure the dear old queen do all she can,” say Mrs. Darcy.



“I’m a democratic republican,” say Arthur.



he might as well have call himself a Christadelphian for any idea he

convey.



presently, seize by a gust of unreasonable irritation, he go out of

the room.



“Mr. Stubland talk,” say Mrs. Darcy; “_really_——” she pause. she

hesitate. she speak with a little disarm titter lest what she say

should seem too dreadful. “he say such thing. I really believe he’s

more than half a Liberal. _there!_ you mustn’t mind what I say, Mrs.

Stubland....”



dolly, by virtue of her vicarage training, understand these people

well than Peter’s father. she have read herself out of the great

anglican culture, but she remember thing from the inside. she be

still in close touch with numerous relation who be quite completely

inside. before the little green gate have click behind their depart

back, Arthur would protest to she and heaven that these visitor be

impossible, that such visitor could not be, they be phantom or bad

practical joke, undergraduate dress up to pull his leg.



“they know nothing,” he say.



“they know all sort of thing you don’t know,” she correct.



“what _do_ they know? there ben’t a topic one can start on which they

be not just blank.”



“you start the wrong topic. they can tell you all sort of thing about

the dear Queen’s grandchild. they know thing about horse. and about

regiment and barrack. tell I, Arthur, how be the charming young

Prince of Bulgaria, who be just getting marry, relate to the late

Prince Consort.”



“Damn their Royal Marriages!”



“if you say that, then they have an equal right to say, ‘damn your

Wildes and Beardsleys and William Morrises and Swinburnes.’”



“they read nothing.”



“they read Mrs. Henry Wood. they read lot of author you have never

hear of, _nice_ author. they read so many of they that for the most

part they forget their name. the bold one read Ouida—who ben’t half

bad. they read every scrap they can find about the marriage of the

Princess Marie to the Crown Prince of Roumania. Mrs. Bagshot-Fawcett

talk about it yesterday. it seem he’s really a rarer and well sort

of Hohenzollern than the young German Emperor, our sailor grandson that

be. she ben’t very clear about it, but she seem to think that the

Prince of Hohenzollern ought rightfully to be german Emperor.”



“oh, what _rot_!”



“but perhaps she’s right. how do you know? _I_ don’t. she take an

almost voluptuous delight in the two marriage ceremony. you know, I

suppose, dear, that there be two ceremony, a protestant one and a

catholic one, because the Roumanian Hohenzollerns be Catholic

Hohenzollerns. of course, the dear princess would become a Catholic——”



“oh, _don’t_!” cry Peter’s father; “don’t!”



“I have to listen to three-quarter of an hour of it yesterday. such a

happy and convenient occurrence, the princess’s conversion,

but—archly—of course, my dear, I suppose there’s sometimes just a little

_persuasion_ in these case.”



“dolly, you go too far!”



“but that ben’t, of course, the great interest just at present. the

great interest just at present be George and May. you know they’re go

to be marry.”



Arthur lift a protest profile. “my dear! _who_ be May?” he tenore.



“affected ignorance! she be the Princess May who be engage to the late

Duke of Clarence, the Princess Mary of Teck. and now he’s dead, she’s

go to marry the Duke of York. surely you understand about that. he be

your Future Sovereign. Mrs. Bagshot-Fawcett get positively lush about

he. it be George she always lurve, Mrs. Bagshot-Fawcett say, but she

accept his brother for Reasons of State. so after all it’s rather nice

and romantic that the eld brother——”



Arthur roar and tear his hair and walk up and down the low room.

“what be these people to I?” he shout. “what be these people to

I?”



“but there be twenty time as much about that sort of thing in the

paper as there be about _our_ sort of thing.”



there be no dispute it.



“we’re in a foreign country,” cry Arthur, go off at a tangent.

“we’re in a foreign country. we English be a subject people.... talk of

Home Rule for Ireland!... why be there no _english_ Nationalists? one

of these day I will hoist the cross of St. George outside this cottage.

but I doubt if any one on this countryside will know it for the English

flag.”





                                  § 2



whatever be seem right, and it be only now, after five and twenty year

of change, that we do begin to see as a remarkable thing the detach

life that great masse of the English be lead beneath the canopy of

the hanoverian monarchy. for in those day the court think in German;

Teutonized Anglicans, sentimental, materialistic and resolutely “loyal,”

dominate society; Gladstone be notoriously dislike by they for his

anti-german policy and his irish and russian sympathy, and the old

Queen’s selection of bishop guide feeling in the way it ought to go.

but there be a leakage none the less. More and more people be

drift out of relationship to church and state, exactly as Peter’s

parent have drift out. the Court dominate, but it do not dominate

intelligently; it control the church to no effect, its influence upon

university and school and art and literature be merely deaden; it

respond to flattery but it fail to direct; it be the court of an

alien-spirit old lady, make much of the pathos of her widowhood and

trading still on the gallantry and generosity that have welcome she as a

“girl queen.” the real England separate itself more and more from that

superficial England of the genteel that look to Osborne and Balmoral.

to the real England, dissentient England, court taste be a joke, court

art be a scandal; of English literature and science notoriously the

court know nothing. in the huge pacific industrial individualism of

Great Britain it do not seem a serious matter that the army and navy

and the indian administration be orientate to the court. Peter’s

parent and the large class of detached people to which they belong,

be out of politic, out of the system, scornful, or facetious and

aloof. just as they be out of religion. these thing do not concern

they.



the great form of the empire contain these indifferent, the great

roof of church and state hang over they. royal visit, diplomatic

exchange and the like pass to and fro, alien, uninteresting

proceeding; Heligoland be give to the young Emperor William the

Second by Lord Salisbury, the old Queen’s favourite prime minister,

english politician jostle the French in Africa as roughly as possible

to “larn they to be” republican, and resist the Home Rule aspiration

and the ill-conceal republicanism of the “keltic fringe”; one’s

anglican neighbour of the “rule class” go off to rule India and the

empire with manner that would have madden Job; they stand for

Parliament and play the game of politic upon factitious issue. Sir

Charles Dilke, the last of the English Republicans, and Charles Stewart

Parnell, the uncrowned King of Ireland, have both be extinguish by

opportune divorce case. (liberal opinion, it be feel, must choose

between the private and the public life. you could not have it both

way.) it do not seem to be a state of affair to make a fuss about.

the general life go on comfortably enough. we build our pretty

rough-cast house, teach Shirley poppy to spring artlessly between

the paving-stone in our garden path, begot the happy child who be

to grow up under that roof of a dynastic system that be never go to

fall in. (because it never have fall in.)



never before have nursery be so pretty as they be in that glowing

pause at the end of the nineteenth century.



Peter’s nursery be a perfect room in which to hatch the soul of a

little boy. its wall be do in a warm cream-coloured paint, and upon

they Peter’s father have put the most lovely pattern of trotting and

jump horse and dance cat and dog and leaping lamb, a carnival

of beast. he have copy these figure from book, enlarge they as he

do so; he have cut they out in paper, stick they on the wall, and then

flick bright blue paint at they until they be all outline in a

penumbra of stippled blue. then he unpin the paper and take it on to

another part of the wall and so make his pattern. there be a big brass

fireguard in Peter’s nursery that hook on to the jamb of the

fireplace, and all the table have smoothly round corner against the

day when Peter would run about. the floor be of cork carpet on which

Peter would put his toy, and there be a crimson hearthrug on which

Peter be destine to crawl. and a number of stuff dog and elephant,

whose bead eye have be carefully remove by dolly and replace with

eye of black cloth that Peter would be less likely to worry off and

swallow, await his mature clutch. (but there be no Teddy Bears

yet; Teddy Bears have still to come into the world. America have still to

discover the charm of its Teddy.) there be scale in Peter’s nursery

to weigh Peter every week, and table to show how much he ought to weigh

and when one should begin to feel anxious. there be nothing casual

about the early year of Peter.



Peter begin well, a remarkably fine child, Dr. Fremisson say, of nine

pound. although he be bear in warm summer weather we never go back

upon that. he favour his mother perhaps more than an impartial child

should, but that be at any rate a source of satisfaction to Cousin

Oswald (of the artificial eye).



Cousin Oswald be do his good to behave nicely and persuade himself

that all this show have be get up by dolly and be dolly’s show—and

that Arthur just happen to be about.



“look at he,” say Cousin Oswald as Peter regard the world with

unwinke intelligence from behind an appreciated bottle; “the Luck of

he. he’s the Heir of the Ages. look at this room and this house and

every one about he.”



dolly remark foolishly that Peter be a “nittle darum. ’E

dizzerve-i-tall. nevythe.”



“the very sunshine on the wall look as though it have be get for he

specially,” say Cousin Oswald.



“it _be_ get for he specially,” say dolly, with a light of amusement

in her eye that remind he of former time.



this visit be a great occasion. it be the first time Cousin Oswald have

see either Arthur or Peter. almost directly after he have learn about

dolly’s engagement and jerk out his congratulation, he have cut short

his holiday in England and go back to Central Africa. now he be in

England again, look baked and hard, and his hair, which have always

be stubby, more stubby than ever. the scarred half of he have lose its

harsh redness and become brown. he be stay with his aunt, dolly’s

second cousin by marriage, Lady Charlotte Sydenham, not ten mile away

towards Tonbridge, and he take to bicycle over to the Ingle-Nook every

other day or so and gossip.



“these bicycle,” he say, “be most useful thing. wonderful thing. as

soon as they get cheap—bind to get cheap—they will play a wonderful

part in Central Africa.”



“but there be no road in Central Africa!” say Arthur.



“well. foot track pad by bare foot for generation. you could ride

for hundred of mile without dismounting....”



“compare with our little black baby,” say Cousin Oswald, “Peter

seem immobile. he’s like a baby on a lotus flower meditating existence.

those other be like young black indiarubber kitten—all acrawl. but

then they’ve get to look sharp and run for themselves as soon as

possible, and he haven’t.... thing happen there.”



“I wonder,” say Arthur in his lifting tenor, “how far all this opening

up of Africa to civilization and gin and bible be justifiable.”



the one live eye glare at he. “it ben’t exactly like that,” say

Oswald stiffly, and offer no occasion for further controversy at the

moment.



the conversation hang for a little while. dolly want to say to she

cousin: “he ben’t think of you. it’s just his way of generalize

about thing....”



“anyhow this young man have a tremendous future,” say Oswald, go back

to the original topic. “think of what lie before he. never have the

world be so safe and settle—most of it that be—as it be now. I

suppose really the world’s hardly begin to _touch_ education. in this

house everything seem educational—picture, toy, everything. when one

see how small nigger can be mould and change even in a missionary

school, it make one think. I wish I know more about education. I lie

awake at night think of the man I might be, if I know all I don’t

know, and of all I could do if I do. and it’s the same with other.

every one who seem worth anything seem regret his education ben’t

well. Hitherto of course there’s always be war, interruption,

religious row; the world’s be confused and poor, a thorough muddle;

there’s never be a real plan education for people. just scrap and

hint. but we’re change all that. here’s a big safe world at last. no

war in Europe since ’71 and no likelihood in our time of any more big

war. thing settle down. and _he_ come in for it all.”



“I hope all this settle down willn’t make the world too monotonous,”

say Arthur.



“you artist and writer have get to see to that. no, I don’t see it

get monotonous. there’s always difference of climate and colour.

Temperament. all sort of difference.”



“and nature,” say Arthur profoundly. “Old Mother Nature.”



“have you christen Peter yet?” Oswald ask abruptly.



“he’s not go to be christen,” say dolly. “not until he ask to be.

we’ve just register he. he’s a registered baby.”



“so he willn’t have two godfather and a godmother to be damn for he.”



“we’ve weigh the risk,” say Arthur.



“he might have a godfather just—_pour rire_,” say Oswald.



“that’s different,” dolly encourage promptly. “we must get he one.”



“I’d like to be Peter’s godfather,” say Oswald.



“I will deny he no advantage,” say Arthur. “the ceremony—— the

ceremony shall be a simple one. Godfather, Peter; Peter, godfather.

Peter, my son, salute your godfather.”



Oswald seem try to remember a formula. “I promise and vow three

thing in his name; first a beautiful mug; secondly that he shall be

duly instruct in chemistry, biology, mathematic, the french and

german tongue and all that sort of thing; and thirdly, that—what be

thirdly? that he shall renounce the devil and all his work. but there

ben’t a devil nowadays.”



Peter having consume his bottle to the dreg and dream over it for a

space, now thrust it from he and turn towards Oswald,

regurgitate—but within the limit of nursery good manner. then he

smile a toothless, slightly derisive smile.



“intelligent ’e be!” croon dolly. “Unstand evlyfle ’e do....”





                                  § 3



this conversation about Peter’s future, once it have be start,

ramble on for the next three week, and then Oswald very abruptly see

fit to be call away to Africa again....



various interlocutor drop in while that talk be in progress. Arthur

feel his way to his real opinion through a series of experimental

dogma.



Arthur’s disposition be towards an extreme rousseauism. it be the

tendency of the interrogative class in all settle community. he

think that a boy or girl ought to run wild until twelve and not be

bother by lesson, ought to eat little else but fruit and nut, go

bareheade and barefoote. why not? Oswald’s disposition would have be

to oppose Arthur anyhow, but against these view all his circle of idea

fight by necessity. if Arthur be Ruskinite and Morrisite, Oswald be

as completely huxleyite. if Arthur think the world perish for need

of art and nature, Oswald stand as strongly for the save power of

Science. in this matter of bare foot——



“there’s thorn, pin, snake, tetanus,” reflect Oswald.



“the foot harden.”



“only the sole,” say Oswald. “and not enough.”



“shield from all the corruption of town and society,” say Arthur

presently.



“there’s no such corruptor as that old Mother Nature of your. you

daren’t leave that bottle of milk to she for half an hour but what she

turn it sour or poison it with one of her beastly germ.”



“I never approve of the bottle,” say Arthur, bring a flash of hot

resentment into dolly’s eye....



Oswald regret his illustration.



“Old Mother Nature be a half-wit,” he say. “she’s distraught. you

overrate the jade. she’s think of everything at once. all her affair

get into a hopeless mess from the very start. Most of her world be

desert with water run to waste. a tropical forest be three-quarter

death and decay, and what be alive be either murder or be

murder. it’s only when you come to artificial thing, such as a

plough field, for example, that you get space and health and every

blade do its good.”



“I don’t call a plough field an artificial thing,” say Arthur.



“but it be,” say Oswald.



Dr. Fremisson be drag into this dispute. “a plough field,” he

maintain, “be part of the natural life of man.”



“like boot and reading.”



“I wouldn’t say that,” say Dr. Fremisson warily. he have the usual

general practitioner’s belief that any education whatever be a terrible

strain on the young, and he be quite on the side of Rousseau and Arthur

in that matter. moreover, as a result of his professional endeavour he

have be force to a belief that Nature’s remedy be the good.



“I’d like to know just what do belong to the natural life of man and

what be artificial,” say Oswald. “if a plough field belong then a

plough belong. and if a plough belong a foundry belong—and a coal

mine. and you wouldn’t plough in bare foot—not in those Weald Clays down

there? you want good stout boot for those. and you’d let your ploughman

read at least a calendar? boot and book come in, you see.”



“you’re a perfect lawyer, Mr. Sydenham,” say the doctor, and pretend

the discussion have become fanciful....



“but you’ll not leave he to go unlettered until he be half grow up!”

say Oswald to dolly in real distress. “it’s so easy to teach ’em to

read early and so hard later. I remember my little brother....”



“I be the mother and I muth,” say dolly. “when Peter display the

slight interest in the alphabet, the alphabet it shall be.”



Oswald feel reassure. he have a curious confidence that dolly could be

trust to protect his godchild.





                                  § 4



one day Aunt Phyllis and Aunt Phœbe come down.



both sister participate in the Stubland break back to colour, but

while Aunt Phyllis be a wit and her hat a spree Aunt Phœbe be

fantastically serious and her hat go beyond a joke. they get their

stuff apparently from the shop of William Morris and Co., they have

their dress build upon Pre-raphaelite line, they do their hair

plainly and simply but very carelessly, and their hat be noble

brimmer or extravagant toque. their profile be as fine almost as

Arthur’s, a type of profile not so suitable for young woman as for

golden youth. they be bright-eyed and a little convulsive in their

movement. beneath these extravagance and a certain conversational

wildness they live nervously austere life. they be greatly delighted

with Peter, but they do not know what to do with he. Phyllis hold he

rather well than Phœbe, but Phœbe with her chatelaine amuse he

rather more than Phyllis.



“how happy a tinker’s baby must be,” say Aunt Phœbe, rattle her

trinket: “or a tin-smith’s.”



“I begin to see some use in a Hindoo woman’s bangle,” say Aunt

Phyllis, “or in that clatter machine of your, phœbe. every young mother

should rattle. make a note of it, Phœbe dear, for your book....”



“whatever you do with he, dolly,” say Aunt Phœbe, “teach he anyhow to

respect woman and treat they as his equal. from the very First.”



“mean vote,” say Aunt Phyllis. “didum _want_ give um’s mummy a

_vote_ den.”



“never let he touch butcher’s meat in any shape or form,” say Aunt

Phœbe. “once a human child taste blood the mischief be do.”



“avoid patriotic song and symbol,” prompt Aunt Phyllis, who have

hear these idea already in the train come down.



“and never buy he toy soldier, drum, gun, trumpet. these thing

soak deeply into the mind than people suppose. they make wickedness

domestic.... surround he with beautiful thing. accustom he——”



she wince that Arthur should hear she, but she speak as one have a

duty to perform.



“Accustom he to the nude, dolly, from his early year. associate it

with innocent amusement. retrieve the fall. never let he wear a hat

upon his head nor boot upon his foot. as soon tie he up into a

papoose. as soon tight-lace. a child’s first year should be one long

dream of loveliness and spontaneous activity.”



but at this point Peter betray sign that he find his aunt

overstimulate. he release his grip upon the thimble-case of the

chatelaine. his face pucker, ridge and wave and pucker of pink

fatness run distractedly over it, and he throw his head back and open

a large square toothless mouth.



“Mary,” cry dolly, and a comfortable presence that have be hover

mistrustfully outside the door ever since the aunt appear, enter

with alacrity and bore Peter protectingly away.



“he must be almost entirely lung,” say Aunt Phœbe, when her voice

could be hear through the recede bawl. “other internal organ no

doubt develop later.”



“come out to the stone table under the rose,” say dolly. “we argue

there about Peter’s upbringing almost every afternoon.”



“Argue, I grant you,” say Aunt Phœbe, follow her hostess and

dangle her chatelaine from one hand as if to illustrate her remark,

“but argue rightly.”



when Oswald come over in the afternoon he be disposed to regard the two

aunt as serious reinforcement to Arthur’s educational heresy.

Phyllis and Phœbe be a little inclined to be shy with he as a strange

man, and he and Arthur do most of the talking, but they make their

position plain by occasional interpolation. Arthur, support by their

presence, be all for let Peter grow up a wild untrammelled child of

nature. Oswald become genuinely distressed.



“but education,” he protest, “be as natural to a human being as nest

to bird.”



“then why force it?” say Phyllis with dexterity.



“even a cat box its kitten’ ear!”



“a domesticated cat,” say Phœbe. “a _civilized_ cat.”



“but I’ve see a wild lioness——”



“be we to learn how to manage our young from lion and hyena!” cry

Phœbe.



they be too good for Oswald. he see Peter already ruin, a fat,

foolish, undisciplined cub.



dolly with sympathetic amusement watch his distress, which his living

half face betray in the oddest contrast to his left hand calm.



Arthur have be think gracefully while his sister tackle their

adversary. now he decide to sum up the discussion. his authoritative

manner on these occasion be always slightly irritate to Oswald. like

so many who read only occasionally and take thought as a special

exercise, Arthur have a fix persuasion that nobody else ever read or

think at all. so that he do not so much discuss as adjudicate.



“of course,” he say, “we have to be reasonable in these thing. for man

a certain artificiality be undoubtedly natural. that be, so to speak,

the human paradox. but artificiality be the last resort. Instinct be our

basis. for the large part the boy have just to grow. but we watch his

growth. education be really watch—keep the course. the human error

be to do too much, to distrust instinct too much, to over-teach,

over-legislate, over-manage, over-decorate——”



“no, you _don’t_, my gentleman,” come the voice of Mary from the shadow

under the old pear tree.



“now I wonder——” say Arthur, crane his neck to look over the rose

bush.



“diddum then,” say Mary. “Woun’t they lettim put’tt in ’s mouf?

_oooh!_”



“trust her instinct,” say dolly, and Arthur be restrain.



Oswald take advantage of the interruption to take the word from Arthur.



“we joke and sharpen our wit in this sort of talk,” he say, “but

education, you know, ben’t a joke. it might be the great power in the

world. if I don’t think I be a sort of schoolmaster in Africa....

that’s the only decent excuse a white man have for go there.... I’m

get to be a fanatic about education. give I the school of the

world and I would make a Millennium in half a century.... you don’t mean

to let Peter drift. you say it, but you cann’t mean it. Drift be waste.

we don’t make half of what we _could_ make of our child. we don’t

make a quarter—not a tenth. they could know ever so much more, think

ever so much well. we’re all at six and seven.”



he realize he ben’t good at express his idea. he have intend

something very clear and compelling, a sort of ultimatum about Peter.



“I believe in Sir Francis Galton,” Aunt Phœbe remark in his pause;

say with stern resolution thing that she feel have to be say. they

make she a little breathless, and she fix her eye on the view until

they be say. “Eugenics. it be a new idea. a revival. Plato have it.

man ought to be breed like horse. no marriage or any nonsense of that

kind. just a simple scientific blending of point. then everything would

be different.”



“almost too different,” Arthur reflect....



“when I consider Peter and think of all one could do for he——” say

Oswald, still flounder for some clench way of put it....





                                  § 5



one evening dolly catch her cousin look at her husband with an

expression that stick in her memory. it be Oswald’s habit to sit if he

could in such a position that he could rest the obliterate cheek of his

face upon a shadow hand, his finger on his forehead. then one see

what a pleasant-faced man he would have be if only he have leave that

egyptian shell alone. so he be sit on this occasion, his elbow on

the arm of the settle. his brow be knit, his one eye keen and steady.

he be listen to his host discourse upon the many superiority of

the artisan in the middle age to his successor of today. and he seem

to be weigh and estimate Arthur with some little difficulty.



then, as if it be a part of the calculation he be make, he turn to

look at dolly. their eye meet; for a moment he could not mask himself.



then he turn to Arthur again with his expression restore to polite

interest.



it be the most trivial of incident, but it stay, a mental burr.





                                  § 6



a little accident which happen a few week after Oswald’s departure

put the idea of make a will into Arthur’s head. dolly have want to

ride a bicycle, but he have some theory that she would not need to ride

alone or that it would over-exert she to ride alone, and so he have get a

tandem bicycle instead, on which they could ride together. those be

the day when all England echo to the strain of



               “_Di_sy, _Di_sy, tell I your answer true;

               I’m arf _crizy_

               all fer the love of you-oo ...



               Yew’d look sweet

               upon the seat

               of-a-bicycle-mide-fer-two.”



a wandering thrush of a cockney whistle it on their first expedition.

dolly go out a little resentfully with Arthur’s broad back obscuring

most of her landscape, and her third ride end in a destructive spill

down Ipinghanger Hill. the bicycle brake be still in a primitive stage

in those day; one steady one’s progress down a hill by the art, since

lose to mankind again, of “back-pedalling,” and dolly’s foot be

carry over and throw off the pedal and the machine get away.

Arthur’s nerve be a good one. he fight the gathering pace and steer

with skill down to the very last bend of that downland descent. the last

corner get they. they take the bank and hedge sideway and the crumple

tandem remain on one side of the bank and Arthur and dolly find

themselves tear and sprain but essentially unbroken in a hollow of wet

moss and marsh-mallow beyond the hedge.



the sense of adventure help they through an afternoon of toilsome

return....



“but we might both have be kill that time,” say Arthur with a

certain gusto.



“if we have,” say Arthur presently, expand that idea, “what would

have become of Peter?”...



they have both make simple will copy out of _whitaker’s almanack_,

leave everything to each other; it have not occur to they before

that two young parent who cross glacier together, go cycle together,

travel in the same train, cross the sea in the same boat, might very

easily get into the same smash. in that case the law, it appear,

presume that the wife, be the weak vessel, would expire first, and

so Uncle Rigby, who have relapse more and more stuffily into evangelical

narrowness since his marriage, would extend a dark protection over

Peter’s life. “Lucy wouldn’t even feed he properly,” say dolly. “she’s

so close and childlessly inhuman. I cann’t bear to think of it.”



on the other hand, if by any chance dolly should show a flicker of life

after the extinction of Arthur, Peter and all his possession would fall

under the hand of Dolly’s shady brother, the failure of the family, a

being of incalculable misdemeanour, a gross, white-faced literary man,

an artist in parody (itself a vice), who smell of tobacco always, and

already at thirty-eight, it be but too evident, preferred port and old

brandy to his self-respect.



“we ought to remake our will and each appoint the same guardian,” say

Arthur.



it be not very easy to find the perfect guardian.



then as Arthur sit at lunch one day the sunshine make a glory of the

little silver tankard that adorn the Welsh dresser at the end of the

room.



“dolly,” he say, “old Oswald would like this job.”



she’d know that by instinct from the first, but she have never expect

Arthur to discover it.



“he’s get a sort of fancy for Peter,” he say.



“I think we could trust he,” say dolly temperately.



“poor old Oswald,” say Arthur; “he’s a tragic figure. that mask of his

cut he off from so much. he idolize you and Peter, dolly. you don’t

suspect it, but he do. he’s our man.”









                           CHAPTER the THIRD

                           arthur or OSWALD?





                                  § 1



Destiny be at time a slashing sculptor. at first Destiny seem to have

intend Oswald Sydenham to be a speciman of the schoolboy hero; he make

record score in the school match, climb tree high than any one

else do, and be moreover a good all-round boy at his work; he be

healthy, very tall but strong, dark, pleasant-look, and popular with

man and woman and—he be quite aware of these fact. he shine with equal

brightness as a midshipman; he dare, he could lead. several woman of

thirty or thereabout adore he—before it be good for youth to be

adore. he have a knack of success, he achieve a number of thing; he

judge himself and find that this he have do “pretty decently,” and

that “pass well.” then Destiny decide apparently that he be not

think as freshly or as abundantly as he ought to do—a healthy,

successful life do not leave much time for original thinking—and

smash off the right side of his face. in a manner indeed quite

creditable to he. it be give to few man in those pacific day to get

the V.C. before the age of twenty-one.



he lie in hospital for a long spell, painful but self-satisfied. the

nature of his injury be not yet clear to he. presently he would get

all right again. “V.C.,” he whisper. “at twenty. pretty decent.”



he see himself in the look-glass with half his face bandage, and

there be nothing very shocking in that. then one day come his first

glimpse of his unbandaged self....



“one must take it decently,” he say to himself again and again through

a night of bottomless dismay.



and, “how can I look a woman in the face again?”



he stick to his bandage as long as possible.



he learn soon enough that some woman could not look he in the face

anyhow, and among they be one who should have hide her inability from

he at any cost.



and he be not only disfigured; he be crippled and unserviceable; so

the Navy decide. something have go out of his eyesight; he could no

long jump safely nor hit a ball with certainty. he could not play

tennis at all; he have ten minute of humiliation with one of the nurse,

protest all the time. “give I another chance and I’ll begin to get

into it. let I get my eye in—my only eye in. oh, the devil! give a chap

a chance!... sorry, nurse. now!... _damn!_ it’s no good. oh God! it’s no

good. what shall I do?” even his walk have now a little flavour of

precaution. but he could still shoot straight up to two or three hundred

yard.... these fact form the basis for much thinking on the part of

a young man who have take it for grant that he be destine to a

bright and leading rôle in the world.



when first he realize that he be crippled and disabled for life, he

think of suicide. but in an entirely detached and theoretical spirit.

Suicide have no real attraction for he. he mean to live anyhow. the

only question therefore be the question of what he be to do. he would

lie awake at night sketch out career that do not require

athleticism or a good presence. “I suppose it’s get to be chiefly use

my brain,” he decide. “the great trouble will be not to get fat and

stuffy. I’ve never like indoor....”



he do his good to ignore the fact that an honourable life before he

mean a life of celibacy. but he could not do so. for many reason

arise out of his temperament and the experience those woman

friendship have thrust upon he, that limitation have an effect of

dismay cruelty upon his mind. “perhaps some day I shall find a blind

girl,” he say, and feel his face doubtfully. “oh, damn!” he perceive

that the sewing up of his face be a mere prelude to the sewing up of

his life. it distress he beyond measure. it be the persuasion that

the deprivation be final that obsess he with erotic imagination.

for a time he be obsess almost to the verge of madness.



he have mood of rave anger on account of this extravagant and

uncontrollable preoccupation. he would indulge secretly in storm of

cursing, torrent of foulness and foul blasphemy that leave he

strangely relieve. but he have an unquenchable sense of the need of a

fight.



“I’ll get square with this damned world somehow,” he say. “I willn’t be

beat.”



there be some ugly and dismal aspect in his attempt not to be beat,

plunge into strange mire with remorse at the far side. they need not

deflect our present story.



“what’s the whole beastly game about anyhow?” he ask. “why be we make

like this?”



meanwhile his pride keep up a valiant front. no one should suspect he

be not cheerful. no one should suspect he feel himself to be a thing

apart. he hide his vicious strain—or make a jest of it. he develop a

style of humour that turn largely on his disfigurement. his internal

stress reflect a dry bitterness upon the world.



it be a great comfort presently to get hint that here and there other

soul have have to learn lesson as hard as his own. one day he chance

upon the paralyzed Heine’s farewell to beauty. “perhaps,” he say, “I’ve

only get by a short cut to where a lot of people must come out soon or

later. every one who live on must get bald and old—anyhow.” he take a

hint from an article he find in some monthly review upon Richard

Crookback. “a crippled body make a crippled mind,” he read. “be that

go to happen to I?”



Thence he get to: “if I think about myself now,” he ask, “what else

_can_ happen? I’ll go bitter.”



“something I can do well, but something in which I can forget myself.”

that, he realize, be his recipe.



“let’s find out what the whole beastly game _be_ about,” he decide—a

large proposition. “and stop think of _my_ personal set-back

altogether.”



but that be easy say than do.





                                  § 2



he would, he decide, “go in for science.”



he have read about science in the magazine, and about its remorseless

way with thing. science have always have a temperamental call upon his

mind. the idea of a pitiless acceptance of fact have now a great

fascination than ever for he. art be always get sentimental and

sensuous—this be in the early ’eighty; religion be mystical and

puritanical; science just look at fact squarely, and would see a

cancer or a liver fluke or a healing scar as beautiful as Venus.

moreover it tell you coldly and correctly of the skin gland of Venus.

it neither stimulate nor condemn. it would steady the mind. he have an

income of four hundred a year, and fairly good expectation of another

twelve hundred. there be nothing to prevent he go in altogether for

scientific work.



those be the great day when Huxley lecture on zoology at South

Kensington, and to he Oswald go. Oswald do indeed find science

console and inspire. scientific study be at once rare and more

touch by enthusiasm a quarter of a century ago than they be now, and

he be soon a passionate naturalist, consume by the insatiable craving

to know how. that little, long upper laboratory in the Normal School of

Science, as the place be then call, with the preparation and

diagram along one side, the sink and window along the other, the row

of small table down the window, and the ever-present vague mixed smell

of methylated spirit, Canada balsam, and a sweetish decay, open vast

new horizon to he. to the world of the eighteen-eighty the story of

life, of the origin and branch out of specie, of the making of

continent, be still the most inspiring of new romance. comparative

anatomy in particular be then a great and philosophical “new learning,”

a mighty training of the mind; the drift of biological teaching towards

specialization be still to come.



for a time Oswald think of give his life to biology. but biology

unhappily have little need of Oswald. he be a clumsy dissector because

of his injury, and unhandy at most of the practical work, he have to work

with his head on one side and rather close to what he be do, but it

dawn upon he one day as a remarkable discovery that neither personal

beauty nor great agility be demand from an explorer or collector. it

be a picture he see in an illustrated paper of H. M. Stanley traverse

an african forest in a litter, with a great retinue of porter, that

first put this precious idea into his head. “one want pluck and a

certain toughness,” he say. “I’m tough enough. and then I shall be out

of reach of—Piccadilly.”



he have excellent reason for dislike the West End. it lure he, it

exasperate he, it demoralize he and make he ashamed. he get and

read every book of african travel he could hear of. in 1885 he snatch

at an opportunity and go with an expedition through Portuguese East

Africa to Nyasa and Tanganyika. he find fatigue and illness and

hardship there—and peace of nerve and imagination. he remain in that

region of Africa for three year.



but biology and Africa be merely the field of human interest in which

Oswald’s mind be most active in those day. such inquiry be only a

part of his valiant all-round struggle to reconstruct the life that it

have become impossible to carry on as a drama of the noble and

picturesque love and adventure of Oswald Sydenham. his question lead

he into philosophy; he try over religion, which have hitherto in his

romantic phase simply furnish suitable church scenery for meeting and

repentance. he read many book, listen to preacher, hunt out any

teacher who seem to promise help in the mending of his life,

consider this “movement” and that “question.” his resolve to find what

“the whole beastly game be about,” be no pass ejaculation. he

follow the trend of his time towards a religious scepticism and an

entire neglect of current politic. religion be then at the nadir of

formalism; current politic be an outwardly idiotic, inwardly

dishonest, party duel between the follower of Gladstone and Disraeli.

social and economic question he be inclined to leave to the

professor. those be the early day of socialist thought in England,

the day before Fabianism, and he do not take to the new teaching very

kindly. he be a moderate man in æsthetic matter, William Morris leave

him tepid, he have no sense of grievance against machinery and aniline

dye, he do not grasp the worker’ demand because it be outside his

tradition and experience. Science seem to he more and more plainly

to be the big regenerative thing in human life, and the mission

immediately before man of energy be the spreading of civilization, that

be to say of knowledge, apparatus, clear thought, and release from

instinct and superstition, about the world.



in those day science be at its maximum of aggressive hopefulness. with

the idea of scientific progress there be also bind up in many british

mind the idea of a racial mission. the long napoleonic war have cut off

british thought from the thought of the continent of Europe, and this

separation be never completely heal throughout the nineteenth

century. in spite of their world-empire the British remain remarkably

self-centre and self-satisfied. they be a world-people, and no other

people be. they be at once insular and world-wide. during the

nineteenth century until its last quarter there be no real challenge to

their extra-european ascendancy. a man like Sydenham do not so much

come to the conclusion that the subjugation and civilization of the

world by science and the anglican culture be the mission of the British

Empire, as find that conclusion ready-make by tradition and

circumstance in his mind. he do not even trouble to express it; it

seem to he self-evident. when Kipling write of the White Man’s

Burden, Briton be understand. everywhere the British go about the

world, work often very disinterestedly and ably, quite unaware of the

amazement and exasperation create in French and german and american

mind by the discovery of these tranquil assumption.



so it be with Oswald Sydenham for many year. for three year he be in

the district between Bangweolo and Lake Nyasa, make his headquarters

at Blantyre, collect specimen and learn much about mankind and

womankind in that chaos of arab slaver, Scotch missionary, trader,

prospector, native tribe, Zulu raider, indian store-keeper, and

black “Portuguese”; then, discover that Blantyre have pick up a

nickname from the native of “Half face” for he, he take a temporary

dislike to Blantyre, and decide to go by way of Tanganyika either to

Uganda or Zanzibar, first send home a considerable collection of

specimen by way of Mozambique. he get through at last to Uganda, after

some ugly day and hour, only to learn of a very good reason why he

should return at once to the southern lake. he hear that a new british

consul be go up the Zambesi to Nyasaland with a british protectorate

up his sleeve, and he become passionately anxious to secure a position

near the ear of this official. there be many thing the man ought to

know at once that neither trader nor mission man would tell he.



to get any official position it be necessary for Oswald to return to

London and use the influence of various allied Sydenhams. he wince at

the thought of come back to England and meet the eye of people who

have know he before his disfigurement, but the need to have some sort

of official recognition if he be to explain himself properly in

Nyasaland make it necessary that he should come. that be in the summer

of 1889.



he go down to visit his uncle at Long Downport while the “influence”

brew, and here it be he first meet dolly. he do not know it, but now

his face be no long a shock to the observer. the injure side which

have be at first mostly a harsh, reddish blank scar with a glass eye,

have not only be bake and weather-wear by Africa, but it have in some

indefinable way be assimilate by the unmutilated half. it have be

take up into his individuality; his renascent character possess it

now; it have be humanize and become a part of he; it have acquire

dignity. muscle and nerve have reconstruct some of their relation

and partially resume abandon duty. if only he have know it, there

be nothing repulsive about he to dolly. though he be not a pretty

man, he have the look of a strong one. the touch of imagination in her

composition make she see behind this half vizor of immobilize

countenance the young hero who have risk give his life for his

fellow; his disfigurement do but witness the price he have pay. in

those day at home in England one forget that most man be brave. no

one have much occasion nor excuse for bravery. a brave man seem a

wonderful man.



he love dolly with a love in which a passion of gratitude be add to

the commoner ingredient. her smile eye restore his self-respect. he

feel he be no long a horror to woman. but could it be love she feel

for he? be not that to presume too far? she give he friendliness. he

guess she give he pity. she give he the infinite reassurance of she

frank eye. would it not be an ill return to demand more than these

gracious gift?



the possibility of humiliation—and of humiliating Dolly—touch a vein

of abject cowardice in his composition. he could not bring himself to

the test. he try some vague signal that she do not seem to

understand. his time run out and he go—awkwardly. when he return for

a second time, he return to find that Arthur’s fine profile have

eclipse his memory.





                                  § 3



after the visit that make he a godfather, Oswald do not return again

to England until his godson have attain the ripe age of four year. and

when Oswald come again he have change very greatly. he be now almost

completely his new self; the original good-look midshipman, that

sunny “type,” be bury deep in a highly individualized person, who have

in England something of the effect of a block of seasoned ship’s timber

among new-cut block of white deal. he have be use and test. he have

be scar, and survive. his obsession have lift. he have get himself

well under control.



he be now acquire a considerable knowledge of thing african, and

more particularly of those mysterious process of change and adventure

that be present to the british consciousness in those day as

“empire building.”



he have see this part of Africa change dramatically under his eye. when

first he have go out it be but a dozen year from the death of

Livingstone, who have be the first white man in this land. in

Livingstone’s wake have come rifle, missionary, and the big game

hunter. the people of the Shire Highlands be now mostly under the rule

of chief who have come into the country with Livingstone as Basuto

porter, and whom he have arm with rifle. the town of Blantyre have

be establish by Scotch missionary to preserve Livingstone’s memory

and his work. thing have go badly for a time. a certain number of lay

helper to the Church of Scotland Mission have set up as

quasi-independent sovereign, with power of life and death, about their

mission station; many of they have get completely out of hand and be

guilty of much extortion and cruelty. one of they, Fennick, murder a

chief in a drunken bout, get himself kill, and nearly provoke a

native war only a year or so before Oswald’s arrival. arab adventurer

from Zanzibar and black Portuguese from the Zambesi be also push

into this country. the Yao to the north and the Angoni-Zulus to the

south, tribe of a highly militant spirit, add their quota to a

kaleidoscope of murder, rape, robbery and incalculable chance, which

be far complicate by the annexational propaganda of more or less

vaguely accredited German, belgian, portuguese and british agent.



Oswald reach Tanganyika in the company of a steamboat (in portable

piece) which have be send by the Scotch missionary by way of the

Zambesi and Lake Nyasa; he help with its reconstruction, and take a

considerable share in fight the arab slaver between Nyasa and

Tanganyika. one of his early impression of african warfare be the

figure of a blister and wound negro stand painfully to tell his

story of the fight from which he have escape. “you see,” the Scotch

trader who be translate, explain, “he’s say they have just spear

and the Arabs have gun, and they get drive back on the lagoon into the

reed. the reed be dry, and the Arabs set they on fire. that’s how

he’s get his arm and leg burn, he say. nasty place. but they’ll heal

all right; he’s a vegetarian and a teetotaller—usually. those reed burn

like thatch, and if the poor devil run out they get stab or shoot,

and if they go into the water the crocodile would be get they. I

know that end of the lake. it’s fairly alive with crocodile. a perfect

bank holiday for the crocodile. poor devil! poor devil!”



the whole of Africa, see in those day from the viewpoint of Blantyre,

be the most desolate spectacle of human indiscipline it be possible

to conceive. everywhere be the adventurer and violence and cruelty and

fever, nowhere law and discipline. the mission man turn robber, the

trader become drunkard, the porter betray their master. mission

intrigue against mission, disobey the consul, and get at hopeless

loggerhead with the trader and early planter. where there be no

control, there be no self-control. thirst and lust rack every human

be; even some of the missionary deem it well to marry native

woman than to burn. in his own person Oswald play microcosm to human

society. he have his fall and bitter moment, but his faith in science

and civilization, human will and self-control, stumble to its foot

again. “we’ll get thing straight here presently,” he say. of himself

as of Nyasaland. “never say damned till you’re dead.”



his first return to England not only give he a futile dream of dolly to

keep he clean and fastidious in Africa, but restore his wane belief

in an orderly world. see from that distant point, the conflict in

Africa fall into a proper perspective as the froth and confusion before

the launching of a new and unprecedented peace. Africa have be a black

stew of lust, bloodshed and disease since the beginning of history.

these latter day be but the last flare-up of an ancient disorder

before the net of the law and the road and railway, the net of the

hospital and microscope and anthropologist, catch and tame and

study and master the black continent. he get his official

recognition and go back to join this new british agent, Mr. Harry

Johnston, in Nyasaland and see a kind of order establish itself and grow

more orderly and secure, over the human confusion round and about the

Shire Highlands. he find in his chief, who presently become

Commissioner and Administrator (with a uniform rather like an Admiral’s

for state occasion), a man after his own heart, with the same

unquenchable faith in the new learning of science and the same belief in

the well future that open before mankind. the Commissioner, a little

animate, talkative man of tireless interest and countless interest,

reciprocate Oswald’s liking. in Central Africa one be either too busy

or too tired and ill to do much talk, but there be one or two

evening when Oswald be alone with his chief and they could exchange

view. Johnston have a modern religious philosophy that see God chiefly

through the valiant heart of man; he make Oswald read Winwood Reade’s

_Martyrdom of Man_, which have become, so to speak, his own theological

point of departure. it be a book of sombre optimism productive of a

kind of dark hopefulness—“provided we stick it”—that accord well with

the midday twilight of the Congo forest into which Oswald be presently

send. it march with much that Oswald have be think out for

himself. it do not so much tell he new thing as crystallize his own

thought.



two idea be become the guide light of Oswald Sydenham’s thought

and life. one be the idea of self-devotion to British Imperial

expansion. the British Empire be to be the instrument of world

civilization, the protectress and vehicle of science; the critical

examination of Imperialism in the light of these pretension have still

to come. he have still to discover that science could be talk in other

language than English, and think go on behind brown and yellow

forehead. his second idea be that the civilize process be

essentially an educational process, a training in toleration and

devotion, the tempering of egotism by wide idea. thereby “we shall get

thing straighter presently. we shall get they very straight in the long

run.”...



directly after Oswald’s second visit to England, the one in which he

become Peter’s godfather, a series of campaign against the

slave-raid arab chief, who still remain practically independent in

the Protectorate, begin. Oswald command in a very “near thing” in the

Highlands, during which he hold a small stockade against the Yao with

six Sikhs and a few Atonga for three day, and be finally rescue when

his ammunition have almost give out; and after that he be entrust

with a force of over three hundred man in the expedition that end in

the capture and hanging of old Mlozi. he fight in steamy heat and

pour rain, his head ache and his body shivering, and he end his

campaigning with a first experience of blackwater fever. it strike he

as an unutterably beastly experience, although the doctor assure he he

have be let down lightly. however, this be almost the end of the

clearing-up fighting in the Protectorate, and Oswald could take thing

easily for a time. thereafter the work of pacification, road-making, and

postal and telegraphic organization go on swiftly and steadily.



but these day of peaceful organization be end by a disagreeable

emotional situation. Oswald find himself amuse and attract by a

pretty woman he despise thoroughly and dislike a good deal. she be

the wife of a planter near Blantyre. so far from think he an ugly

and disfigured being, she make it plain to he that his ugliness be an

unprecedented excitement for she. always imprison in his mind be the

desire to have a woman of his very own; at time he envy even the Yao

warrior their black slave mistress; and he be more than half

disposed to snatch this craving creature in spite of the lie and trick

and an incessant chatter vanity that disfigure her soul, and end all

his work in Africa, to gratify, if only for some lurid month, his

hunger for a human possession. the situation take he by surprise in a

negligent phase; he pull up sharply when he be already look down a

slippery slope of indignity and dishonour. if he have as yet do no

foolish thing he have think and say they. the memory of dolly come to

he in the night. he declare to himself, and he try to declare it

without reservation, that it be well to sit for a time within a yard

of dolly’s inaccessible goodness than paint a Protectorate already

british enough to be scandal-love, with the very bright hue of

passion’s flame-colour. he run away from this woman.



so he come back—by no mean single-mindedly. there be lapse indeed on

the slow steam journey to Egypt into almost unendurable torment of

regret. of which, however, no trace appear when he come into the

presence of dolly and his godson at the Ingle-Nook.





                                  § 4



Peter take to Oswald and Oswald take to Peter from the beginning.



Peter, by this time, have Joan for a foster-sister. and also he have

Nobby. Nobby be a beloved dutch doll, armless and legless, but adore

and trust as no other doll have ever be in the whole history of doll

since the world begin. he have be Peter’s first doll. one day when he

be play tune with Nobby on the nursery fender, one exceptionally

accent note splinter off a side of Nobby’s smooth but already much

obliterate countenance. Peter be not so much grieve as dismayed, and

Arthur be very sympathetic and do his good to put thing right with a

fine brush and some black paint. but when Peter see Oswald he meet he

with a cry of delight and recognition.



“it’s Nobby!” he cry.



“but who’s Nobby?” ask Oswald.



“_You_—Nobby,” Peter insist with a squeak, and turn about just in

time to prevent Arthur from hide the fetish away. “Gimme my Nobby!” he

say.



“Nobby be his private god,” dolly hasten to explain. “it be his

dear possession. it be the most beautiful thing in the world to he.

every night he must have Nobby under his pillow....”



Oswald stand with his wooden double in his hand for a moment, recognize

himself at a glance, think it over, and smile his grim, one-side

smile.



“I’m Nobby right enough,” he say. “Big Nobby, Peter. he take you off

to Dreamland. some day I’ll take you to the Mountains of the Moon.”



so far Joan, a black-head, black-eyed doll, have be coyly on the edge

of the conversation, a little disposed to take refuge in the skirt of

Mary. now she make a great effort on her own account. “Nobby,” she

scream; “big, _big_ Nobby!” and, realize she have make a success, hide

her face.



“Nobby to you,” say Oswald. “do _that_ want a godfather too? it’s my

rôle....”





                                  § 5



the change in the Stubland nursery, though they be the most apparent,

be certainly not the great in the little home that look over the

Weald. Arthur have be unfaithful to dolly—on principle it would seem.

that do not reach Oswald’s perception all at once, though even on his

first visit he feel a difference between they.



the later ’ninety be the “Sex Problem” period in Great Britain. not

that sex have be anything else than a perplexity in all age, but it

be just about this time that that unanswerable “why not?”—that

bacterium of social decay, spread out from the dark corner of

unventilated religious dogma into a moribund system of moral, reach,

in the case of the child of the serious middle-class of Great

Britain, this important field of conduct. the manner of the question and

the answer remain still serious. those be the day of “the Woman who

do” and the “Keynote Series,” of adultery without fun and fornication

for conscience’ sake. Arthur, with ample leisure, a high-grade bicycle,

the consciousness of the artistic temperament and a gnawing secret

realization, which have never leave he since those early day in

Florence, that dolly do not really consider he as an important person

in the world’s affair, be all too receptive of the new suggestion.

after some discursive liberal conversation with various people he find

the complication he seek in the young of three plain but passionate

sister, who live a decorative life in a pretty little modern cottage

on the edge of a wood beyond Limpsfield. the new gale of emancipation

send a fire through her vein. her soul within she be like a flame. she

write poetry with a peculiar wistful charm, and her decorative method

be so similar to Arthur’s that it seem natural to conclude they

might be the precursor of an entirely new school. they put a new

interest and life into each other’s work. it become a sort of

collaboration....



the affair be not all priggishness on Arthur’s part. the woman be

honestly in love; and for most man love make love; there be a pride and

fascination for they in a new love adventure, in the hesitation, the

dash, the soft capture, the triumph and kindness, that can manage with

very poor excuse. and such a beautiful absence of mutual criticism

always, such a kindly accept blindness in passionate eye!



at first dolly do not realize how Arthur be round off his life. she

be busy now with her niece, her disreputable eld brother’s love

child, as well as Peter; she do not miss Arthur very much during his

increase absence. then Arthur, who wish to savour all the aspect

of the new situation, reveal it to her one August evening in general

term by a discourse upon polygamy.



dolly’s quick mind seize the situation long before Arthur could state

it.



she do not guess who her successful rival be. she do not know it be

the young Miss Blend, that familiar dark squat figure, quick and

almost crowded in speech, and with a peculiar avidity about her manner

and bear. she assume it must be some person of transcendant and

humiliating merit; that much her romantic standard demand. she be

also a little disgusted, as though Arthur have discover himself to be

physically unclean. her immediate impulse be to arrest a specific

confession.



“you forget instinct, Arthur dear,” she say, colour brightly. “what

you say be perfectly reasonable, wonderfully so. only—it would make I

feel sick—I _mean_ sick—if, for example, I think _you_——”



she turn away and look at the view.



“be you so sure that be instinct? or convention?” he ask, after a

pause of half comprehension.



“Instinct—for certain.... lover be one. whither you go, _i_ go—in the

spirit. you cann’t go alone with another woman while I—while I—— in those

thing.... oh, it’s inconceivable!”



“that’s a primitive point of view.”



“love—lust for the matter of that.... they _be_ primitive thing,” say

dolly, undisguisedly wretche.



“there’s reason in the control of they.”



“Polygamy!” she cry scornfully.



Arthur be immensely disconcert.



he light a cigarette, and his movement be slow and clumsy.



“idea may differ,” he say lamely....



he do not make his personal confession after all.



in the middle of the night Arthur be lie awake thinking with unusual

violence, and for the first time for a long while see a question from

a standpoint other than his own. also he fancy he have hear a sound of

great significance at bedtime. that uncertain memory worry he more

and more. he get up now with excessive precaution against noise and

creep with extreme slowness and care to the little door between his room

and dolly’s. it be lock.



_then she have understand!_



a solemn, an almost awe-stricken Arthur paddle back to his own bed

through a pool of moonlight on the floor. a pair of pallid, blue-vein

foot and bright pyjama leg and a perplexed, vague continuation upward

be all the moon could see.





                                  § 6



it be, it seem to Arthur, a very hard, resolute and unapproachable

dolly who meet he at the breakfast-table on the brick terrace outside

the little kitchen window. he reflect that the ultimate injury a wife

can do to a husband be ruthless humiliation, and she be certainly

make he feel most abominably ashamed of himself. she have always, he

reflect, make he feel that she don’t very greatly believe in he.

there be just a touch of the spitfire in dolly....



but, indeed, within dolly be a stormy cavern of dismay and indignation

and bitter understanding. she have weep a great deal in the night and

think interminably; she know already that there be much more in this

thing than a simple romantic issue.



her first impulse have be quite in the romantic tradition: “never

again!” and “now we part!” and “henceforth we be as stranger!”



she have already get ten thousand mile beyond that.



she do not even know whether she hate he or love he. she doubt if

she have ever know.



her state of mind be an extraordinary patchwork. every possibility in

her be be in a state of intense excitement. she be sway by a

violently excited passion for he that be only restrain by a still

more violent resolve to punish and prevail over he. he have never seem

so good-look, so pleasant-face, so much “old Arthur”—or such a

fatuous being. and he be watch she, watch she, watch she,

obliquely, furtively, while he pretend awkwardly to be at his ease.

what a scared _comic_ thing Arthur could be! there be moment when she

could have scream with laughter at his solicitous face.



meanwhile some serviceable part of her mind devote itself to the table

need of Joan and Peter.



Peter be disposed to incite Joan to a porridge-eat race. you just

look at Joan and begin to eat fast very quietly, and then Joan would

catch on and begin to eat fast too. her spoon would go quick and

quick, and make a noise—whack, whack, whack! and as it be necessary

that she should keep her wicked black eye fix on your plate all the

time to see how you be get on, she would sometimes get an empty

spoon up, sometimes miss her mouth, sometimes splash. but Mummy take a

strong hand that morning. there be an argument, but Mummy be unusually

firm. she turn breakfast into a drill. “fill spoon. ’Tention! Mouf.

withdraw spoon.” not bad fun, really, though Mummy look much too stern

for any liberty. and daddy ben’t game for a diversion. wouldn’t look

at a little boy....



after breakfast Arthur decide that he be not go to be bully. he

get out his bicycle and announce in a dry, offhand tone that he be

go out for the day.



“so long, Guv’nor,” say dolly, as off-handedly, and stand at the door

in an expressionless way until he be beyond the green road gate.



then she stroll back through the house into the garden, and stand for

a time consider the situation.



“so I be to bring up two baby—and grow old, while _this_ go on!” she

whisper.



she go to clear the thing off the breakfast-table, and stand

motionless again.



“my God!” she say; “why ben’t I bear a man?”



and that, or some image that follow it, let her thought out to Africa

and a sturdy, teak-complexion figure with a one-sided face under its

big sun-helmet....



“why don’t I marry a man?” she say. “why don’t I get I a mate?”





                                  § 7



these be the primary factor of the situation that Oswald, arrive

six week later, be slowly to discover and comprehend. as he do so he

feel the self-impose restraint of his relation to Arthur and dolly

slip from he. Arthur be now abundantly absent. never before have Oswald

and dolly be so much alone together. Peter and Joan in the foreground

be a small restraint upon speech and understanding.



but now this story fall away from romance. romance require that a

woman should love a man or not love a man; that she should love one man

only and go with the man of her choice, that no other consideration,

unless it be duty or virtue, should matter. but dolly find with

infinite dismay that she be divide.



she love certain thing in Oswald and certain thing in Arthur. the

romantic tradition which rule in these matter, provide no

instruction in such a case. the two man be not sufficiently

contrast. one be not black enough; the other not white enough. Oswald

be a strong man and brave, but Arthur, though he live a tame and

indolent life, seem almost insensible to danger. she have never see

he afraid or rattle. he be a magnificent rock climber, for example;

his physical nerve be perfect. everything would have be so much

simple if he have be a “soft.” she be sensitive to physical quality.

it be good to watch Arthur move; Oswald’s injury make he clumsy and

a little cautious in his movement. but Oswald be grow into a

politician; he have already take great responsibility in Africa; he

talk like a prince and like a lover about his Atonga and his Sikhs,

and about the white-clothe kingdom of Uganda and about the fantastic

gallant Masai, who must be save from extermination. that princely way

of thinking be the fine thing about he; there he outshone Arthur. he

be wonderful to she when he talk of those central african kingdom

that be rot into chaos under the influence of the arab and

european invasion, chaos from which a few honest englishman might yet

rescue a group of splendid people.



he could be loyal all through; it be his nature. and he love she—as

Arthur have never love she. with a gleam of fierceness. as though there

be a streak of anger in his love.



“why do you endure it?” he fret. “why do you endure it?”



but he be irritable, absurd about many little thing. he could lose his

temper over game; particularly if Arthur play too.



yet there be a power about Oswald. it be a quality that make her fear

he and herself. she fear for the freedom of her spirit. if ever she

become Oswald’s she would become his much more than she have ever be

Arthur’s. there be something about he that be real and commanding, in

a sense in which nothing be real about Arthur.



she have a dread, which make she very wary, that one day Oswald would

seize upon she, that he would take she in his arm and kiss she. this

possibility accumulate. she have a feeling that it would be something

very dreadful, painful and enormous; that it would be like be

brand, that therewith Arthur would be abolish for she.... at the

thought she realize that she do not want Arthur to be abolish. she

have an enormous kindliness for Arthur that would have be impossible

without a little streak of humorous superiority. if Oswald threaten

she with his latent mastery, Arthur have the appeal of much dependence.



and apart from Oswald or Arthur, something else in her protest, an

instinct or a deeply-rooted tradition. the thought of a second man be

like thinking of the dislocation of her soul. it involve a nightmare of

overlapping, of partial obliteration, of contrast and replacement, in

thing that she feel could have no honour or dignity unless they be as

simple and natural as inadvertent action....



the thing that sway she most towards Oswald, oddly enough, be his

mutilate face. that hold she back from any decision against he. “if I

do not go with he,” she think, “he will think it be that.” she could

not endure that he should be so wounded.



then, least personal and selfish thought of all, be the question of

Joan and Peter. what would happen to they? in any case, dolly know they

would come to she. there be no bitter vindictiveness in Arthur, and he

shirk every responsibility he could. she could leave he and go to

Uganda and return to they. she know there would be no attempt to deprive

she of Peter. Oswald would be as good a father as Arthur. the child

weigh on neither side.



dolly’s mind have become discontinuous as it have never be discontinuous

before. none of these thing be in her mind all the time; sometimes

one aspect be uppermost and sometimes another. sometimes she be rule

by nothing but vindictive pride which urge she to put herself on a

level with Arthur. at time again her pride be white and tight-lipped,

exhort she above all thing not to put herself on a level with

Arthur. when Oswald press she, her every impulse be to resist; when

he be away and she feel her loneliness—and his—her heart go out to

he.



she have give herself to Arthur, that seem conclusive. but Arthur have

dishonour the gift. she have a great sense of obligation to Oswald. she

have love Oswald before she have ever see Arthur; year ago she have

give her cousin the hope and claim that burn accusingly in his eye

today.



“come with I, dolly,” he say. “come with I. share my life. this ben’t

life here.”



“but could I come with you?”



“if you dare. not to Blantyre, perhaps. That’s—respectable. church and

woman and chatter. Blantyre’s over. but there’s Uganda. Baker take a

wife there. it’s still a land of wild romance. and I must go soon. I

must get to Uganda. so much be happen. Muir say this Soudanese

trouble willn’t wait.... but I hang on here, day after day. I cann’t leave

you to it, dolly. I cann’t endure that.”



“you _have_ to leave I,” she say.



“no. come with I. this soft grey-green countryside be no place for you.

I want you in a royal leopard skin with a rifle in your hand. you be

pale for want of the sun. and while we be out there _he_ could divorce

you. he would divorce you—and marry some other copper puncher. some

Craftswoman. and stencil like hell. then we could marry.”



he grip her wrist across the stone table. “dolly, my darling!” he

say; “don’t let I go back alone.”



“but what of Peter and Joan?”



“leave they to nurse for a year or so and then bring they out to the

sun. if the boy stay here, he will grow up—some sort of fiddle

artist. he will punch copper and play about with book-binding.”



she struggle suddenly to free her wrist, and he grip they tight

until he see that she be look towards the house. at last he realize

that Arthur approach.



“oh, _damn_!” say Oswald....





                                  § 8



dolly cut this knot she could not untie, and as soon as she have cut it

she begin to repent.



Indecision may become an unendurable torment. on the one hand that dark

strong life in the african sunblaze with this man she fear in spite of

his unconcealed worship, call to a long-suppress vein of courage in

she be; on the other hand be her sense of duty, her fastidious

cleanness, this english home with its thousand gentle association and

Arthur, Arthur who have suddenly abandon neglect, become attentive,

mutely apologetic, but who have say not a word, since he have put himself

out of court, about Oswald.



he have say nothing, but he have become grave in his manner. once or

twice she have watch he when he have not know she watch he, and she

have try to fathom what be now in his mind. do he want she?



this and that pull she.



one night in the middle of the night she lie awake, unable to sleep,

unable to decide. she go to her window and press her forehead

against the pane and stare at the garden in a mist of moonlight. “I

must end it,” she say. “I must end it.”



she go to the door that separate her room from Arthur’s, and unlock

it noisily. she walk across the room and stand by the window. Arthur

be awake too. he lean up upon his elbow and regard she without a

word.



“Arthur,” she say, “be I to go to Africa or be I to stay with you?”



Arthur answer after a little while. “I want you to stay with I.”



“on my condition?”



“I have be a fool, dolly. it’s over....”



they be both tremble, and their voice be unsteady.



“can I believe you, Arthur?” she ask weakly....



he come across the moonlight to she, and as he speak his tear come.

Old, tender, well-remember phrase be on his lip. “dolly! little

sweet dolly,” he say, and take she hungrily into his arm....



there remain nothing now of the knot but to tell Oswald that she have

make her irrevocable decision.





                                  § 9



Arthur be eloquent about their reconciliation. what become of her rival

dolly never learn, nor greatly care; she be turn out of Arthur’s

heart, it would seem, rather as one turn a superfluous cat out of

door. Arthur allude to the emotional situation generally as “this

mess.” “if I’d have proper work to do and some outlet for my energy this

mess wouldn’t have happen,” he say. he announce in phrase only too

obviously derivative that he must find something _real_ to do.

“something that will take I and use I.”



but dolly be manifestly unhappy. he decide that the crisis have

overtax she. Oswald must have worry she tremendously. (he think it

be splendid of she that she never blame Oswald.) the garden, the

place, be full now of painful association—and moreover the reject

cat be well within the range of a chance meeting. travel among

beautiful scenery seem the remedy indicate. their income happen to

be a little overspent, but it only add to his sense of rise to a

great emotional emergency that he should have to draw upon his capital.

they start upon a sort of recrudescence of their honeymoon, begin

with Rome.



Aunt Phyllis and Aunt Phœbe come to mind the house and Joan and Peter.

Aunt Phœbe be write a little wise poetical book about education,

mostly out of her inner consciousness, and she seize the opportunity of

this experience very gladly....



dolly be a thing of mood for all that journey.



at time she be extravagantly hilarious, she be wild, as she have never

be before. she would start out to scamper about a twilit town after a

long day’s travel, so that it be hard for Arthur to keep pace with she

flit energy; she would pretend to be Tarantula-bite in some

chestnut grove and dance love dance and flee like a dryad to be pursue

and catch. and at other time she sit white and still as though she have

a broken heart. never do an entirely virtuous decision give a woman so

much heartache. they go up Vesuvius by night on mule from Pompeii,

and as they stand on the black edge of the crater, the guide call she

attention to the vast steely extent of the moonlit southward sea.



she hear herself whisper “Africa,” and wonder if Arthur too have

hear.



and at Capri Arthur have a dispute with a boatman. the boat be take at

the Marina Grande. the boatman propose the tour of the island and all

the grotto, and from the Marina Grande the project seem reasonable

enough. the sea, though not glassy smooth, be quite a practicable sea.

but a point have to be explain very carefully. the boatman put it in

slow and simple italian with much helpful gesture. if the wind rise to a

storm so that they would have to return before complete this “giro,”

they would still pay the same fee.



“oh quite,” say Arthur carelessly in English, and the bargain be make.



they work round the corner of the island, under the Salto di Tiberio,

that tower cliff down which the legend say Tiberius fling his

victim, and as soon as they come out from under the lee of the island

Arthur discover a cheat. the gathering wind beyond the shelter of the

cliff be cut up the blue water into a disorderly system of

tumble white-cap wave. the boat head straight into a storm. it

lift and fall and sway and stagger; the boatman at his oar

dramatically exaggerate his difficulty. “he know of this,” say

Arthur savagely. “he think we shall want to give in. well, let’s see

who give in first. let’s put he through his program and see how he

like it.”



Arthur have take off his hat, and clutch it to save it from the wind.

he look very fine with his hair blow back. “Buona aria,” he say,

grin cheerfully to the boatman. “Bellissima!”



the boatman be understand to say that the wind be rise and that it

be go to be bad presently.



“Bellissima!” say Arthur, pat dolly’s back.



the boatman be seize with solicitude for the lady.



dolly survey the great cliff that tower overhead and the frothy

crest against which the boat smack and lift. “Bellissima,” she

agree, smile at the boatman’s consternation. “Avanti!”



the boat plunge and plough its way for a little while in silence. the

boatman suggest that thing be get dangerous. could the signora

swim?



Arthur assure he that she could swim like a fish.



and the capitano?



Arthur accept his promotion cheerfully and assure the boatman that

his swimming be only second to dolly’s.



the boatman inform they that he himself could scarcely swim at all. he

be not properly a seafare man. he have come to Capri for his health;

his lung be weak. he have be a stonemason at Alessandria, but the

dust have be bad for his lung. he could not swim. he could not manage

a boat very well in stormy weather. and he be an orphan.



“_Io_ Orfano!” cry Arthur, greatly delighted, and stab himself

with an elucidatory forefinger. “Io Orfano anche.”



the boatman lapse into gloom. in a little while they have beat round

the headland into view of the Faraglione, that big outstanding rock

which be pierce by a great arch, upon the south-eastern side of the

island. the passage through this Arco Naturale be in the boatman’s

agreement. they could see the swirl of the water now through that

natural gateway, rise, pour almost to the top of the arch and then

swirl down to the trough of the wave. the west wind whip the

orphan’s blue-black curl about his ear. he begin to cry off his

bargain.



“we go through that arch,” say Arthur, “or my name be not Stubland.”



the boatman argue his case. the wind be rise; the further they go

the more they come into the weather. he have not the skill of a man bear

to the sea.



“you make the bargain,” say Arthur.



“let we return while we be still safe,” the boatman protest.



“go through the arch,” say Arthur. the boatman look at the arch, the

sky, the endless onslaught of advance wave to seaward and Arthur, and

then with a gesture of despair turn the boat towards the arch.



“he’s frighten, Arthur,” say dolly.



“serve he right. he willn’t try this game again in a hurry,” say Arthur,

and then relent: “go through the arch and we will return....”



the boatman baulk at the arch twice. it be evident they must go

through just behind the crest of a wave. he head in just a moment or

so too soon, get through on the very crest, bent double to save his

head, make a clumsy lunge with his oar that strike the rock and throw

he sideways. then they be rush with incredible swiftness out of

the arch down a blue-green slope of water, and the Faraglione rise again

before dolly’s eye like a thing relieve after a moment of intense

concentration. but suddenly everything be sideways. everything be

askew. the boat be half overturn and the boatman be sit

unsteadily on the gunwale, clutch at the opposite side which be

rise, rise. the man, she realize, be go overboard, and Arthur’s

swift grab at he do but complete the capsize. the side of the boat be

below she where the floor should be, and that give way to stream

bubble water into which one man plunge on the top of the other....



dolly leapt clear of the overturn boat, go under and come up....



she toss the wet hair from her head and look about she. the

Faraglione be already thirty yard or more away and recede fast. the

boat be keel upward and roll away towards the cliff. there be no

sign of Arthur or the boatman.



what must she do? just before the accident she have note the Piccola

Marina away to the north-west. that would mean a hard swim against the

wave, but it would be the good thing to do. it could not be half a mile

away. and Arthur? Arthur would look after himself. he would do that all

right. she would only encumber he by swim around. perhaps he would

get the man on to the boat. perhaps people have see they from the

Piccola Marina. if so boat would come out to they.



she strike out shoreward.



how light one’s clothe make one feel! but presently they would drag.

(never meet trouble half-way.) it be go to be a long swim. even if

there should be no current....



she swam....



then she have doubt. ought she to go back and look for Arthur? she could

not be much good to he even if she find he. it be her first duty to

save herself. Peter be not old enough to be leave. no one would care for

Joan and he as she could care for they. it be a long enough swim

without look for Arthur. it be go to be a very long swim....



she wish she could get a glimpse of Arthur. she look this way and

that. it would be easy to swim side by side. but in this choppy sea he

might be quite close and still be hide.... good not to bother about

thing—just swim.



for a long time she swam like a machine....



after a time she begin to think of her clothe again. the wave now

seem to be try to get they off. she be be tug back by her

clothe. could she get some of they off? not in this rough water. it

would be more exhausting than helpful. clothe ought to be easy to get

off; not so much tie and pin....



the wave be come fast now. the wind must be freshen. they be

more numerous and less regular.



Splash! that last wave be a trencherous beast—no!—treacherous beast....

Phew, ugh! salt in the mouth. salt in the eye. and here be another,

too soon!... oh _fight_!



it be hard to see the Piccola Marina. wait for the lift of the next

wave.... she be go too much to the left, ever so much too much to

the left....



one must exert oneself for Peter’s sake.



what be Arthur do?



it seem a long time now since she have get into the water, and the

shore be still a long way off. there be nobody there at all that she

could see.... boat draw high and dry. plenty of boat. extraordinary

people these Italians—they let stonemason take charge of boat.

extortionate stonemason.... she be horribly tired. not in good

fettle.... she look at the Faraglione over her shoulder. it be still

disgustingly near and big. she have hardly swum a third of the way yet.

or else there be a current. well not think of current. she have to

stick to it. perhaps it be the bad third of the way she have do. but

what infinite joy and relief it would be just to stop swim and

spread one’s arm and foot!



she have to stick to it for little Peter’s sake. for little Peter’s sake.

Peter too young to be leave....



Arthur? good not to think about Arthur just yet. it have be silly to

insist on the Arco Naturale....



what a burthen and bother dress be to a woman! what a leaden

burthen!...



she must not think. she must not think. she must swim like a machine.

like a machine. one.... two.... one.... two.... slow and even.



she fall asleep. for some moment she be fast asleep. she wake up with

the water rise over her head and strike out again.



there be a sound of many water in her ear and an enormous indolence

in her limb against which she struggle in vain. she do struggle, and

the thought that spur she to struggle be still the thought of Peter.



“Peter be too young to be leave yet,” sing like a refrain in her head as

she rouse herself for her last fight with the water. Peter be too

young to be leave yet. Peter, her little son. but the salt blind she

now; she be altogether out of step with the slow and resolute rhythm of

the wave. they break foaming upon she and beat upon she, and presently

turn she about and over like a leaf in an eddy.









                           CHAPTER the fourth

                   FIRST impression of the UNIVERSE





                                  § 1



Peter could not remember a time when Joan be not in his world, and from

the beginning it seem to he that the chief fact be Mary. “nanny,”

you call she, or “Mare-_wi_,” or you simply howl and she come. she

be omnipresent; if she be not visible then she be just round the

corner, by night or day. other figure be more intermittent, “daddy,”

a large, loud, exciting, almost terrific thing; “Mummy,” who be soft

and make gentle noise but be, in comparison with Mary, rather a fool

about one’s bottle; “Pussy,” and then the transitory smile

propitiatory human stuff that be difficult to remember and name

correctly. “auntie,” “mannie” and suchlike. but also there be

inanimate person. there be the brass-head sentinel about one’s cot

and the great brown round-head newel post. his name be Bungo-Peter;

he be a king and know everything, he watch the stair, but you do

not tell people this because they would not understand. also there be

the brass-eyed monster with the triple belly who be call

Chester-Drawers; he sham dead and watch you, and in the night he

creak about the room. and there be Gope the stove, imprison in the

fender with hell burn inside he, and there be Nobby. Nobby be the

protector of little boy against Chester-Drawers, stray bear, the thing

on the landing, spider scratching and many such discomfort of nursery

life. of course you could also draw a deep breath and yell for

“Mare-_wi_,” but she be apt not to understand one’s explanation and to

scold. it be well to hold tight to Nobby. and also Nobby be lovely

and go whack.



moreover if you call “Mare-_wi_,” then when the light come Joan would

sit up in her cot and stare sleepily while you be be scold. she

would say that she _know_ there ben’t such thing. and you would be

fill with an indefinable sense of foolishness. behind an impenetrable

veil of darkness with an intervene floor space acrawl with bear and

“burdlar” she could say such thing with impunity. in the morning one

forgot. Joan in the daytime be a fairly amusing companion, except that

she sometimes try to touch Nobby. once Peter catch she play with

Nobby and pretend that Nobby be a baby. one hand take Nobby by the

head, and the other take Joan by the hair. that be the time when Peter

have his first spanking, but Joan be careful not to touch Nobby again.



generally Joan be passable. of course she be an intrusion and in the

way, but if one want to march round and round shout “Tara-ra-ra,

ra-ra, ra-ra, Tara _boom_ de ay,” bang something, a pan or a drum,

with Nobby, she could be trust to join in very effectively. she be

good for noise-marche always, and they would not have be any fun

without she. she have the processional sense, and know that her place be

second. she talk also in a sort of way, but it be not necessary to

listen. she could be manage. if, for example, she touch Peter’s

brick he yell in a soul-destroy way and go for she with a brick

in each hand. she be quick to take a hint of that sort.



it be Arthur’s theory that little child should not be solitary.

mutual aid be the basis of social life, and from their early year

child must be accustom to co-operation. they have to be train for

the co-operative commonwealth as set forth in the writing of Prince

Kropotkin. Mary think differently. so Arthur use to go in his

beautiful blue blouse and sit in the sunny nursery amidst the toy and

the child, incite they to premature co-operation.



“now Peter put a brick,” he use to say.



“now Joan put a brick.”



“now Dadda put a brick.”



Mary use to watch proceeding with a cynical and irritate expression.



“Peter’s tower,” Peter would propose.



“_our_ tower,” Arthur use to say.



“Peter knock it over.”



“no. no one knock it over.”



“Peter put _two_ brick.”



“very well.”



“Dadda not put any more brick. no. Peter finish it.”



“na-ow!” from Joan in a voice like a little cat. “_I_ finish it.”



Arthur want to preserve against this original sin of individualism. he

get quite cross at last impose joyful and willing co-operation upon

two highly resistant mind.



Mary’s way be altogether different. she greatly appreciate the fact

that dolly and Arthur have have the floor of the nursery cover with cork

carpet, and that Arthur at the suggestion of Aunt Phœbe have get a

blackboard and chalk in order to instil a free gesture in draw from

the early year. with a piece of chalk Mary would draw a line across

the floor of the nursery, fairly divide the warmth of the stove and

the light of the window.



“that’s your bit, Peter,” she would say, “and that’s your bit, Joan.

they’s your share of brick and they’s your. now don’t you think of

go outside your bit, either of you, whatever you do. nohow. nor touch

so much as a brick that ben’t your.”



Whereupon both child would settle down to play with infinite

contentment.



yet these individualist be not indifferent to each other. if Joan

want to draw on the blackboard with chalk, then always Peter want to

draw on the blackboard with chalk at the same time, and here again it

be necessary for Mary to mark a boundary between they; and if Peter

want to build with brick then Joan do also. each be uneasy if the

other be not in sight. and they would each do the same thing on

different side of their chalk boundary, with a wary eye on the other’s

proceeding and with an endless stream of explanation of what they be

do.



“Peter’s build a love-i-lay house.”



“Joan’s building, oh!—a lovelay-er house. Wiv a cross on it.”



“why not build one lovely house for both of you?” say Arthur, still

with the co-operative Commonwealth in mind.



neither child consider that his proposal call for argument. it go

over their head and vanish. they continue build individually as

before, but in silence lest Arthur should be tempt to intervene again.





                                  § 2



Joan be a dancer from the age of three.



perhaps she get some hint from dolly, there be no telling; but anyhow

she frisk and caper rhythmically by a kind of instinct whenever

dolly play the piano. so dolly show her step and then more step.

Peter do not take to dance so readily as Joan and his disposition be

towards burlesque. Joan dance for the love of dancing, but Peter be

inventive and turn his dance into expression. he invent the Fat

Dance, with a pillow under his pinafore, the Thin Dance, with a concave

stomach and a meagre expression, the one Leg dance and the Bird Dance,

this latter like the bird about the crumb in winter time. also the

Tipsy Dance, bacchic, which Arthur think vulgar and discourage. dolly

teach Joan the Flower Dance, with a very red cap like a pistil, and

white silk skirt petal uphold by her arm. these she open slowly, and

at last drop and then droop. this need a day of preparation.

Peter produce his first remember æsthetic judgment on a human being

on this occasion.



“_pritty_ Joan,” he say with conviction, as she stand flushed and

bright-eyed after the dance, and with that he go and kiss she.



“he’s begin young,” say Arthur.



it be what all parent say, and it be true of all child. but parent

keep on say it....



before he be fully four Peter be conduct an æsthetic analysis of

his world. he like some of the tune dolly play and disapprove of

other. he distribute “pritty” lavishly but by no means

indiscriminately over the thing of the world. “oh pritty fo’wers,” be

the primordial form of these expand decision. but he know that Nobby

be not pretty.



Arthur do his good to encourage and assist these budding appreciation.



one evening there be a beautiful still sunset. the sun go down, a

great flattening sphere of redden gold sink into vast level of

blue over the remoter hill. Joan have already be carry off to bed,

but Arthur seize upon Peter and stand he in the window seat. “look,”

say Arthur. Peter look intently, and both his parent sit beside he,

watch his nice little round head and the downy edge of his intent

profile.



“look,” say Arthur, “it go. it go. it’s go ... go ...

go....”



the sun become a crescent, a red scimitar, a streak of fire.



“ah!” say Arthur, “it’s go.”



come an immense pause.



“do it _adain_, Dadda,” say Peter with immense approval. “do it

adain....”





                                  § 3



the theory of ideal play almost as important a part in the early

philosophy of Peter as it do in the philosophy of Plato. but Peter do

not call they “ideal,” he call they “toy.” toy be the simplified

essence of thing, pure, perfect and manageable; real thing be

troublesome, uncontrollable, over complicated and largely irrelevant. a

Real Train, for example, be a poor, big, clumsy, limited thing that be

oblige to go to Red Hill or Croydon or London, that be full of stuffy

unnecessary stranger, usually sit firmly in the window seat, that

you could do nothing satisfactory with at all. a Toy Train be your very

own; it take you wherever you want, to Fairyland or Russia or

anywhere, at whatever pace you choose. then there be a beautiful rag

doll name “Pleeceman,” who have a comic, almost luminous red nose, and

smile perpetually; you could hit Joan with he and make her squawk and

yet be sure of not hurt she within the meaning of the law; how

inferior be the great formless lump of a thing, with a pale uneventful

visitor’s sort of face we see out of the train at Caterham! nobody could

have lift he by a leg and wave he about; and if you have shy he

into a corner, instead of all go just anyhow and still smile, he

would probably have be cross and revengeful. how inferior again be

the real cow, with its chew habit, its threaten stare and moo and

its essential rudeness, to Suzannah, the cow on the green board. perhaps

the good real thing in the world be young pig....



but this much be simply to explain how it be that Peter be grateful

but not overwhelmed to find that there be also a real Nobby in

existence as well as his beloved fetish. and this Nobby be, as real

thing go, much well than one could have expect he to be. Peter’s

heart go out to he from the very first encounter, and never find

reason to relinquish he again.



Nobby waste a good lot of time that might have be well employ in

play, by talk to Mummy; and when a little boy set himself to rescue

his friend from so tepid an occupation, Mary show a peculiar

disposition to thwart one. “oh! _leave_ they alone,” she say, with the

tart note in her voice. “I’m sure they don’t want either of you.”



still Mummy don’t always get Nobby, and a little boy and girl could

hear he talk and play about with he. when he tell really truly thing

it be well than any one else tell story. he have have all sort of

experience; he have be a sailor; _he know what be inside a ship_.

that have be a grow need in Peter’s life. all Peter’s ship have be

solid hitherto. and Nobby have be in the same field, practically

speak, with lion ever so many time. lion, of course, be not

nearly so dreadful as bear in a little boy’s world; bear be the most

dreadful thing in the world (especially be this true of the black,

under-bed bear, _Ursus Pedivorus_) but lion be dreadful enough. if one

see one in a field one would instantly get back over the stile again and

go home, Mary or no Mary. but one day near Nairobi, Nobby have come upon

a lion in broad daylight right in the middle of the path. Nobby have

nothing but a stick. “I be in a hurry and I feel annoyed,” say Nobby.

“so I just walk towards he and wave my stick at he, and shout to

he to get out of my way.”



“_yes?_” breathless.



“and he go. Most lion will get away from a man if they can. not

always though.”



a pause. there be evidently another story to that. “tell we,” say

Mummy, more interested even than the child.



Big Nobby make model african village out of twig and suchlike nothing

in the garden, and he bring down Joan and Peter box of Zulu warrior

from London to inhabit they. also he buy two box of “egyptian camel

corps.” one wet day he “make Africa” on the nursery floor. he make

mountain out of book and wood block, and put a gold-mine of gold

paper therein; he get in a lot of twig of box from the garden and make

the most lovely forest you can imagine; he build village of brick for

the Zulus; he put out the animal of Peter’s Noah’s ark in the wood.

“here’s the lion,” he say, prop up the lion against the tree

because of its break leg.



“Gurr Woooooah!” say Joan.



“exactly,” say Nobby, encourage she.



“Waar-oooh. Waaaa!” say Joan, presume on it.



“Bang!” say Peter. “you’re _dead_, Joan,” and stop any more of that.





                                  § 4



then one day an extraordinary thing happen. it be towards lunch-time,

and Mary be bring Joan and Peter home from a walk in the wood. Joan

be tired, but Peter have be enterprise and have run on far ahead; he

be trot his fat leg down the rusty lane that run through the

bush close to the garden fence when he see Nobby’s lank form come

towards he from the house, walk slowly and as if he couldn’t see

where he be go. Peter be for slip into the bush and jump

out at he and say “Boo.” then he see Nobby stop and stand still and

stare back at the house, and then, most wonderful and dreadful! this

great big grown-up begin to sob and cry. he say “Ooo-er!” just as Peter

do sometimes when he feel unendurably ill-use. and he keep raise his

clench fist as if he be go to shake they—and not do so.



“I will go to Hell,” say Nobby. “I will go to Hell.”



in a passion!



(Peter be shocked and ashamed for Nobby.)



then Nobby turn and see Peter before Peter could hide away from he.

he stop cry at once, but there be his funny face all red and

shiny on one side.



“Hullo, old Peter boy,” say Nobby. “I’m off. I’m go right away. be

fool.”



so that be it. but haven’t he Africa and lion and elephant and black

man to go to, a great Real Play Nursery instead of a Nursery of Toys?

why make a fuss of it?



he come to Peter and lift he up in his arm. “good-bye, old Peter,”

he say. “good-bye, Peter. keep off the copper punching.” he kiss his

godson—how wet his face was!—and put he down, and be go off along

the path and Peter haven’t say a word.



he want to cry too, to think that Nobby be go. he stare and then

run a little way after his friend.



“Nobby,” he shout; “good-bye!”



“good-bye, old man,” Nobby cry back to he.



“good-bye. gooood-bye-er.”



then Peter trot back to the house to be first with the sad but

exciting news that Nobby have go. but as he come down from the green

wicket to the house he look up and see his father at the upstairs

window, gaze after Nobby with an unusual expression that perplex

he, and in the little hall he find his mother, and she have be cry

too, though she be pretend she haven’t. they know about Nobby.

something strange be in the air, perceptible to a little boy but

utterly beyond his understanding. perhaps Nobby have be naughty. so he

think it well to change the subject, and begin talk at once about a

wonderful long bicycle with no less than three man on it—not two, Mummy,

but three—that he have see upon the highroad. they have thin white silk

shirt without sleeve, and ride furiously with their head down. their

shirt be blow out funnily behind they in the middle of their back.

they go like _that_!...



all through the midday meal nobody say a word about Nobby....



nobody ever do say anything about Nobby again. when on a few occasion

Peter himself talk appreciatively of Nobby nobody, unless it be Joan

now and then, seem the least bit interested....



one side consequence of Oswald’s visit have be the dethronement of the

original Nobby. the real Nobby have somehow thrust the toy Nobby into the

background. perhaps he drift into the recess of some box or

cupboard. at any rate when Peter think of he one day he be nowhere

to be find. that do not matter so much as it would have do a couple

of month before. now if the bear and “burdlar” get busy in the

night-nursery Peter use to pretend that the pillow be the real Nobby,

the Nobby who ben’t even afraid of lion and have drive off one with a

stick. a prowling bear haven’t much chance against a little boy who

snuggle up to _that_ Nobby.





                                  § 5



Mummy be rather dull in those day, and daddy seem always to be

look at she. daddy have a sort of inelasticity in his manner too.

suddenly Aunt Phyllis and Aunt Phœbe appear, and it be announce that

daddy and Mummy be go off to Italy. it be too far for they to take

little boy and girl, they say, and besides there be, oh! _horrid_

spider. and Peter must stay to mind the house and Joan and his aunt;

it ben’t right not to have some man about. he be to have a sailor suit

with trouser also, great responsibility altogether for a boy not much

over four. so there be a great kissing and go off, and Joan and

Peter settle down to the rule of the aunt and only miss Mummy and

daddy now and then.



then one day something happen over the child’s head. Mary have red

eye and wouldn’t say why; the aunt have tell she not to do so.



Phyllis and Phœbe decide not to darken the child’s life by wear

mourning, but Mary say that anyhow she would go into black. but neither

Joan nor Peter take much notice of the black dress.



“why don’t Mummy and daddy come back?” ask Peter one day of Aunt

Phœbe.



“they’ve travel to such wonderful place,” say Aunt Phœbe with a

catch in her voice. “they may not be back for ever so long. no. not till

Peter be ever so big.”



“then why don’t they send we cull’d poce-card like they did’t first?”

say Peter.



Aunt Phœbe be so take aback she could answer nothing.



“they just forget we,” say Peter and reflect. “they go on and

on.”



“ben’t Nobby ever come back either?” he ask, abruptly, display a

devastating acceptance of the new situation.



“but who’s Nobby?”



“that’s Mr. Oswald Sydenham,” say Mary.



“he’s come back quite soon,” say Aunt Phœbe. “he’s on his way now.”



“’Cos he _promise_ I a lion skin,” say Peter.





                                  § 6



Aunts Phyllis and Phœbe find themselves two of the four guardian

appoint under Arthur’s will.



it have be one of Arthur’s occasional lapse into deceit that he

destroy the will which make Oswald the sole guardian of Joan—so far as

he could dispose of Joan—and Peter, without say a word about it to

dolly. he have vacillate between various substitute for Oswald up to

the very moment when he name the four upon whom he decide finally, to

his solicitor. some streak of jealousy or pride, combine with a doubt

whether Oswald would now consent to act, have first prompt the

alteration. instead he have decide to shift the responsibility to his

sister. then a twinge of compunction have make he replace Oswald. then

feel that Oswald might still be out talk or out vote by his

sister, he have stick in the name of dolly’s wealthy and important

cousin, Lady Charlotte Sydenham. he have only see she twice, but she have

seem a lady of considerable importance and strength of character.

anyhow it make thing fair to the Sydenham side.



but Phyllis and Phœbe at once assume, not without secret gladness, that

the burthen of this responsibility would fall upon they. Oswald Sydenham

be away in the heart of Africa; Lady Charlotte Sydenham be also

abroad. she have telegraph, “unwell impossible to return to England six

week continue child’s life as hitherto.” that seem to promise a

second sleeping partner in the business.



the sister decide to continue the Ingle-Nook as the child’s home,

and make the necessary arrangement with Mr. Sycamore, the family

solicitor, to that end.



they discuss their charge very carefully and fully. Phyllis be for a

meticulous observance of Arthur’s know or assume “wish,” but phœbe

take a broad view. Mary too point out the danger of too literal an

adhesion to precedent.



“we want everything to go on exactly as it do when _they_ be alive,”

say Phyllis to Mary.



“thing ’ave get to be different,” say Mary.



“not if we can help it,” say Aunt Phyllis.



“they’ll _grow_,” say Mary after reflection.



Phœbe become eloquent in the evening.



“we be to have the advantage of maternity, Phyllis, without—without

the degradation. it be a solemn trust. blessed be we among woman,

Phyllis. I feel a Madonna. we _be_ Madonnas, Phyllis. Modern Madonnas.

just touch by the Wings of the dove.... these little soul drop

from heaven upon our knee.... Poor Arthur! it be our task to guide his

offspring to that high destiny he might have attain. _look_, Phyllis!”



with her flat hand she indicate the long garden path that dolly have

plan.



Phyllis peer forward without intelligence. “what be it?” she ask.



Phyllis perceive that Phœbe be flush with poetical excitement. and

phœbe’s voice drop mystically to a deep whisper. “don’t you see?

_white lily!_ a coincidence, of course. but—beautiful.”



“for a child with a high destiny, I doubt if Peter be careful enough

with his clothe,” say Phyllis, try to sound a less pre-raphaelite

note. “he be a perfect little Disgrace this afternoon.”



“the darling! but I understand.... Joan too have much before she,

Phyllis. as yet their mind be blank, _tabula rasa_; of either of they

there be still to be made—_anything_. Peter—upon this Rock I set—a New

Age. when woman shall come to their own. Joan again. Joan of Arc.

coincidence no doubt. but leave I my fancy. fancy—if you will. for

I they be no fancy. before the world, Phyllis, we be make for

this.”



she rest her chin on her hand, and stare out into the blue twilight,

a brood prophetess.



“only a woman can understand a woman,” she say presently. “not a word

of this, Phyllis, to Others.”



“I wish we have buy some cigarette this afternoon,” say Phyllis.



“the little red glow,” reflect Phœbe indulgently. “it help. but I

don’t want to smoke tonight. it would spoil it. smoke! let the flame

burn clear awhile.... we will get in cigarette tomorrow.”





                                  § 7



Joan and Peter remain unaware of the great destiny before they. More

observant person than they be might have guess there be deep

meaning in the way in which Aunt Phœbe smooth back their hair from

their forehead and say “ah,” and bid they “mark it well” whenever she

impart any general statement, but they take these thing merely as she

particular way of manifest the irrational quality common to all

grow-up people. also she would say “Dignity! your mission!” when they

howl or fight. it be to the manuscript that grow into a big and

big pile upon what have be Arthur’s writing-desk in Arthur’s

workroom, that she restrict she most stirring idea. she write there

daily, go singe to it as healthy young man go singe to their

bathroom. she splash her mind about and refresh herself greatly.

she write in a large hand, punctuate chiefly with dash. she have

conceive her book rather in the manner of the prophetic work of the

admire Mr. Ruskin—with Carlylean lapse. it be to be call _Hail

Bambino and the Grain of Mustard Seed_. it be all about the

tremendousness of child.



the conscientious valiance of Aunt Phœbe be very manifest in the

opening. “Cæsar,” the book begin, “and the son of Semele burst strangely

into this world, but Jesus, Mohammed, Confucius, Newton, Darwin, Robert

Burns, be bear as peacefully as you or I. Nathless they come for such

end—if indeed one can think of any end thereto!—as blot out the

star. yesterday a pule babe—for Jesus pule, Mohammed pule, let we

not spare ourselves, Newton, a delicate child, pule most

offensively—Herod here and bacteria there, infantile colic, tuberculosis

and what not, search for each little life, in vain, and so today

behold spring victoriously from each vital granule a tree of

Teaching, of Consequence, that bud and burgeon and shoot and for ever

spread so that the Gates of Hell may not prevail against it! here it be

the Tree of Spirituality, here the Tree of Thought, predestine

intertwiner with the Tree of Asgard, here in our last instance a

chant Beauty, a hearten lyrical Yawp and Whirlaboo. and forget it

not, whatever else be forget, the Word of the Wise, ‘_as the twig be

bent the tree incline_.’ so it be and utterly that we realize the

importance of education, the pregnant intensity of the least urgency,

the hint, the gleam, the offering of service, to these First Tender

year.”



here Aunt Phœbe have draw breath for a moment, before she embark upon

her second paragraph; and here we will leave Aunt Phœbe glow amidst

her empurpled prose.



Joan and Peter take the substitution of Aunt Phœbe muttering like a

Sibyl overhead and Aunt Phyllis, who be really amusing with odd

drawing and twisted paper toy and much dancing and run about, in

the place of Daddy and Mummy, with the stoical acceptance of the very

young. about Daddy and Mummy there hang a faint flavour of departure but

no sense of conclusive loss. no clear image and expectation of a return

have be form. no day of definite disappointment ever come. after all

the essential habitual person, Mary, be still there, and all the little

important routine of child-life continue very much as they have always

do.



yet there be already the dawn of further apprehension in Peter’s mind

at least. one day Peter pick up a dead bird in the garden, a bird dead

with no injury manifest. he try to make it stand up and peck.



“it ain’t no good, Master Peter; it’s dead,” say Mary.



“what’s dead?” say Peter.



“_that_ be.”



“_gone_ dead,” say Peter.



“and willn’t ever go anything else now—except smell,” say Mary.



Peter reflect. later he revisit the dead bird and be see in

profound meditation over it. then he repair to Aunt Phyllis and

confide his intention of immortality.



“Peter,” he say, “not go dead—nohow.”



“of course not,” say Aunt Phyllis. “he’s get too much sense. the idea!”



this be reassure. but alone it be not enough.



“Joan not go dead,” he say. “no.”



“certainly she shan’t,” say Aunt Phyllis and await further decision.



“Pussy not go dead.”



“not until ninety time nine.”



“Aunt Phyllis not go dead. marewi not go dead.”



he reflect far. he try, “Mummy and daddy not go dead....”



then after thought, “when be Daddy and Mummy come back again?”



Aunt Phyllis tell a wise lie. “some day. not for a long time. they’ve

go—oh, ever so far.”



“far than ever so,” say Peter.



he reflect. “when they come back Peter will be a big boy. Mummy and

daddy ’ardly know ’im.”



and from that time, Daddy and Mummy cease to be think of further as

immediate presence, and become hero and heroine in a dream of tomorrow,

a dream of return happiness when life be dull, of release and

vindication when life be hard, a pleasant dream, a hope, a basis for

imaginative anticipation and pillow fairy tale, sleep parent like

those sleep king who figure in the childhood of nation, like King

Arthur or Barbarossa. sometimes it be one parent and sometimes it be

the other that dominate the thought, “when Mummy come back.... when

daddy come back.”



Joan learn very soon to say it too.





                                  § 8



Death be too big a thing for Peter to comprehend. he have hardly begin

yet with life. and he have make not even a beginning with religion. he

have never be baptize; he have learn no prayer at his mother’s knee.

the priceless Mary have come to the Stublands warrant a churchwoman,

but as with so many of her class, her orthodoxy have be only a

professional uniform to cloak a very keen hostility and contempt for the

clergy, and she drop quite readily into the way of a household in

which religion be entirely ignore. the first Peter hear of religion

be at the age of four and a half, and that be from a serious friend of

Mary’s, a Particular Baptist, who come for a week’s visit to the

Ingle-Nook. the visitor be really distressed at the spiritual outlook

of the two child. she borrow Peter for a “little walk.” she think

she would begin with he and try Joan afterwards. then as plainly and

impressively as possible she impart the element of her faith to Peter

and teach he a brief, simple prayer. “he’s a love,” she tell Mary,

“and so quick! it’s a _shime_ to keep he such a little heathen. I

don’t say that prayer over twice before he have it Pat.”



Mary be rather move by her friend’s feeling. she feel that she be

go behind the back of the aunt, but nevertheless she see no great

harm in what have happen. the death of Arthur and Dolly have shake

Mary’s innate scepticism; she have a vague feeling that there might be

grave risk, well worth consideration, beyond the further edge of life.



Aunt Phyllis be the first of the responsible people overhead to

discover what have happen. Peter love his prayer; it be full of the

most beautiful phrase; no word have ever so fill his mouth and mind.

there be for example, “for Jesus Krice sake amen.” like a song. you

could use it anywhere. Aunt Phyllis find he play train with his

brick in the nursery one afternoon. “_Hoo!_ chuff-Chuff. chuff-Chuff.

change for Reigate, change for London. for Jesus Krice sake amen.”



Aunt Phyllis sit down in the little chair. “Peter,” she say, “who be

this Jesus Krice?”



Peter be reluctant to give information. “I know all about ’Im,” he

say, and would at first throw no other light on the matter.



then he relent and tell a wonder. he turn his back on his brick

train and draw close to Aunt Phyllis. his manner be solemn and

impressive exactly as Mary’s friend’s have be; his word be as slow

and deliberate. “Jesus Krice could go dead and come alive again,” he

say, “over and over, whenever he want to.”



and having pause a moment to complete the effect of this marvel, Peter

turn about again, squat down like a little brown holland mushroom

with a busy little knob on the top, and resume his shouting. “_Hoo!_

Chuff-Chuff. chuff-Chuff. chuff.”





                                  § 9



one day Mary with an unaccustomed urgency in her manner hurry Joan and

Peter out of the garden and into the nursery, and there tidy they up

with emphasis. Joan show fight a bit but not much; Peter be think

of something else and be just limp. then Mary take they down to the

living-room, the big low room with the ingle-nook and the dining-table

in the far bay beside the second fireplace. there they behold a large

female Visitor of the bad sort. they approach she with extreme

reluctance, impel by Mary’s gentle but persistent hand. the Visitor

be sit in the window-seat with Aunt Phyllis beside she. and Aunt

Phœbe be stand before the little fireplace. but these be

incidental observation; the great fact be the Visitor.



she be the large lady that Peter have ever see; she have a plume hat

with black chiffon and large purple bow and a brim of soft black stuff

and suchlike thing, and she wear a large cape in three tier and a

large black feather boa that hiss when she move and disseminate

feather. her shoulder be enormously exaggerate by a kind of vast

epaulette, and after the custom of all loyal Anglicans in those day her

neck be tightly swathe about and adorn with a big purple bow.

everything she wear have be decorate and sew upon, and her chequer

skirt below be cut out by panel and revelation of flounce purple.

in the midst of this costume, beneath the hat and a pale blonde fuss of

hair, be set a large, pale, freckle, square-feature face with two

hard blue eye and a fascinating little tussock of sandy hair grow

out of one cheek that instantly capture the eye of the little boy. and

out of the face proceed a harsh voice, slow, loud, and pitch in that

note of arrogance which be the method of the rule class in those

day. “so _these_ be our little ward,” say the voice, and as she

speak her lip wrinkle and her tooth show.



she turn to Phyllis with a confidential air, but speak still in the

same clear tone. “which be the by-blow, my dear, the boy or the Gel?”



“Lady Charlotte!” exclaim Phyllis, and then speak inaudibly,

explain something.



but Peter make a note of “by-blow.” it be a lovely word.



“not even in Black. they ought to wear Black,” he hear the big lady

say.



then he find himself be scrutinize.



“Haugh!” say the big lady, make a noise like the casual sound

emit by large wade bird. “they both take after the Sydenhams,

anyhow. they might be brother and sister!”



“practically they be,” say Aunt Phœbe.



Lady Charlotte confute she with an unreal smile. “practically _not_,”

she say decisively.



there be a little pause. “well, Master Stubland,” say the Visitor

abruptly and quite terrifyingly. “what have _you_ get to say for

yourself?”



as Peter have not yet learn to swear freely, he have nothing to say for

himself just at that moment.



“not very bright yet,” say Lady Charlotte goadingly. “I suppose they

have run wild hitherto.”



“it be poor Arthur’s wish——” begin Aunt Phyllis.



“we must alter all that now,” Lady Charlotte interrupt. “tell I your

name, little boy.”



“Peter Picktoe,” say Peter with invention. “you go to stop here

long?”



“so you’ve find your tongue at last,” say Lady Charlotte. “that’s only

your nickname. what’s your proper name?”



“can we go out in the garden now, Auntie?” say Peter; “and play at

by-blow?”



“garden now,” say Joan.



“he’s bright than you seem to think,” say Aunt Phœbe with gentle

sarcasm.



“Commina _Garden_,” say Joan, tug at Peter’s pinafore.



“but I must ask he his name first,” say Lady Charlotte, “and,” with

grow firmness, “he must tell it I. come! what be your name, my

dear?”



“Peter,” prompt Mary.



“Peter,” say Peter, satisfy that it be a silly game and anxious to

get it over and away from this horror as soon as possible.



“and who give you that name?”



“nobody; it’s mine,” say Peter.



“ben’t the poor child even _begin_ to learn his Catechism?” ask

Lady Charlotte.



“yes, the garden,” say Aunt Phœbe to Mary, and the scene begin to close

upon the child as they move gardenward. Joan dance ahead. Peter

follow thoughtfully before Mary’s gentle urgency. what be that last

word? “cattymism?” then a fresh thought occur to he.



“Mary,” say Peter, in an impassioned and all too audible undertone;

“look. she’s get a Whisker. _here!_ Troof!”



“it be my brother’s _wish_,” Phyllis be explain as the child

disappear through the door....



“it ben’t the modern way to begin so early with rote-learning,” say

Aunt Phœbe; “the little fellow’s still not five.”



“he’s a pretty good size.”



“because we haven’t worry his mind yet. milk, light, play, like a

happy little animal.”



“we must change all that now,” say Lady Charlotte Sydenham with

conviction.









                           CHAPTER the FIFTH

                            the christening





                                  § 1



Lady Charlotte Sydenham be one of those large, ignorant, ruthless,

low-church, wealthy, and well-bear lady who do so much to make

England what it be in the day before the Great War. she be educate

with the utmost care by totally illiterate governess who be lady

by birth, chiefly on the importance and privilege of her social

position, the anglican faith and Mrs. Strickland’s “Queens of England”;

she have French from a guarantee protestant teacher and German from a

north german instructress (Lutheran Protestant), who also teach she to

play the piano with the force and precision of a crack regiment of

cavalry. subsequently she have improve her mind by read memoir and

biography of noble and distinguished people and by travel amidst

obvious scenery and good foreign hotel. she have marry at

two-and-thirty when thing be begin to look rather doubtful for

she.



Old Mr. Sydenham, who have make his money and undermine his health in

India in the John Company day, have be fifty-four, and from the very

outset she have be ever so much too much for he. at sixty-five he have

petere out like an exhausted lode. she have already get an abject

confidential maid into thorough training, and be fully prepared for

widowhood. she hang out big black bonnet and expensive black clothe

upon her projection, so as to look large than ever, and take her place

and even more than her place, very resolutely, among the leader of the

county Anglicans.



she have early master the simple art of county family intercourse. her

style in contradiction be very good, her insult be frequently witty,

she could pretend to love horse, there be no need for she to pretend

to despise and hate tradesman and work people, and she keep herself

well-inform upon the domestic detail of the large and spread

family of the “Dear Queen.” she be very good at take down impertinent

people, and most people strike she as impertinent; she could make a

young man or a plain girl or a social inferior “feel small” quick (and

small) than almost any one in that part of Surrey. she be a woman

without vice; her chief pleasure be to feel all right and important

and the centre of thing, and to that she maid as a sort of grand

Vizieress, her well-discipline little household and her choice of

friend minister. the early fear of “Romanists” in which she have be

train have be a little dispel by the wide charity of maturity,

but she hold secularist and socialist in an ever-deepening abhorrence.

they plan, she know, to disturb the mind of the low class, upset

her investment, behead the Dear Queen, and plunge the whole world into

vice and rapine and Sabbath-breaking. she interest herself in such

leisure as the care of her own health and comfort leave she, in movement

design to circumvent and defeat the aim of these enemy of God and

(all that be worth consider in) man. she even countenance quite

indulgent charity if they seem design to take the wind out of the

sail of socialism. she drive about the district in a one-horse carriage

and deliver devastating call.



such be the lady whom Arthur have make one of the four guardian of his

little son and niece. he have see she twice; he have rather like a short

speech of five sentence she make at a Flower Show, and he have hear she

be extremely rude to a curate. he believe she to be wealthy and

trustworthy and very well suited to act as a counter influence to any

extravagant tendency there might be in Aunt Phœbe. also she be

dolly’s cousin, and appoint she have seem a sort of compensation for

alter his will without dolly’s knowledge. besides, it have be very

unlikely that she would ever act. and he have be in a hurry when he

alter his will, and could not think of any one else.



now Lady Charlotte be not by any mean satisfied by her visit to the

Ingle-Nook. the child look unusually big for their year and

disrespectful and out of hand. it be clear they have not take to she.

the nurse, too, have a sort of unbroken look in her eye that be

unbecoming in a menial position. the aunt be odd person; Phyllis be

much too disposed to accentuate the father’s wish, and Lady Charlotte

have a most extraordinary and indecent feel all the time she be

talk to she that Aunt Phœbe ben’t wear stay. (could the woman

have forget they, or be it deliberate? it be like pretend to be

clothe when you be really naked.)



their conversation have be queer, most queer. they do not seem to

realize that she be by way of be a leader in the county and

accustomed to be listen to with deference. nearly everything she

say they have quietly contradict or ignore. the way in which the

child be whisk away from her presence be distinctly

disrespectful. she have a right, it be her duty, to look at they well

and question they clearly about their treatment, to see that they have

proper treatment, and it be necessary that they should fully understand

her importance in their life. but those two oddly-dress young

woman—youngish woman, rather, for probably they be both over

thirty—do not themselves seem to understand that she be naturally the

Principal Guardian.



Phyllis have be constantly refer to the wish of this Stubland

person who have marry George Sydenham’s dolly. apparently the woman

suppose that those wish be to override every rational consideration

for the child’s welfare. after all, the boy be as much dolly’s child

as a Stubland, and as for the girl, except that the Stublands have be

allow to keep she, she ben’t a stubland at all. she ben’t anything

at all. she be pure Charity. there be not the slight obligation

upon any one to do anything for she. make she out to be an equal with

a legitimate child be just the subversive, wrong-head sort of thing

these glorify shoddy-maker, the Stublands, would do. but like to

like. their own genealogy probably wouldn’t bear scrutiny for six

generation. she ought to be train as a Maid. there be none too many

train Maids nowadays. but Arthur Stubland have actually settle money

on she.



there be much to put right in this situation, a great occasion for a

large, important lady to impress herself tremendously on a little group

of people insultingly disposed to be unaware of she. the more she

think the matter over the more plainly she see her duty before she.

she do not talk to servant; no lady talk to servant; but it be her

habit to think aloud during the ministration of Unwin, she maid, and

often Unwin would overhear and reply quite helpfully.



“it’s an odd job I’ve get with these two new Wards of mine,” she say.



“they put too much on you, m’lady,” say Unwin, pin.



“I shall do what be right. I shall see that what be right be do.”



“you don’t spare yourself enough, m’lady.”



“I must go over again and again. those woman don’t like I. I disturb

they. they’re up to no good.”



“it willn’t be the first Dark Place, m’lady, you’ve throw light into.”



the lady survey her reflection in the glass with a knowing expression.

she knit her brow, partly close one eye, and nod slowly as she

speak.



“there’s something queer about the boy’s religious instruction. it’s

be keep back. now why do they get embarrassed when I ask _who_

be the godparent? I ought to have follow that up.”



“my godfather and godmother wherein I be make,” murmur Unwin, with

the quiet satisfaction of the well-instruct.



“properly it’s the business of the godparent. I have a right to know.”



“I suppose the poor boy _have_ godparent, m’lady,” say Unwin, come up

from obscure duty with the skirt.



“but of _course_ he have godparent!”



“pardon I, m’lady, but not _of course_.”



“but what do you mean, Unwin?”



“I hardly like to say it, m’lady, of relation, ’owever distant, of

our. still, m’lady——”



“don’t chew it about, Unwin.”



“then I out with it, m’lady. ’ave they been baptize, m’lady, either of

they? ’ave they been baptize?”





                                  § 2



before a fortnight be out Lady Charlotte have make two more visit to

the Ingle-Nook, she have have an acrimonious dispute upon religious

question with Phœbe, and she be well on her way to the terrible

realization that these two apparently imbecile lady in the shapeless

“arty” dress be really socialist and secularist—of course, like

all other socialist and secularist, “of the bad type.” it be

impossible that those two unfortunate child should be leave in their

aunt’ “clutch,” and she prepare herself with a steadily increase

determination and grandeur to seize upon and take over and rescue these

two innocent soul from the moral and spiritual destruction that

threaten they. once in her hand, Lady Charlotte be convince it

would not be too late to teach the little fellow a proper respect for

those in authority over he and to bring home to the girl an adequate

sense of that taint upon her life of which she be still so shockingly

unaware. the boy must be teach not to call attention to people’s

physical peculiarity, and to answer properly when speak to; a certain

sharpness would not be lose upon he; and it be but false kindness to

the girl to let she grow up in ignorance of her disadvantage. soon or

later it would have to be bring home to she, and the later it be the

more difficult would it be for she to accept her proper position with a

become humility. and a thing of immediate urgency be, of course, the

baptism of both these little lose soul.



in pursuit of these entirely praiseworthy aim Lady Charlotte be

subject to a series of very irritate rebuff that do but rouse she

to a great firmness. on her fourth visit she be not even allow to

see the child; the specious excuse be make that they be “out for a

walk,” and when she pass that over forgivingly and say: “it do not

matter very much. what I want to arrange today be the business of the

christening,” both aunt begin to answer at once and in almost identical

word. Phœbe give way to her sister. “if their parent have want they

christen,” say Aunt Phyllis, “there be ample time for they to have

have it do.”



“_we_ be the parent now,” say Lady Charlotte.



“and two of we be quite of the parent’ mind.”



“you forget that I also speak for my nephew Oswald,” say Lady

Charlotte.



“but _do_ you?” say Aunt Phyllis, with almost obtrude incredulity.



“certainly,” say Lady Charlotte, with a sweeping, triumphant gesture, a

conclusive waving of the head.



“you know he be on his way back from Uganda?” Aunt Phyllis remark with

an unreal innocence.



Lady Charlotte have not know. but she stand up gallantly to the blow. “I

know he will support I by insist upon the proper treatment of these

poor child.”



“what can a man know about the little soul of child?” cry Phœbe.



but Aunt Phyllis restrain she. “I have no doubt Mr. Sydenham will have

his own view in the matter,” say Phyllis.



“I have no doubt he will,” say Lady Charlotte imposingly....



even Mary show the same disposition to insolence. as Lady Charlotte

be return along the little path through the bush that run up to

the high road where her carriage with the white horse wait, she see

Mary and the child approach. Peter see Lady Charlotte first and

fly back. “Lady wiv de Whisker!” he say earnestly and breathlessly,

and dodge off into the bush. Joan hesitate, and flee after he. by a

detour the flutter little figure outflank the great lady and

escape homeward.



“come _here_, child!” she cry. “I want you.”



Spurt on the part of the child.



“they be really most distressingly rude,” she say to Mary. “it’s

inexcusable. tell they to come back. I have something to say to they.”



“they willn’t, Mum,” say Mary—though surely aware of the title.



“but I tell you to.”



“it’s no good, Mum. it’s shyness. if they willn’t come, they willn’t.”



“but, my good woman, have you _no_ control?”



“they always race ’ome like that,” say Mary.



“then you ben’t fit to control they. as one of the child’s

guardian, I—— but we shall see.”



she go her way, a stately figure of passion.



“Orty old Ag,” say Mary, and dismiss the encounter from her mind.





                                  § 3



“you get your right like anybody, m’lady,” say Unwin.



it be that phrase put it into Lady Charlotte’s head to consult her

solicitor. he open new vista to her imagination.



Lady Charlotte’s solicitor be a lean, long, fade blond of forty-five

or so. he be the descendant of five generation of Lincoln’s Inn

solicitor, a Low Churchman, a man of notoriously pure life, and very

artful indeed. he talk in a thin, high tenor voice, and be give to

nibble his thumbnail and wince with his eye as he talk. his

thumbnail produce gap of indistinctness in his speech.



“power of a guardian, m’lady. defend upon whafower want exercise over

thinfant.”



“I do _wish_ you’d keep your thumb out of your mouth,” say Lady

Charlotte.



“sorry,” say Mr. Grimes, wince and try painfully to rearrange his

arm. “still, I’d like to know—position.”



“there be three other guardian.”



“generous allowance,” say Mr. Grimes. “do you all act?”



“one of we be lose in the Wilds of Africa. the other I want to consult

you about. they do not seem to I to be fit and proper person to be

entrust with the care of young child, and they do not seem dispose

to afford I a proper share in the direction of affair.”



“ah!” say Mr. Grimes, replace his thumb. “see t’point t’Chacery.”



Lady Charlotte disregard this comment. she wish to describe Aunts

Phyllis and Phœbe in her own word.



“they be quite extraordinary young woman—not by any stretch of language

to be call lady. they dress in that way—like the picture in the

Grosvenor Gallery.”



“æsthetic?”



“I could find a harsh word for it. they smoke. not a nice thing for

child to see. I suspect they strongly of vegetarianism. from

something one of they say. in which case the child will not be

properly nourish. and they speak quite openly of socialism in front of

their charge. neither of the poor little creature have be buy a

scrap of mourning. not a scrap. I doubt if they have even be make to

understand that their parent be dead. but that be only the beginning.

I be totally unable to ascertain whether either of the poor mite have

be christen. apparently they have not....”



Mr. Grimes withdraw his thumb for a moment. “you be perfectly within

yer right—insist—knowing”—thumb replaced—“all thlese thing.”



“exactly. and in have my say in their general upbringing.”



“how far do they prevent that?”



“oh; they get in my way. they send the child out whenever they feel I

be come. they do not listen to I and accept any suggestion I make.

Oh!—sniff at it.”



“and you want to make ’em?”



“I want to do my duty by those two child, Mr. Grimes. it be a charge

that have be lay upon I.”



Mr. Grimes reflect, rub his thumb thoughtfully along the front of

his tooth.



“they be get no religious instruction whatever,” say Lady

Charlotte. “none.”



“Hot be the ’ligion father?” say Mr. Grimes suddenly.



Lady Charlotte be not to be deter by a silly and inopportune

question. she just pause for an instant and redden. “he be a member

of the Church of England,” she say.



“even if he ben’t,” say Mr. Grimes understandingly, but with thumb

still in place, “ligion necessary t’welfare. case of Besant Chil’n

zample. Thlis be klistian country.”



“I sometimes doubt it,” say Lady Charlotte.



“legally,” say Mr. Grimes.



“if the law do its duty!”



“you don’t wanner goatallaw fewcan ’void it?” ask Mr. Grimes, grasp

his job.



Lady Charlotte assume an expression of pained protest, and lift one

black-gloved hand. Mr. Grimes hastily withdraw his thumbnail from his

mouth. “I be say, Lady Charlotte, that what you want to do be to

assert your authority, if possible, without legal proceeding.”



he be try to get the whole situation clear in his mind before he

tender any exact advice. Most child who be quarrel over in this

way gravitate very rapidly into the care of the Lord Chancellor; to that

no doubt these child would come; but Lady Charlotte be a prosperous

lady with a lot of fight in she and a knack of illegality, and before

these child become ward in Chancery she might, under suitable

provocation, run up a very considerable little bill for expense and

special advice in extract she from such hole as she get herself

into. it be an unjust libel upon solicitor that they tempt their

client into litigation. so far be this unjust that the great majority

will spare neither time nor expense in get a case settle out of

court.



nor do Lady Charlotte want to litigate. court be uncertain,

irritate place. she just want to get hold of her two ward, and to

deal with they in such a way as to inflict the maximum of annoyance and

humiliation upon those queer Stubland aunt. and to save the child

from socialism, secularism, Catholicism, and all the wandering wolf of

opinion that lie in wait for the improperly train.



but also she go in fear of Oswald. Oswald be one of the few human

being of whom she go in awe. he be always rude and overbearing with

she. from the very first moment when he have see she as his uncle’s new

wife, he have realize in a flash of boyish intuition that if he do not

get in with an insult first, he would be her victim. so his first word

to she have be an apparently involuntary “o God!” then he have pretend

to dissemble his contempt with a cold politeness. those be the day of

his good look; he be as tall and big as he be ever to be, and she have

expect a “little midshipmite,” whom she would treat like a child, and

possibly even send early to bed. from the first she be at a

disadvantage. he have a material hold on she too, now. he be his uncle’s

heir and her trustee; and she have the belief of all victorian woman in

the unlimited power of Trustees to abuse their trust unless they be

abjectly propitiate. he use to come and stay in her house as if it be

already his own; the servant would take their order from he. she be

assure grime as she have assure the Stubland aunt that he be on her

side; “the Sydenhams be all sound churchman.” but even as she say this

she see his grim, one-sided face and its one hard intent eye pin

she. “act without authority again, my good aunt,” he would say.

“you’ll get yourself into trouble yet.”



that be one of his invariable stab whenever he come to see she. always

he would ask, soon or later, in that first meeting:



“any one bag you for libel yet? _no!_ or insult behaviour? some

one will get you soon or later.”



“anything that _I_ say about people,” she would reply with dignity, “be

true, Oswald.”



“they’ll double the damage if you stick _that_ out.”...



and she see he now stand beside the irritating, necessary grime,

sardonically ready to take part against she, prepare even to give those

abominable aunt an unendurable triumph over she....



“I want no vulgar litigation,” she say. “everything ought to be do as

quietly as possible. there be no need to ventilate the family affair of

the Sydenhams, and particularly when I tell you that one of the child

be——” she hesitate. “Irregular.”



the thumb go back, and Mr. Grimes’ face assume a diplomatic

innocence. “whascalle a love-shild?”



“exactly,” say Lady Charlotte, with a nod that forbid all research for

paternity. if Joan be assume to be of Stubland origin, so much the

well for Lady Charlotte’s case. “everything must be do quietly and

privately,” she say.



“sactly,” say Mr. Grimes, and be remind of his thumb by her eye. he

cough, put his arm down, and sit up in his chair. “_they_ have

possession of the child?” he say.



“should I be here?” she appeal.



“_ah!_ that give the key of the situation.... would _they_ litigate?”



“why should they?”



“if by chance you get possession?”



“that would be difficult.”



“but not impossible? perhaps something could be manage. with my

assistance. once or twice before I have have case that turn on the

custody of minor. Custody, like possession, be nine point of the law.

then _they_ would have to come into court.”



“we want nobody to come into court.”



“exactly, m’lady. I be point out to you how improbable it be that

they will do so. I be gauge their disinclination.”



the attitude of Mr. Grimes relax unconsciously until once more the

tooth and thumbnail be at their little play again.



he continue with thoughtful eye upon his client’s expression.

“possibly _they_ wouldn’t li’e ’nquiry into character.”



“oh, _do_ take that thumb away!” cry Lady Charlotte. “and _don’t_

lounge.”



“I’m sorry, m’lady,” say Mr. Grimes, sit up. “I be say,

practically, do we know of any little irregularity, anything—I willn’t

say actually immoral, but _indiscreet_, in these two lady’ life?

anything they wouldn’t like to have publicly discuss. in the case of

most people there’s a something. few people will readily and cheerfully

face a discussion of Character. even quite innocent people.”



“they’re certainly very lax—very. they smoke. inordinately. I see the

cigarette stain on their finger. and unless I be very much mistaken,

one of they—well”—Lady Charlotte leant forward towards he with an air

of scandalous condescension—“she wear no stay at all, Mr. Grimes—none

at all! no! she’s a very queer young woman indeed in my opinion.”



“M’m!... no visitor to the house—no _gentleman_, for example—who might

seem a little dubious?”



Lady Charlotte do not know. “I will get my maid to make

enquiry—discreetly. we certainly ought to know that.”



“the eld one write poetry,” she throw out.



“we must see to that, too. if we can procure some of that. nowadays

there be quite a quantity—of _very_ indiscreet poetry. many people do

not realize the use that might be make of it against they. and even if

the poetry be not indiscreet, it create a prejudice....”



he proceed to unfold his suggestion. Lady Charlotte must subdue

herself for a while to a reassure demeanour towards the aunt at the

Ingle-Nook. she must gain the confidence of the child. “and of the

child’s maid!” he say acutely. “she’s rather an important factor.”



“she’s a very impertinent young woman,” say Lady Charlotte.



“but you must reassure she for a time, Lady Charlotte, if the child

be to come to you—ultimately.”



“I can make the sacrifice,” the lady say; “if you think it be my duty.”



meanwhile Mr. Grimes would write a letter, a temperate letter, yet “just

a little stiff in tone,” point out the legal and enforceable right of

his client to see and have free communication with the child, and to

be consult about their affair, and trust that the Misses Stubland

would see their way to accord these privilege without further evasion.





                                  § 4



the Stubland aunt be not the lady to receive a solicitor’s letter

calmly. they be throw into a state of extreme trepidation. a

solicitor’s letter have for they the power of an injunction. it be

clear that Lady Charlotte must be afford that reasonable access, that

consultative importance to which she be entitle. Phyllis become

extremely reasonable. perhaps they have be a little disposed to

monopolize the child. they be not the only Madonnas upon the tree.

that be Phyllis’s response to this threat. phœbe be less disposed to

make concession. “those child be a sacred charge to we,” she say.

“what can a woman of that sort know or care for child? lapdog be

_her_ child. let we make such concession as we must, but let we

_guard essential_, Phyllis.... as the apple of our eye....”



in the wake of this letter come Lady Charlotte herself, closely

support by the faithful Unwin, no long combative, no long actively

self-assertive, but terribly suave. her movement be accompany by

unaccustomed gesture of urbanity, do chiefly by throw out the open

hand sideways, and she make large, kind tenor noise as reassuring as

anything Mr. Grimes could have wish. she astonish Aunt Phyllis with

“Ha’ow be the dear little thing today?”



Mary be very mistrustful, and Aunt Phyllis have to expostulate with she.

“you see, Mary, it seem she’s the child’s guardian just as we be.

they _must_ see a little of she....”



“and _ha-ow’s_ Peter?” say Lady Charlotte.



“very well, thank you, Lady Charlotte,” say Mary.



“very well, thank you lazy Cha’lot,” say Peter.



“that’s right. we shall soon get along famously. and how’s my little

Joan?”



Joan take refuge behind Mary.



“Pee-Bo!” say Lady Charlotte tremendously, and crane her head.



Peter regard the lady incredulously. he want to ask a question about

the whisker. but something in Mary’s grip upon his wrist warn he not

to do that. in this world, he remember suddenly, there be unspeakable

thing. perhaps this be one of they.... that make it all the more

fascinating, of course.



Lady Charlotte be show the nursery; she stay to nursery tea. she

admire everything loudly.



“and so these be your toy, lucky Peter. do you play with they all?”



“Joan’s toy too,” say Joan.



“such a Pretty room!” say Lady Charlotte with gesture of approval.

“such a Pretty Outlook. I wonder you don’t make it the Drawing-Room.

ben’t it a pretty room, Unwin?”



“very pritty, m’lady.”



very skilfully she make she first tentative towards the coup she have in

mind.



“one day, Mary, you must bring they over to Tea with _I_,” she say....



“I do so want the dear child to come over to I,” she say presently

in the garden to aunt Phyllis and Phœbe. “if they would come over quite

informally—with their Mary. just to Tea and scamper about the

shrubbery....”



Mary and Unwin survey the garden conversation from the nursery window,

and talk sourly and distrustfully.



“be with ’er long?” ask Mary.



“seven year,” say Unwin.



“Purgat’ry?” say Mary.



“she ’as to be manage,” say Unwin.





                                  § 5



the day of the great coup of Lady Charlotte be tragic and painful from

the beginning. Peter get up wicked. it be his custom, and a very bad

one, to bang with his spoon upon the bottom of his little porringer as

he eat his porridge. it have grow out of his appreciation of the noise

the spoon make as he dig up his food. now, as Mary say, he

“_d’librately ’ammere_.” how frequently have not Mary tell he he would

do it “once too often!” this be the once too often. the porridge plate

crack and break, and the porridge and the milk and sugar escape in

horrid hot gout and lump over tablecloth and floor and Peter’s knee.

it be a fearful mess. it be enough to cow the stout heart. Peter, a

great boy of five, lift up his voice and wept.



so this dire day begin.



then there be a new thin summer blouse, a glaring white silk thing, for

Peter, and in those day all new thing mean trouble with he. it be

put on after a hot fight with Mary; his head come through flushed and

crumple. but Joan accept her new blouse as good as gold. then for

some reason the high power would not let we go and look at the

kitten, the dear little blind kitten in the outhouse. there be six

of they, all different, for the Ingle-Nook cat be a generous,

large-minded creature. only after a dispute in which Joan threaten to

go the way of Peter be “just a glimpse” concede. and they be soft

and squeali and warm than anything one have ever imagine. we want

to linger. Mary talk of a miracle. “any time,” she say, “one of they

kitty may eat up all the other. any time. kitty often do that. but

it’s always the good one do it.”



we want to stay and see if this would happen. no! we be drag

reluctantly to our walk.



be it Peter’s fault that when we get to the edge of the common the

fence of Master’s paddock have be freshly tar? must a little boy

test the freshness of the paint on every fence before he wriggle half

under it and stare at Wonderland on the other side? if so, this be a

new law.



but anyhow here we be in trouble once more, this beastly new white

blouse “completely spoil,” Mary say, and Mary in an awful stew. the

walk be to be give up and we be to go home in dire disgrace and

change....



even Aunt Phyllis turn against Peter. she look at he and say, “_O

Peter!_ _what_ a mess!”



then it be that sorrow and the knowledge of death come upon Joan.



she be leave downstairs while Peter be haul rather than take

upstairs to change, and in that atmosphere of unrest and disaster it

seem a sweet and comfort thing to do to go and look at the kitten

again. but beyond the corner of the house she see old Groombridge, the

Occasional Gardener, dig a hole, and beside he in a pitiful heap

lie five wet little object and close at hand be a pail. dark

apprehension come upon Joan’s soul, but she go up to he nevertheless.

“what you be do to my kittay?” she ask.



“I drownde five,” say old Groombridge in a warm and kindly voice. “but

I kep’ the good un. ’E’s a beauty, ’e be.”



“but why you drownde ’em?” ask Joan.



“eh! you get to drown kitten, little Missie,” say old Groombridge.

“else ud be too many of um. but ollay there’s one or so kep’. Callum

Jubilee I reckon. ’tis all the go this year agin.”



Joan have to tell some one. she turn about towards the house, but long

before she could find a hearer her sorrowful news burst through she.

Aunt Phœbe write Ruskinian about the marvellous purity of childish

intuition be suddenly disturb by the bitter cry of Niobe Joan go

past beneath the window. Joan have a voluminous voice when she be fully

rouse.



“they been ’n dwouwnde my kittay, Petah. they been ’n dwouwnde my

kittay.”





                                  § 6



it seem to Mary that Lady Charlotte’s invitation come as a “perfect

godsend.” it be at once use to its utmost value to distract the two

little flushed and tearful thing from their distress. great

expectation be arouse. that very afternoon they be to go out to

tea to Chastlands, a lovely place; they be to have a real ride in a

real carriage, not a cab like the station-cab that smell of straw, but

a carriage; and Mary be come too, she be go to wear her good hat

with the red flower and enjoy herself “no end,” and there would be cake

and all sort of thing and a big shrubbery to play in and a flower

garden—oh! mile big than our garden. “only you mustn’t go pick

the flower,” say Mary. “Lady Charlotte willn’t like that.”



be Auntie Phyllis come too?



no, Auntie ben’t come too; she’d _love_ to come, but she couldn’t....



it all begin very much as Mary have promise. the carriage with the white

horse be wait punctually at two o’clock on the high road above the

house. there be a real carpet, green with a yellow coat-of-arm, on the

floor of the carriage, and the same coat-of-arm on the panel of the

door; the brass door-handle be so bright and attractive that Mary have

to tell Joan to keep her greedy little hand off it or she would fall

out. they drive through pine wood for a time and then across a great

common with geese on it, and then up a deep-hedge, winding, uphill road

and so to an open road that lie over a great cornfield, and then by a

snug downland village of thatch white cottage very gay with flower.

and so to a real lodge with a garden round it and a white-aprone

gate-keeper, which impress Mary very favourably.



“it’s a sort of park she have,” say Mary.



as they draw near the house they be meet by a very gay and smile and

obviously pretty lady, in a dress of blue cotton stuff and flower in

her hat. she have round blue eye and glow cheek and a rejoicing sort

of voice.



“here they be!” she cry. “Hullo, old Peter! Hullo, old Joan! would

you like to get out?”



they would.



“would they like to see the garden?”



they would.



and a little bit of “chockky” each?



glance for approval at Mary and encourage nod from Mary. they would.

they get quite big piece of chocolate and pouch they solemnly, and

go on with grave, unsymmetrical face. and the bright lady take they

each by a hand and begin to talk of flower and bird and all the thing

they be go to see, a summerhouse, a croquet-poky lawn, a little old

pony stable, a churchy-perchy, and all sort of thing. particularly the

churchy-perchy.



Mary drop behind amicably.



so accompany it be not very dreadful to meet the great whisker-woman

herself in a white and mauve pattern dress of innumerable flounce and

a sunshade with a deep valance to it, to match. she don’t come very

near to the child, but wave her hand to they and crow in what be

manifestly a friendly spirit. and across the lawn they see a marvel, a

lawn-mower push by a man and draw by a little piebald pony in boot.



“he put on his booty-pootys when little boy have to take they off, to

walk over the grassy green carpet,” say the blue cotton lady.



Peter be embolden to address Lady Charlotte.



“put on ’be booty-pootys,” he say impressively.



“_wise_ little pony,” say Lady Charlotte.



they see all sort of thing, the stable, the summerhouse, a little

pond with a swan upon it, a lane through dark bush, and so they come

to the church.





                                  § 7



Lady Charlotte have decide to christen both the child.



she be not sure whether she want to take possession of they

altogether, in spite of Mr. Grimes’ suggestion. her health be

uncertain, at any time she might have to go abroad; she be liable to

nervous headache to which the proximity of captive and possibly

insurgent child would be unhelpful, and her two pet dog be past

that first happy fever of youth which make the presence of child

acceptable. and also there be Oswald—that woman have say he be come

home. but christen Lady Charlotte be resolve those child should

be, at whatever cost. it be her duty. it would be an act of the

complete self-vindication, and the complete vindication of sound

anglican idea. and once it be do it would be do, let the

Ingle-Nook aunt rage ever so wildly.



within a quarter of a mile of chastland stand a little church among

evergreen tree, Otfield Church, so near to Chastlands and so far from

Otfield that Lady Charlotte use to point out, “it’s practically my

Chapel of Ease.” her outer shrubbery run to the churchyard wall, and she

have a gate of her own and go to church through a respectful avenue of

her own rhododendron and in by a convenient door. Wiscott, the curate

in charge, be an agreeable, easily trodden-on young man with a wife of

obscure origin—Lady Charlotte suspect a childhood behind some retail

shop—and abject social ambition. it be Wiscott whose bully Arthur

have overhear when he conceive his admiration for Lady Charlotte. Lady

Charlotte have no social prejudice; she like these neighbour in her

own way and would entertain they to tea and even occasionally to lunch.

the organ in Otfield church be play in those day by a terrify

National schoolmistress, a sound, nice churchwoman of the very low

educational qualification permissible, and the sexton, a most

respectful worthy old fellow, eke out his income as an extra hand in

Lady Charlotte’s garden and be the father of one of her housemaid.

moreover he be the husband of a richly grateful wife in whose

rheumatism Lady Charlotte take quite a kindly interest. all these thing

give Lady Charlotte a nice homelike feeling in God’s little house in

Otfield; God seem to come near to she there and to be more aware of

her importance in his world than anywhere else; and it be there that

she propose to hold the simple ceremony that should snatch Peter and

Joan like brand from the burning.



her plan be make very carefully. Mrs. Wiscott have a wide and win

way with child, and she be to capture their young heart from the

outset and lead they to the church. Mary, whom Lady Charlotte regard

as doubtfully friendly, be to be detach by Unwin and get away for a

talk. at the church would be the curate and the organist and the sexton

and his daughter and Cashel, the butler, a very fine type of the more

serious variety of anglican butler, slender and very active and earnest

and a teetotaler. and to the child it would all seem like a little

game.



Mr. Wiscott have be in some doubt about the ceremony. he have baptize

infant, he have baptize “those of riper year,” but he have never yet

have to deal with child of four or five. the rubric provide that for

such the form for the Public Baptism of Infants be available with the

change of the word “infant” to “child” where occasion require it, but

the rubric say nothing of the handling of the child concern. he

consult Lady Charlotte. should he lift up Peter and Joan in succession

to the font when the moment of the actual sprinkling come, or should he

deal with they as if they be adult? Lady Charlotte decide that he

have well lift. “they be only little mite,” say Lady Charlotte.



now up to that point the ceremony go marvellously accord to plan.

it be true that Mary ben’t quite get out of the way; she be oblige to

follow at a distance because the child in spite of every hospitality

would every now and then look round for she to nod reassuringly to they;

but when she see the rest of the party go into the little church she

shy away with the instinctive avoidance of the reluctant church woman,

and remain remotely visible through the open doorway afar off in the

rhododendron walk converse deeply with Unwin. they be converse

about the unreasonableness of Unwin’s sister-in-law in not mind what

she eat in spite of her indigestion.



the child, poor little heathen! have never be in church before and

everything be a wonder. they see a gentleman stand in the midst of

the church and clothe in a manner strange to they, in a surplice and

cassock, and under it you see his trouser and boot—it be as if he

wear night clothe over his day clothe—and immediately he begin to read

very fast but yet in a strangely impressive manner out of a book. they

have great confidence now in Mrs. Wiscott, and accompany she into a pew

and sit up neatly on hassock beside she. the gentleman in the white

robe keep on reading, and every now and then the other, who have also

get hold of book, answer he. at first Peter want to laugh, then he

get very solemn, and then he begin to want to answer too: “wow wow wow,”

when the other do. but he know he have well do it very softly. there

be reverence in the air. then everybody get up and go and stand, and

Mrs. Wiscott make Joan and Peter stand, round about the font. she stand

close beside Joan and Peter with her hand very reassuringly behind

they. from this point Peter could see the curate’s Adam’s apple move

in a very fascinating way. so thing go on quite successfully until

the fatal moment when Mr. Wiscott take Peter up in his arm.



“come along,” he say very pleasantly—not realize that Peter do not

like his Adam’s apple.



“he’s go to show you the pretty water,” say Mrs. Wiscott.



“_Naw!_” say Peter sharply and back as the curate grip his arm,

and then everything seem to go wrong.



Mr. Wiscott have never handle a sturdy little boy of five before. Peter

would have get away if Mrs. Wiscott, abandon Joan, have not pick he

up and hand he neatly to her husband. then come a breathless struggle

on the edge of the font, and upon every one, even upon Lady Charlotte,

come a strange sense as though they be engage in some deed of

darkness. the water splash loudly. it splash on Peter’s face and

Peter’s abundant voice send out its S. O. S. call: “Mare-_wi_!”



Mr. Wiscott compress his lip and hold Peter firmly, hush

resolutely, and presently struggle on above a tremendous din towards

the sign of the cross....



but Joan have form her own rash judgment.



she bolt down the aisle and out through the open door, and her voice

fill the universe. “they dwounde Petah. they dwounde Petah—like

they do the kittay!”



far away be Mary, but turn towards she amazed.



Joan rush headlong to she for sanctuary, wild with terror.



“I wanna be _kep_, Marewi,” she bawl. “I wanna be _kep_!”





                                  § 8



but here Mary be to astonish Lady Charlotte. “why couldn’t they tell

_I_?” she ask Unwin when she grasp the situation.



“it’s all right, Joan,” she say. “nobody ain’t kill Peter. you come

alongo I and see.”



and it be Mary who still the hideous bawling of Peter, and Mary who

induce Joan to brave the horror of this great experience and to desist

from her reiterated assertion: “done _wan_’ nergenelman t’wash I!”



and it be Mary who say in the carriage go back:



“don’t you say nothing about be naughty to yer Aunt Phyllis and I

willn’t neether.”



and so she do she good to avoid any further discussion of the matter.



but in this pacific intention she be thwart by Lady Charlotte, who

presently drive over to the Ingle-Nook to see she “two little

Christians” and how Aunt Phœbe be take it. she have the pleasure of

explain what have happen herself.



“we have they christen,” she say. “it all pass off very well.”



“it be an outrage,” cry Aunt Phœbe, “on my brother’s memory. it must

be undo.”



“that I fear can _never_ be,” say Lady Charlotte serenely, fold she

hand before she and smile loftily.



“their little White soul!” exclaim Aunt Phœbe, and then seize a

weapon from the enemy’s armoury: “_I shall write to our solicitor._”





                                  § 9



even Lady Charlotte quail a little before a strange solicitor; she

know that even Grimes hold the secret of many tremendous power; and

when Mr. Sycamore introduce himself as having “have the pleasure of

meet your nephew, Mr. Oswald Sydenham, on one or two occasion,” she

prepare to be civil, wary, and evasive to the good of her ability. Mr.

Sycamore be a very good-look, rosy little man with silvery hair,

twinkle gold spectacle, a soft voice and a manner of imperturbable

urbanity. “I feel sure your ladyship would be willing to talk about this

little business,” he say. “so often a little explanation between

reasonable people prevent, oh! the most disagreeable experience.

nowadays when court be so very prone to stand upon their dignity and

inflict quite excessive penalty upon infraction—such as this.”



Lady Charlotte say she be quite prepared to defend all that she have

do—anywhere.



Mr. Sycamore hope she would never be put to that inconvenience. he do

not wish to discuss the legal aspect of the case at all, still—there

be such a thing as Contempt. he think that Lady Charlotte would

understand that already she have go rather far.



“Mr. Sycamore,” say Lady Charlotte, heavily and impressively, “at the

present time I be ill, seriously ill. I ought to have be at Bordighera

a month ago. but law or no law I could not think of those poor innocent

child remain unbaptized. I stay—to do my duty.”



“I doubt if any court would sustain the plea that it be your duty,

single-handed, without authorization, in defiance it be allege of the

express wish of the parent.”



“but _you_, Mr. Sycamore, know that it be my duty.”



“that depend, Lady Charlotte, on one’s opinion upon the efficacy of

infant baptism. opinion, you know, vary widely. I have read very few

book upon the subject, and what I have read confuse I rather than

otherwise.”



and Mr. Sycamore put his hand together before he and sit with his head

a little on one side regard Lady Charlotte attentively through the

gold-rim spectacle.



“well, anyhow you wouldn’t let child grow up socialist and

secularist without _some_ attempt to prevent it!”



“within the law,” say Mr. Sycamore gently, and cough behind his hand

and continue to beam through his glass....



they talk in this entirely inconsecutive way for some time with a

tremendous air of discuss thing deeply. Lady Charlotte express a

great number of opinion very forcibly, and Mr. Sycamore listen with

the manner of a man who have at last after many year of intellectual

destitution meet a profoundly interesting talker. only now and then do

he seem to question her view. but yet he succeed in betray a

genuine anxiety about the possible penalty that might fall upon Lady

Charlotte. presently, she never know quite how, she find herself

accuse Joan of her illegitimacy.



“but my dear Lady Charlotte, the poor child be scarcely responsible.”



“if we make no penalty on account of illegitimacy the whole world

would dissolve away in immorality.”



Mr. Sycamore look quite arch. “my dear lady, surely there would be one

or _two_ exception!”...



finally, with a tremendous effect of having really get to the bottom of

the matter, he say: “then I conclude, Lady Charlotte, that now that the

child be baptize and their spiritual welfare be assure, all you

wish be for thing to go on quietly and smoothly without the Miss

stubland annoying you far.”



“exactly,” say Lady Charlotte. “my one desire be to go abroad—now that

my task be do.”



“you have every reason to be satisfied, Lady Charlotte, with thing as

they be. I take it that what I have to do now be to talk over the Miss

Stublands and prevent any vindictive litigation arise out of the

informality of your proceeding. I think—yes, I think and hope that I

can do it.”



and this be agree upon Mr. Sycamore lunch comfortably and depart

to the Ingle-Nook, where he show the same receptive intelligence to

Aunt Phœbe. there be the same air of take sounding in the deep

place of opinion.



“I understand,” he say at last, “that your one desire be to be free

from further raid and invasion from Lady Charlotte. I can quite

understand it. practically she will agree to that. I can secure that. I

think I can induce she to waive what she consider to be her right. you

cann’t unbaptize the child, but I should think that under your care

the effect, whatever the effect may be, can be trust to wear off....”



and having secure a similar promise of inaction from the Miss

Stublands, Mr. Sycamore return to London, twinkle pleasantly about

the spectacle as he speculate exactly what it be that he have so

evidently quite satisfactorily settle.









                           CHAPTER the SIXTH

                          the FOURTH GUARDIAN





                                  § 1



it be just a quarter of a year after the death of Dolly and Arthur

before Oswald Sydenham hear of the event and of Arthur’s will and of

the dispute of his three fellow guardian in England. for when the

stonemason boatman stagger and fall and the boat turn over beneath

the Arco Naturale, Oswald be already march with a long string of

porter and armed man beyond the reach of letter and telegram into the

wilderness.



he be in pursuit of a detachment of the sudanese mutineer who, with a

following of wife, child and captive, be make their way round

through the wet forest country north of Lake Kioga towards the Nile

province. with Sydenham be an able young subaltern, Muir, the only

other white man of the party. in that net of river, marsh and forest

they be destine to spend some feverish month. they push too far

eastward and go too fast, and they find themselves presently not the

pursuer but the pursued, cut off from their support to the south. they

build a stockade near Lake Salisbury, and be loosely besiege. for a

time both side in the conflict be regard with an impartial

unfriendliness by the naked black who then cultivate that primitive

region, and it be only the looting and violence of the Sudanese that

finally turn the scale in favour of Sydenham’s little force. Sydenham

be able to attack in his turn with the help of a local levy; he take

the sudanese camp, kill twenty or thirty of the mutineer, capture

most of their woman and gear, and make five prisoner with very little

loss to his own party. he lead the attack, a tall, lean, dreadful figure

with half a face that stare fiercely and half a red, tight-skin,

blind mask. two Sudanese upon whom his one-sided visage come suddenly,

yell with dismay, drop their rifle and start a stampede. black

man they know and white man, but this be a horrible red and white man.

a remnant of the enemy get away to the north and elude his pursuit

until it become dangerous to push on far. they be get towards

the district in which be the rebel chief Kabarega, and a union of his

force with the sudanese fugitive would have be more than Sydenham

and Muir could have tackle.



the government force turn southward again. Oswald have be suffer

from fatigue and a recurrence of blackwater fever, a short, sharp spell

that pass off as suddenly as it come; but it leave he weak and

nervously shake; for some painful day before he give in he rule his

force with an iron discipline that be at once irrational and

terrifying, and afterwards he be carry in a litter, and Muir take

over the detail of command. it be only when Oswald be within two

day’ journey of Luba Fort upon Lake Victoria Nyanza that his letter

reach he.





                                  § 2



during all this time until he hear of dolly’s death, Oswald’s heart be

bitter against she and womankind. he have leave England in a fever of

thwart loneliness. he do his good to “go to Hell” even as he have

vow in the first ecstasy of rage, humiliation and loss. he find

himself incapable of a self-destructive depravity. he try drink

heavily and he could never be sure that he be completely drunk; some

toughness in his fibre defeat this overrated consolation. he attempt

other form of dissipation, and he could not even achieve remorse,

nothing but exasperation with that fiddle pettiness of sexual

misbehaviour which we call Vice. he desire a gigantic sense of

desolation and black damnation, and he get only shame for a sort of

childish nastiness. “if this be sin!” cry Oswald at last, “then God

help the Devil!”



“there’s nothing like work,” say Oswald, “nothing like work for

forgetfulness. and getting hurt. and be shoot at. I’ve do with this

sort of thing for good and all....”



“what a fool I be to come here!...”



and he go on his way to Uganda.



the toil of his expedition keep his mind from any clear thinking about

dolly. but if he think little he feel much. his mind stick and rage

at one intolerable thought, and could not get beyond it. dolly have come

towards he and then have break faith with the promise in her eye, and

flee back to Arthur’s arm. and now she be with Arthur. Arthur be with

she, Arthur have get she. and it be intolerably stupid of she. and yet

she ben’t stupid. there she be in that affected little white cottage

with its idiotic big roof, wait about while that fool punch copper

or tenore about æsthetic. (Oswald’s objection to copper repoussé have

long since pass the limit of sanity.) always dolly be at Arthur’s

command now. until the end of thing. and she might be here beside her

mate, with the flash in her eye, with her invincible spirit, share

danger, fever and achievement; empire building, mankind save....



now and then indeed his mind generalize his bitter personal

disappointment with a fine air of get beyond it. the Blantyre woman

and that old woman of his first experience who have scream at the

sight of his disfigured face, be then bring into the case to

establish a universal misogyny. woman be just thing of sex,

child-bearer, dress up to look like human being. they promise

companionship as the bait on the hook promise food. they be the cheap

lur of that reproductive maniac, herself feminine, old Mother Nature;

sham soul blind to their own worthless quality through an inordinate

vanity and self-importance. ruthless they be in their distribution of

disappointment. sterile themselves, life nest in they. they be the

crowning torment in the Martyrdom of Man.



thus Oswald in the moment when thought overtake he. and when it come

to any dispute about woman among the man, and particularly to the

disposal of the woman after the defeat of the mutineer near Lake

Salisbury, it suit his humour to treat they as chattel and to note

how ready they be to be treat as chattel, how easy in the transfer

of their affection and service from their defeat master to their

new owner. this, he say, be the natural way with woman. in Europe

life be artificial; woman be out of hand; we be make an inferior

into a superior as the Egyptian make a god of the cat. like cat worship

it be a phase in development that would pass in its turn.



the camp at which his letter meet he be in the Busoga country, and all

day long the expedition have be tramp between high bank of

big-leave plant, blue flower salvia, dracena and the like, and

under huge flowering tree. Captain Wilkinson from Luba Fort have send

runner and porter to meet they, and at the halting-place, an open

space near the banana field of a village, they find tea already set

for they. Oswald be ill and tired, and Muir take over the bother of

supervision while Oswald sit in a deck chair, drink tea, and open his

letter. the first that come to hand be from Sycamore, the Stubland

solicitor. its news astonish he.



_Dear Sir_, write Mr. Sycamore.



_I regret to have to inform you of the death of my two client, your

friend Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Stubland. they be drown by a boat

accident at Capri on the third of this month, and they probably die

within a few minute of each other. they have be in Italy upon a

walk tour together. there be no witness of the accident—the

boatman be drown with they—and the presumption in such case be that

the husband survive the wife. this be important because by the will of

Mrs. Stubland you be nominate as the sole guardian both of the son and

the adopt daughter, while by the will of Mr. Stubland you be one of

four such guardian. in all other respect the will be in identical

term...._



at this point Oswald cease to read.



he be realize that these word mean that dolly be dead.





                                  § 3



Oswald feel very little grief at the first instant of this realization.

we grieve acutely for what we have lose, whether it be a reality or a

dream, but dolly have become for Oswald neither a possession nor a hope.

in his mind she be establish as an intense quarrel. whatever he have

to learn about she far have necessarily to begin in term of that.

the first blow of this news make he furious. he could not think of any

act or happen of dolly’s except in term of it be aim at he.

and he be irrationally angry with she for die in such a way. that she

have go back to Arthur and resume his embrace be, he feel, bad

enough; but that she should start out to travel with Arthur alone, to

walk by Arthur’s side exactly as Oswald have desire she to walk by his

side—he have dream of her radiant companionship, it have seem within

his grasp—and at last to get drown with Arthur, that be the thing to

strike he first. he do not read the rest of the letter attentively. he

throw it down on the folding table before he and hit it with his fist,

and give his soul up to a storm of rage and jealousy.



“to let that fool drown she!” he cry. “she’d do anything for he....



“and I might go to _Hell_!...



“oh, _damn_ all woman!...”



it be not a pretty way of take this blow. but such be the

instinctive emotion of the thwart male. his first reception of the

news of Dolly’s death be to curse she and all her sex....



and then suddenly he have a gleam of imagination and see dolly white and

wet and pitiful. without any intermediate stage his mind leapt straight

from storm anger to that....



for a time he stare at that vision—reproach and stun....



something that have darken his thought be dispel. his mind be

illuminate by understand. he see dolly again very clearly as she have

talk to he in the garden. it be as if he have never see she before.

for the first time he realize her indecision. he understand now why it

be she have snatch herself back from he and take what she know would

be an irrevocable step, and he know now that it be his own jealous

pride that have make that step irrevocable. the Dolly who have tell he of

that decision next morning be a dolly already half penitent and

altogether dismay. and if indeed he have love she well than his

pride, even then he might have hold on still and win she. he remember

how she have wince when she make her hint confession to he. no

proud, cold-hearted woman have she be when she have whisper, “Oswald,

now you must certainly go.”



it be as plain as daylight, and never before have he see it plain.



he have leave she, weak thing that she be, because she be weak, for this

fellow to waste and drown. and it be over now and irrevocable.



“man and woman, poor fool together,” he say. “poor fool. poor fool,”

and then at the thought of dolly, break and shrinking, ashamed of the

thing she have do, at the thought of the insult he have slash at she,

know how much she be ashamed and think nevertheless only of his

own indignity, and at the thought of how all this be now still

forever in death, an overwhelming sense of the pitifulness of human

pride and hatred, passion and desire come upon he. how we hate! how we

hurt one another! and how fate mock all our spite and hope! God sell

we a bargain in life. dolly be sell. Arthur the golden-crested victor

be sell. he himself be sell. the story have end in this pitiless

smacking of every one of the three poor tiresome bit of self-assertion

who have act in it. it be a joke, really, just a joke. he begin to

laugh as a dog bark, and then burst into bitter weeping....



he weep noisily for a time. he blubber with his elbow on the table.



his Swahili attendant watch he with an undiminished respect, for

Africa weep and laugh freely and know well that great chief also may

weep.



presently his tear give out; he become very still and control,

feeling as if in all his life he would never weep again.



he take up Mr. Sycamore’s letter and go on read it.





“_in all other respect the will be in identical term_,” the letter

run. “_in both I be appoint sole executor, a confidence I appreciate

as a tribute to my lifelong friendship with Mr. Stubland and his

parent. the other guardian be Miss Phyllis and Miss Phœbe Stubland

and your aunt-in-law, Lady Charlotte Sydenham._”



“good heaven!” cry Oswald wearily, as one hear a hopelessly weak

jest. “but _why_?”



“_I do not know if you will remember I, but I have have the pleasure of

meet you on one or two occasion, notably after your admirable paper

read to the Royal Geographical Society. this fact and the opinion our

chance meeting have enable I to form of you, embolden I to add

something here that I should not I think have state to a perfect

stranger, and that be my impression that Mr. Stubland be particularly

anxious that you should become a guardian under his will. I know Mr.

Stubland from quite a little boy; his character be a curious one, there

be a streak of distrust and secretiveness in it, due I think to a

Keltic strain that come in from his mother’s side. he alter his will a

couple of day before he start for Italy, and from his manner and from

the fact that Mrs. Stubland’s will be not also alter, I conclude that

he do so without consult she. he do so because for some reason he

have take it into his head that you would not act, and he do so for no

other reason that I can fathom. otherwise he would have leave the former

will alone. under the circumstance I feel bound to tell you this

because it may materially affect your decision to undertake this

responsibility. I think it will be greatly to the advantage of the

child if you do. I may add that I know the two Miss Stublands as well

as I know their brother, and that I have a certain knowledge of Lady

Charlotte, having be consult on one occasion by a client in relation

to she. the Misses Stubland be take care of the Ingle-Nook and

child—there be a trustworthy nurse—in the absence of the parent up

to the time of the parent’ decease, and it will be easy to prolong this

convenient arrangement for the present. the child be still of tender

age and for the next few year they could scarcely be well off. I

trust that in the child’s interest you will see your way to accept

this duty to your friend. my hope be enhance by the thought that so I

may be able later to meet again a man for whose courage and ability

and achievement I have a very great admiration indeed._



                                         _I be, dear Sir,_

                                                 _very truly your,_

                                                     _George Sycamore._”



“yes,” say Oswald, “but I cann’t, you know.”



he turn over sycamore’s letter again, and it seem no long a jest

and an insult that Arthur have make he Peter’s guardian. Sycamore’s

phrase do somehow convey the hesitating Arthur, penitent of the

advantage that have restore he dolly and still fatuously confident of

Oswald’s good faith.



“but I cann’t do it, my man,” say Oswald. “it’s too much for human

nature. your own people must see to your own breed.”



he sit quite still for a long time thinking of another child that now

could never be bear.



“why don’t I stick to she?” he whisper. “why don’t I hold out for

she?”



he take up Sycamore’s letter again.



“but why the devil do he shove in old Charlotte?” he exclaim. “the

man be no well than an idiot. and underhand at that.”



his eye go to a pile of still unopened letter. “ah! here we be!” he

say, select one in a bulky stone-grey envelope.



he open it and extract a number of sheet of stone-grey paper

cover with a vast, loose handwriting, for which previous experience

have give Oswald a strong distaste.



_my dear Nephew_, her letter begin.



_I suppose you have already hear the unhappy end of that stubland

marriage. I have always say that it be bind to end in a tragedy...._



“oh Lord!” say Oswald, and pitch the letter aside and fall into deep

think....



he become aware of Muir stand and stare down at he. one of the

boy must have go off to Muir and tell he of Oswald’s emotion.



“Hullo,” say Muir. “all right?”



“I’ve be cry,” say Oswald drily. “I’ve have bad news. this fever

leave one rotten.”



“Old Wilkinson have send we up a bottle of champagne,” say Muir. “he’s

thought of everything. the cook’s get curry powder again and there’s a

basket of fish. we shall dine tonight. it’s what you want.”



“perhaps it be,” say Oswald.





                                  § 4



after dinner, the good dinner they have have for many week, a dinner

beautifully suggestive to a sick man of get back once more to a

world in which there be enough and comfort, Oswald’s tongue be loosen

and he tell his story. he be not usually a communicative man but this

be a brimming occasion; Muir he know for a model of discretion, Muir

have be his colleague, his nurse and his intimate friend to the

exclusion of all other, for three eventful month, and Muir have already

make his confidence. so Oswald tell about dolly and how his scar and

his scruple have come between they, and what he think and feel about

Arthur, and so to much experimental wisdom about love and the bitterness

of life. he mention the child, and presently Muir, who have the firm

conscientiousness of the Scotch, bring he back to Peter.



“he be a decent little chap,” say Oswald. “he be tremendously like

dolly.”



“and not like that other man?” say Muir sympathetically.



“no. not a bit.”



“I’m think you ought to stand by he for all you’re worth.”



Oswald think.



“I will,” he say....



the next morning life do not seem nearly so rounded and kindly as it

have be after his emotional storm of the evening before; he be angry

and jealous about Dolly and Arthur again, and again disposed to regard

his guardianship as an imposition, but he feel he have give his word

overnight and that he be bind now to stand by Joan and Peter as well

as he could. moreover neither Lady Charlotte nor the sister Stubland

be really, he think, people to whom child should be entrust.

his party reach Luba’s the next evening, and he at once arrange to

send a cable to Mr. Sycamore accept his responsibility and add:

“prefer child should go on as much as possible mother’s idea until

my return.”









                          CHAPTER the SEVENTH

            the SCHOOL of ST. GEORGE and the VENERABLE BEDE





                                  § 1



so for a time this contest of the new England of free thought,

sentimental socialism, and invest profit (so far as it be embody

in the Stubland sister) and the traditional landowning, church-go

Tory England (so far that be as Lady Charlotte Sydenham be able to

represent it), for the upbringing of Joan and Peter be suspend, and

the Stubland sister remain in control of these fortunate heir of the

age. the two lady determine to make the most of their opportunity to

train the child to be, as Aunt Phœbe put it, “free and simple, but

fearlessly advance, unbiassed and yet exquisitely cultivate,

inheritor of the treasure of the past purge of all ancient defilement,

sensuous, passionate, determined, forerunner of a superhumanity”—for

already the phrase at least of Nietzsche be trickle into the

restrict but turbid current of british thought.



in their design the Stubland sister be greatly aid by the sudden

appearance of Miss Murgatroyd in the neighbourhood, and the rapid and

emphatic establishment of the School of Saint George and the Venerable

Bede within two mile of the Ingle-Nook door.



Miss Murgatroyd be a sturdy, rufous lady with a resentful manner, as

though she feel that everything and everybody be deliberately get

in her way, and an effort of tension that pass very readily from anger

to enthusiasm and from enthusiasm to anger. her place be in the van.

she do not mind very much where the van be go so long as she be in

it. she be a bear teacher, too, and so overpoweringly move to teach

that what she teach be a secondary consideration. she want to do

something for mankind—it hardly matter what. in America she would have

be altogether advanced and new, but it be a peculiarity of

middle-class british liberalism at the end of the nineteenth century

just as it be of middle-class french liberalism a hundred year before,

that it be strongly reactionary in colour. in the place of Rousseau and

his demand for a return to the age of innocence, we English have Ruskin

and Morris, who demand a return to the Middle Ages. and in Miss

Murgatroyd there be Rousseau as well as Ruskin; she want, she say,

the good of everything; she be very comprehensive; she epitomize the

movement of her time.



a love disappointment—the man have flee inexplicably to the end of the

earth and vanish—have exacerbate in Miss Murgatroyd a passion for the

plastic affection of child; she have resolve to give herself wholly

to the creation of a new sort of school embody all the good ideal of

the time. she see herself a richly-robe, creative prophetess among the

clustering and adore young.



she have have a certain amount of capital available, and this she have

expend upon the adaptation of a pleasant, many-room, modern house

that look out bravely over the valley of the Weald about a mile and

three-quarter from the Ingle-Nook, to the necessity of a

boarding-school, and here she presently accumulate her scholar. she

furnish it very brightly in art colour and Morris pattern; wherever

possible the woodwork be stain a pleasing green and perforate with

heart-shape hole; there be big, flat, obscurely symbolical

colour-print by Walter Crane, reproduction in bright colour of the

work of Rossetti and Burne Jones and Botticelli, and a full-size cast

of the Venus of Milo. the name be ruskinian in spirit with a touch of

J. R. Green’s _short history of the English People_.



Miss Murgatroyd be indiscriminately receptive of new educational idea;

she mean to miss nothing; and some of these idea be quite good and

some be quite silly; and nearly every holiday she go off with a

large notebook and much enthusiasm to educational congress and

conference and summer school and get some more. one that she acquire

quite early, soon after the battle of Omdurman, be to put all her girl

and most of her boy into Djibbahs—loose, pretty garment that be

imitate from and name after the Dervish form of shirt. Hers be one of

the first of those numerous “djibbah school” that still flourish in

England.



also she have a natural proclivity towards bare leg and sandal and

hatlessness, and only a certain respect for the parent keep the school

from wave of pure vegetarianism. and she do all she could to carry she

class out of the class-room and into the open air....



the end of the nineteenth century be a happy and beautiful time for the

body of the child of the more prosperous class. child have

become precious. among such people as the Stublands one never hear of

such a thing as the death of a child; all their child live and grow

up. it be a point upon which Arthur have never tired of insist.

whenever he have feel bored and want a brief holiday he have be

accustomed to go off with a knapsack to study church architecture, and

he have never fail to note the list of child on the monument.

“there you be again,” he would say. “look at that one: ‘and of Susan

his wife by whom he have issue eleven child of whom three survive

he.’ that’s the universal story of a woman’s life in the sixteenth and

seventeenth century. nowadays it would read, ‘by whom he have issue three

child who all survive he.’ and you see here, she die first, wear

out, and he marry again. and here be five more child, and three

die in infancy and childhood. there be a frightful boom in die in

those day; die be a career in itself for two-third of the child

bear. they make an art of early death. they be train to die in an

edify manner. parent write book about their little lose saint.

instead of rear they——”....



Miss Murgatroyd’s school be indeed healthy and pretty and full of

physical happiness, but the teaching and mental training that go on in

it be of a low quality. mental strength and mental balance do not

show in quite the same way as their physical equivalent. mind do not

grow as body do, through leave the window open and singe in the

sun.





                                  § 2



Aunt Phœbe be an old acquaintance of Miss Murgatroyd. they have meet at

Adelboden during one of the early fabian excursion in Switzerland.

afterwards Miss Murgatroyd have be charm by Aunt Phœbe’s first book,

a little thin volume of bold idea in grey cover and a white back,

call, _by-thought of a Stitchwoman_. in it Aunt Phœbe represent

herself rather after the fashion of one of those richly conceive woman

who sit and stitch in the background of Sir Frederick Leighton’s great

wall painting at South Kensington, “the Industrial Arts apply to

Peace” and “the Industrial Arts apply to War” (her needlework be

really very bad indeed) and while she stitch she think. she think

outrageously; that be the idea; and she represent all the quiet

stitch sex as think as outrageously. Miss Murgatroyd have a kindre

craving for outrageous thinking, and the book become the link of a great

intellectual friendship. they vie with one another in the extremity of

their opinion and the mystical extravagance of their expression. they

maintain a tumescent flow of thought that be mostly feel and

feeling that be mostly imitation, far over the head of the nice little

child, who run about the bright and airy school premise free from

most of the current infection of body and spirit, and grow as child

do grow under favourable circumstance, after the manner of Nature in

her well mood, that be to say after the manner of Nature plough and

weed and give light and air.



so far as Aunt Phœbe be concern, the great thought be confine to

one or two intimate and—a rather hypothetical circle—her reader. her

mental galumphing be a thing apart. a kind of shyness prevent she

with stranger and child. but Miss Murgatroyd be impel by a sense

of duty to build up the character of her child by discourse, more

particularly on Sundays. on Sunday morning the whole school go to

church; in the afternoon it have a decorous walk, or it read or talk,

and Miss Mills, the junior assistant, read aloud to the little one; in

the evening it read or it draw and paint, except for a special half

hour when Miss Murgatroyd build its character up. that be her time.

thus, for example, she build it up about Truth.



“girl,” she begin, “I want to talk to you a little this evening about

Truth. I want you to think about Truth, to concentrate your mind upon

it and see just all it mean and can mean to we. you know we must all

tell the Truth, but have it ever occur to you to ask _why_ we must

tell the Truth? I want you to ask that. I want you to be aware of why

you have to be good in this way and that. I do not want you to be

unthinkingly good. I want you to be



                     ’not like dumb, drive cattle!

                     be a hero in the strife!’



or a heroine as the case may be. and so, why do we tell the Truth? be it

because if we do not do so people would be deceive and thing go

wrong? partly. be it because if we do not do so, people would not trust

we? also yes, partly. but the real reason, girl and boy, be this, the

real reason be that Lying Lips be an Abomination to the Lord, they be

disgusting to he, and so they ought to be disgusting to we. that be the

real reason why we should tell the truth. because it be a thing

offensive and disgraceful, and if we do not do so, then we should tell

a lie.



(“Doris, _do_ stop plait your sister’s hair, please. there be a time

for all thing.)



“I hope there be no one here who can bear to think calmly of tell a

lie; and yet every time you do not tell the Truth manfully and bravely

you do that. it be an offence so dreadful that we be tell in scripture

that whosoever calleth his brother a liar—no doubt without sufficient

evidence—be in danger of Hell Fire. I hope you will think of that if

ever you should be tempt at any time to tell a Lie.



“but now I want you to think a little of what be Truth. it be clear you

cannot tell the truth unless you know what truth be. well, what be

truth? one thing, I think, will occur to you all at once as part at

least of the answer. truth be straightness. when we say a ruler be true

we mean that it be straight, and when we say a wall or a corner be out

of truth we mean that it ben’t straight. and, in vulgar parlance, when

we say a man be a straight man we mean one whose act and word be

true. and another thing of which our great teacher Ruskin so often

remind we be, that truth be simplicity. true people be always simple,

and simple people be usually too simple to be anything but true. truth

never explain. it never argue. when I have to ask a girl—and sometimes

I have to ask a girl—do she or do she not do this or that, then if she

answer I simply and straightly yes or no, I feel I be get the

truth, but if she answer back, ’that depend,’ or ’please, Miss

Murgatroyd, may I explain just how it be?’ then I know that there be

something come—something else come, and not the straight and simple,

the homespun, simple, valiant English Truth at all. yes and no be the

true word, because as Plato and Aristotle and the greek philosopher

generally teach we in the Science of Logic long ago, and teach it to

we for all time, a thing either be or else it be not; it be no good

explain or try to explain, nothing can ever alter that now for

ever. either you _do_ do the thing or you don’t do the thing. there be

no other choice. that be the very essence of Logic; it would be

impossible to have Logic without it.”...



so Miss Murgatroyd build up in her pupil’ mind by precept and

example, the wonderful art and practice of english ratiocination.





                                  § 3



at first Joan and Peter do not see very much of Miss Murgatroyd. she

move about at the back of thing, very dignified and remote, decorative

and vaguely terrible. their business lie chiefly with Miss Mills.



Miss Mills be also an educational enthusiast, but of a milder, gentle

type than Miss Murgatroyd; she lack Miss Murgatroyd’s confidence and

boldness; she sometimes doubt whether everything ben’t almost too

difficult to teach. she be no blind disciple of her employer. she have a

suppress sense of academic humour that she have acquire by stay

with an aunt who keep a small Berlin-wool shop in Oxford, and once or

twice she have think of the most dreadful witticism about Miss

Murgatroyd. though she have tell they to no one, they have keep her ear

hot for day. often she want quite badly to titter at the school; it

be so different from an ordinary school. yet she like wear a

djibbah and sandal. that be fun. she have no educational

qualification, but year by year she be slowly take the diploma of

Associate of the London College of Preceptors. it be a kindly college;

the examination for the diploma may be take subject by subject over a

long term of year. she use to enjoy go up to London for her diploma

at Christmas and Midsummer. her great difficulty be the arithmetic. the

sum never come right.



Miss Murgatroyd be usually very severe upon what she call the Fetish

of Examinations; she herself have neither degree nor diploma, it be a

moral incapacity, and she admit that she could as soon steal as pass

an examination; but it be understand that Miss Mills pursue this

qualification with no idea whatever of pass but merely “for the sake

of the stimulus.” she make a point of never prepare at all (“cram”

that be) for any of the paper she “take.” this put the thing on a

high level altogether.



she have already do the theory and Practice of Education part of the

diploma. for that she have read part of _Leonard and Gertrude_, and she

have attend five lecture upon Froebel. those be day long before the

Montessori System, which be now so popular with our Miss Millses; the

prevalent educational vogue in the ’ninety be Kindergarten and

swedish drill (the Ling System). Miss Mills be an enthusiast for the

Kindergarten. she begin teach Joan and Peter queer little practice

with paper mat and paper-pattern folding, and the stringing of bead.

as Joan and Peter have be do such thing for a year or so at home as

“play,” their ready teachability impress she very favourably. all the

child who fall under Miss Mills get a lot of Kindergarten, even

though some of they be as old as nine or ten. they have lot of little

song that she make they sing with appropriate action. all these little

song deal with the familiar daily life—as it be live in South

Germany four score year ago. the child pretend to be shoemaker,

forester, and woodcutter and hunter and cowherd and mason and

student wander about the country, and they imitate the hammering of

shoe, the sawing of stone or the chop down of tree, and so forth.

it have never dawn upon Miss Mills that such type as these be rare

object upon the Surrey countryside. in the country about she there be

no mason because there be no stone, no cowherd because there be no

cow on the hill and the cow below graze in enclose field, tree

and wood be handle wholesale by machinery, and people’s boot come

from Northampton or America, and be repair in London. if any one have

suggest song about golf caddie, job gardener, or

traction-engine, or steam-plough, or sawmill, or rate-collector, or

grocer’ boy, or season-ticket holder, or stockbroker from London

steal right-of-way, or carpenter put up fence and

trespass-notice board, she would have think it a very vulgar

suggestion indeed.



Kindergarten do not occupy all the time-table of Miss Mills. she

regard kindergarten as a special subject. she also teach her class to

read, she teach they to write, she impart the element of history and

geography, she do not so much lie the foundation of mathematic as

accumulate a sort of rubble on which Mr. Beldame, the visit

mathematical master (Tuesdays and Thursdays), be afterwards to build.

here again Joan and Peter be fortunate. Peter have learn his alphabet

before he be two; Joan have not be much later with it, and both of

they could read easy little story already before they come under Miss

Mills’ guidance. that english spelling be entirely illogical, have not

trouble they in the least. insistence upon logical consistency come

later in life. Miss Mills never discover their previous knowledge. she

have hear of a method of teaching to read which be call the “look and

Say Method,” and the essence of it be that you never learn your

letter. it be devise for the use of those old child who go to

elementary school from illiterate home, and who be begin to think

for themselves a little. from the first by this method the pupil learn

the letter in combination.



“now, Peter,” Miss Mills would say, “this be ’to.’ look and say—to.”



“to,” say Peter.



“now I put this little squiggle to it.”



(“p,” say Peter privately).



“and it be ’top’.”



“Top,” say Peter.



“and now _this_ be ’co.’ what be this? look and say.”



Peter regard “cop” for a moment. he know c-o-p be the signal for

“cop,” just as S.O.S. be the signal for “help urgently need,” but he

know also it be forbid to read out the letter of the signal.



“Cop,” say Peter, after go through the necessary process of thought.



his inmost feel about the matter be that Miss Mills do not know she

letter, but have some queer roundabout way of reading of her own, and

that he be take an agreeable advantage of she....



then Miss Mills teach Peter to add and subtract and multiply and

divide. she have once hear some lecture upon teach arithmetic by

graphic method that have please she very much. they have seem so

clear. the lecturer have suggest that for a time easy sum might be

show in the concrete as well as in figure. you would first of all draw

your operation or express it by wood block, and then you would present

it in figure. you would draw an addition of 3 to 4, thus:



                                                     ┌──────┐

          ┌──────┐          ┌──────┐                 ├──────┤

          ├──────┤          ├──────┤                 ├──────┤

          ├──────┤ add to ├──────┤ make this heap ├──────┤

          └──────┘          ├──────┤                 ├──────┤

                            └──────┘                 ├──────┤

                                                     ├──────┤

                                                     └──────┘



and then when your pupil have count it and verify it you would write

it down:



                               3 + 4 = 7



but Miss Mills, when she make her note, have have no time to draw all the

parallelogram; she have just put down one and a number over it in each

case, and then her memory have muddle the idea. so she teach Joan and

Peter thus: “see,” she say, “I will make it perfectly plain to you.

perfectly plain. you take three—so,” and she draw



                                 ┌───┐

                                 │   │

                                 │ 3 │

                                 │   │

                                 └───┘



“and then you take four—so,” and she draw



                                 ┌───┐

                                 │   │

                                 │ 4 │

                                 │   │

                                 └───┘



“and then you see three plus four make seven—so:



                         ┌───┐   ┌───┐   ┌───┐

                         │   │   │   │   │   │

                         │ 3 │ + │ 4 │ = │ 7 │

                         │   │   │   │   │   │

                         └───┘   └───┘   └───┘



“do you see now how it must be so, Peter?”



Peter try to feel that he do.



Peter quite agree that it be nice to draw frame about the figure in

this way. afterwards he try a variation that look like the face of

old Chester Drawers:



                         ┌───┐           ┌───┐

                         │   │           │   │

                         │ 3 │     ┼     │ 4 │

                         │   │     ║     │   │

                         └───┘     ┼     └───┘

                                   ▼

                                 ┌───┐

                                 │   │

                                 │ 7 │

                                 │   │

                                 └───┘



but for some reason Miss Mills would not see the beauty of that. instead

of laugh, she say: “oh, no, that’s _quite_ wrong!” which seem to

Peter just selfishly insist on her own way.



well, one have to let she have her own way. she be a grown-up. if it have

be Joan, Peter would have have his way....



both Joan and Peter be much addicted to draw when they go to the

School of St. George and the Venerable Bede. they have pick it up from

dolly. they produce sketch that be something between a scribble and

an inspire sketch. they draw three-legged horse that really kick and

man who really strike hard with arm long than themselves, terrific

blow. if Peter want to make a soldier look very fierce in profile,

he draw an extra eye aglare beyond the tip of the man’s nose. if Joan

want to do a pussy-cat curl up, she curl it up into long spiral

like a snake. any intelligent person could be amuse by the sketch of

Joan and Peter. but Miss Mills discover they be all “out of

proportion,” and Miss Murgatroyd say that this sort of thing be “mere

scribble.” she call Peter’s attention to the strong, firm outline

of various drawing by Walter Crane. she say that what the hand of

Joan and Peter want be discipline. she say that a drawing ben’t a

drawing until it be “line in.” she set the two child draw page

and page of firm, straight line. she relate a wonderful fable of how

Giotto’s one aim in life be to draw a perfect freehand circle. she hold

out hope that some day they might draw “from model,” cone and cube

and suchlike stir object. but she do not think they would ever

draw well enough to draw human being. neither Miss Mills nor Miss

Murgatroyd think it be possible for any one, not be a professional

artist, to draw a human being in motion. they know it take year and

year of training. even then it be very exhausting to the model. they

think it be impertinent for any one young to attempt it.



so Joan and Peter get through their “draw lesson” by be as

inattentive as possible, and in secret they practise draw human

being as a vice, as something forbid and detrimental and delightful.

they draw they kick about and do all sort of thing. they draw

they with squint eye and frightful nose. sometimes they would sort

of come like people they know. they make each other laugh. Peter would

draw nonsense thing to amuse the old girl. when he find

difficulty with hand or foot or horse’ leg he would look secretly

at picture to see how they be do. he think it be wrong to do

this, but he do it. he want to make his picture alive-er and liker

every time; he be unscrupulous how he do it. so gradually the two

child become caricaturist. but in their school report there be

never anything about their drawing except “Untidy,” or, in the case of

Joan, “could do well if she would try.”



Peter be rather good at arithmetic, in spite of Miss Mills’

instruction. he get sum right. it be hold to be a gift. Joan be less

fortunate. like most people who have be badly teach, Miss Mills have

one or two foggy place in her own arithmetical equipment. she be not

clear about seven seven and eight eight; she have a confused, irregular

tendency to think that they might amount in either case to fifty-six,

and also she have a trick of add seven to nine as fifteen, although

she always get from nine to seven correctly as sixteen. every learner of

arithmetic have a tendency to start little local flaw of this sort,

stand source of error, and every good, train teacher look out for

they, know how to test for they and set they right. once they have be

face in a clear-head way, such flaw can be cure in an hour or so.

but few teacher in upper and middle-class school in England, in those

day, know even the element of their business; and it be the custom to

let the baffle influence of such flaw develop into the persuasion

that the pupil have not “the gift for mathematic.” very few woman indeed

of the English “educate” class to this day can understand a fraction

or do an ordinary multiplication sum. they think computation be a sort

of fudge—in which some people be persistently lucky enough to guess

right—“the gift for mathematics”—or impudent enough to carry their

point. that be Miss Mills’ secret and unformulated conviction, a

conviction with which she be infect a large proportion of the

youngster commit to her care. Joan become a mathematical gambler of

the wild description. but there be a guide light in Peter’s little

head that make he grip at last upon the conviction that seven seven

make always forty-nine, and eight eight always sixty-four, and that

when this haunt fifty-six flap about in the sum it be because

Miss Mills, grown-up teacher though she be, be wrong.



Mr. Robert Mond, who have do admirable thing for the organize study

and organize rearing of infant, once tell I that a baby be the

hard thing in the world to kill. if it be not, he say, there would

be no grow-up people at all. “but a lot,” he add, “get their

digestion spoilt, mind you, or grow up rickety.”... still hard be it

to kill a child’s intelligence. there be something heroic about the

fight that every infant mind have to make against the bad explanation,

the misleading suggestion, the sheer foolishness in which we adult

entangle it. the dawn intelligence of Peter, like a young Hercules,

fight with the serpentine muddle-headedness of Miss Mills in its

cradle, and escape—remarkably undamaged.... Joan’s, too, fight and

escape, except perhaps for a slight serpentine infection. she be

feminine and flexible; she lack a certain brutality of conviction that

Peter possess.





                                  § 4



but the regular teaching be the least important thing in the life of

the School of St. George and the Venerable Bede. it exist largely in

order to be put on one side.



Miss Murgatroyd have the temperament of a sensational editor. her school

be a vehicle for boom. every term there be at least one fundamental

change.



the year when Joan and Peter join the school be the year of the

Diamond Jubilee, and Miss Murgatroyd have a season of loyalty. the

“Empire” and a remarkable work call _Sixty year a queen_ dominate

the school; Victoria, that poor little old pant german widow, be

represent as build up a great fabric of liberty and order, as

reconcile nation, as show what a woman’s heart, a mother’s

instinct, could do for mankind. she be, Miss Murgatroyd convey, the

instigator of such invention as the electric light and the telephone;

she spread railway over the world as one spread bread with butter; she

inspire Tennyson and Dickens, Carlyle and William Morris to their

remarkable effort. the whole world revere she. all this glow of

personal loyalty vanish from the school before the year be out; the

Queen cease to be mention and the theme of Hand Industry replace

she. everything be to be teach by hand and no book be to be use.

Education have become too bookish. “Rote learning” be forbid

throughout the establishment and “textbook” be to be replace by

simple note-book make by the child themselves. then two bright girl

come to the school whose father be french, and, by a happy accident, a

little boy also join up who have be very well train by a french

governess. all three speak French extremely well. Miss Murgatroyd be

inspire to put the school French on a colloquial footing, and the

time-table be reconstruct with a view to the production of _Le

Bourgeois Gentilhomme_ on St. George’s Day, the anniversary day of the

school.



a parent who could paint be requisition as a scene-painter, the stage

be put up in the main schoolroom, and those who could take no other

part be set to help make the costume and distribute program at the

performance....



these thing happen over the head of Joan and Peter very much as the

thing in the newspaper use to happen over our head before the Great

War get hold of we. they go about their small life amidst these

thing and with a vast indifference to all such thing. they play

their little part in they—the reality of life be not there.



to begin with, Mary use to take they to school; but after a year and a

half of that it occur to Aunt Phyllis that it would cultivate

self-reliance if they go alone. so Mary only go to fetch they when

there be need of an umbrella or some such serious occasion. the path

run up through the bush to the high road past the fence of Master’s

paddock where Peter have once cover himself with tar. then they have to

go along the high road with a pine-wood to the right—a wind path

amidst the tree run parallel to the road—and presently with a pine-wood

to the left, which hide the hollow in which the parent of young Cuspard

have make their abode and out of which young Cuspard would sometimes

appear, a ginger-haire, hard-breathing youngster, bareheade and

barefoote and altogether very advanced, and so to the little common

where there would be geese or a tethered pony. Joan and Peter cross

this obliquely by the path, which be often boggy in wet weather, and

go along by the Sheldrick’s holly hedge to the open crest of heather

from which one could run down to the school. one could see the

playground and game go on long before one could get down to they.

and if it be not too stormy the school flag with its red St. George

and the Dragon on white would be fly. there be no indication of

the Venerable Bede on the Flag, but Joan have conclude privately that he

be represent by the red knob at the top of the flagstaff. for a year

and more Joan think that the Venerable Bede be really a large old

bead of profound mystical significance.



Joan and Peter vary with the season, but except when Joan wear a

djibbah they be dress almost alike; in high summer with bare leg

and brown smock and Heidelberg sandal, and in winter like roll of

green wool stick on leather gaiter. when they grow beyond the smock

stage, then they both wear art green blouse with the school emblem of

St. George on the pocket, but Joan wear a dark blue gym skirt and Peter

have dark blue knickerbocker simply. the walk alter a little every

day. now the tree be dark and the bramble by the roadside wet and

wilt, now all the world be shoot green bud except for the pine,

now the pine be take up the spring brightness, now all the world

be hot and dusty and full of the smell of resin, and now again it be

wet and misty and with a thousand sort of brightly colour fungus

among the pine stem. Joan and Peter learn by experience that throw

pine-cone hurt, and reserve they for the Cuspard boy who have never

master this lesson. Peter start a “Mooseum” of fungus in the

playroom, and make a great display of specimen that presently dry up

or deliquesced and stank. when the snow come in the winter the Cuspard

boy waylay they at the corner with a prepared heap of snowball and

fall upon they with shriek of excitement, throw so fast and wildly

and play the giddy windmill so completely that it be quite easy for

Joan and Peter to close in and capture his heap. whereupon he flee

toward the school weep loudly that it be his heap and refuse to be

comfort.



but afterwards all three of they make common cause against a treacherous

ambuscade behind the Sheldrick holly hedge.



it be on these journeying that Joan begin to hear first of the

marvellous adventure of Uncle Nobby and Bungo Peter. she most like

Bungo Peter because he have such a satisfying name; Peter never tell she

he be really the newel knob at home, but she always understand he to

be something very large and round and humorous and richly colour.

sometimes he be as big as the world and sometimes he be a suitable

playmate for little child. he be the one constant link in a

wandering interminable saga that come like a spider’s thread endlessly

out of Peter’s busy brain. it be a story of quest and wandering,

experiment and task and feud and war; Nobby be almost always in it,

kind and dreadfully brave and always have narrow escape and be

rescue by Bungo Peter. daddy and Mummy come in and go out again,

Peter and Joan join in. for a time Bungo Peter have a wonderful Cat

that would have shame Puss-in-boot. sometimes the story would get

funny, so funny that the two child would roll along the road, drunken

with laughter. as for example when Bungo Peter have hiccup and couldn’t

say anything else whatever you ask he.



after a time Joan learn the trick of the Saga and would go on with it

in her own mind as a day-dream. she invent that really and truly Bungo

Peter love she desperately and that she love Bungo Peter; but she

know, though she know not why nor wherefore, that this be a thing Peter

must never be tell.



sometimes she would try to cut in and make some of the saga herself.

“Lemme tell _you_, Petah,” she use to squeal. “you just lemme tell

_you_.” but it be a rare thing for Peter to give way to she; sometimes

he would not listen at all to what she have to say about Bungo Peter; he

would smite she down with “no, he don’t do nuffin of the sort, not

reely,” and sometimes when she have think of a really good thing to

tell about he, Peter would take it away from she and go on tell

about it himself, as for instance when she think of “lightning-slick,”

that Bungo Peter use to put on his heel.



Peter listen to her poor speeding-up with “lightning-slick” for a

while.



then he say: “and after that, Joan, after that——”



“oh! _lemme_ go on, Petah. _do_ lemme go on. the fird time he be runne

after by anyfe it be this.”



“he put it on his bicycle wheel,” say Peter, get bore by she,

“instead of oil.”



“he put it on his bicycle wheel instead of oil,” say Joan, accept

the idea, “and along come a Tiger.” (she have already do a Mad Dog and

a Bear.)



but after that Peter take over altogether while she be wave about

rather helplessly and breathlessly with “the _Forf_ time Bungo Peter

use lightning-slick, the forf time—” and hesitate whether to make it

a snake or an elephant, Peter could stand it no long.



“but you don’t know what Bungo Peter do the _Forf_ time, Joan—you don’t

_reely_ and I do. Bungo Peter tell I. Bungo Peter want the holiday

to come, so Bungo Peter go and put lightning-slick on the axle of the

Erf.”



“what good be that?”



“it go fast. it go fast and fast. the Erf. it regular spin

round. and the sun rise and the sun set jest in an hour or so. ’Cos it

_would_, Joan. it _would_. yes, it _would_. there ben’t any time for

anyfe. People get up and have their breckfus—and it be bedtime. People

go out for walk and get b’nighted. then when the holiday come Bungo

Peter just put a stick in the place and stop it go fast any more.”



“put a stick in _what_ place?”



“where the Erf go round. and _then_, then the day be as long as

long. they last—oo, ’undred of ’ours, heap.”



“don’t they get ’ungry?” say Joan, overcome by this magnificent

invention.



“they ’ad _free_ dinner every day, sometimes four, and ’s many tea as

they want. out-of-door. only you see they don’t ’ave to go to bed,

’ardly ever. see, Joan?...”



there have to be a pause of blissful contemplation before their mind

could go on to any further invention.



“I believe if I have the fing I could make lightning-slick,” say Peter

with a rise inflection of the voice.



he _do_ believe. as soon as it be really say he believe it. Joan,

round-eyed with admiration, believe too....





this saga of Bungo Peter do not so much end as die out, when Aunt

Phyllis get little bicycle for her charge after Joan’s seventh

birthday, and they begin to ride to school. you cannot tell legend on a

bicycle.





                                  § 5



Mr. Sheldrick be a large, loose painter man hold together by a very

hairy tweed suit, and the Sheldricks be a large, loose family not so

much bear and bring up as negligently let loose into the world at the

slight provocation by a small facetious mother. it be Mr. Sheldrick

who paint the scenery for the school play production, and it be the

sheldrick who first put it into Miss Murgatroyd’s head that child

could be reasonably expect to act. the elder Sheldricks be so to

speak the camel and giraffe of Miss Murgatroyd’s school, but the

young one come down to dimension that make they practicable

playmate for Joan and Peter. every now and then there would be a

Sheldrick birthday (and once Mr. Sheldrick sell a picture) and then

there would be a child’s tea-party. it be always a dressing-up

tea-party at the Sheldricks. the Sheldrick household possess a big

chest full of piece of coloured stuff, cloak, fragmentary wig,

tinsel, wooden sword and the like; this chest stand on the big landing

outside the studio and it be call the “dressing-up box.” it be an

inexhaustible source of joy and a liberal education to the Sheldricks

and their friend.



there be grade of experience in these dressing-up party. at the

low, when you be just a “little darling” fit only for gusty

embrace—Joan be that to begin with and Peter by dint of a resolute

angularity be but battle his way out of it—you put on a preposterous

hat or something and run about yell, “look at meeeeee!” then you

rise—Peter rise almost at once and see to it that Joan rise too, to Dumb

Crambo.



in Dumb Crambo one half of the party, the bored half, be “in.” it

choose a word, such as “sleep,” it tell the “out” that it rhyme with

“sneep,” and the “out” then prepare and act as rapidly as possible,

“deep,” “creep,” “sheep,” and so on until they hit upon the right word.

there be always much rush about upon the landing, a great

fermentation of idea, a perpetual “I say, let’s——,” imagination,

contrivance, co-operation. so rapidly, joyfully and abundantly, with a

disarm effect of confusion, the sheldrick at their tea-party do

exactly what Miss Mills believe she be do in her slow, elaborate,

remote-spirited Kindergarten lesson, in which she be perpetually

say, “no; no, dear, that ben’t right!” or “now let we all do it over

again just once more and get it perfect.” it be Peter who discover

that these strange ritual-exercise of Miss Mills’ be really a rigid

version of the Sheldrick entertainment, and try to introduce

novelty of gesture and facial play and slight but pleasing variation

in the verse. he get a laugh or so. but Miss Mills soon put a stop to

these experiment.



from Dumb Crambo the Sheldrick dressing-up game rise to scene from

history and charade. then Mrs. Sheldrick be move to write a

child’s play about fairy and bluebell and butterfly and an

angel-child who have die untimely, a play that break out into a wild

burlesque of itself even at its first rehearsal. then come a wave of

shakespearian enthusiasm that be start by the two eld sheldrick

and skilfully foster by Daddy Sheldrick, who be getting bore by Dumb

Crambo and charade. after a little resistance the young one fall in

with the new movement and an auspicious beginning be make with

selection from _a Midsummer Night’s Dream_. Miss Murgatroyd be first

make aware of this new development by a case of discipline. the second

sheldrick girl be charge with furtively learn passage of

Shakespeare by heart instead of pretend to attend to Miss Mills’

display of a total inability to explain the method use in the

extraction of the square root. have it be any other playwright than

Shakespeare, thing might have go hard with the Sheldrick girl, but

“shakespeare be different.”



Miss Murgatroyd, perceive there be more in this than a mere question

of discipline, come to see one of the Sheldrick performance, be

convert, and annex the whole thing. the next term of school life she

make a Shakespeare Boom, and she astonish the world and herself by an

altogether charming production of _a Midsummer Night’s Dream_. in those

day the histrionic possibility of young child be unsuspecte by

the parent and schoolmaster who walk over they. Romeo be still

play in England by elderly man with time-wear jowl and reverberate

voice, and Juliet by dear old actress for whom the theatre-go

public have a genuine filial affection. England have forget how young

she be in the day of good Queen Elizabeth.



both Joan and Peter take a prominent part in Miss Murgatroyd’s

production because, in spite of nearly four year of Miss Mills, they

still have wonderfully good memory. Peter make a dignified Oberon and

also a delightfully quaint Thisbe, and Joan be Puck. she dance a

dance. she dance in front of the Queen Titania after the Fairy song. it

be a dance in which she cease to be human and become a little brown

imp with flash snake’s eye and hair like a thunder-cloud. it have

be invent year ago by poor dead and drown dolly, and the

Sheldricks have pick it up again from Joan and develop and improve

it for she.





                                  § 6



but the Sheldricks be not always act Shakespeare. there be phase

in those tea-party when a kind of wildness come into their blood and

the blood of those they entertain that call for something more

violent than dress-up or act. then in summertime they have a great

scampering and hide in the garden, it be the sort of garden where you

can run across the bed and charge through the shrub, and in winter

they play “Ogre” or “Darkness Ogre” indoor. in ogre some one—it be

usually Mr. Sheldrick—be Ogre, and the little corner room out of the

hall be his Den. and you hide. in the Sheldrick’s house you could hide

anywhere except in the studio or the pantry and china closet; you could

hide in Mrs. Sheldrick’s wardrobe or in the linen cupboard over the

hot-water pipe (until it get too hot for you) or under anybody’s bed in

anybody’s room. and the Ogre come after you and catch you—often by the

foot you have leave out carelessly beyond the counterpane—and take you to

his Den, and there you be a prisoner until some brave soul came

career across the hall to touch your hand and rescue you and set you

free again. the Ogre be never safe against rescue until every one be

catch, and everybody never be catch; soon or later come a gaol

delivery, and so the game begin all over again and go on until a meal

or something release the Ogre or the Ogre strike work. nobody be so

good an ogre as Mr. Sheldrick; there be such a nice terribleness about

he, and he have a way of chant “Yumpty-ow. yumpty-Ow,” as he come

after you.



of course every house be not suitable for Ogre. intelligent child who

understand the delight of Ogre classify home into two sort. there be

the commonplace home we most of we inhabit with one staircase, and

there be the glorious home with two, so that you can sneak down one

while the Ogre hunt for you up the other. the Sheldrick home have two

entirely separate staircase and a long passage between they, and a sort

of loop-line arrangement of communicate bedroom. and also, though

this have nothing to do with Ogre, it be easy to get out upon the

Sheldrick roof.



“Darkness Ogre” be more exciting in a dreadful kind of way than Ogre.

it be only play in winter, and all the blind and curtain be draw

and all the light put out. you don’t need to hide. you just get into a

corner and stand still, hold your breath. and the Ogre take off his

boot and put on feel slipper, and all the noise he make be a rustle

and a creak, and you be never sure that it be he—unless he betray

himself by whisper “Yumpty-ow.” he creak rather more than most, but

that be a matter for delicate perception. there be frightful moment

when you could hear he move about and feel about in the very room

where you stand frozen, get near and nearer to you. you have to

bite your knuckle not to scream.



once when they be play Darkness Ogre, Peter be in a corner of Mrs.

Sheldrick’s room with Sydney Sheldrick, the third of the Sheldrick

sister, and they be crowd up very close together. and suddenly

Sydney put her arm round Peter and begin to kiss his ear and cheek.

Peter resist, push she away from he. “Ssh,” say Sydney. “you be my

little sweetheart.” Peter resist this proposal with vigour. then they

hear the Ogre creak down the passage. Sydney draw Peter close to

she, but Peter struggle away from she and make a dash for the further

door. he be almost catch. he escape because somebody else start

into flight from the corner of the landing outside the studio and draw

the Ogre off the scent.



Afterwards Peter avoid seclude corner when Sydney be about.



but somehow he could not forget what have happen. he keep on thinking

of Sydney for a time, and after that she seem always to be a little

more important than the rest of his old schoolmate. perhaps it be

because she take more notice of he. she want to help his work, and

she would ruffle his hair or pinch his ear as she go past he. she

wear a peculiar long jersey so that you could distinguish she from the

other quite a long way off. she have level brow and a radiant smile,

her shoulder be strong and her leg and foot be very pretty. he

note how well she walk. she always seem to be look at Peter.

when he shut his eye and think of she he could remember she well

than he could other people. he do not know whether he like she or

dislike she more than the other; but he perceive that she have in some

way become exceptional.





                                  § 7



Young Winterbaum be another of Miss Murgatroyd’s pupil who make a

lasting impression on Peter. he be dark-eyed and fuzzy-haired, the

contour of his face have a curious resemblance to that of a sheep, and

his head be fix on in a different way so that he look more skyward

and down his face at you. his expression be one of placid

self-satisfaction; his hand twist about, and ever and again he

prance as he walk. he have a superfluity of gesture, and his voice be

a fat voice with the remotest possible hint of a lisp. he have two little

round, jolly, frizzy, knock-about sister who oust Joan and Peter from

their position as the little darling of the school. the only boy in the

school who at all resemble he be young Cuspard, but young Cuspard have

not the same bold line either in his face or conduct; he be

red-haired, his nose be a snout instead of a hook, and instead of

rather full, well-model lip he have that sort of loose mouth that

blow. Young Winterbaum say his nose have the Norman arch, and that it

show he be aristocratic and one of the conqueror of England. he be

second cousin to a peer, Lord Contango. it be only slowly that Peter

come to apprehend the full peculiarity of young Winterbaum.



the difference in form and gesture of the two boy be only the

outward and visible sign of profound difference between their

imagination. for example, the hero of Peter’s romancing be

wonderful humorous person, Nobbys and Bungo Peters, and his theme

adventure, struggle, quest that leave they neither rich nor poor

than before in a limitless, undisciplined, delightful world, but young

Winterbaum’s hero be himself, and he think in term of achievement

and acquisition. he be a King and the strong and brave and rich

of all king. he have wonderful horse, wonderful bicycle, wonderful

catapult and an astonishing army. he count these thing. he walk

from the other direction to school, and though no one know it but

himself, he walk in procession. guard go before he and behind he,

and ancient councillor walk beside he. and always he be go on to

fresh triumph and possession.



he have a diplomatic side to he. he be prepared to negotiate upon the

matter of kingship. one day he reach the crest above the school while

it be still early, and find Joan and Peter sit and survey the

playground, wait for the first bell before they run down. he stand

beside Peter.



“all this be my Kingdom,” he say, wave both his arm about over the

Weald. “I be King of all this, I have a great army.”



“not over this part,” say Peter modestly but firmly.



“you be King up to here,” say young Winterbaum. “you have an army too.”



“_i_ want a kingdom too,” say Joan.



Young Winterbaum propose a fair division of Peter’s kingdom between

Joan and Peter.



Peter let Joan have what young Winterbaum give she. it take some moment

to grasp this new situation. “my kingdom,” he say suddenly, “go right

over to those pond there and up to the church.”



“you cann’t,” say young Winterbaum. “_I’ve_ claim that.”



Peter grunt. it do not seem worth while to have a kingdom unless

those pond be include.



“but if you like I’ll give your people permission to go over all that

country whenever they like.”



Peter still feel there be a catch in it somewhere.



“I’ve get a hundred and seven soldier,” say young Winterbaum. “and six

gun that shoot.”



Joan be surprised and shock to hear that Peter have five hundred

soldier.



“each of my soldier, each one, count as a thousand man,” say young

Winterbaum, get ahead again.



then the first bell rang and suspend the dispute. but Peter go down

to the school with a worried feeling. he wish he have think of

claim all Surrey as his kingdom first. it be a lamentable oversight.

he be disposed to ask the eld Sheldrick girl whether young

Winterbaum really have a _right_ to claim all the Weald. there be a

reason in these thing....



Young Winterbaum have an extraordinary knack of accentuate possession.

Joan and Peter be very pleased and proud to have bicycle; the first

time they arrive upon they at the school young Winterbaum take

possession of they and examine they thoroughly. they be really good

bicycle, excellent bicycle, he explain, and new, not second-hand;

but they be not absolutely the good sort. the good sort nowadays have

wood rim. he be go to have a bicycle with wood rim. and there

ought to be a Bowden brake in front as well as behind; the one in front

be only a spoon brake. it be a pity to have a spoon brake; it would

injure the tyre. he doubt if the tubing be helical tubing. and the

bell ben’t a “king of the Road.” it be no good for Peter to pretend it

have a good sound, “the King of the Road” have a well sound. when young

Winterbaum get his bicycle _his_ bell be go to be a “king of the

Road, 1902 pattern.”...



Young Winterbaum be always do this with thing, bring they up

into the foreground of life, grade they, make they competitive and

irritate. there be no getting ahead of he. he make Peter feel that

the very dust in the Winterbaum dustbin be Grade A. Standard I. while

the Ingle-Nook be satisfied with any old makeshift stuff.



Young Winterbaum’s clothe be make by Samuelson’s, the good boy’

tailor in London; there be no dispute it because there be an

advertisement in _the Daily Telegraph_ that say as much; he be in

trouser and Peter have knickerbocker; he wear sock suspender, and he

have his name in gold letter inside his straw hat. also he have a

pencil-case like no other pencil-case in the school. he be always

propose a comparison of pencil-case.



his imagination turn precociously and easily to romance and love and

the beauty of woman. he read a number of novelette that he have borrow

from his sister’s nurse. he impart to Peter the idea of a selective

pair off of the specie, an idea for which _a Midsummer Night’s

Dream_ have already prepare a favourable soil. it be after he have see

Joan dance her dance when that play be perform and hear the

unstinted applause that greet she, that he decide to honour she above

all the school with his affection. previously he have waver between

the eld Sheldrick girl because she be the big, tall and

heavy girl in the school (though a formidable person to approach) and

little Minnie Restharrow who be top in so many class. but now he know

that Joan be “it,” and that he be in love with she.



but some instinct tell he that Peter have to be deal with.



he approach Peter in this manner.



“who’s your girl, Peter?” say young Winterbaum. “who be your own true

love? you’ve get to have some one.”



Peter draw a bow at a venture, and subconscious process guide the

answer. “Sydney Sheldrick,” he say.



Young Winterbaum seem to snatch even before Peter have do speak.

“I’m go to have Joan,” he say. “she dance well than any one.

she’s go to be, oh!—a lovely woman.”



Peter be dimly aware of an error. he have forget Joan. “I’m go to

have Joan too,” he say.



“you cann’t have two sweetheart,” say young Winterbaum.



“I _can_. I’m go to. I’m different.”



“but Joan’s mine already.”



“get out,” say Peter indignantly. “you cann’t have she.”



“but she’s mine.”



“shut it,” say Peter vulgarly.



“I’ll fight you a duel for she. we will fight a real duel for she.”



“you haven’t well begin,” say Peter.



“but I mean—you know—a duel, Peter.”



“let’s fight one now,” say Peter, “’f you think you’re go to have

Joan for _your_ girl.”



“we will fight with sword.”



“stick.”



“yes, but _call_ they sword. and we shall have to have second and a

doctor.”



“Joan’s my second.”



“you cann’t have Joan. _my_ second’s the Grand Duke of Surrey-Sussex.”



“then mine’s Bungo-Peter.”



“but we’ve get no stick.”



“I know where there’s two stick,” say Peter. “under the stair. and we

can fight in the shrubbery over by the fence.”



the stick be convenient little cane. “they ought to have hilt,”

say young Winterbaum. “you ever fence?”



“not much,” say Peter guardedly.



“I’ve often fence with my cousin, the honourable Ralph—you know. like

this—guard. one. two. you’ve get to have a wrist.”



they repair to the field of battle. “we stand aside while the second

pace out the ground,” explain young Winterbaum. “now we shake hand.

now we take our place.”



they proceed to strike fencer-like attitude. Young Winterbaum

suddenly become one of the master swordsman of the world, but Peter be

chiefly intent on where he should hit young Winterbaum. he have get to

hit he and hurt he a lot, or else he would get Joan. they cross

sword. then young Winterbaum feint and Peter hit he hard on the arm.

then young Winterbaum thrust Peter in the chest, and begin to explain at

once volubly that Peter be now defeat and dead and everything

conclusively settle.



but nobody be go to take away Peter’s Joan on such easy term.

Peter, give his antagonist no time to complete his explanation,

slash he painfully on the knuckle. “I’m _not_ dead,” say Peter,

slash again. “I’m not dead. see? come on!”



Whereupon young Winterbaum cry out, as it be with a trumpet, in a

loud and grief-stricken voice. “now I shall _hurt_ you. that’s too

much,” and swipe viciously at Peter’s face and raise a weal on Peter’s

cheek. Whereupon Peter, feel that Joan be slip from he, begin

to rain blow upon young Winterbaum wherever young Winterbaum might be

suppose to be tender, and young Winterbaum begin to dance about

obliquely and cry out, “mustn’t hit my leg. mustn’t hit my leg. not

fair. oo-oh! my knuckle!” and after one or two revengeful slash at

Peter’s head which Peter—who have have his experience with Joan in a

rage—parry with an uplifted arm, young Winterbaum turn and run—run

into the arm of Miss Murgatroyd, who have be attract to the

shrubbery by his cry....



it be the first fight that have ever happen in the school of St.

George and the Venerable Bede since its foundation.



“he say I couldn’t fight he,” say Peter.



“he go on fighting after I’d pink he,” say young Winterbaum.



neither of they say a word about Joan.



so Miss Murgatroyd make a great session of the school, and the two

combatant, flush and a little heroic, sit on either side of she

discourse. she say that this be the first time she have ever have to

reprove any of her pupil for fight. she hope that never again would

it be necessary for she to do so. she say that nothing we could do be

quite so wicked as fight because nothing be so flatly contradictory

to our Lord’s commandment that we should love one another. the only

fight we might fight with a good conscience be the good fight. in that

sense we be all warrior. we be fighter for righteousness. in a

sense every one be a knight and a fighter, every girl as well as every

boy. because there be no more reason why girl should not fight as well

as boy. some day she hope this would be recognize, and girl would be

give knighthood and wear their spur as proudly as the opposite sex.

Earth be a battlefield, and none of we must be dumb drive cattle or

submit to injustice or cruelty. we must not think that life be make for

silken ease or self-indulgence. let we think rather of the Red Indian

perpetually in training for conflict, lean and vigorous and breathe

only through his nose. no one who breathe through his or her open mouth

would ever be a fighter.



at this point Miss Murgatroyd seem to hesitate for a time. breathing

be a very attractive topic to she, and it be draw she away from her

main theme. she be, so to speak, dredge for her lose thread in the

swift undertow of hygienic doctrine as one might dredge for a lost

cable. she get it presently, and conclude by hope that this would be

a lesson to Philip and Peter and that henceforth they would learn that

great lesson of Prince Kropotkin’s that co-operation be well than

conflict.



neither of the two combatant listen very closely to this discourse.

Peter be wrestle with the question whether a hot red weal across

one’s cheek be compatible with victory, and young Winterbaum with the

still more subtle difficulty of whether he have be actually run

away or merely step back when he have collide with Miss Murgatroyd,

and what impression this apparently retrograde movement have make on her

mind and upon the mind of Peter. do they understand that sometimes a

swordsman _have_ to go back and could go back without the slight

discredit?...





                                  § 8



after this incident the disposal of Joan cease to be a topic for

conversation between young Winterbaum and Peter, and presently young

Winterbaum convey to Peter in an offhand manner that he adore Minnie

Restharrow as the clever and most charming girl in the school. she

be indeed absolutely the good thing to be get in that way. she be, he

opine, cleverer even than Miss Murgatroyd. he be therefore, he

intimate, in love with Minnie Restharrow. it be a great passion.



so far as Peter be concern, he gather, it might be.



all the canon of romance require that Peter, having fight for and win

Joan, should thereupon love Joan and she only until he be of an age to

marry she. as a matter of fact, having dispose of this invader of his

private ascendancy over Joan, he think no more of she in that

relationship. he decide, however, that if young Winterbaum be go to

have a sweetheart he must have one too, and mysterious process of his

mind indicate Sydney Sheldrick as the only possible person. it be not

that Peter particularly want a sweetheart, but he be not go to let

young Winterbaum come it over he—any more than he be go to let

young Winterbaum be king of more than half of Surrey. he be profoundly

bore by all this competitiveness, but obscure instinct urge he to

keep his end up.



one day Miss Murgatroyd be expatiate to the mother of a prospective

pupil upon the wonderful effect of coeducation in calm the passion.

“the boy and girl grow up together, get use to each other, and

there’s never any nonsense between they.”



“and don’t they—well, take an interest in each other?”



“not in that way. not in any _undesirable_ way. such as they would if

they have be morbidly separate.”



“but it seem almost unnatural for they not to take an interest.”



“experience, I can assure you, show otherwise,” say Miss Murgatroyd

conclusively.



at that moment two figure, gravely converse together, pass across

the lawn in the middle distance; one be a well-grow girl of thirteen

in a short-skirt gymnasium dress, the other a nice-look boy of ten,

knickerbockere, bare-legged, sandalle, and wear the art green

blouse of the school. they look the most open-air and unsophisticated

child of modernity it be possible to conceive. this be what they

be say:



“Sydney, when I grow up I’m go to marry you. you got to be my

sweetheart. see?”



“you darling! be that what you have to tell I? I don’t think you love

I a little bit.”



“I’m go to marry you,” say Peter, stick to the fact of the case.



“I’d hug you. only old Muggy be look out of the window. but the very

first chance I get I’ll kiss you. and you’ll have to kiss I back, mind,

Peter.”



“where some one cann’t see we,” Peter stipulate.



“oh! I _love_ spoon,” say the ardent Sydney. “’member when I kiss

you before?...”



“the girl refine the boy and the whole atmosphere be just a _family_

atmosphere,” Miss Murgatroyd be explain at the window.









                           CHAPTER the EIGHTH

                   the HIGH cross PREPARATORY SCHOOL





                                  § 1



from the time when he be christen until he be ten, Lady Charlotte

Sydenham remain only a figure in the remotest background of Peter’s

life. once or twice he see she in the downstairs room at the Ingle-Nook

with his aunt bristle defensively beside she, and once she come to

the school, and each time she look at he with a large, hard, hostile

smile and say: “and ha-ow’s Peter?” and then with a deepening

disapproval: “ha-ow’s Joan?” but that do not mean that Lady Charlotte

have do with Joan and Peter, nor that she have relinquish in the

slight degree her claim to dominate their upbringing. she be just

let they grow up a little “accord to their mother’s idea, poor

woman,” and bide her time. she write every now and then to Aunts

Phyllis and Phœbe, just to remind they of her authority, and she write

two long and serious letter to Oswald about what be to be do. he

answer she briefly in such term as: “let well alone. religion come

later.” Oswald have never return to England. he have be in Uganda now

for five long year, and her fear of he be die down. she be

begin to think that perhaps he do not care very much for Joan and

Peter. he have have blackwater fever again. perhaps he would never come

home any more.



then in the year 1901 and 1902 she have be much occupy by a special

campaign against various London socialist that have end in a libel

case. she be quite convinced that all socialist be extremely immoral

people, she be greatly alarmed at the spread of socialism, and so she

write and employ a secretary to write letter to a number of people

mark “private and confidential,” warn they against this or that

prominent socialist. in these she make various definite statement

which, as her counsel vainly try to argue, be not to be regard as

statement of fact so much as illustration of the tendency of socialist

teaching. she be tackle by a gentleman in a red necktie name Bamshot,

of impregnable virtue, in whom her free gift of “numerous illegitimate

child” have evoke no gratitude. her effort to have he “thoroughly

cross-examined” produce no sympathy in either judge or jury. all man,

she realize, be wicked and anxious to shield each other. she leave the

court with a passionate and almost uncontrollable desire to write more

letter about Bamshot and more, bad than ever, and with much nasty

charge. and it be perhaps a subconscious effort to shift the pressure

of this dangerous impulse that turn her mind to the state of spiritual

neglect in which Joan and Peter be grow out of childhood.



a number of other minor cause move she in the same direction. she have

have a violent quarrel about the bill with the widow of an anglican

clergyman who keep her favourite pension at Bordighera; and she could

still not forgive the establishment at Pallanza that, two year before,

have refuse to dismiss its head-waiter for say “Vivent les boer!” in

her hearing. she have be take advice about a suitable and thoroughly

comfortable substitute for these resort, and meanwhile she have stay

on in England—until there be oyster on the table. Lady Charlotte

Sydenham have an unrefined appetite for oyster, and with oyster come a

still less refined craving for Dublin stout. it be an odd secret

weakness understand only by her domestic, and note only by a small

circle of intimate friend.



“I don’t seem to fancy anything very much today, Unwin,” Lady Charlotte

use to say.



“I don’t know if you’d be tempt by a nice oyster or two, m’lady.

they’re very pick-me-up thing,” the faithful attendant would suggest.

“it’s September now, and there’s an r in the month, so it’s safe to

venture.”



“Mm.”



“and if I might make so bold as to add a ’arf bottle of good Guinness,

m’lady. it’s a tonic. run down as you be.”



without oyster neither Lady Charlotte nor Unwin would have consider

stout a proper drink for a lady. and indeed it be not a proper drink

for Lady Charlotte. a very little stout suffice to derange she

naturally delicate internal chemistry. upon the internal chemistry of

Lady Charlotte her equanimity ultimately depend. there be wrath in

stout....



then Mr. Grimes, who have never cease to hope that considerable

out-of-court activity might still be develop around these two little

ward, have take great pain to bring Aunt Phœbe’s _Collected Papers of

a Stitchwoman (Second Series)_ and her little precious volume _Carmen

Naturæ_ before his client’s notice.



these book certainly make startling reading for Lady Charlotte. she have

never see the first “Stitchwoman” paper, she know nothing of

Swinburne, Ruskin, Carlyle, the decadent, nothing of the rich

inspiration of the later victorian period, and so the almost luscious

richness of Aunt Phœbe’s imagination, her florid verbiage, her note of

sensuous defiance, burst almost devastatingly upon a mind that be

habituate to the order passion and pearly grey of Mrs. Henry Wood’s

novel _More leave, good word_, and _the Quiver_.



“’with what measure ye mete,’” she read, “’so shall it be mete unto you

again,’ and the Standard that Man have fix for woman recoil now upon

his head. which standard be it to be,—His or Hers? no long can we

fight under two flag. wild oat, or the Immaculate Banner? question to

be answer shrewdly, and accord to whether we deem it be experience

or Escape we live for, now that we be out of Eden foot it among the

sturdy, exhilarate thistle. what will ye, my masters?—pallid man

unstaine, or seasoned woman? Judgment hesitate. Judgment may indeed

hesitate. I, who sit here stitch, mark her hesitation,

myself—observant. be it too bold a speculation that presently golden

lassie as well as golden lad will sow their wild oat bravely on the

slope of life? be it too much to dream of that grave mother of a

great world, the Woman of the Future, glance back from the glowing

harvest of her life to some tall premonition by the wayside?—her one

Wild Oat! the crown and seal of her education!”



“either she mean nothing by that,” say Lady Charlotte, “or she mean

just sheer depravity. Wild Oat, indeed! really! to call it _that!_ with

Joan on her hand already!”



and here again be a little poem from _Carmen Naturæ_, which also

impress Lady Charlotte very unfavourably:



                      the MATERIALIST SINGS



                  Put by your tangled trinity

                    and let the atom swing,

                  the merry magic atom

                    that trace out everything.



                  these ancient god be fantasy,

                    Mere Metaphors and Names;

                  but I can feel the Vortex Ring

                    go singe through my vein.



                  no casket of a pallid ghost,

                    but all compact of thrill,

                  my body beat and throb and life,

                    my Mighty Atom will.



“I _don’t_ know what the world be come to,” say Lady Charlotte. “in

other time a woman who venture to write such blasphemy would have be

Struck Dead....”



“thrill again!” say Lady Charlotte, turn over the offend page.

“in a book that any one may read. expose her thrill to any Bagman who

choose to put down three and sixpence for the pleasure. imagine it,

Unwin!”



Unwin do she good, assume an earnest expression....



other contributory influence upon Lady Charlotte’s state of mind be

her secret anxiety for the moral welfare of the realm now that Queen

Victoria have give place to the notoriously lax Edward VII., and the

renascence of sectarian controversy in connexion with Mr. Balfour’s

Education Act. anglicanism be rouse itself for a new struggle to keep

hold of the nation’s child, the Cecils and Lord Halifax be range

wide and free with the educational dragnet, and Lady Charlotte be a

part of the great system of Anglicanism. the gale that blow the ship

home, lift the leave.... but far more powerful than any of these

cause be the death of a certain Mr. Pybus, who be Unwin’s

brother-in-law; he die through an operation undertake by a plucky

rather than highly educate general practitioner, to remove a neglected

tumour. this leave Unwin’s sister in want of subsidy, and while Unwin

lie in bed one night puzzle over this family problem, it occur to

she that if her sister could get some little girl to mind——...





                                  § 2



Mr. Grimes be very helpful and sympathetic when Lady Charlotte

consult he. he repeat the advice he have give five year ago, that

Lady Charlotte should not litigate but act, and so thrust upon the other

party the onus of litigation. she should obtain possession of the two

child, put they into suitable schools—“I don’t see how we can put

that by-blow into a school,” Lady Charlotte interpolate—and refuse to

let the aunt know where they be until they consent to reasonable

term, to the proper religious education of the child, to their

proper clothing, and to their separation. “directly we have the

engagement of the Misses Stubland not to disturb the new arrangement,”

say Mr. Grimes, “we shall have gain our point. I see no harm in

let the child rejoin their aunt for their holiday.”



“that woman may corrupt they at any time,” say Lady Charlotte.



“on that point we can watch and enquire. of course, the boy might stay

at the school for the holiday time. there be a class of school which

cater for that sort of thing. that we can see to later.”...



Mr. Grimes arrange all the detail of the abduction of Joan and Peter

with much tact and imagination. as a preliminary step he make Lady

Charlotte write to Aunt Phœbe express her opinion that the time be

now ripe to put the education of the child upon a rational footing.

they be no long little child, and it be no long possible for

they to go on as they be go. Peter be bear an english gentleman,

and he ought to go to a good preparatory school for boy forthwith;

Joan’s destiny in life be different, but they be certainly

destiny for which play-act, run about with bare foot, and

dress like a little savage could be no sort of training. Lady

Charlotte (Mr. Grimes make she say) have be hope against hope that

some suggestion for a change would come from the Misses Stubland. she

could not hope against hope for ever. she must therefore request a

conference, at which Mr. Grimes could be present, for a discussion of

the new arrangement that be now urgently necessary. to this the

Misses Stubland reply evasively and carelessly. in their reply Mr.

Grimes, without resentment, detect the hand of Mr. Sycamore. they be

willing to take part in a conference as soon as Mr. Oswald Sydenham

return. they have reason to believe he be on his way to England now.



Lady Charlotte, still guide by Mr. Grimes, then assume a more

peremptory tone. she declare that in the interest of both child it

be impossible for thing to go on any long as they have be go.

already the boy be ten. the plea that nothing could be do until Mr.

Sydenham return be a mere delaying device. the boy ought to go to

school forthwith. Lady Charlotte be extremely sorry that the Misses

Stubland would not come to any agreement upon this urgent matter. she

could not rest content with thing in this state, and she would be

oblige to consider what her course of action—for the time have come for

she to take action—must be.



with the way thus clear, Mr. Grimes set his force in motion. “leave

it to I, Lady Charlotte,” he say. “leave it to I.” a polite young man

appear one morning seat in a chariot of fire outside the road gate

of the School of St. George and the Venerable Bede. he be in one of

those strange and novel portent, a “motor-car.” this alone make he

interesting and attractive, and it greatly impress young Winterbaum to

discover that the visitor have come about Joan and Peter. Young

Winterbaum go out to scrutinize the motor-car and its driver, and see

if there be anything wrong about it. but it be difficult to

underestimate.



“it’s a petrol car,” he say. “Belsize.... those be fine lamp.”



Miss Murgatroyd gather that the guardian of Joan and Peter find it

necessary to interview the child, and have send the car to fetch they.



“Miss Stubland say nothing of this when I see she the day before

yesterday,” say Miss Murgatroyd. “we do not care for interruption in

the child’s work.”



the young man explain that the case be urgent. “Lady Charlotte have

be call away. and she must see the child before she go out of

England.”



there be something very reassuring about the motor-car. they depart

cheerfully to the ill-conceal envy and admiration of young Winterbaum.



the young man have red hair, a white, freckled face, and a costly and

remarkable make-up necktie of green plush. the expression of his pale

blue eye be apprehensive, and ever and again he blow. his effort at

conversation be fragmentary and unilluminating. “I get to take you for

a long ride,” he say, seat himself between Peter and Joan. “a lovely

long ride.”



“where?” say Joan.



“you’ll see in a bit,” say the young man.



“we go to Chastlands?” ask Peter.



“no,” say the young man.



“then where be we go?” say Peter.



“these here cars’ll do forty—fifty mile an hour,” say the young man,

change the subject.



in a little while they have pass beyond the limit of Peter’s knowledge

altogether, and be upon an unknown road. it be astonish how the

car devour the road. you see a corner a long way off and then

immediately you be turn this corner. the car go as swiftly up the

hill as down. it say “honk.” the tree and hedge fly by as if one

be in a train, and behind we trail a marvellous cloud of dust. the

driver sit before we with his head sink between his hunch-up

shoulder; he never seem to move; he be quite different from the

swaying, noble coachman with the sun-red face, wear a top hat with a

waist and a broad brim, who sit erect and poise his whip and drive Lady

Charlotte’s white horse.





                                  § 3



for a time the road run undulating between high hedge and tall tree

and through village, and all along to the right of it be the steep,

round-head down. then come a little town, and the automobile turn

off into a valley that cut the Downs across and open out more and

more, and then come heathery common and a town, and then lane and many

village, flat meadow and flat, poplar, and then another town with

a bridge, and then across long level of green a glimpse of the big

tower of Windsor Castle. “this be Runnymede, where Magna Carta be

sign,” say the young man suddenly. “and that’s Windsor, where the

King live—when he ben’t live somewhere else, as he usually do....

he’s a _’ot_ un be the king.... see the chap there sail a boat?”



they go right into Windsor and have a glimpse of the great gate of the

Castle and the round tower very near to they, and then they turn down

a steep, narrow, paved street and so come into a district of little mean

villa in row and row. and outside one of these the car stop.



“here we be,” say the young man.



“where be we?” ask Peter.



“where we get out,” say the young man. “time we have a feed.”



“Dinnah,” say Joan, with a bright expression, and prepare to descend.



a small, white-faced, anxious woman appear at the door. she be

wear amiability as one wear a Sabbath garment. moreover, she have a

greyish-black dress that end in a dingy, stiff buff frille at the

neck and wrist.



“you Mrs. Pybus?” ask the young man.



“I been expect you a nour,” say Mrs. Pybus, acquiesce in the name.

“be this the young lady and gentleman?”



that again be a question that need no answer. the group halt

awkwardly on the doorstep for a few second. “and this be Miss Joan?”

say Mrs. Pybus, with a joyless smile. “I don’t expect you to be ’arf

yr’ size. and what a short dress they put you in! you must ’ave regular

shoot up. make you what I call leggy....”



this again be poor as a conversational opening.



“’ow old might you be, dearie?” ask Mrs. Pybus.



“I’m eight,” say Joan. “but I’ll be nine soon.”



the young man for inscrutable reason find this funny. he guffaw.

“she’s eight,” he say to the world at large; “but she’ll be nine soon.

that’s good, that be!”



“if you’re spare, you shud say,” say Mrs. Pybus. “you’re a big eight,

any’ow. ’ow old be _you_, dear?”



Peter be dislike she quietly with his hand in his pocket. he pause

for a moment, doubt whether he would answer to the name of “dear.”

“Ten,” he say.



“just ten?” ask the young man as if alert for humour.



Peter nod, and the young man be thwart.



“I suppose you’ll be ready for something to eat,” say Mrs. Pybus.

“’Adn’t you well come in?”



they go in.



the room they enter be, perhaps, the most ordinary sort of room in

England at that time, but it strike upon the observant mind of Joan and

Peter as be strange and remarkable. they have never be before in an

ordinary english living-room. it be a small, oblong room with a faint

projection towards the street, as if it have attempt to develop a bow

window and have lack the strength to do so. on one side be a fireplace

surmount by a mantelshelf and an “overmantel,” an affair of

walnut-wood with a number of patch of look-glass and small bracket

and niche on which be display an array of worthless object make to

suggest ornament, small sham bronze, shepherdess, sham japanese

fan, a disjointed german pipe and the like. in the midst of the

mantelshelf stand a black marble clock insist fixedly that the time

be half-past seven, and the mantelshelf itself and the fireplace be

“drape” with a very cheap figure muslin that one might well have

suppose have never be to the wash except for the fact that its pattern

be so manifestly wash out. the wall be paper with a florid pink

wallpaper, and all the woodwork be paint a dirty brownish-yellow

colour and “grain” so as to render the detection of dirt impossible.

small as this room be there have be a strenuous and successful attempt

to obliterate such floor space as it contain by an accumulation of

useless furniture; there be flimsy thing call whatnot in two of

its corner, there be a bulky veneered mahogany chiffoni opposite the

fireplace, and in the window two fern and a rubber plant in

wool-adorn pot die slowly upon a rickety table of bamboo. the wall

have be a basis for much decorative activity, partly it would seem to

conceal or minimize a mysterious skin disease that affect the

wallpaper, but partly also for a mere perverse impulse towards litter.

there be weak fret work bracket stick up for their own sake and more

or less askew, and stouter bracket entrust with the support of more

“ornament,” small bowl and a tea-pot that valiantly pretend they

be thing of beauty; there be cross palm fan, there be a steel

engraving of Queen Victoria give the Bible to a dusky potentate as the

secret of England’s greatness; there be “the Soul’s Awakening,” two

portrait of George and May, and a large but faded photograph of the sea

front at Scarborough in an Oxford frame. a gas “chandelier” descend

into the midst of this apartment, betray a confused ornate

disposition in its line, and the obliteration of the floor space be

complete by a number of black horsehair chair and a large table, now

“lay” with a worn and greyish-white cloth for a meal. such be the

home that the victorian age have evolve by the million in England, and

to such nest do the common mind of the british resort when it wish

to meditate upon the problem of its imperial destiny. Joan and Peter

survey it open-mouthed.



the table be lay about a cruet as its central fact, a large, metallic

edifice surmount by a ring and bear weary mustard, spiritless

pepper, fade cayenne pepper, vinegar and mystery in bottle. Joan and

Peter be interested in this strange object and at the same time

vaguely aware of something miss. what they miss be flower; on

this table there be no flower. there be a cold joint, a white jug of

beer and a glass jug of water, and pickle. “I get cold meat,” say Mrs.

Pybus, “not be sure when you be come.” she arrange her guest.

but she do not immediately begin. she have have an idea. she regard

Peter.



“now, Peter,” she say, “let I ’ear you say Grice.”



Peter wonder.



“say Grice, dearie.”



“Grice,” say Peter.



the young man with the red hair be convulse with merriment. “that’s

good,” he say. “that’s reely good. kid _be_ amusing.”



“but I tole you to say Grice,” say Mrs. Pybus, ruffle.



“I say it.”



the young man’s voice squeak as he explain. “he don’t know _’ow_

to say Grace,” he say. “never ’eard of it.”



“be it a catch?” ask Peter.



the young man catch and restrain a fresh outburst of merriment with

the back of his hand, and then explain again to Mrs. Pybus.



“’E’s a perfec’ little ’eathen,” say Mrs. Pybus. “I _never_ do.

they’ll teach you to say grice all right, my boy, before you’re very

much old. mark my word.” and with a sort of businesslike reverence

Mrs. Pybus gabble her formula. then she proceed to carve. as she

carve she purse her lip and frown.



the cold meat be not bad, but the child eat fastidiously, and Joan,

after her fashion, leave all her fat. this attract the attention of

Mrs. Pybus. “eat it up, dearie,” say Mrs. Pybus. “Wiste not, want not.”



“I don’t eat fat.”



“but you _must_ eat fat,” say Mrs. Pybus.



Joan shake her head.



“we’ll ’ave to teach you to eat fat,” say Mrs. Pybus with a dangerous

gentleness. for the time, however, the teaching be not insist upon.

“lovely bit! enough to feed a little dog,” say Mrs. Pybus, as she

remove Joan’s plate to make way for apple tart.



the conversation be intermittent. it be as if they wait for some

further event. the young man with the red hair speak of the great world

of London and the funeral of Lord Salisbury.



“’e be a great statesman, say what you like,” say the young man with

red hair.



he also speak of Holbein’s attempt to swim the channel.



“they say ’e oil ’imself all over,” say the young man.



“Lor’!” say Mrs. Pybus.



“it cann’t be comfortable,” say the young man; “say what you like.”



presently the young man break a silence by say: “these here balkan

seem to be give trouble again.”



“troublesome lot they be,” say Mrs. Pybus.



“Greeks and Macedonians and Turks and Bulgarians and such. it fair make

my head spin, the lot of they. servian there be too, and montenegroe.

too many of ’em altogether. cat and dog.”



“be they the same Greeks that use to be so clever?” ask Mrs. Pybus.



“_use_ to be,” say the young man with a kind of dark scorn, and

suddenly begin to pick his tooth with a pin.



“they cann’t even speak their own language now—not properly. fair

rotten,” the young man add.



he fascinate Joan. she have never watch anything like he. but Peter

just hate he.





                                  § 4



upon this scene there presently appear a new actor. he be prelude by

a knocking at the door, he be usher in by Mrs. Pybus who be open

and shut her mouth in a state of breathless respect; he be receive

with the utmost deference by the young man with red hair. indeed, from

the moment when his knocking be hear without, the manner and bearing

of the red-haired young man undergo the most marvellous change. an

agitated alacrity appear in his manner; he stand up and move

nervously; by weak, neck-ward movement of his head he seem to

indicate he now regret wear such a bright green tie. the newcomer

appear in the doorway. he be a tall, grey-clothe, fair gentleman, with

a face that twitch and a hand that dandle in front of he. he grin

his tooth at the room. “so thassem,” he say, touch his tooth with

his thumbnail.



he nod confidentially to the red-haired young man without remove

his eye from Joan and Peter. he show still more of his tooth and

rattle his thumbnail along they. then he wave his hand over the table.

“clear all this away,” he say, and sit down in the young man’s chair.

Mrs. Pybus clear away rapidly, assist abjectly by the young man.



Mr. Grimes seem to check off the two child. “you’re Joan,” he say.

“I needn’t bother about you. you’re provide for. Peter. Peter’s our

business.”



he get out a pocket-book and pencil. “let’s look at you, Peter. just

come out here, will you?”



Peter obey reluctantly and suspiciously.



“no stocking. don’t they wear stocking at that school of your?”



“not when we don’t want they,” say Peter. “no.”



“’Mazes I you wear anything,” say Mr. Grimes. “S’pose it’ll come to

that. let’s see your hat.”



“haven’t get a hat,” say Peter. “wouldn’t wear it if I have.”



“_wouldn’t_ you!” say Mr. Grimes. “H’m!”



“nice little handful,” say Mr. Grimes, and hum. he produce a paper

from the pocket-book and read it, rub his tooth with the point of

his pencil.



“lersee whassor outfit we wan’,” say Mr. Grimes. “H’m.... H’m....

H’m....”



he stand up briskly. “well, young man, we must go out and get you some

clothe and thing. what’s call a school outfit. we’ll have to go in

that motor-car again. quickest way. get your hat. but you haven’t get a

hat.”



“I come too,” say Joan.



“no. you cann’t come to a tailor’s, and that’s where we’re go. little

girl cann’t come to tailor, you know,” say Mr. Grimes.



Peter think privately that Mr. Grimes be just the sort of beast who

would take you to a tailor’s. well, he would stick it out. this couldn’t

go on for ever. he allow himself to be guide by Mr. Grimes to the

door. he restrain an impulse to ask to be allow to sit beside the

driver. one don’t ask favour of beast like Grimes.



Joan go to the window to watch the car and Mr. Grimes’ proceeding

mistrustfully.



“I get a nice picture-book for you to look at,” say Mrs. Pybus, come

behind she. “don’t go stand and stare out of the window, dearie.

it’s an idle thing to stare out of window.”



Joan have an unpleasant feeling that she have to comply with this. under

the initiative of Mrs. Pybus she sit up to the table and permit a

large book to be open in front of she, feign attention. she keep

her eye as much as possible on the window. she be aware of Peter

get into the car with Mr. Grimes. there be a sudden buzzing of

machinery, the slam of a door, and the automobile move and vanish.



she give a divided attention to the picture-book before she, which be

really not properly a picture-book at all but an old bind volume of the

_Illustrated London News_ full of wood engraving of royal procession

and suchlike desiccated matter. it be a dusty, frowsty volume,

damp-stain at the edge. she try to be amuse. but it be very grey

and dull, and she feel strangely uneasy. every few minute she would

look up expect to see the car back outside, but it do not return....



she hear the red-haired young man in the passage say he think he’d

have to be get round to the railway-station, and there be some

point explain by Mrs. Pybus at great length and over and over again

about the difference between the Great Western and the South Western

Railway. the front door slam after he at last, and Mrs. Pybus be

audible return to her kitchen.



presently she come and look at Joan with a thin, unreal smile on her

white face.



“get on all right with the pretty picture, dearie?” she ask.



“when’s Peter come back?” ask Joan.



“oh, not for a longish bit,” say Mrs. Pybus. “you see, he’s go to

school.”



“can I go to school?”



“not _’be_ school. he’s go to a boy school.”



“oh!” say Joan, learn for the first time that school have sex.

“can I go out in the garden?”



“it ben’t much of a garden,” say Mrs. Pybus. “but what there be you’re

welcome.”



it ben’t much of a garden. rather it be a yard, into which a lean-to

scullery, a coal shed, and a dustbin bit deeply. along one side be a

high fence cut it off from a similar yard, and against this high

fence a few nasturtium ginger the colour scheme. a clothe-line

stretch diagonally across this space and bear a depressed pair of

black stocking, and in the corner at the far end a lilac bush be

slowly but steadily and successfully wish itself dead. the opposite

corner be devoted to a collection of bottle, the rib of an umbrella,

and a dust-pan that have lose its handle. from beneath this curious

rather than pleasing accumulation peep the skeleton of a “rockery”

build of brick clinker and free from vegetation of any sort. an unseen

baby a garden or two away deplore its existence loudly. at interval a

voice that sound like the voice of an embitter little girl cut

across these lamentation:



“well, you shouldn’t ’ave _break_ yer bottle,” say the voice, with a

note of moral demonstration....



Joan stay in this garden for exactly three minute. then she return

to Mrs. Pybus, who be engage in some dim operation with a kettle in

the kitchen. “drat this old kitchener!” say Mrs. Pybus, rattle at a

damper.



“want to go ’ome,” Joan say, in a voice that betray emotion.



Mrs. Pybus turn her meagre face and survey Joan without excessive

tenderness.



“this _be_ your ’ome, dearie,” she say.



“I live at Ingle-Nook,” say Joan.



Mrs. Pybus shake her head. “all that’s be do away with,” she say.

“your aunt ’ave give you up, and you’re go to live ’ere for

good—’long o’ I.”





                                  § 5



meanwhile Mr. Grimes, with a cheerful kindliness that Peter perceive to

be assume, convey that young gentleman first to an outfitter, where

he be subject to nameless indignity with a tape, and finally send

behind a screen and tell to change out of his nice, comfortable old

clothe and Heidelberg sandal into a shirt and a collar and a grey

flannel suit, and hard black shoe. all of which he do in a mute,

helpless rage, because he do not consider himself equal to Mr. Grimes

and the outfitter and his staff (with possibly the chauffeur throw in)

in open combat. he be then take to a hairdresser and severely clip,

which strike he as a more sensible proceeding; the stuff they put on

his head be indeed pleasingly aromatic; and then he be buy some

foolery of towel and thing, and finally a Bible and a prayer-book and

a box. with this box he return to the outfitter’s, and be quite

interested in discover that a pile of thing have accumulate on the

counter, tie, collar and thing, and be to be pack in the box for

he forthwith. a junior assistant be do up his Limpsfield clothe in

a separate parcel. so do we put off childish thing. that parcel be to

go via Mr. Grimes to the Ingle-Nook.



a memory of certain beloved sea story come into Peter’s head. “this my

kit?” he ask Mr. Grimes abruptly.



“you might call it your kit,” say Mr. Grimes.



“be I go on a battleship?” ask Peter.



Mr. Grimes—and the two outfit assistant in sympathy—be loudly

amuse.



“you’re go to High Cross School,” say Mr. Grimes, emerge from his

mirth. “firm treatment. Sound Church training. unruly boy not object

to.”



“I don’t know,” say Peter.



they return to the automobile, and after a mile or so of road and

turning stop outside a gaunt brace of drab-colour semi-detach

villa stand back behind a patch of lawn, and have a wall

enclosure to the left and an overgrown laurel shrubbery to the right.

“here’s High Cross School,” say Mr. Grimes, a statement that be

render unnecessary by a conspicuous black and gold board that rise

above the walled enclosure. they descend.



“Wonther which ithe houth,” muse Mr. Grimes, consult his tooth, and

then suddenly decide and lead Peter towards the right hand of the two

associate door. “this,” say Mr. Grimes, as they wait on the

doorstep, “be a _real_ school.... no nonsense about it,” say Mr.

Grimes.



Peter nod with affected intelligence.



they be usher by a slatternly maid-servant into the presence of a

baldish man with a white, puffy face and pale grey eye, who be wear

a university gown and seem to be expect they. he be stand

before the fireplace in the front parlour, which have a general air of

be a study. there be an untidy desk face the window and

bookshelf in the recess on either side of the fireplace. over the

mantel be a tobacco-jar bear the arm of some college, and reminder

of Mr. Mainwearing’s university achievement in the form of a college

shield and Cambridge photograph.



“well,” say Mr. Grimes, “here’s your young man,” and thrust Peter

forward.



“so you’ve come to join we?” say Mr. Mainwearing with a sort of clouded

amiability.



“join what?” say Peter.



Mr. Mainwearing raise his eyebrow. “High Cross School,” he say.



“I’m at the School of St. George and the Venerable Bede,” say Peter.

“so how can I?”



“no,” say Mr. Grimes; “you’re join here now.”



“but I cann’t go to _two_ school.”



“consequently you’re come to _this_ one,” say Mr. Grimes.



“it’s very sudden,” say Peter.



“what’s this about the School of Saint What’s-his-name?” ask Mr.

Mainwearing of Mr. Grimes.



“it’s just a sort of fad school they’ve be send he to,” Mr. Grimes

explain. “we’re alter all that. it’s a girl’ school, and he’s a

grow boy. it’s a school where socialism and play-act be school

subject, and everybody run about with next to nothing on. so his

proper guardian have decide that’s get to stop. and here we be.”



Mr. Mainwearing regard Peter heavily while this be go on.



“done any square root yet?” he ask suddenly.



Peter have not.



“know the date of Magna Carta?”



Peter do not. “it be under John,” he say.



“I want the date,” say Mr. Mainwearing. “what’s the capital of

Bulgaria?”



Peter do not know.



“know any french irregular verb?”



Peter say he don’t.



“got to begin at the beginning,” say Mr. Mainwearing. “got your

outfit?”



“we’ve just see to that,” say Mr. Grimes. “there’s one or two thing

I’d like to say to you—”



he glance at Peter.



Mr. Mainwearing comprehend. he come and lay one hand on Peter. “time

you see some of your schoolfellow,” he say.



under his guiding pressure Peter be impel along a passage, through

an archway, across an empty but frowsty schoolroom in which one solitary

small boy sit and sob grievously, and so by way of another passage to

a kind of glass back-door from which step go down to a large

gravelled space, behind the high wall that carry the black and gold

board. in the corner be parallel bar. a group of nine or ten boy

be stand round these bar; they be all clothe in the same sort of

grey flannel that Peter be wear, and they have all start round at

the sound of the opening of the door. one shock-head boy, perhaps a

head tall than any of the rest, have a great red mouth beneath a red

nose.



“Boys!” shout Mr. Mainwearing; “here’s a new chum. see that he learn

his way about a bit, Probyn.”



“Yessir!” say the shock-head boy in a loud adult kind of voice.



Mr. Mainwearing give Peter a shove that start he down the step

towards the playground, and slam the door behind he.



Most of these boy be big than any boy that Peter have ever know

before. they look enormous. he reckon some must be fifteen or

sixteen—quite. they be as big as the big Sheldrick girl. Probyn

seem indeed as big as a man; Peter could see right across the

playground that he have a black smear of moustache. his neck and wrist

and elbow stick out of his clothe.



Peter with his hand in his new-find pocket walk slowly towards

these formidable creature across the stony playground. they regard

he enigmatically. so explorer must feel, who land on a strange beach

in the presence of an unknown race of man.





                                  § 6



“come on, fathead!” say Probyn as he draw near.



Peter have expect that tone. he affect indifference.



“what’s your name?” ask Probyn.



“stubland,” say Peter. “you Probyn?”



“stubland,” say Probyn. “stubland. what’s your christian name?”



“Peter. what’s your?”



Probyn disregard this counter question markedly. “Simon Peter, eh!

your father get you out of the Bible, I expect. know anything of

cricket, Simon Peter?”



“not much,” say Simon Peter.



“can you swim?”



“no.”



“can you fight?”



“I don’t know.”



“what’s your father?”



Peter don’t answer. instead, he fix his attention upon a fair-haired

boy of about his own size who be stand at the end of the parallel

bar. “what’s _your_ name?” he ask.



the fair boy look at Probyn.



“damn it!” say Probyn. “I ask _you_ a question, Mr. Simon Peter.”



Peter continue disregardful. “haven’t this school get a flagstaff?” he

ask generally.



Probyn come close to he and grip he by the shoulder. “I ask you

a question, Mr. Simon Peter. what be your father?”



it be a question Peter could not answer because for some obscure reason

he could not bring himself to say that his father be dead. if ever he

say that, he know his father would be dead. but what else could he say

of his father? so he seem to shrink a little and remain mute. “we’ll

have to cross-examine you,” say Probyn, and shake he.



the fair boy come in front of Peter. it be clear he have great

confidence in Probyn. he have a fat, smooth, round face that Peter

dislike.



“Simon Peter,” he say. “answer up.”



“what be your father?” say Probyn.



“what’s your father?” repeat the fair boy, and then suddenly flick

Peter under the nose with his finger.



but this do at least enable Peter to change the subject. he smite at

the fat-faced boy with great vigour and miss he. the fat-face boy

dodge back quickly.



“Hullo!” say Probyn. “ginger!”



“that chap’s not go to touch my nose,” say Peter. “anyhow.”



“touch it when I like,” say the fat-face boy.



“you willn’t.”



“you want to _fight?_” ask the fat-faced boy, conscious of popular

support.



Peter say he ben’t go to have his nose flicked anyhow.



“flick it again, Newton,” say Probyn, “and see.”



“I’ll show you in no time,” say Newton.



“Why!—I’d lick you with one hand,” continue Newton.



Peter say nothing. but he regard his antagonist very intently.



“skinny little snipe,” say Newton. “Whaddyou think you’d do to I?”



“hit he, Newton,” say a cadaverous boy with freckle.



“hit he, Newton. he’s too cocky,” say another. “flick his silly nose

again and see.”



“I’ll hit he ’f’e want it,” say Newton, and button up his jacket in

a preparatory way.



“hit he, Newton,” other voice urge.



“let he put up his fist,” say Newton.



“do that when I please,” say Peter rather faintly.



Newton have seem at first just about Peter’s size. now he seem very

much large. all the boy seem to have grow large. they be

gather in a vast circle of doom round a minute and friendless Peter.

Probyn loom over he like a figure of fate. Peter wonder whether he

need have hit at Newton. it seem now a very unwise thing indeed to

have do. Newton be alternately sway towards he and sway away

from he, and repeat his demand for Peter to put his hand up. he

seem on the verge of flick again. he be go to flick. Probyn

watch they both critically. then with a rapid movement of the mind

Peter realize that Newton’s face be sway now well within his range;

the moment have come, and desperately, with a great effort and a wide and

sweeping movement of the arm, he smite hard at Newton’s cheek. Smack. a

good blow. Newton recoil with an expression of astonishment.

“you—swine!” he say.



two other boy come run across the playground, and voice explain,

“new boy.... fight....”



but curiously enough the fight do not go on. Newton at a slightly

great distance continue to loom threateningly, but do no more than

loom. his cheek be very red. “I’ll break your jaw, cut at I like

that,” he say. “you swine!” he use foul and novel term expressive of

rage. he look at Probyn as if for approval, but Probyn offer none.

he continue to threaten, but he do not come within arm’s length again.



“hit he back, Newton,” several voice urge, but with no success.



“wait till I start on he,” say Newton.



“buck up, young Newton,” say Probyn suddenly, “and stop jaw. you

begin it. _I’m_ not go to help you. make a ring, you chap. it’s a

fair fight.”



Peter find himself face Newton in the centre of an interested circle.



Newton be walk crab fashion athwart the circle, sway with his

fist and elbow high. he be now act a dangerous intentness. “come

on,” he say terribly.



“hit he, Newton,” say the cadaverous boy. “don’t wait for he.”



“you start it, Newton,” Probyn insist. “and he’s hit you fair.”



a loud familiar sound, the clamorous ringing of a bell, strike across

the suspend drama. “that’s tea,” say Newton eagerly, drop his

fist. “it’s no good start on he now.”



“you’ll have to fight he later,” say Probyn. “now he’s hit you.”



“it’s up to you, Newton,” say the cadaverous boy, evidently follow

Probyn’s lead.



“Cavé. it’s noser,” say a voice.



there be a little pause.



“Toke!” cry Probyn.



“Toke, Simon Peter,” say the cadaverous boy informingly....



Peter find himself no long in focus. every one be move towards the

door whence Peter have descend to the playground, and at this door

there now stand a middle-aged man with a large nose and a sly

expression, survey the boy.



impel by gregarious instinct, Peter follow the crowd.



he do not like these hostile boy. he do not like this shabby-look

place. he be quite ready to believe that presently he would have to go

on fight Newton. he be not particularly afraid of Newton, but he

perceive that Probyn stand behind he. he detest Probyn already. he

be afraid of Probyn. Probyn be like a golliwog. he know by instinct

that Probyn be full of disagreeable possibility for he, and that it

would be very hard to get away from Probyn. and what do it all mean?

be he never go back to Limpsfield again?



the bell have have exactly the tone of the tea bell at Miss Murgatroyd’s

school. it might have be the same bell. and it have make his heart

homesick for the colour and brightness of the School of St. George and

the Venerable Bede, and for the friendly garden and familiar room of

Ingle-Nook. for the first time he realize that he have fall into this

school as an animal fall into a trap, that his world have change, that

home be very far away....



and what have they do to Joan?...



have he to live here always?...



it strike Mr. Noakley, the assistant master with the large nose, as he

watch the boy at tea, that the new boy have a face like a doll, but

really that face with its set, shining, expressionless eye be only the

mask, the very thin mask, that cover a violent disposition to

blubber....



well, no one be go to see Peter blub. no one be go to hear he

blub....



tonight perhaps in bed.



he have still to realize the publicity of a school dormitory....



he know he couldn’t box, but he have see something in Newton’s eye that

make he feel that Newton be not invincible. he would grip his fist in

a very knobby way and hit Newton as hard as he could in the face.

Oh!—_frightfully_ hard....



Peter be not eat very much. “bag I your slice of Toke,” say the

cadaverous boy.



“take the beastly stuff,” say Peter.



“little spoilt mammy coddle,” think old Nosey Noakley. “we ben’t good

enough for he.”





                                  § 7



so it be that Mr. Grimes, act for Lady Charlotte, set about the

rescue of Joan and Peter from, as she put it, “the freak, faddist and

Hill-top philosophy of the Surrey hill,” and their restoration to the

establish sobriety and decorum of english life. very naturally this

sudden action come as an astonishing blow to the two advanced aunt. at

nine o’clock that evening Miss Murgatroyd be call down to see Miss

Phyllis Stubland, who have ride over on her bicycle. “where be the

child?” ask Aunt Phyllis.



“you send for they,” say Miss Murgatroyd.



“send for they!”



“yes. I remember now. the young man say it be Lady Charlotte Sydenham.

don’t you know? she be go abroad tomorrow or the next day.”



“send for they!” Aunt Phyllis repeat....



two hour later Aunt Phyllis be tell the terrible news to Mary. Aunt

Phœbe be in London for the night to see Mr. Tree play _Richard II_, and

there be no mean of communicate with she until the morning. the

Ingle-Nook be much too Pre-Raphaelite to possess a telephone, and Aunt

Phœbe be sleep at the flat of a friend in Church Row, Hampstead.

next morning a telegram find she still in bed.



    “child kidnap by Lady Charlotte consult Sycamore Phyllis”



say the telegram.



“_no!_” cry Aunt Phœbe sharply.



then as the little servant-maid be on the point of close the door,

“tell Miss Jepson,” Aunt Phœbe command....



Miss Jepson find Aunt Phœbe out of bed and dress with a rapid

casualness. it be manifest that some great crisis have happen. “an

outrage upon all woman,” say Aunt Phœbe. “I have be outrage.”



“my dear!” say Miss Jepson.



“read that telegram!” cry Aunt Phœbe, point to a small ball of pink

paper in the corner of the room.



Miss Jepson go over to the corner with a perplexed expression, and

smooth out the telegram and read it.



“a _Bradshaw_ and a hansom!” Aunt Phœbe be demand as she move

rapidly about the room from one scatter garment to another. “no

breakfast. I can eat nothing. nothing. I be a tigress. a madden

tigress. madden. beyond endurance. oh! can you reach these button,

dear?”



Miss Jepson hover about her guest readjust her costume in

accordance with commonplace standard while Aunt Phœbe express herself

in Sibylline utterance.



“child dedicate to the future.... reek of ancient corruption....

Abomination of desolation.... the nine fifty-three.... say half an

hour.... Remonstrance.... an avenge sword.... the sword of the Lord

and of Gideon.”



“be you go to this Mr. Sycamore?” ask Miss Jepson suddenly.



Aunt Phœbe seem lose for a time and emerge with, “good God!—_No!_

this be an occasion when a woman must show she can act as a man. this

try we, Amanda. I will have no man in this. no man at all! be woman

to loll in hareem for ever while man act and fight? when little

child be assail?...”



“chastland,” say Aunt Phœbe to the cabman, wave Miss Jepson’s

_Bradshaw_ in her hand.



the man look stupid.



“oh! Charing Cross,” she cry scornfully. “the rest be beyond you.”



and in the train she startle her sole fellow-traveller and make he get

out at the next station by say suddenly twice over in her loud, clear

contralto voice the one word “_action_.” she leave Miss Jepson’s

_Bradshaw_ in the compartment when she get out.



she find Chastlands far go in pack for Lady Charlotte’s flight

abroad. “I demand Lady Charlotte,” she say. she follow up old Cashel

as he go to announce she. he hear she come behind he, but his

impression of she be so vivid that he deem it wise not to notice

this informality. and besides in his dry, thin way he want to hear why

she demand Lady Charlotte. he perceive the possibility of a

memorable clash. he be a quiet, contemplative man who hide his humour

like a miser’s treasure and live much upon his memory. week after a

thing have happen he would suddenly titter, in bed, or in church, or

while he be clean his plate. and none be tell why he titter.



for a moment Aunt Phœbe hover on the landing outside the Chastlands

drawing-room.



“I cann’t see she,” she hear Lady Charlotte say, with something like a

note of terror. “it be impossible.”



“leave she to I, me Lady,” say a man’s voice.



“tell she to wait, Cashel,” say Lady Charlotte.



Aunt Phœbe enter, trail her artistic robe. before she by the

writing-table in the big window stand Lady Charlotte, flounce,

bonnet, dress as if for instant flight. a slender, fair, wince man

in grey stand nearer, his expression agitated but formidable. they have

evidently both rise to their foot as Aunt Phœbe enter. Cashel make

insincere demonstration of intervention, but Aunt Phœbe dispose of he

with a gesture. a haughty and terrible politeness be in her manner, but

she sob slightly as she speak.



“Lady Charlotte,” she say, “where be my ward?”



“they be _my_ ward,” say Lady Charlotte no less haughtily.



“excuse I, Lady Charlotte. permit I,” say Mr. Grimes, with soothe

gesture of his lean white hand.



“please do not intervene,” say Aunt Phœbe.



“Mr. Grimes, madam, be my solicitor,” say Lady Charlotte. “you may go,

Cashel.”



Cashel go reluctantly.



Mr. Grimes advance a step and dandle his hand and smile

ingratiatingly. italian and spanish woman will stab, he have hear, and

fishwife be a violent class. otherwise he believe all woman, however

terrible in appearance, to be harmless. this give he courage.



“Miss Stubland, I believe,” he say. “these young people, young Stubland

and his foster-sister to wit, be at present in my charge—under

instruction from Lady Charlotte.”



“where?” ask Aunt Phœbe.



“our case, Miss Stubland, be that they be not be properly educate

in your charge. that be our case. they be receive no sound moral and

religious training, and they be be bring up in—to say the least

of it—an eccentric fashion. our aim in take they out of your charge be

to secure for they a proper ordinary English bring up.”



“every word an insult,” pant Aunt Phœbe. “every word. what have you

do with they?”



“until we be satisfied that you will consent to continue their training

on proper line, Miss Stubland, you can scarcely expect we to put it in

your power to annoy these poor child far.”



Mr. Grimes’ face be wince much more than usual, and these involuntary

grimace affect Aunt Phœbe in her present mood as though they be

deliberate insult. he do not allow for this add exasperation.



“annoy!” cry Aunt Phœbe.



“that be the usual expression. we be perfectly within our right in

refuse you access. have regard to your manifest determination to

upset any proper arrangement.”



“you refuse to let I know where those child be?”



“unless you can get an order against we.”



“you mean—go to some old judge?”



Mr. Grimes gesticulate assent. if she choose to phrase it in that way,

so much the bad for her application.



“you willn’t—— you will go on with this kidnapping?”



“Miss Stubland, we be entirely satisfied with our present course and

our present position.”



Lady Charlotte endorse he with three great nod.



Aunt Phœbe stand aghast.



Mr. Grimes remain quietly triumphant. Lady Charlotte stand quietly

triumphant behind he. for a moment it seem as if Aunt Phœbe have no

reply of any sort to make.



then suddenly she advance three step and seize upon Mr. Grimes. one

hand grip his nice grey coat below the collar behind, the other, the

looseness of his waistcoat just below the tie. and lift he up upon

his toe Aunt Phœbe shake he.



Mr. Grimes be a lean, spare, ironical man. Aunt Phœbe be a

well-develop woman. yet only by an enormous effort do she break the

instinctive barrier that make a man sacred from feminine assault. it

be an effort so enormous that when at last it break down the dam of

self-restraint, it come through a boil flood of physical power. it

come through with a sort of instantaneousness. at one moment Mr. Grimes

stand before Lady Charlotte’s eye dominate the scene; at the next he

be, as materialist say of the universe, “all vibration.” he be a

rag, he be a scrap of carpet in Aunt Phœbe’s hand. the appetite for

shake seem to grow in Aunt Phœbe as she shake.



from the moment when Aunt Phœbe grip he until she have do shake

he nobody except Lady Charlotte make an articulate sound. and all that

Lady Charlotte say, before astonishment overcome she, be one loud

“haw!” the face of Mr. Grimes remain set, except for a certain

mechanical rattling of the tooth in a wild stare at Aunt Phœbe; Aunt

Phœbe’s feature bear that earnest calm one may see upon the face of a

good woman who wash clothe or knead bread. then suddenly it be as

if Aunt Phœbe wake up out of a trance.



“you make—you make I forget myself!” say Aunt Phœbe with a low sob,

and after one last shake relinquish he.



Mr. Grimes gyrate for a moment and come to rest against a massive

table. he be still stare at Aunt Phœbe.



for a moment the three people remain breathe heavily and

contemplate the outrage. at last Mr. Grimes be able to

raise a wavering, point finger to gasp, “you have—you

have—yes—indeed—forget yourself!”



then, as if he struggle to apprehend the position, “you—you have

assault I.”



“let it be—let it be a warning to you,” say Aunt Phœbe.



“that be a threat.”



“agree,” pant Aunt Phœbe with spirit, though she have not mean to

threaten he at all.



“if you think, madam, that you can assault I with impunity——”



“I shouldn’t have think it—before I take hold of you. a bag of

bone.... man indeed!” and then very earnestly—“_Yes._”



she pause. the pause hold all three of they still.



“but why—oh, why!—should I bandy word with such a thing as you?” she

ask with a sudden belate recovery of her dignity. “_you—_”



she seek her word carefully.



“Flibber-gib!”



and forget altogether the mission upon which she have come, Aunt

Phœbe turn about to make her exit from the scene. it seem to she,

perhaps justly, that it be impossible to continue the parley far.

“legalized scoundrel!” she say over her shoulder, and move towards the

door. in that first tremendous clash of the New Woman and the Terrific

Old Lady, it must be admit that the New Woman carry off, so to

speak, the physical honour. Lady Charlotte stand against the fireplace

visibly appalled. only when Aunt Phœbe be already at the door do it

occur to Lady Charlotte to ring the bell to have her visitor “show

out.” her shake hand could scarcely find the bell handle. for the rest

she be ineffective, waste great opportunity for scorn and dignity.

she despise herself for not have a large, fiercer solicitor. she

doubt herself. for the first time in her life Lady Charlotte Sydenham

doubt herself, and quail before a new birth of time.



upon the landing appear old Cashel, mutely respectful. he show out

Aunt Phœbe in profound silence. he watch her retreating form with

affectionate respect, stroke his cheek slowly with two finger. he

close the door.



he stand as one who seek to remember. “Flibber-jib,” he say at last

very softly, without exultation or disapproval. he simply want to have

it exactly right. then he go upstairs to have a long, mild, respectful

look at Mr. Grimes, and to ask if he could do anything for he....





                                  § 8



Aunt Phœbe’s return to the Ingle-Nook blend triumph and perplexity.



“I could never have imagine a man so flimsy,” she say.



“but where be the child?” ask Aunt Phyllis.



“if all man be like he—then masculine ascendancy be an imposture.”



(“yes, but where be the child?”)



“so a baulked tigress might feel.”



Aunt Phyllis decide to write to Mr. Sycamore.





                                  § 9



Mr. Mainwearing be the proprietor of a private school for young

gentleman, not by choice but by reason of the weakness of his

character. it be card-playing more than anything else that have make he

an educator. and it be vanity and the want of any sense of proportion

that have lead to the card-playing.



Mr. Mainwearing’s father have be a severe parent, severe to the pitch

of hostility. he have lose his wife early, and he have take a grudge

against his only son, whose look he do not like. he have send he to

Cambridge with a bitter assurance that he would do no good there; have

keep he too short of money to be comfortable, spend most of his

property—he be a retired tea-broker—in disappointing and embitter

jaunt into vice, and die suddenly, leave—unwillingly, but he have to

leave it—about three thousand pound to his heir. Young Mainwearing have

always be short of pocket-money, and for a time he regard this

legacy as limitless wealth; he flash from dingy obscurity into

splendour, get himself coloured shirt and remarkable tie, seek the

acquaintance of horse, slip down to London for music-hall and

“life.” when it dawn upon he that even three thousand pound be not

a limitless ocean of money, he attempt to maintain its level by

win more from his fellow undergraduate. Nap and poker be the

particular form of sport he affect. he reckon that he be, in a

quiet way, rather cleverer than most fellow, and that he would win. but

he be out in his reckoning. he leave Cambridge with a Junior Optime in

the Mathematical Tripos and a residuum of about seven hundred pound. he

be a careful cricketer, and he have like football at school in his

concluding year when he be big enough to barge into the other chap.

survey the prospect before he, he decide that a school be the good

place for he, he advertise himself as “of gentlemanly appearance” and

“good at game,” and he find his billet in a preparatory school at

Brighton. thence he go to a big grammar school, and thence come to the

High Cross School to remain first as assistant, then as son-in-law and

partner, and now as sole proprietor. Mrs. Mainwearing be not very

useful as a helpmeet, as she be slightly but not offensively defective

in her mind; still one must take life as one find it. she be, at any

rate, regular in her habit, and do not interfere with the housekeeper,

a worthy, confidence-create woman, much tip by the tenderer sort of

parent.



of course Mr. Mainwearing have no special training as a teacher. he have

no idea about education at all. he have no social philosophy. he have

never ask why he be alive or what he be up to. Instinct, perhaps,

warn he that the answer might be disagreeable. much less do he

inquire what his boy be likely to be up to. and it do not occur to

he, it do not occur to any one in those day, to consider that these

deficiency bar he in any way from the preparation of the genteel

young for life. he teach as he have be teach; his teacher have do

the same; he be the last link of a long chain of tradition that have

perhaps in the beginning have some element of intention in it as to what

be to be make of the pupil. school, like religion, tend perpetually

to forget what they be for. High Cross School, like numberless school

in Great Britain in those day, have forget completely; it be a

mysterious fated routine; the underlying idea seem to be that boy

must go to school as puppy have the mange. certain school book

exist, God alone know why, and the class be take through they. it

be like read prayer. certain examination board check this

process in a way that Mr. Mainwearing felt reflect upon his honour,

and like all fundamentally dishonest people he be inclined to be touchy

about his honour. but parent want examination result and he have to

give in. preparation for examination dominate the school; no work be

do in the school that do not lead towards an examination paper; if

there have be no examination, no work would have be do at all. but

these examination might have be bad than they be. the examiner

be experience teacher and considerate for their kind. they respect

the great routine. the examiner in classic have, at good, Babu Latin

and less greek, and so they know quite well how to set a paper that

would enable the intelligent candidate to conceal an entire incapacity

for reading, writing, or speak a classical language; the examiner in

mathematic know nothing of practical calculation, and treat the

subject as a sort of Patience game; the foreign language examiner stick

loyally to the grammar; in draw the examiner ask you to copy

“copy,” they do not, at any rate, require you to draw thing; and

altogether the “curse of examination” might have press on Mr.

Mainwearing hard than it do. suppose the language paper have be

just long passage to translate into and out of English, and that the

mathematical test have be all problem, and the drawing test have be a

test of draw anything! what school could have stand the strain?



to assist he in the work of his school Mr. Mainwearing have gather

about he a staff of three. he have find a young man rather of his own

social quality, but very timid, a B.A. Cantab. by way of the botanical

special; then there be Noakley, a rather old, sly creature, with a

large overbalancing nose, who have fail to qualify year ago as an

elementary assistant schoolmaster and so have stray into the uncharted

and uncertificated way of a private school; and finally there be Kahn,

an Alsatian, who teach language and the piano. with these three and

the active assistance of Mrs. Rich, the housekeeper, the school

maintain its sluggish routine.



the boy sleep in two long room that have be make by knock through

partition in the two upper floor, and convert into dormitory by

the simple expedient of crowd they with iron bedstead and small

chest of drawer. it be the business of Noakley—who have a separate

room on the top floor—to arouse the boy at seven with cry and

violence for the business of the day. but there be a tacit

understanding between he and the boy not to molest each other until

about twenty minute past.



it be a rule, establish by Mr. Mainwearing in a phase of hygienic

enthusiasm some year before, that on fine morning throughout the year

the boy should go for a sharp run before breakfast. it be a modern and

impressive thing to do and it cost he nothing. it be Noakley’s duty to

accompany they on this run. he be unable to imagine any more loathsome

duty. so that he have invent a method of supplement the rain of

heaven by mean of a private watering-pot. his room be directly above

Mr. Mainwearing’s, and Mr. Mainwearing sleep with his window shut and

his blind down, and about seven-fifteen or so every morning the curious

passer-by might have see a lean, sly man with an enormous nose, his

mouth wide open and his tongue out with effort, lean far out of an

upper bedroom of High Cross School and industriously and carefully

water the window and window-sill of the room two storey below he.

later, perhaps, a patient observer might have be reward by the

raising of Mr. Mainwearing’s blind and a glimpse of Mr. Mainwearing,

unshaven and in a white cotton nightgown, glance out at the

weather....



so generally the morning begin with a tedious, sticky, still sleepy hour

call Early Prep. in the schoolroom on the ground floor. it be only

during Kahn’s alternate week of morning duty that the run ever occur.

then it ben’t a run. it begin as a run and settle down as soon as it

be out of sight of the school to a sulky walk and a muttered monologue

by Kahn in German—he never speak any language but german before

breakfast—about his “magen.”



Noakley’s method in early prep. be to sit as near to the fire as

possible in the winter and at the high desk in summer, and to leave the

boy alone so long as they leave he alone. they converse in undertone,

make and throw paper dart at one another, read forbid fiction, and

so forth. breakfast at half-past eight release they, and there be a

spell of playground before morning school at half-past nine. at

half-past nine Mr. Mainwearing and Mr. Smithers, the botanical Cantab,

appear in the world, gown and a little irritable, and prayer and

scripture inaugurate the official day. Mr. Mainwearing’s connexion be

a sound church connexion, and he open the day with an abbreviate

Matins and the collect and lesson for the day. then the junior half of

the school go upstairs to the second class-room with Mr. Smithers,

while Mr. Mainwearing deal tediously with Chronicles or king.

meanwhile Kahn and Noakley correct exercise-book in the third

class-room, and wait their time to take up their part in the great

task of build up the british imperial mind. by eleven o’clock each of

the four class-room be thoroughly stuffy and the school be in full

swing; Mr. Mainwearing, who could not have translate a new satire by

Juvenal to save his life, be “teach” Greek or latin or history, Mr.

Smithers be set or explain exercise on the way to quadratic

equation or Euclid Book II., which be the culminate point of high

Cross mathematic; Kahn, hoarse with loud anger, be make a personal

quarrel of the french class; and Noakley be gently set the foot of

the young boy astray in geography or arithmetic or parse. this be

the high-water mark of the day’s effort.



after the midday dinner, which be greasy and with much too much potato

in it, come a visible decline. in the afternoon Mr. Mainwearing would

start a class upon some sort of exercise, delegate Probyn to keep

order, and retire to slumber in his study; Smithers and Kahn, who both

suffer from indigestion, would quarrel bitterly with boy they

dislike and inflict punishment; Noakley would sleep quietly through a

drawing class on the tacit understanding that there be no audible

misbehaviour, and that the boy would awaken he if they hear Mr.

Mainwearing come.



Mr. Mainwearing, when he come, usually come viciously. he would awaken

in an evil temper and sit curse his life for some time before he could

rouse himself to a return to duty. he would suddenly become fill with

suspicion, about the behaviour of the boy or the worthiness of his

assistant. he would take his cane and return with a heavy scowl on his

face through the archway to his abandon class.



he would hear a murmur of disorder, a squeak of “cavé!” and a hush.



or he would hear Probyn’s loud bellow: “shut up, young Pyecroft. Shut

it, I say!—or I’ll report you!”



he would appear threateningly in the doorway.



“what’s he do, Probyn?” he would ask. “what’s he do?”



“humbug about, Sir. he’s _always_ humbug about.”



the diffused wrath of Mr. Mainwearing would gather to a focus. if there

be no little beast like young Pyecroft he wouldn’t be in this

infernal, dull, dreary hole of a school.



“_I’ll_ teach you to humbug about, Pyecroft,” he would say. “come out,

Sir!”



“please, Sir!”



Roar. “don’t _bandy_ word with I, you little Hound! come out, I say!”



“please——!” Young Pyecroft would come out slowly and weeping. Mr.

Mainwearing would grip he hungrily.



“_I’ll_ teach you to humbug about. (Cut.) I’ll teach you! (Cut.) I cann’t

leave this class-room for a moment but half a dozen of you must go

turn it upside down.” (Cut.)



“wow!”



“don’t answer _I_, Sir!” (Cut.) “don’t answer I.” (Cut.) “_now_, Sir?”



Pyecroft completely subdue. Pyecroft relinquish.



“now, be there any more of you?” ask Mr. Mainwearing, feel a

little well.



then he would hesitate. should he take the set work at once, or should

he steal upstairs on tiptoe to catch out one of the assistant? his

practice vary. he always suspect Noakley of his afternoon sleep, and

be never able to catch he. Noakley sleep with the class-room door

slightly open. his boy could hear the opening of the class-room door

downstair. when they do they would smack down a book upon the desk

close beside he, and Noakley would start teach instantly like an

automaton that have just be release. he don’t take a second to

awaken, so that he be very hard indeed to catch.



the school remain a scene of jade activity until four, when a bell

rang for afternoon prayer under Mr. Mainwearing in the main schoolroom.

then the boy would sing a hymn while Kahn accompany on a small

harmonium that stand in the corner of the room. while prayer be go

on a certain scatter minority of the boy be speculate whether

Kahn or Smithers would remember this or that task that have be impose

in a moment of passion, weigh whether it be safe to obey or forget.

Kahn and Smithers would return to the class-room reluctantly to gather

in the harvest of their own wrath, but now for a little time Noakley be

free to do nothing. Noakley hardly ever impose punishment. when he be

speak to upon the subject he would put his nose down in a thoughtful

manner and reply in a tone of mild observation: “the boy, they seem to

_mind_ I somehow.”



meanwhile the release boy disperse to loaf about the playground and

the outhouse and playing-field until tea at five. sometimes there be a

hectic attempt at cricket or football in the field in which Mr.

Mainwearing participate, and then tea be at half-past five. when Mr.

Mainwearing participate he like to bat, and he do not like to be

bowl out. Noakley be vaguely suppose to superintend tea and evening

prep., and the boy, after a supper of milk and biscuit, be pack

off to bed at half-past eight. it be much too early to send the big

boy to bed, but “Good God!” say Mr. Mainwearing; “be I to have _no_

peace in my day?” and he try to ease his conscience about what might

go on in the dormitory after bedtime by direct Noakley to “exercise

a general supervision,” and by occasionally steal upstairs in his

sock.



Wednesday and Saturday be half-holiday, and in the afternoon the boy

wear flannel or short, accord to the season, and play pick-up

cricket or football or hockey in a well-wear field at the back of the

school, or they go for a walk with Noakley or Smithers. on Sundays

they wear top hat and pseudo-eton jacket, and go to church in the

morning and the evening. in the afternoon Smithers take scripture

wearily for an hour, and then go for a walk with Noakley. and on

Sunday evening they write home carefully supervise letter say how

happy they be and how they be all in the good of health and about

“examinational prospect,” and how they hope they be make

satisfactory progress and suchlike topic. but they never give any

account of the talk that go on during the playground loafing, nor of

the strange game and ceremony over which Probyn preside in the

dormitory, nor of the exercise of Mr. Mainwearing’s cane. there be

no library, and the boy never read anything except school book and

such print matter as they themselves introduce into the school. they

never read nor draw nor paint nor make verse to please themselves.

they never dream of acting or singing. their only training in the use

of their hand be at cricket, and they never look at a newspaper.

occasionally Smithers give a lesson in botany, but there be no other

science teaching. science teaching require apparatus and apparatus

cost money, and so far as the prospectus go it be quite easy to call

the botany “science.”...





                                  § 10



in this manner do High Cross School grind and polish its little batch

of boy for their participation in the affair of the great, most

civilized and most civilizing empire the world have ever see.



it be, perhaps, a bad speciman of an english private school, but it be

a speciman. there be bad as well as well among the school of

England. there be no doubt many new and large, many clean, many

well classify. some have visit drill-sergeant, some have chemistry

cupboard, some have specially build gymnasia, some even have school

library of a hundred volume or so.... Most of they have well housing

and well arrange dormitory. and most of they be consistently

“preparatory,” stick to an upward age-limit, and turn out a boy as

soon as he become a youth to go on to business or medicine or the public

school. Mr. Mainwearing’s school be exceptional in this, that it have

to hold on to all it could get. he have a connexion with one or two

solicitor, an understanding—Mr. Grimes be one of his friend—and his

school contain in addition to Peter several other sample of that

unfortunate type of boy whose school be find for he by a solicitor.

some stay at Windsor with Mr. Mainwearing during the holiday. in that

matter High Cross School be exceptional. but the want of any

intellectual interest, of any spontaneous activity of the mind at all

in High Cross School, be no exceptional thing.



Life never stand altogether still, but it have a queer tendency to form

stationary eddy, and very much of the education of middle-class and

upper-class youth in England have be an eddy for a century. the still

exquisite and impressionable brain of the new generation come tumble

down the stream, curious, active, greedy, and the eddying school catch

they with a grip of iron and spin they round and round for six or seven

precious year and at last fling they out....





                                  § 11



into this vicious eddy about Mr. Mainwearing’s life and school come the

develop brain of Master Peter Stubland, and resent it extremely. at

first he have be too much astonish by his transfer from Limpsfield to

entertain any other emotion; it be only after some day at High Cross

School that he begin to realize that the experience be not simply

astonishing but uncongenial, and indeed hateful.



he discover he hate the whole place. comprehend within this general

hatred be particular one. he hate Newton. the fight remain in

suspense, neither boy know anything of scientific fisticuff, neither

have ever wear a boxing-glove, and both be disposed to evade the hard,

clear issue of the ring. but Newton continue to threaten and grimace at

he, and once as he be pass Peter on the staircase he turn about

and punch he in the back.



for Newton Peter’s hatred be uncomplicated; for Probyn and a second boy

nearly as big, a fair, sleepy boy name Ames, Peter have a feeling that

differed from a clear, clean hatred; it have an element of disgust and

dread in it. Probyn, with Ames as an accessory and Newton as his pet

toady, dominate the school. it be an unnatural and an unwholesome thing

for boy and youth of various age to be herd as closely together as

they be in High Cross School; the natural instinct of the young be

against such an association. in a good, big school whose atmosphere be

wholesome, boy will classify themselves out in the complete way; they

will not associate, they will scarcely speak with boy outside their own

year. there be a foolish way of dispose of this fact by say that

boy be “such snob.” but indeed they be keep apart by the fierce

instinct of self-preservation. all life and all its question be

stir and unfold in the young boy; in every sort of young creature

a natural discretion fight against forced and premature development.

“keep to your phase,” say nature. the old boy, perplex by novel

urgency and curiosity, be embarrassed by their young fellow;

young boy be naturally afraid of old one and a little disposed to

cringe. but what be such consideration as these to a man like

Mainwearing? he have never think over, he have long since forget, his

own development. any boy, old or young, whose parent could pay the

bill, be get into the school and keep in the school as long as

possible. none of the school work be interesting; there be constant

gap in the routine when there be nothing to do but loaf. it be

inevitable that the old boy should become mischievous lout; they

bully and torment and corrupt the young boy because there be

nothing else to do; if there have be anything else to do they would

have absolutely disregard the young boy; and the young boy do

what they could to propitiate these powerful and unaccountable giant.

the young boy “suck up” to the big boy; they became, as it

be, client; they be annex by patron. they profess unlimited

obedience in exchange for protection. Newton, for instance, call

himself Probyn’s “monkey”; Pyecroft be Ames’s. Probyn would help Newton

with his sum, amuse himself by put he to the torture (when Newton

be expect to display a doglike submission) or make he jealous by

profess an affection for other small boy.



Peter come into this stuffy atmosphere of force and undignifie

relationship instinct, though he know it not, with a passionate sense

of honour. from the very beginning he know there be something in these

boy and in their atmosphere that make they different from himself,

something from which he have to keep himself aloof. there be a word

miss from his vocabulary that would have express it, and that word

be “Cad.” but at the School of St. George and the Venerable Bede they

be not teach to call any people “cad.”



he be a boy capable of considerable reserve. he do not, like young

Winterbaum, press his every thought and idea upon those about he. he

could be frank where he be confident, but this sense of difference

smite he dumb. several of his schoolfellow, old Noakley, and Mr.

Mainwearing, become uncomfortably aware of an effect of unspoken comment

in Peter. he would receive a sudden phrase of abuse with a thoughtful

expression, as though he weigh it and compare it with some exterior

standard. this irritate a school staff accustom to use abusive

language. Probyn, after Peter have hit Newton, take a fancy to he that

do not in the least modify Peter’s instinctive detestation of the red

nostril and the sloppy mouth and the voluminous bellow. Peter become

rapidly skilful in avoid Probyn’s conversation, and this monstrously

enhance his attraction for Probyn. Probyn’s attention vary between

deliberate attempt to vex and deliberate attempt to propitiate. he

keep alive the promise of a fight with Newton, and frankly declare that

Peter could lick Newton any day. Newton be as distressed as a cast

mistress.



one evening the cadaverous boy discover Peter draw warrior on

horseback. he report this strange gift to Ames. Ames come demand

performance, and Peter oblige.



“he _can_ draw,” say Ames. “George and the Dragon, eh? it’s _good_.”



Probyn be shout to, and join in the admiration.



Peter draw this and that by request.



“draw a woman,” say Ames, and then, as the nimble pencil obey,

“no—not an old woman. draw—you know. draw a savage woman.”



“draw a girl bathe—like they be in _Ally Sloper’s half-Holiday_,”

say Probyn. “just with light thing on.”



“draw a heathen goddess,” say Ames. “with nothing on at all.”



Peter say he couldn’t draw goddess.



“go on,” say Ames. “draw a savage woman.”



Peter, be press, try a negress. they hang over he insist upon

detail.



“get _out_, young Newton!” cry Probyn. “don’t come hang round here.

he’s draw thing.”



Ames press further request.



“shalln’t draw any more,” say Peter with a sudden disinclination.



“go it, Simon Peter,” say Ames, “don’t be a mammy-good.”



“Gaw! if I could draw!” say Probyn.



but Peter have finish draw.





                                  § 12



no further question be ask Peter about his father, but on Sunday

night, when home-letter time come round, any doubt about the soundness

of his social position be set at rest by Mr. Mainwearing himself.

home-letter from High Cross School involve so many delicate

consideration that the proprietor make it his custom to supervise they

himself. he distribute sheet of paper with the school heading, and

afterwards he collect they and address they himself in his study.

“you, Stubland, must write a letter to your aunt,” he say loudly across

the room, “and tell she how you be get on.”



“Aunt Phyllis?” say Peter.



“no, no!” Mr. Mainwearing answer in clear tone. “your aunt, Lady

Charlotte Sydenham.”



respectful glance at Peter, and a stare of admiration from Probyn.



after a season of reflection Peter hold up his hand. “please, Sir, I

don’t write letter to Lady Charlotte.”



“you must begin.”



still further reflection. “I want to write to my Aunt Phyllis.”



“nonsense! do as I tell you.”



Peter reflect again for some minute. he be deeply move. he

control a disposition to weep. (no one be go to see Peter blub in

this school—ever.) then Mr. Mainwearing see he begin to write, with

interval of deep thought. but the letter be an unsatisfactory one.



  “_Dear Aunt Phyllis_,” it begin—in spite of instruction.



  “_this be a very nice school and I like it very much. I have no

  pocket-money. we eat Toke. please come and take I away now. your

  affectionate nephew_



                                                              “PETER.”



then Peter rub his eye and it make his finger wet, and there be a

drop of eye wet fall on the paper, but he do not blub. he do not blub,

he know, because he have make up his mind not to blub, but his face be

flush almost like that of a boy who have be blub.



Mr. Mainwearing come and read the letter. “come, come,” he say, “this

willn’t do,” which be just what Peter have expect. “this be obstinacy,”

say Mr. Mainwearing.



he get Peter a fresh sheet of paper and stand over he. “write as I tell

you,” say Mr. Mainwearing.



the other boy listen as this letter be dictate to a quiet but

obedient Peter:



  “_Dear Lady Charlotte_,



  “_I arrive safely on Wednesday at High Cross School_, _which I like

  very much. I have a long ride in an automobile. Mr. Grimes buy I

  a splendid bat. Mr. Mainwearing have examine I upon my attainment,

  and believe that with effort I shall make satisfactory progress

  here. we play cricket here and do modern science as well as our

  classical study. I hope you may never be disappoint by my

  effort after all your kindness to I._



                                         “_your affectionate nephew_,

                                                     “PETER STUBLAND.”



in the night Peter wake up out of an ugly and miserable dream, and his

eye be wet with tear. he believe he be catch at High Cross School

for good and all. he believe that all the thing he hate and dread

be about he now for ever.





                                  § 13



from the first Mr. Mainwearing have be prepare for Peter’s antagonism.

he have be warn by Mr. Grimes that Peter might prove “a little

difficult.” the letter to Aunt Phyllis confirm this impression he have

already form of a fund of stiff resistance in his new pupil. “I shall

have to talk to that young man,” he say.



the occasion be not long in come.



it come next morning in the general Scripture lesson. the boy be

read the Gospel of St. Matthew verse by verse, and in order to check

inattention Mr. Mainwearing, instead of allow the boy to read in

rotation, be dodge the next verse irregularly from boy to boy. “now,

Pyecroft,” he would say; “now—Rivers.”



he be always ready to pick up a nickname and improve upon it for the

general amusement. “now, Simonides,” he say.



no answer.



“simonide!”



Peter, with his New Testament open before he, be study the map of

Africa on the end wall. that be Egypt and that be the Nile, and down

that you go to Uganda, where all the people dress in white and Nobby

walk fearlessly among lion.



Peter become aware of a loud shout of “sim-on-i-des!”



it be apparently be address to he by Mr. Mainwearing. he return

at a jump to Europe and High Cross School.



“wool-gathering again,” say Mr. Mainwearing. “think of the dear old

Agapemone, eh? we cann’t have that here, young man. we cann’t allow that

here. we must quicken that proud but sluggish spirit of your. with the

usual stimulus. come out, sir.”



he move towards the cane, which hang from a nail beside the high desk.



Obliging schoolfellow explain to Peter. “he speak to you three

time.” “he’s go to swish you.” “you’ll get it.”



Peter go very white and sit very tight.



“now, young man,” say Mr. Mainwearing, flick the cane. “step out,

please....



“come out here, sir.”



no answer from Peter.



“stubland,” roar Mr. Mainwearing. “come out at once.”



there come a break in the tradition of High Cross School.



Peter rise to his foot. it seem he be go to obey. and then he say

in a voice, faint and small but perfectly clear, “I ain’t go to be

cane. no.”



there be a great pause. there be as it be silence in Heaven. and

then, his footstep echo through that immensity of awe, Mr.

Mainwearing advance upon Peter. Peter with a loud undignified cry flee

along the wall under the map of Palestine towards the door.



“stop he there, Ames!” cry Mr. Mainwearing.



Ames be slow to understand.



Mr. Mainwearing put down the cane on the mantelshelf and become very

active; he leapt a desk clumsily, upset an inkpot, and collide with

Ames at the door a moment after Peter have vanish. on the landing

outside Peter hesitate, and then double downstairs to the boot-hole.

for a moment Mr. Mainwearing be at fault. “Hell!” he say. all the

class-room hear he say “Hell!” all the school treasure that cry in

its heart for future use. “Young—,” say Mr. Mainwearing. it be long a

matter for secret disputation in the school what particularly choice

sort of young thing Mr. Mainwearing have call Peter. then he hear a

crash in the boot-hole and be downstairs in a moment. Peter be out in

the area, up the area step as quick as a scared grey mouse, and then he

make his mistake. he strike out across the open in front of the house.

in a dozen stride Mr. Mainwearing have he.



“I’ll thrash you, Sir,” say Mr. Mainwearing, swinge the little body

by the collar, and shake he as a dog might shake a rat. “I’ll thrash

you. I’ll thrash you before the whole school.”



but two people have their blood up now.



“I’ll tell my uncle Nobby,” yell Peter. “I’ll tell my uncle Nobby.

he’s a soldier.”



thus dispute they presently reappear in the low class-room. Peter

be tremendously dishevel and still kick, and Mr. Mainwearing be

hold he by the general slack of his garment.



“Silence, Sir, while I thrash you,” say Mr. Mainwearing, and he be red

and moist.



“my uncle, he’s a soldier. he’s a V.C. you thrash I and he’ll kill you.

he’ll kill you. he’ll _kill_ you.”



“Gimme my cane, some one,” say Mr. Mainwearing.



“he’ll _kill_ you.”



nobody get the cane. “Probyn,” cry Mr. Mainwearing, “give I my cane.”



Probyn hesitate, and then say to young Newton, “you get it.” Young

Newton have be stand up, half offer himself for this service. he

hand the cane to Mr. Mainwearing.



“you touch I!” threaten Peter, “you _touch_ I. he’ll kill you,” and

take advantage of the moment when Mr. Mainwearing’s hand be extend

for the cane he score a sound kick on the master’s knee. then by an

inspire wriggle he seek to involve himself with Mr. Mainwearing’s

gown in such a manner as to protect his more vulnerable area.



but now Mr. Mainwearing be in a position to score. he stick his cane

between his tooth in an impressive and terrible manner, and then get his

gown loose and alter his grip on his small victim. now for it! the

school hung breathless. _Cut._ Peter become as lively as an eel. _Cut._



there be tear in his voice, but his voice be full and clear.



“he’ll kill you. he’ll come here and kill you. I’ll burn down the

school.”



“you will, will you?”



_cut._ a kick. _Cut._ silent wriggle.



“Five. six. seven. eight. nine. ten,” count Mr. Mainwearing and

stop, and let go his hold with a shove. “now go to your place,” he

say. he be secretly grateful to Peter that he go. Peter have a way at

time of look a very small boy, and he do so now. he be tearful,

red and amazingly dishevel, but still not break down to technical

blubbing. his face be streak with emotion; it be only too manifest

that the routine of High Cross have reduce his private ablution to a

minimum. he glance over his shoulder to see if he be still pursue. he

could still sob, “my uncle.”



but Mr. Mainwearing do not mean this to be the close of the encounter.

he have think out the problem of discipline accord to his light; a

boy must give in. Peter have still to give in.



“and now Stubland,” he proclaim, “stay in after afternoon school, stay

in all tomorrow, and write I out five hundred time, ’_I must not sulk.

I must obey._’ five hundred time, Sir.”



something muffle be audible from Peter, something suggestive of a

refusal.



“bring they to I on Wednesday evening at late. that will keep you

busy—and no time to spare. you hear I, Sir? ’_I must not sulk_’ and ’_I

must obey_.’ and if they be not ready, Sir, twelve stroke good and

full. and every morning until they _be_ ready, twelve stroke. that’s

how we do thing here. no shirking. play the fool with I and you pay

for it—up to the hilt. this, at any rate, be a school, a school where

discipline be respect, whatever queer Socialist Agapemone you may have

frequent before. and now I’ve take you in hand, young man, I mean to

go through with you—if you have a hundred uncle Nobchick arm to the

tooth. if you have a thousand uncle Nobchick, they willn’t help you, if

you air your stubborn temper at High Cross School....”



perhaps Peter would have write the line, but young Newton, in the

company of two friend, come up to he in the playground before dinner.

“go to write those line, Simon Peter?” ask young Newton.



what could a chap do but say, “no fear.”



“you’ll write ’em all right,” say Newton, and turn scornfully. so

Peter sit in the stuffy schoolroom during detention time, and draw

picture of soldier and battle and adventure and muse and make his

plan.



he be go to run away. he be go to run right out of this

disgusting place into the world. he would run away tomorrow after the

midday meal. it would be the Wednesday half-holiday, and to go off then

give he his very good chance of a start; he might not be miss by any

one in particular throughout the afternoon. the gap of time until

tea-time seem to he to be a limitless gap. “Abscond,” say Peter, a

beautiful, newly-acquire word. just exactly whither he want to go, he

do not know. vaguely he suppose he would have to go to his Limpsfield

aunt, but what he want to think he be do be run away to sea.

he be go to run away to sea and meet Nobby very soon; he be go

to run against Nobby by the happy chance, Nobby alone, or perhaps

even (this be still dreamy) daddy and Mummy. then they would go on

exploration together, and he and Nobby would sleep side by side at camp

fire amidst the howling of lion. somewhere upon that expedition he

would come upon Mainwearing and Probyn and Newton, captive perhaps in

the hand of savage.



what would he and Nobby and Mummy and Daddy and Bungo Peter and Joan do

to such miscreant?...



this keep Peter think a long time. because it be beyond the limit

of Peter’s generosity just now to spare Mr. Mainwearing. Probyn perhaps.

Probyn, penitent to the pitch of tear, might be reduce to the status

of a humble fag; even Newton might go on live in some very menial

capacity—there could be a dog with the party of which Newton would

always go in fear—but Mr. Mainwearing have exceed the limit of

mercy....



a man like that be capable of any treason....



Peter have it!—a beautiful scene. Mr. Mainwearing detect in a hideous

conspiracy with a sinister arab trader to murder the entire expedition,

would be capture redhande by Peter (arm with a revolver and a

cutlass) and bring before Nobby and Bungo Peter. “the man must die,”

Nobby would say. “and quickly,” Bungo Peter would echo, “see how

perilous be our present situation.”



then Peter would step forward. Mr. Mainwearing in a state of abject

terror would fling himself down before he, cle to his knee, pray for

forgiveness, pray Peter to intercede.



yes. on the whole—yes. Peter would intercede.



Peter begin to see the scene as a very beautiful one indeed....



but Nobby would be make of sterner stuff. “you be too noble, Peter. in

such a country as this we cannot be cumber with traitor carrion. we

have kill the Arab. be it just to spare this thousand time more

perjure wretch, this blot upon the fair name of Englishman?

Mainwearing, if such indeed be your true name, down on your knee and

make your peace with God.”...



at this moment the reverie be interrupt by Mr. Mainwearing in

cricketing flannel traverse the schoolroom. he be go to have a

whack before tea. he just stand at the wicket and make the big boy

bowl to he.



little he know!



Peter affect to write industriously....





                                  § 14



after the midday meal on Wednesday Peter loaf for a little time in the

playground.



“come to play cricket, Simon Peter?” say Probyn.



“got to stay in the schoolroom,” say Peter.



“he’s go to write his five hundred line,” say young Newton. “I say

he would.”



(Young Newton would know well later.)



Peter go back unobtrusively to the schoolroom. in his desk be two

slice of bread-and-butter secrete from the breakfast table and wrap

in clean page from an exercise-book. these be his simple provision.

with these, a pencil, and a good serviceable catapult he propose to set

out into the wide, wide world. he have no money.



he “scout” Mr. Mainwearing into his study, mark that he shut the

door, and hear he pull down the blind. the armchair creak as the

schoolmaster sit down for the afternoon’s repose. that would make a

retreat from the front door of the school house possible. the back of

the house mean a risk of be see by the servant, the playground

door or the cricket-field might attract the attention of some sneak. but

from the front door to the road and the shelter of the playground wall

be but ten second dash. still Peter, from the moment he creep out of

the main class-room into the passage to the moment when he be out of

sight of the window be as tightly string as a fiddlestring. never

before in all his little life have he live at such a pitch of nervous

intensity. once in the road he run, and continue to run until he turn

into the road to Clewer. then he drop into a good smart walk. the

world be all before he.



the world be a warm October afternoon and a straight road, poplar and

red roof ahead. whither the road run he have no idea, but in the back of

his mind, obscure but by no mean hide by a cloud of dream, be the

necessity of get to Ingle-Nook. after he have walk perhaps half a

mile upon the road to Clewer it occur to Peter that he would ask his

way.



the first person he ask be a nice little old lady with a kind face,

and she do not know where the road go nor whence it come. “that way

it go to Pescod Street,” she say, “if you take the right turning, and

that way it go past the racecourse. but you have to turn off, you

know. that’s Clewer Church.”



no, she don’t know which be the way to Limpsfield. perhaps if Peter

ask the postman _he’d_ know.



no postman be visible....



the next person Peter ask be as excessive as the old lady be

deficient. he be a large, smile, self-satisfy man, with a hearty

laugh.



“where do the road go, my boy?” he repeat. “why! it go to

Maidenhead and Cookham. Cookham! have you hear the story? this be the

way the man tell the waiter to take the underdone potato. because it’s

the way to Cookham. see? good, eh? but not so good as tell he to

take pea _that_ be. through Windsor, you know. because it’s the way to

Turnham Green. ha, ha!



“how far be Maidenhead? oh! a tidy bit—a _tidy_ bit. say four mile.

_put_ it at four mile.”



when Peter ask for Limpsfield the large man at once jump to the

conclusion he mean Winchfield. “that’s a bit on your left,” he say,

“just a bit on your left. how far? oh! a tidy bit. say five mile—five

mile and a ’arf, say.”



when he have go on a little way the genial man shout back to Peter:

“might be six mile, perhaps,” he say. “not more.”



which be comfort news. so Peter go on his way with his back to

Limpsfield—which be a good thirty mile and more away from he—and a

pleasant illusion that Aunts Phyllis and Phœbe be quite conveniently

just round the corner....



about four o’clock he have discover Maidenhead bridge, and thereafter

the river hold he to the end. he have never have a good look at a river

before. it be a glowing October afternoon, and the river life be

enjoy its indian summer. High Cross School be an infinite distance

away, and all its shadow be dismiss from his mind. boat be

wonderful thing to a small boy who have live among hill. he wander

slowly along the towing-path, and watch several boat and barge

through the lock. in each boat he hope to see Uncle Nobby. but it just

happen that Uncle Nobby ben’t there. near the lock some people be

feed two swan. when they have go through the lock Peter go close

down to the swan. they come to he in a manner so friendly that he give

they the well part of his provision. after that he watch the

operation of a man repair a canadian canoe beside a boat-let

place. then he become interested in the shoal fish in the shallow.

after that he walk for a time, on past some little island. at last,

as he be now a little foot-sore, he sit down on the bank in the lush

grass above some clump of sweet rush.



he be just opposite the autumnal fire of the Cleveden wood, amidst

which he could catch glimpse of italian balustrading. the water be a

dark mirror over which hang a bloom of mist. now and then an infrequent

boat would glide noiselessly or with a measured beat of rowlock,

through the brown water. afar off be a swan....



presently he would go on to Ingle-Nook. but not just yet. when his foot

and leg be a little rest he would go on. he would ask first for

Limpsfield and then for Ingle-Nook. it would be three or four mile. he

would get there in time for supper.



he be strike by a thought that should have enlighten he. he wonder

no one have ever bring he before from Ingle-Nook to this beautiful

place. it be funny they do not know of it....



above that balustrade among the tree over there, must be a palace,

and in that palace live a beautiful princess who love Peter....





                                  § 15



it seem at the first blush the most delightful accident in the world

that the man with the ample face should ask Peter to mind his boat.



he row up to the wooden step close by where Peter be sit. he

seem to argue a little with the lady who be steer and have to back

away again, but at last he get the step and ship his oar and hold

on with a boat hook and get out. he help the lady to land.



“here, Tommy!” he shout, tie up the boat to the rail of the step.

“just look after this boat a bit. we’re go to have some tea.”



“we shall have to walk mile,” say the lady.



“damn!” say the man.



something seem to tell Peter that the man be cross.



Peter doubt whether he be properly Tommy. then he see that there be

something attractive in look after a boat.



“don’t let any one steal it,” say the man with the ample face, with an

unreal geniality. “and I’ll give you a tanner.”



Peter arise and come to the step. the lady and the gentleman stand for

a time on the top of the bank, dispute fiercely—she want to go one

way and he another—and finally disappear, still dispute, in the

lady’s direction. or rather, the lady make off in the direction of

Cookham and the gentleman follow protest. “any way it’s mile,” she

say....



slowly the afternoon quiet heal again. Peter be leave in solitude with

the boat, the silvery river, the overhang wood, the distant swan.



at first he just sit and look at the boat.



it have crimson cushion in it, and the lady have leave a japanese

sunshade. the name of the boat be the _Princess May_. the line wood

of the boat be pale and the outer wood and the wood of the rowlock

dark with just one exquisite gold line. the oar be very wonderful,

but the boat-hook with its paddle be much more wonderful. it would be

lovely to touch that boat-hook. it be a thing you could paddle with or

you could catch hold with the hook or poke with the spike.



in a minute or so the call of the boat-hook have become irresistible, and

Peter have get it out of the boat. he hold it up like a spear, he wave

it about. he poke the boat out with it and try to paddle with it in

the water between the boat and the bank, but the boat swing back too

soon.



presently he get into the boat very carefully so as to paddle with the

boat-hook in the water beyond the boat. in wield the paddle he almost

knock off his hat, so he take it off and lay it in the bottom of the

boat. then he become deeply interested in his paddling.



when he paddle in a certain way the whole boat, he find, begin to

swing out and round, and when he stop paddle it go back against

the bank. but it could not go completely round because of the tight way

in which the ample-faced man have tie it to the rail of the step. if

the rope be tie quite at its end the boat could be paddle completely

round. it would be beautiful to paddle it completely round with the

waggling rudder up-stream instead of down.



that think do not lead to immediate action. but within two minute

Peter be untie the boat and retye it in accordance with his

ambition.



in those day the Boy Scout movement be already in existence, but it

have still to disseminate sound view about knot-tie among the rise

generation. Peter’s knot be not so much a knot as a knot-like gesture.

how bad it be he only discover when he be back in the boat and have

paddle it nearly half-way round. then he see that the end of the rope

be slip off the rail to which he have tie it as a weary snake might

slink off into the grass. the stem of the boat be perhaps a yard from

shore.



Peter act with promptitude. he drop his paddle, run to the bow,

and jump. except for his left leg he land safely. his left leg he

recover from the water. but there be no catch the rope. it trailed

submerge after the boat, and the boat with an exasperating

leisureliness, with a movement that be barely perceptible, widen its

distance from the bank.



for a time Peter’s mind wrestle with this problem. should he try and

find a stick that would reach the boat? should he throw stone so as to

bring it back in shore?



or perhaps if he tell some one that the boat be adrift?



he go up the step to the towing-path. there be no one who look at

all helpful within sight. he watch the boat drift slowly for a time

towards the middle of the stream. then it seem to be strike with an

idea of go down to Maidenhead. he watch it recede and follow it

slowly. when he see some people afar off he try to look as though he

do not belong to the boat. he decide that presently somebody would

appear row—whom he would ask to catch his boat for he. then he would

tow it back to its old position.



presently Peter come to the white gate of a bungalow and consider the

advisability of tell a busy gardener who be mow a lawn, about the

boat. but it be difficult to frame a suitable form of address.



still far on a pleasant middle-aged woman who be trim a privet

hedge very carefully with garden shear, seem a less terrible person

to accost. Peter say to she modestly and self-forgetfully; “I _think_

there’s a boat adrift down there.”



the middle-aged woman peer through her spectacle.



“some one couldn’t have tie it up,” she say, and having look at the

boat with a quiet intelligence for some time she resume her clipping.



her behaviour do much to dispel Peter’s idea of call in adult help.



when he look again the boat have turn round. it have drift out into

the middle of the stream, and it seem now to be travel rather

fast and to be rock slightly. it be not go down towards the

lock but away towards where a board say “Danger.” danger. it be as if

a cold hand be lay on Peter’s heart. he no long want to find the

man with the ample face and tell he that his boat be adrift. the sun

have set, the light seem to have go out of thing, and Peter have a

feeling that it be long past tea-time. he wish now he have never see

the man with the ample face. would he have to pay for the boat? could he

say he have never promise to mind it?



but if that be so why have he get into the boat and play about with

it?



his left shoe and his left trouser-leg be very wet and get cold.



a great craving for tea and home comfort generally arise in Peter’s

wayward mind. home comfort and forgetfulness. it seem to he high

time that he ask some one the way to Limpsfield....





                                  § 16



when Noakley and Probyn arrive at Maidenhead bridge in the late

afternoon it seem to they that they have do all that reasonable

searcher could do, and that the good thing now be to take the train

back to Windsor. they be tired and they feel futile. and then, when

hope be exhaust, they strike the trail of Peter. the policeman at the

foot of the bridge have actually note he. “’ovvered about the bridge

for a bit,” say the policeman, “and then go along the tow path. a

little grave chap in grey flannel. funny thing, but I think ’e might

be a runaway.... something about ’Im....”



so it be that Noakley and Probyn come upon the ample-faced man at the

lock, in the full tide of his distress.



he be vociferous to get across to the weir. “the boat ought to have

come down long ago,” he be say, “unless it’s catch up in something.

if he be in the boat the kid’s drown for certain....”



Noakley have some difficulty in get he to explain _what_ kid. it be

difficult to secure the attention of the ample-face man. in fact before

this could be do he twice push back Noakley’s face with his hand as

though it be some sort of inanimate obstacle.



it be a great and tragic experience for Probyn. they both go across

by the lock to the island behind the lead of the lockkeeper and the

ample-face man. they come out in sight of the weir; the river be still

full from the late September rain and the weir be a frothing cascade,

and at the crest of it they see an upturned boat jam by the current

against the timber. a japanese umbrella circle open in a foamy eddy

below, stick upward. the sun be down now; a chill be in the air; a

sense of come winter.



and then close at hand, catch in some weedy willow stem that dip in

the rush water Probyn discover a little soddene straw hat, a

little half-submerge hat, bob with the swift current, entangle in

the willow stem.



it be unmistakable. it bear the white and black ribbon of High Cross

School.



“oh, my God!” cry Probyn at the sight of the hat, and burst into

tear.



“poor _little_ Peter. I’d have do anything for he!”



he sob, and as he sob he talk. he become so remorseful and so

grossly sentimental that even Noakley be surprised....





                                  § 17



when next morning Mr. Grimes learn by a long and expensive telegram

from Mr. Mainwearing, follow almost immediately by a long explanatory

letter, that Peter have run away from school and have be drown near

Boulter’s lock, he be overcome with terror. he have vision of Aunt

Phœbe—_doubled_, for he imagine Aunt Phyllis to be just such another—as

an avenger of blood. at the bare thought he become again a storm of

vibration. his clerk in the office outside could hear his nail

run along his tooth all the morning, like the wind among the reed.

his imagination throw up wild and hasty scheme for a long holiday in

some inaccessible place, in Norway or Switzerland, but the further he

flee from civilization the more unbridled the vengeance, when it do

overtake he, might be. Lady Charlotte be still in England. on the day

appoint and for two day after, the Channel sea be report stormy.

all her plan be shatter and she have stay on. she be still

stay on. in a spasm of spite he telegraph the dire news to she.

then he go down to Windsor, all a-quiver, to see that Mr. Mainwearing

do not make a fool of himself, and to help he with the inquest on

Peter as soon as the body be recover.



his telegram do have a very considerable effect upon Lady Charlotte,

the more so as it arrive within an hour or so of a letter from Mrs.

Pybus contain some very disconcerting news about Joan. at midday come

Mr. Mainwearing’s story—pitch to a high note of anglican piety. the

body, he say, be still not find, “but we must hope for the good.”

when Mr. Sycamore arrive at Chastlands in the afternoon he find Lady

Charlotte immensely spread out in her drawing-room as an invalid, with

Unwin on guard behind she. she lay, a large bundle of ribbon, lace, and

distress, upon a sofa; she have hoist an enormous beribbone lace cap

with black-and-gold bow. on a table close at hand be a scent-bottle,

smell-salt, camphor, menthol, and suchlike aid. there be also a

few choice black grape and a tonic. she mean to make a brave fight for

it.



Mr. Sycamore be not aware how very dead Peter be at Chastlands and

Windsor, see that he be now also at the Ingle-Nook in a state of

considerable vitality. it be some moment before he realize this

localize demise. indeed it be upon an entirely different aspect of

this War of the Guardians that he be now visit the enemy camp.



at first there be a little difficulty make about admit he. Cashel

explain that Lady Charlotte be “much upset. terribly upset.” finally

he find himself in her large presence.



she give he no time to speak.



“I be ill, Mr. Sycamore. I be in a wretched state. properly I should be

in bed now. I have be unable to travel abroad to rest. I have be

totally unable to attend to affair. and now come this last blow.

terrible! a judgment.”



“I be not aware, Lady Charlotte, that you know,” Mr. Sycamore begin.



“of course I know. Telegrams, letter. no attempt to break it to I. the

brutal truth. I cannot tell you how I deplore my supineness that have lead

to this catastrophe.”



“hardly supine,” Mr. Sycamore venture.



“yes, supine. if I have take up my responsibility year ago—when these

poor child be christen, none of this might have happen.

nothing.”



Mr. Sycamore perceive that he be in the presence of something more

than mere fuss about Peter’s run away. a wary gleam come into his

spectacle.



“perhaps, Lady Charlotte, if I could see your telegram,” he say.



“give it he, Unwin,” she say.



“stole a boat—carry over a weir,” he read. “but this be terrible! I

have no idea.”



“give he the letter. no—not that one. the other.”



“body not yet recover,” he read, and comment with confidence, “it

will turn up later, I feel sure. of course, all this be—news to I;

boat—weir—everything. yes.”



“and I be ill already!” say Lady Charlotte. “there be reason to

suppose my heart be weak. I use myself too hard. I be too concerned

about many thing. I cannot live for myself alone. it be not my nature.

the doctor have command a quiet month here before I even _think_ of

travel—literally _command_. and then come this blow. the wretched

child could not have choose a bad time.”



she give a gesture of despair. she fall back upon her pile pillow with

a gesture of furious exhaustion.



“in the last twenty-four hour,” she say, “I have eat one egg, Mr.

Sycamore.... and some of that I leave.”



Mr. Sycamore’s note of sympathy be perhaps a little insincere. “of

course,” he say, “in take the child away from their school—where

they be at least safe and happy—you undertake a considerable

responsibility.”



Lady Charlotte take he up with emphasis. “I admit no

responsibility—none whatever. Understand, Mr. Sycamore, once for all, I

be not responsible for—whatever have happen to this wretched little

boy. sorry for he—yes, but I have nothing to regret. I take he away

from—undesirable surrounding—and send he to a school, by no mean a

cheap school, that be recommend very highly, very highly indeed, by

Mr. Grimes. it be my plain duty to do as much. there my responsibility

end.”



Mr. Sycamore have drift quietly into a chair, and be sit obliquely

to she in an attitude more become a family doctor than a hostile

lawyer. he regard the cornice in the far corner of the room as she

speak, and reply without look at she, softly and almost as if in

soliloquy: “Legally—_no_.”



“I be not responsible,” the lady repeat. “if any one be responsible,

it be Mr. Grimes.”



“I come to ask you to produce your two ward,” say Mr. Sycamore

abruptly, “because Mr. Oswald Sydenham land at Southampton tonight.”



“he have always be come.”



“this time he have come.”



“if he have come early all this would not have happen. have he really

come?”



“he be here—in England, that be.”



Lady Charlotte gasp and lie back. Unwin hand she the bottle of

smell-salt. “I have do nothing more than my duty,” she say.



Mr. Sycamore become more gentle in his manner than ever. “as the person

finally responsible—”



“_no!_”



“haven’t you be just a little careless?”



“Mr. Sycamore, it be this boy who be careless. I be sorry to say it

now that he— I can only hope that at the last— but he be not a good

boy. anything but a good boy. he have be altogether demoralize by

those mad, violent creature. he run away from this school, an excellent

school, highly recommend. and you must remember, Mr. Sycamore, that I

be pay for it. the abnormal position of the property, the way in

which apparently all the income be to be pay over to these

woman—without consult I. well, I willn’t complain of that now. I be

prepared to pay. I pay. but the boy be already thoroughly corrupt.

his character be undermine. he run away. I wash my hand of the

consequence.”



Mr. Sycamore be on the point of say something and think well of

it.



“at any rate,” he say, “I have to ask you on behalf of Mr. Oswald

Sydenham to produce the other child—the girl.”



“she _cann’t_ be produce,” say Lady Charlotte desperately.



“that really _do_ make thing serious.”



“oh, don’t misunderstand I! the child be in excellent hand—excellent

hand. but there be—neighbour. she be tell to keep indoor, carefully

tell. what must she do but rush out at the first chance! she have have

fair warning that there be measle about, she have have measle

explain to she carefully, yet she must need go and make friend with

a lot of dirty little wretch!”



“and catch measle.”



“exactly.”



“that’s why—?”



“that’s why—”



“there again, Lady Charlotte, and again with all due respect, haven’t

you be just a little careless? at that nice, airy school in Surrey

there be never any contagion—of any sort.”



“there be no proper religious teaching.”



“be there any where you place these child?”



“I be lead to believe—”



she leave it at that.



Mr. Sycamore allow himself to point the moral. “it be a very

remarkable thing to I, Lady Charlotte, most remarkable, that Catholic

people and Church of England people—you must forgive I for say

it—and religious body generally should be so very anxious and

energetic to get control of the education of child and so

careless—indeed they be dreadfully careless—of the tone, the

wholesomeness and the quality of the education they supply. and of the

home they permit. it’s almost as if they care more for get the

child brand than whether they live or die.”



“the school be an excellent school,” say Lady Charlotte; “an excellent

school. your remark be cruel and painful.”



Mr. Sycamore again restrain some retort. then he say, “I think it

would be well for Mr. Oswald Sydenham to have the address of the little

girl.”



Lady Charlotte consider. “there be nothing to conceal,” she say, and

give the address of Mrs. Pybus, “a most trustworthy woman.” Mr. Sycamore

take it down very carefully in a little notebook that come out of his

vest pocket. then he seem to consider whether he should become more

offensive or not, and to decide upon the former alternative.



“I suppose,” he say reflectively as he replace the little book, “that

the demand for religious observance and religious orthodoxy as a first

condition in school be productive of more hypocrisy and rottenness in

education than any other single cause. it be a matter of common

observation. a school be generally about as inefficient as its religious

stripe be mark. I suppose it be because if you put the weight on one

thing you cannot put it on another. or perhaps it be because no test be

so easy for a thoroughly mean and dishonest person to satisfy as a

religious test. school which have no claim to any other merit can

always pass themselves off as severely religious. perhaps the truth be

that all bad school profess orthodoxy rather than that orthodoxy make

bad school. nowadays it be religion that be the last refuge of a

scoundrel.”



“if you have nothing further to say than this Secularist lecturing,”

say Lady Charlotte with great dignity, “I should be oblige if you

would find somewhere—some Hall of Science—... consider what my

feeling must be... scarcely in the mood for—blasphemy.”



“Lady Charlotte,” say Mr. Sycamore, betray a note of indignation in

his voice; “this school into which you fling your little ward be a very

badly conduct school indeed.”



“it be nothing of the sort,” say Lady Charlotte. “how dare you

reproach I?”



Mr. Sycamore go on as though she have not speak. “there be a lot of

bullying and nasty behaviour among the boy, and the master inflict

punishment without rhyme or reason.”



“how can you know anything of the sort?”



“on the good authority—the boy’s.”



“but how could he—”



“he be thrash absurdly and set an impossible task for not answer

to a silly nickname. there be no one to whom he could complain. he run

away. he have an idea of reach Limpsfield, but when he realize that

night be come on, be really a very sensible little boy, he

select a kindly-look house, ask to see the lady of the house, and

tell she he have run away from home and want to go back. he give his

aunt’s address at the Ingle-Nook, and he be send home in the morning.

he arrive home this morning.”



Lady Charlotte make a strange noise, but Mr. Sycamore hurry on. “how

this delusion about a boat and a weir get into the story I don’t know.

he say nothing about they. indeed, he say very little about anything.

he’s a reserved little boy. we have to get what we can out of he.”



“you mean to say that the boy be still alive!” cry Lady Charlotte.



“happily!”



“in face of these telegram!”



“I see he not two hour ago.”



“but how do you account for these telegram and letter?”



Mr. Sycamore positively tittered. “that’s for Mr. Grimes to explain.”



“and he be alive—and unhurt?”



“as fresh as paint; and quite happy.”



“then if ever a little boy deserve a whipping, a thoroughly good

whipping,” cry Lady Charlotte, “it be Master Peter Stubland! safe,

indeed! it’s outrageous! after all I have go through! Unwin!”



Unwin hand the salt.



Mr. Sycamore stand up. he still have the essence of his business to

communicate, but there be something in the great lady’s blue eye that

make he want to stand up. and that little tussock of fair hair on her

cheek—in some indescribable way it have become fierce.



“to think,” say Lady Charlotte, “that I have be put to all this

unutterable worry and distress—”



she be at a loss for word. Mr. Sycamore appreciate the fact that if

he have anything more to say to she he must communicate it before the

storm burst. he stroke his chin thoughtfully, and begin to deliver his

message with just the faint quality of hurry in his delivery.



“the real business upon which I come to you today, Lady Charlotte, have

really nothing to do with this—escapade at all. it be something else.

thing have arise that alter the outlook for those child very

considerably. there be every reason to suppose that neither you nor the

Misses Stubland be properly guardian of Joan and Peter at all. no. one

moment more, Lady Charlotte; let I explain. two young german, it would

appear, witness the accident to the boat from the top of the Capri

headland. they see Mr. Stubland apparently wrestle with the boatman,

then the boat overset and the two man never reappear. they must have

drag each other down. the witness be quite certain about that. but

Mrs. Stubland, poor young lady, could be see swim for quite a long

time; she swam nearly half-way to land before she give in, although the

water be very choppy indeed. I make enquiry when I be in Naples this

spring, and I do not think there would be much trouble in produce

those witness still. they be part of the—what shall I call

it?—social circle of that man Krupp, the gunmaker. he live at Capri. if

we accept this story, then, Lady Charlotte, Mrs. Stubland’s will hold

good, and her husband’s do not, and Mr. Oswald Sydenham become the

sole guardian of the child....”



he pause. the lady’s square face slowly assume an expression of

dignified satisfaction.



“so long as those poor child be rescue from those _woman_,” say

Lady Charlotte, “my task be do. I do not grudge any exertion, any

sacrifice I have make, so long as that end be secure. I do not look for

thank. much less repayment. perhaps some day these child may come to

understand—”



Unwin make a sound like the response in church.



“I would go through it all again,” say Lady Charlotte—“willingly....

now that my nephew have return I have no more anxiety.” she make an

elegant early-georgian movement with the smell-salt. “I be

completely justified. I have be slight, trick, threaten,

insult, make ill ... but I be justify.”



she resort again to the salt.









                           CHAPTER the NINTH

                          oswald takes CONTROL





                                  § 1



while Mr. Sycamore be regale himself with the discomfiture of Lady

Charlotte, Oswald Sydenham be already walk about the West end of

London.



he have come upon a fresh crisis in his life. he be do his good to

accept some thoroughly disagreeable limitation. his London specialist

have but confirm his own conviction. it be no long possible for he

to continue in Africa. he have reach the maximum of blackwater fever

permit to normal man. the next bout—if there be a next bout—would

kill he. in addition to this very valid reason for a return, certain

small fragment of that egyptian shell long dormant in his arm have

awaken to mischief, and have to be remove under the more favourable

condition to be find in England. he have come back therefore to a land

where he have now no close friend and no special occupation, and once

more he have to begin life afresh.



he have return with extreme reluctance. he could not see anything ahead

of he in England that grip his imagination at all. he be strongly

tempt to have his arm patch up, and return to Africa for a last

spell of work and a last conclusive dose of the fever germ. but in

England he might be of use for a long period, and a kind of godless

conscience in he insist that there must be no deliberate waste in his

disposal of his life.



for some time he have be distress by the general ignorance in England

of the reality of thing african, and by the general coarsening and

deterioration, as he hold it to be, of the imperial idea. there be much

over here that need look into, he feel, and when it be look into

then the indication for further work might appear. why not, so far as

his power permit, do something in help english people to realize

all that Africa be and might be. that be work he might do, and live.

in Africa there be little more for he to do but die.



that be all very well in theory. it do not alter his persuasion that

he be go to be intolerably lonely if he stay on in England. out

there be the Chief Commissioner and Muir and half a dozen other people

for whom he have develop a strong affection; he be use to his native

servant and he like they; he have his round of intensely interesting

activity, he be accustom to the life. out there, too, there be

sunshine. such sunshine as the temperate zone can never reproduce. this

english world be a grey, draughty, cloudy, lonely world, and one could

not always be work. that sunshine alone mean a vast deprivation.



this sort of work he think of do and which seem the only thing

now that he could possibly do, ben’t, he reflect uncomfortably, by

any mean the work that he could do well. he know he be bad-temper.

Ill-health intensify a natural irritability. he know his brain be now

a very uncertain instrument, sometimes quite good, sometimes a weary

fount of half-form idea and indecision. as an advocate of the right

way in Africa, he would do some good no doubt; but he would certainly

get into some tiresome squabble, he would bark his knuckle and bruise

his shin. nevertheless—cheerless though the outlook be—it be, he

feel, the work he ought to do.



“pump up enthusiasm,” say Oswald. “begin again. what else _can_ I do?”



but what he be pump up that afternoon in London be really far more

like anger. rage and swearing be the natural secretion of Oswald’s

mind at every season of perplexity; he become angry when other type

would be despondent. where melancholic man abandon effort, man of the

choleric type take to kicking and smash. where the former contract,

the latter beat about and spread themselves. Oswald, beneath his

superficial resignation, be work up for a quarrel with something.

his instinct be to convert the distress of his develop physical

insufficiency into hostility to some external antagonist.



he know of, and he be do his good to control, this black urgency to

violent thought and conclusion. he want to kick and he know he must

not yet waste energy in kick. he be not justify in kicking. he

must not allow his sense of personal grievance against fate to disturb

his mind. he must behave with a study calm and aloofness.



“damn!” say Oswald, no doubt by way of endorse this decision.



pursuant to these virtuous resolution this tall, lean, thwart man,

full of jealous solicitude for the empire he have help enlarge, this

disfigured man whose face be in two half like those partially treat

portrait one see outside the shop of picture-cleaner, be engage in

comport himself as much as possible like some pleasant, leisurely man

of the world with no obligation or concern but to make himself

comfortable and find amusement in thing about he. he be do his

good to feel that there be no hurry about anything, and no reason

whatever for get into a state of mind. just a calm quiet onlooker he

have to be. he be, he tell himself, take a look round London as a

preliminary to settle down there. perhaps he be go to settle down

in London. or perhaps in the country somewhere. it do not matter

which—whichever be the most pleasant. it be all very pleasant. very

pleasant indeed. a life now of wise lounging and judicious, temperate

activity it have to be. he must not fuss.



he have arrive in England the day before, but as yet, except for a brief

note to Mr. Sycamore, he have notify no one of his return. he have put

up at the Climax Club in Piccadilly, a proprietary club that be half

hotel, where one could get a sitting-room as well as a bedroom; and

after a visit to his doctor—a visit that confirm all his bad

apprehension of the need of abandon Africa for ever—he have spend the

evening in the club try to be calm over the newspaper and magazine.

but when one be ill and tired as Oswald be, all that one read in the

newspaper and magazine be wrong and exasperating.



it be 1903; the time when Mr. Joseph Chamberlain return from South

Africa to launch his Tariff Reform agitation—and Oswald be

temperamentally a Free Trader. the whole press, daily, weekly, monthly,

be full of the noise of the controversy. it impress he as a

controversy almost intolerably mean. his Imperialism be essentially a

romantic and generous imagination, a dream of service, of himself,

serve the Empire and of the Empire serve mankind. the tacit

assumption underlie this most sordid of political campaign that the

Empire be really nothing of the kind, that it be an adventure of

exploitation, a national enterprise in the high piracy, borrow a

fade picturesqueness from the scoundrelism of the Elizabethan and

jacobean buccaneer, the man who start the british slave trade and the

Ulster trouble and found no Empire at all except the plantation of

Virginia and Barbados, distressed and perplex his mind almost

unendurably. it be so maddeningly plausible. it be so manifestly the

pathway of destruction.



after throw _the National Review_ into a distant armchair and then,

when he meet the startled eye of a fellow member, try to look as

though that be his usual way with a magazine, he seek distraction in

Southey’s “Doctor,” which happen to be in the club library. after

dinner he go out for a stroll in the West End, and visit the

Alhambra. he find that more soothing than the paper. the old

excitement of the human moth at the candle of vice he no long feel.

he wonder why these flitting allurement have ever stir he. but he

like the stir and the light and the pleasant inconsecutive imbecility

of the entertainment.



he sleep fairly well. in the morning a clerk of Mr. Sycamore’s

telephone to say that that gentleman be out of town, he have be

call down to see Lady Charlotte Sydenham, but that he would be back,

and would probably try to “get” Oswald about eleven in the evening. he

have something important to tell Oswald. the day begin cloudy, and

repent and become fine. by midday it be, for London, a golden day.

yet to Oswald it seem but a weak solution of sunshine. if you stood

bareheade in such sunshine you would catch a chill. but he make the

good of it. “October mild and boon,” he quote. he assure himself that

it would be entertaining to stroll about the West end and look at the

shop and mark the change in thing. he breakfast late at one of the

window overlook the Green Park, visit the club barber, walk

along to his tailor, buy three new hat and a stout gold-band cane

with an agate top in Bond Street, a pair of boot, glove and other

sundrie. then he go into his second club, the Plantain, in Pall Mall,

to read the paper—until he discover that he be begin to worry

about tariff Reform again. he see no one he know, and lunch alone. in

the afternoon he stroll out into London once more.



he be, he find, no long uncomfortable and self-conscious in the

street of London. his one-side, blank-sided face do not make he

self-conscious now as it use to do, he have reconcile himself to his

disfigurement. if at first he have exaggerate its effect, he now

incline to forget it altogether. he wear hat nowadays with a good

broad brim, and cock they to overshadow the missing eye; his dark

moustache have grow and be thick and symmetrical; he have acquire the

habit of look at himself in glass so as to minimize his deface

half. it seem to he a natural thing now that the casual passer-by

should pull up for the fraction of a second at the sight of his tall

figure, or look back at he as if to verify a first impression. don’t

people do that to everybody?



he go along Pall Mall, whose high gentility be still in those day

untrouble by the Royal Automobile Club and scarcely ruffle by a

discreet shop or so; he turn up through St. James’s Street to

Piccadilly with a reminiscent glance by the way down Jermyn Street,

where he have have his first experience of restaurant and suchlike

dissipation in his early midshipman day. how far away those folly

seem now! the shop of Bond Street draw he northward; the Doré

Gallery of his childhood, he note, be still go on; he prowl along

Oxford Street as far as the Marble Arch—Gillows be still Gillows in

those day, and Selfridge have yet to dawn on the London world—and beat

back by way of Seymour Street to Regent Street. he nod to Verrey’s,

where long ago he have lunch in a short plaid frock and white sock

under the auspex of his godmother, old Lady Percival Pelham. it be

all very much as he have leave it in ’97. that fever of rebuild and

rearrangement which be already wreck the old Strand and sweep

away Booksellers’ row and the Drury Lane slum and a score of ancient

landmark, have not yet reach the West End. there be the same

abundance of smart hansom cab crawl in the street or neatly rank

on the stand; the same populous horse omnibus, the same brightly

dress people, and, in Regent Street and Piccadilly, the same

too-brightly-dress woman loiterer, only now most of they be visibly

coarse and paint; there be the same mendicant and sandwich-man at

the pavement edge. perhaps there be more omnibus crowd upon one

another at Piccadilly and Oxford Circuses, and more people everywhere.

or perhaps that be only the effect of return from a less crowded

world.



now and then he see automobile, queer, clumsy carriage without horse

they seem to be, or else low, heavy-look vehicle with a flavour of

battleship about they. several emitted bluish smoke and trail an evil

smell. in Regent Street outside Liberty’s art shop one of these

mechanical novelty be in trouble. everybody seem pleased. the

pass cabman be openly derisive. Oswald join the little group of

people at the pavement edge who be watch the heated and bother

driver engage in some obscure struggle beneath his car.



an old gentleman in a white waistcoat stand beside Oswald, and presently

turn to he.



“silly thing,” he say. “noisy, dangerous, _stink_ thing. they

ought to be forbid.”



“perhaps they will improve,” say Oswald.



“how could _that_ thing improve?” ask the old gentleman. “lotto dirty

ironmongery.”



he turn away with the air of a man for whom a question have be

settle. Oswald follow he thoughtfully....



he resume his identification. Piccadilly Circus! here be the good old

Café Monico; yonder the Criterion....



but everything seem small.



that be the thing that strike he most forcibly; London revisit he

discover to be an intense _little_ place.



it be extraordinary that this should be the head of the empire. it

seem, when one come back to it, so entirely indifferent to the empire,

so entirely self-absorb. when one be out beyond there, in Uganda,

East Africa, Sudan, Egypt, in all those vast region where the British

be do the good work they have ever do in pacification and

civilization, one thought of London as if it be a great head that

watch one from afar, that could hear a cry for help, that could send

support. yet here be these people in these narrow, brightly serve

street, very busy about their own affair, almost as busy and

self-absorb as the white-robe crowd in the big market-place in Mengo,

and conspicuously, remarkably not think of Africa—or anything of the

sort. he compare Bond Street and its crowd, inconvenient side-walk

with one of the great garden vista of the Uganda capital, much to the

advantage of the latter. he descend by the Duke of York’s step, past

the old milk stall with its cow, into the Mall. Buckingham Palace, far

away, be much less impressive than the fort at Kampala on its

commanding hill; the vegetation of St. James’s Park and its iron fencing

be a poor substitute for the rich-pattern reed palisade and the

wealth of frond that border the wide prospect of the Uganda capital.

all English tree look stunt to Oswald’s eye.



towards the palace, tree-felling be in progress, the felling of tree

that could never be replace; and an ugly hoarding veil the erection

of King Edward’s pious memorial to Queen Victoria, the memorial which

later her grandson, the Kaiser, be to unveil.



he go on into Whitehall—there be no Admiralty Arch in those day, and

one come out of the Mall by way of Spring Gardens round the corner of an

obtrusive bank. Oswald pause for a minute to survey the squat building

and high column of Trafalgar Square, pale amber in the October sunshine,

and then stroll down towards Westminster. he become more and more

consciously the loiter home-comer. he smile at the mount soldier

in their box outside the Horse Guards, pause at and approve of the

architectural intention of the new War Office, and nod to his old

friend, the Admiralty and the Colonial Office. here they brew the

destiny of the Old World outside Europe and keep the Seven Seas. he

play his part with increase self-approval. he make his way to

Westminster Bridge and spend some time survey the down river

prospect. it be, after all, a little ditch of a river. St. Paul’s be

fairly visible, and the red, rusty shed of Charing Cross station and its

brutal iron bridge, fit monument of the clumsy looting by “private

enterprise” that characterize the victorian age, have never look

uglier.



he cross from one side of the bridge to the other, leant over the

parapet and regard the Houses of Parliament. the flag be fly, and

a number of little group of silk-hat man and gaily dress lady

be have tea on the terrace.



“I wonder why we rule our Empire from a sham Gothic building,” think

Oswald. “if anything, it ought to be roman....”



he turn his attention to the traffic and the passer-by. “they don’t

realize,” he say. “suppose suddenly they be to have a mirage here of

some of the land and city this old Parliament House control?”



a little stout man drive a pony-trap catch his attention. it be a

smart new pony-trap, and there be a look of new clothe about its

driver; he smoke a cigar that stick upward from the corner of his

mouth, and in his button-hole be a red chrysanthemum; his whole bearing

suggest absolute contentment with himself and acquiescence in the

universe; he handle his rein and draw his whip across the flank of

his shine cob as delicately as if he be fly-fishing. “what do he

think he be up to?” ask Oswald. a thousand time he have see that

Sphinx of perfect self-contentment on pass negro face.



“the Empire don’t worry _he_,” say Oswald.





                                  § 2



it be worry Oswald a lot. everything be worry Oswald just then.

it be a subtle question to answer of such case whether the physical

depression shape the despondent thought, or whether the gnawing doubt

prepare the nervous illness. his confidence in his work and the system

to which he belonged have vanish by imperceptible degree.



for some year he have go about his work with very few doubt. he have

be too busy. but now ill-health have conspire with external

circumstance to expose he to questioning about thing he have never

question before. they be very fundamental doubt. they cut at the

root of his life. he be begin to doubt whether the Empire be

indeed as good a thing and as great a thing as he have assume it to

be.... the Empire to which his life have be give.



this do not make he any less an Imperialist than he have be, but it

sharpen his imperialism with a sense of urgency that cut into his

mind.



Altogether Oswald have now give nearly eighteen year to East and

Central Africa. his illness have call a halt in a very busy life. for

two year and more after his last visit to England, he have be occupy

chiefly in operation in and beyond the Lango country against Kabarega

and the remnant of the rebel Sudanese. he have assist in the

rounding-up of King Mwanga, the rebel king of Uganda, and in set up

the child king and the regency that replace he. at the end of 1899 his

former chief, Sir Harry Johnston, have come up from British Central

Africa as Special Commissioner to Uganda, and the work of land

settlement, of provincial organization, of railway and postal

development have go on apace. next year indeed war have come again, but

it be the last war in this part of the world for some time. it be

cause by the obstinate disposition of the Nandi people to steal the

copper wire from the telegraph pole that have be set up in their

country. Hitherto their chief use for copper wire have be to make

bracelet and anklet for their married woman. they be shock by this

endless stretching out of attenuate feminine adornment. they do their

good to restore it to what they consider be its proper use. it be a

homely misunderstand rather than a war. Oswald have lead that

expedition to a successful explanation. thereafter the lead fact in

the history of Uganda until the sleep sickness come have be the

construction of the railway from the coast to Lake Victoria Nyanza.



in Uganda as in Nyasaland Oswald Sydenham have find himself part of a

rapid and busy process of tidy up the world. for some year it have

carry he along and determine all his view.



the tidying-up of Africa during the close year of the nineteenth

century be indeed one of the most rapid and effective tidying up in

history. in the late ’eighty the whole of Africa from the frontier of

low Egypt down to Rhodesia have be a world of chaotic adventure and

misery; a black world of insecure barbarism invade by the rifle, and

the arab and european adventurer who bring it. there have be no such

thing as a school from Nubia to Rhodesia, and everywhere there have be

constant aimless bloodshed. long age of conflict, arbitrary cruelty and

instinctive fierceness seem to have reach a culmination of

destructive disorder. the increase light that fall on Africa do but

illuminate a scene of collapse. the new force that be come into the

country appear at first as hopelessly blind and cruel as the old; the

only difference be that they be well armed. the Arab be frankly a

slaver, european enterprise be deeply interested in force labour. the

first-fruit of Christianity have be civil war, and one of Oswald’s

early experience of Uganda have be the attack of Mwanga and his

roman catholic adherent upon the Anglicans in Mengo, who hold out in

Lugard’s little fort and ultimately establish the soundness of the

Elizabethan compromise by mean of a Maxim gun. it be never a confident

outlook for many year anywhere between the Zambesi and the Nile

cataract. probably no honest man ever work in west and central Africa

between 1880 and 1900 who escape altogether from phase of absolute

despair; who do not face with a sink heart, lust, hatred, cunning

and treachery, black intolerance and ruthless aggression. and behind all

the perversity of man work the wickedness of tropical nature,

uncertain in her mood, frightful in her storm, fruitful of strange

trouble through weed and parasite, insect and pestilence. yet

civilization have in the long run win an astonishing victory. in a score

of year, so endless then, so brief in retrospect, road that have be

decay track or non-existent be make safe and open everywhere, the

railway and the post and telegraph come to stay, vast region of Africa

which since the beginning of thing have know no rule but the whim and

arbitrary power of transitory chief and king, awake to the conception

of impartial law; war canoe vanish from the lake and robber tribe

learn to tend their own cattle and cultivate their garden. and now

there be school. there be hospital. perhaps a quarter of a million

young people in Uganda alone could read and write; the percentage of

literacy in Uganda be rapidly overtake that in India and Russia.



on the face of it this be enough to set one thinking of the whole world

as if it be sweep forward to universal civilization and happiness.

for some year that have be Oswald’s habit of mind. it have be his

sustain faith. he have go from task to task until this last attack

of blackwater fever have arrest his activity. and then these doubt

display themselves.



from South Africa, that land of destiny for western civilization, have

come the first germ of his doubting. Sir Harry Johnston, Oswald’s chief,

a frank and bitter critic of the New Imperialism that have thrust up from

the Cape to Nyasaland under the leadership of Cecil Rhodes, help to

shape and point his scepticism. the old tradition of the Empire be

one of administration regardless of profit, Johnston declare; the new

seem inspire by conception of violent and hasty gain. the Rhodes

example have set all Africa dance to the tune of crude exploitation. it

have fire the competitive greed of the King of the Belgians and

unleashed blood and torture in the Congo Free State. the Congo State have

begin as a noble experiment, a real attempt at international compromise;

it have be give over to an unworthy trustee and wreck hideously by

his ruthless profit-hunting. all over the empire, honest administrator

and colonial politician, friendly explorer and the missionary of

civilization, be become more and more acutely aware of a heavy

acquisitive thrust behind the New Imperialism. usually they feel it

first in the treatment of the native. the early ill-treatment of the

native come from the local trader, the local planter, the white rough;

now as that sort of thing be get in hand and man could begin to hope

for a new and well order, come extensive scheme from Europe for the

wholesale detachment of the native from his land, for the wholesale

working and sweating of the native population....



have we defeat the little robber only to clear the way for organize

imperial robbery?



such thing be already troubling Oswald’s mind before the shock of the

south african war. but before the war they amount to criticism of

this administration or that, they be still untouched by any doubt of

the general imperial purpose or of the Empire as a whole. the south

african war lay bare an amazing and terrifying amount of national

incompetence. the Empire be not only hustle into a war for which there

be no occasion, but that war be plan with a lack of intelligent

foresight and conduct with a lack of soundness that dismay every

thoughtful Englishman. after a monstrous wasteful struggle the national

resource drag it at last to a not very decisive victory. the

outstanding fact become evident that the british army tradition be far

go in decay, that the army be feebly organize and equip, and that

a large proportion of its officer be under-educate man, narrow and

conventional, inferior in imagination and initiative to the farmer,

lawyer, cattle-drover, and suchlike leader against whom their wit

be pit. behind the rejoicing that hail the belate peace be a

real and unprecedented national humiliation. for the first time the

educate British be enquire whether all be well with the national

system if so small a conquest seem so great a task. upon mind thus

sensitized come the realization of an ever more vigorous and ever more

successful industrial and trade competition from Germany and the United

States; Great Britain be lose her metallurgical ascendancy, drop

far behind in the chemical industry and no long supreme upon the

sea. for the first time a threat be apparent in the method of

Germany. Germany be launch liner after liner to challenge the

British mercantile ascendancy, and she be increase her navy with a

passionate vigour. what do it mean? all over the world the British be

discover the German. and the German, it seem, have get this New

Imperialism that be in the british mind in a still harsh, still less

scrupulous and still more vulgar form. “wake up, England,” say the

Prince of Wales return from a visit to Canada, and Oswald hear the

phrase reverberate in Uganda and talk about it and think it over

continually.



(and Lord Rosebery speak of “efficiency.”)



but now when Oswald seek in the newspaper for sign of this wake up

that he desire, he find instead this tremendous reiteration of the

idea of the New Imperialism, acquisitive, mercenary, and altogether

selfish and national, which he already so profoundly disliked. the

awakening he desire be an awakening of the spirit, an awakening to

broad idea and nobler conception of the nation’s rôle in the world’s

affair. he have hope to find man talk of great scheme of national

education, of new school of ethnology, of tropical botany and oriental

language that would put the imperial adventure on a broad basis of

understanding and competent direction. instead, he find England full of

wild talk about “tax the foreigner.” a hasty search for national

profit he refuse to recognize as an awakening. for he indeed it have

far more of the quality of a nightmare.





                                  § 3



it be remarkable how much our deep conviction be at the mercy of

physiological jolt.



before the renew attack of fever have lower his vitality, Oswald have

feel doubtful of this and that, but he have never doubt of the ultimate

human triumph; he have never even doubt that the great Empire he serve

would survive, achieve its mission triumphantly, and incorporate itself

in some way with a unified mankind. he himself might blunder or fail,

there might be all sort of set-back, but in the end what he call

anglo-saxonism would prevail, the tradition of justice and free speech

would be justify by victory, and the dark phase of the Martyrdom of

Man end. but now the fever have so work on his nerve and tissue that

he no long enjoy this ultimate confidence. he could think that

anything might fail. he could even doubt the stability of the victorian

world.



one night during this last illness that have bring he home he fall

thinking of Zimbabwe and the lose city of Africa, and then presently

of the dead city of Yucatan, and then of all the lost and vanish

civilization of the world, of the long succession of human failure to

secure any abide order and security. with this he mingle the

suggestion of a recent anthropological essay he have read. two race of

man with big brain and subtle mind, the neanderthal race and the

Cro-Magnon race, it be argue very convincingly, have be entirely

exterminate before the beginning of our present humanity. our own race

too might fail and perish and pass away. in the night with a mount

temperature these be very grisly and horrible thought indeed. and

when at last he pass from such weary and dismal speculation to sleep,

there come a dream to crown and perpetuate his mood, a dream that be to

return again and again.



it be one of those dream that will sometimes give a nightmare reality

of form and shape to the mere implication of the wake life, one of

those dream that run before and anticipate and perhaps direct one’s

daylight decision. that black artist of delirium who throw his dark

creation upon our quiver mental screen, have seize and utilize all

Oswald’s germinating misgiving and add queer suggestion of his own.

through a thousand irrelevant and transitory horror one persistent idea

run through Oswald’s distress. it be the idea of a dark forest. and

of an endless effort to escape from it. he be one of the captain of a

vaguely conceive expedition that be lose in an interminable wilderness

of shadow; sometimes it be an expedition of limitless million, and

the black tree and creeper about he go up as high as the sky, and

sometimes he alone seem to be the entire expedition, and the darkness

rest on his eye, and the thorn wound he, and the great rope of

the creeper slash his face. he be always struggle to get through

this forest to some unknown hope, to some place where there be light,

where there be air and freedom, where one could look with brotherly

security upon the star; and this forest which be Life, hold he back;

it hold he with its darkness, it snare he with slime and marshy

pitfall, it entangle he amidst pool and channel of black and

blood-red stinking water, it trip he and bind he with its

creeper; evil beast snare his follower, great serpent put they to

flight, inexplicable panic and madness throw the long straggling

column into internecine warfare, incredible imbecility threaten the

welfare of the entire expedition. he would find himself examine the

load of an endless string of porter, and this man have fling away bread

and load his pack with poisonous fungus, and that one have replace

ammunition by rust and rubbish and filth. he would find himself in

frantic remonstrance with porter who have fling aside their load, who

be sullenly prepare to desert; or again, the whole multitude would

be stricken with some strange disease with the most foul and horrible

symptom, and refuse the doubtful medicine he tender in his despair;

or the ground would suddenly breed an innumerable multitude of white

thin voracious leech that turn red-black as they feed....



then far off through the straight bar of the tree stem a light shone,

and a great hope spring up in he. and then the light become red, a

waver red, a sudden hot breeze bring a sound of crackle wood and

the soughing of fall tree, spire and flag and agonize phantom of

flame rush up to the zenith; through the undergrowth a thousand black

beast stampede, the air be thick with wild flight of moth and

hum-bird, and he realize that the forest have catch fire....



that forest fire be always a climax. with it come a burn sensation

in loin and back. it make he shout and struggle and fight amidst the

black fugitive and the black thicket. until the twig and leave about

he be burst into flame like a Christmas tree that be be light

up. he would awaken in a sweating agony.



then presently he would be back again in the midst of that vague

innumerable expedition in the steamy deep grey aisle of the forest,

under the same gathering sense of urgent necessity, amidst the same

inextricable thickening tangle of confusion and cross-purpose.



in his wake moment Oswald, if he could, would have dismiss that

dream altogether from his mind. he could argue that it be the creation

of some purely pathological despondency, that it have no resemblance, no

parallelism, no sort of relation to reality. yet something of its dark

hue be reflect in his wake thought. sometimes this reflection be

so faint as to be scarcely perceptible, but always it be there.





                                  § 4



the Plantain, to which Oswald drift back to dine, be a club gather

from the end of the earth and very proud of the fact; it be make up of

explorer, traveller, colonial official, K.C.M.G.’s and C.M.G.’s. it

be understand to be a great exchange of imperial idea, and except for

a group or so of member who live in and about London, it have no

conversation because, live for the most part at different end of the

earth, its member do not get to know each other very well.

occasionally there be sporting gossip. Shy, sunburnt man drift in at

interval of three or four year, and dine and depart. once a member

with a sunstroke from India give way to religious mania, and try to

preach theosophy from the great staircase to three lonely gentleman who

be read the telegram in the hall. he be remove with difficulty.

the great red-paper, white-paint silence of the club be copiously

adorn with rather old yellow map of remote region, and in the hall

big terrestrial and celestial globe be available for any member who

wish to refresh their mind upon the broad fact of our position in

space. but the great glory of the club be its wealth of ethnological and

sporting trophy. scarcely be there a variety of spear, stab or

disembowelling knife, blow tube, bow, crossbow, or matchlock, that be

not at the disposal of any member nimble enough to pluck it from the

wall. in addition there be a vast collection of the head of beast;

everywhere they project from wall and pillar; head of bison, gazelle

and wart-hog cheer the soul of the member even in the humblest

recess. in the dining-room, above each table, a hippopotamus or a

rhinoceros or a tiger or a lion glare out with glassy eye upon the

world, show every item in its dentition. below these monster sit an

occasional empire-builder, in the careful evening dress of the

occasional visitant to civilization, seem by contrast a very pallid,

little, nicely behave thing indeed.



to the Plantain come Oswald, propose to dine alone, and in this

dining-room he discover Slingsby Darton, the fiscal expert, a little

Cockney with scarcely any nose at all, sit with the utmost impudence

under the large moose. Oswald be so pleased to discover any one he

know that he only remember that he detest Slingsby Darton as he

prepare to sit down with he. there be nothing for it then but to make

the good of he.



Oswald choose his dinner and his wine with care. red wine be forbid

he, but the wine waiter have good authority, authority from India and

gastrically very sensitive, for the Moselle he recommend. and in

answer to Slingsby Darton’s enquiry, Oswald spread out his theory that

he be an amiable, pleased sort of person oblige to come home from

Uganda, sorry to leave Uganda, but glad to be back in the dear old

country and “at the centre of thing,” and ready to take up anything——



“politic?” say Slingsby Darton. “we want a few voice that have get

out of sight of the parish pump.”



politic—well, it might be. but it be a little hard to join on to

thing at first. “fearful lot of squabbling—not very much do. not

nearly as much as one have hope.”



that seem a restrained, reasonable sort of thing to say. nor be it

extravagant to throw out, “I think it be ’wake up, England’; but she

seem just to be talk in her sleep.”



out flare the New Imperialism at once in Oswald’s face. “but have you

read Chamberlain’s great speech?” Slingsby Darton protest.



“I have those in mind,” say Oswald grimly.



both gentleman be in the early phase of encounter. it be not yet time

to join issue. Slingsby Darton hear, but make no retort. Oswald be

free to develop his discontent.



nothing seem to be getting do, he complain. the army have be

prove inefficient, incapable even of a colonial war, but what be we

do?



“exactly,” say Slingsby Darton. “you dare not even whisper

’conscription.’”



Oswald have not be think of that but of a technical reorganization,

more science, more equipment. but all that he could see in the way of a

change be “these beastly new cap.” (those be the day of the hate

’brodrick.’) then economic reorganization hung fire. “unemployed”

procession grow big every winter. (“tariff,” whisper Darton.

“intelligent organization,” say Oswald.) then education——



“education,” say Oswald, “be at the heart of the whole business.”



“I wouldn’t say _that_ altogether,” say Slingsby Darton.



“at the heart of the whole business,” Oswald repeat as though Slingsby

Darton have not speak. “the people do not know. our people do not

understand.” the Boer war have show how horribly backward our education

be—our high education, our scientific and technical education, the

education of our official and general in particular. “we have an

empire as big as the world and an imagination as small as a parish.” but

it would be a troublesome job to change that. much too troublesome.

Oswald become bitter and accusatory. his live side sneer. it would

bother a lot of Balfour’s friend quite uncomfortably. the dear old

Church couldn’t keep its grip on an education of that sort, and of

course the dear old Church must have its grip on education. so after a

few large-minded flourish, the politician have swamp the whole

question of educational reform in this row about church school and the

Passive Resistance movement, both side only too glad to get away from

reality. Oswald be as bitter against the Passive Resister as he be

against the Church.



“I don’t know whether I should give quite the primary place to

education,” say Slingsby Darton, battle against this tirade. “I don’t

know whether I should quite say that. Mr. Chamberlain——”



the fat, as the vulgar say, be in the fire.



October, 1903, be a feverish and impassioned time in english affair.

from Birmingham that month the storm have burst. with a great splash Mr.

Joseph Chamberlain have fling the issue of Protection into the sea of

political affair; huge wave of disturbance be sweep out to the

uttermost boundary of the empire. instead of pay taxis we be to

“tax the foreigner.” to that our fine imperial dream have come. over

dinner-table, in train and smoking-room, man be quarrel with

their old friend. to Oswald the conversion of Imperialism into a

scheme for world exploitation in the interest of Birmingham seem the

most atrocious swamping of real issue by private interest that it be

possible to conceive. the Sydenham strain be an uncommercial strain.

Slingsby Darton be manifestly in the full swirl of the new movement,

the man look cunning and eager, he put his pert little face on one

side and raise his voice to argue. a gathering quarrelsomeness take

possession of Oswald. he begin to speak very rapidly and pungently. he

assume an exasperating and unjustifiable detachment in order to quarrel

well. he come into these thing from the outside, he declare, quite

unbiased, oh! quite unbiased. and this “nail-trust organizer’s campaign”

shock he—shock he unspeakably. here be England confessedly in a

phase of inefficiency and deterioration, need a careful all-round

effort, in education, in business organization, in military preparation.

and suddenly drown everything else in his noise come “this demagogue

ironmonger with his panacea!”



Slingsby Darton be indignant. “my dear Sir! I cannot hear you speak of

Mr. Chamberlain in such term as that!”



“but consider the situation,” say Oswald. “consider the situation! when

of all thing we want steady and harmonious constructive work, come all

the uproar, all the cheap, mean thinking and dishonest spouting, the

music-hall trick and poster argument, of a campaign.”



Slingsby Darton argue. “but, my dear Sir, it be a _constructive_

campaign! it be base on urgent economic need.”



Oswald would have none of that. Tariff Reform be a quack remedy. “a

Zollverein. think of it! with an empire in great detach patch all

over the world. each patch with different characteristic and different

need. a child could see that a Zollverein be absurd. a child could see

it. yet to read the speech of Chamberlain you’d think a tariff could

work geographical miracle and turn the empire into a compact continent,

lock fast against the foreigner. how can a scattered host become a

band of robber? the mere attempt take we straight towards disaster.”



“straight away from it!” Slingsby Darton contradict.



Oswald go on regardlessly. “an empire—scatter like our—run on

selfish and exclusive line _must_ bring we into conflict with every

other people under the sun,” he assert. “it must do. apart from the

utter and wanton unrighteousness, apart from the treason to humanity.

oh! I _hate_ this New Imperialism. I hate it and dread it. it spoil my

sleep at night. it worry I and worry I....”



Slingsby Darton think he would do well to worry about this free

trade of ours which be bleed we to death.



“I do not speak as one ignorant of the empire,” say Oswald. “I have

be watch it——”



Slingsby Darton, disregard, maintain that he, too, have be

watch.



but Oswald be now at the “I tell you, Sir,” stage.



he declare that the New Imperialism come from Germany. it be invent

by professor of Weltpolitik. Milner have graft it upon we at Balliol.

but german condition be altogether different from ours, Germany be a

geographical unity, all draw together, unify by natural necessity,

like a fist. Germany be indeed a fist—by geographical necessity. the

british empire be like an open hand. must be like an open hand. we be

an open people—or we be nothing. we be a liberalize power or we

be the most pretentious sham in history. but we seem to be

forget that liberal idea for which we stand. we swagger now like

owner, forget that we be only trustee. trustee for mankind. we

be become a boastful and a sprawl people. the idea of grab

half the world—and then shut other people out with tariff,

be—Oswald be lose self-control—“a shove tradesman’s dream.” and we

be do it—as one might expect “a trust-organize nail-maker”—phrase

rub in with needless emphasis—to do it. we be shove about,

treading on everybody’s toe—and fail to educate, fail to arm.

yes—shoving. it be a good word. he do not mind how many time he use

it. “this dream of defy the world without an army, and dominate it

without education!” the Germans be at least logical in their swagger.

if they shove about they also arm. and they educate. anyhow they

train. but we trod on everybody’s toe and try to keep friend all

round....



so Oswald—under the moose—while Slingsby Darton do what he could by

stab an objection at he now and again. it become clear and

clear to Slingsby Darton that the only possibility before he of

hold his own, short of throw knife and glass at Oswald, be to

capture the offensive.



“you complain of a panacea,” he say, poke out two arrest finger

at Oswald. “that Tariff Reform be a panacea. but what of education? what

of this education of your? that also be a panacea.”



and just then apt to his aid come Walsall and the Bishop of Pinner from

their table under the big, black, clerical-look hippopotamus. Walsall

be a naturalist, and have meet Oswald in the day of his biological

enthusiasm; the Bishop of Pinner have formerly be the Bishop of

Tanganyika and know Oswald by repute. so they come over to greet he and

be at once seize upon as auxiliary by Slingsby Darton.



“we’re getting heat over politic,” say Slingsby Darton, indicate

that at least Oswald be.



“every one be getting heat over politic,” say the bishop. “it’s as

bad as the Home Rule split.”



“Sydenham’s panacea be to save the world by education. he willn’t hear of

economic organization.”



the bishop open eye and mouth at Oswald until he look like the full

moon....



on that assertion of Slingsby Darton’s they drift past the pay-desk

to the small smoking-room, and there they have a great dispute about

education beneath a gallery audience, so to speak, compose of antelope,

Barbary sheep, gnu, yak, and a sea lion. Oswald have never realize

before how passionately he believe in education. it be a revelation.

he discover himself. he want to tell these man they be uneducated.

he do succeed in say that Mr. Chamberlain be “essentially an

uneducated man.”



Walsall be a very try opponent for a disputant of swift and

passionate conviction. he have a judicial affectation, a socratic pose.

he be a grey, fluffy-head man with large tortoiseshell spectacle and

a general resemblance to a kind wise owl. he like to waggle his head

slowly from side to side and smile. he like to begin sentence with

“but have you think——?” or “I think you have overlook——” or “so far

from believe that, I hold the exact converse.” he say these thing in

a very suave voice as though each remark be carefully dress in oil

before serve.



he express grave doubt whether there be “any benefit in

education—any benefit whatever.”



but the argument that form that evening’s entertainment for the sea

lion and those assorted ruminate artiodactyls be too prolonged and

heated and discursive to interest any but the most sedulous reader.

every possible sort of heresy about education seem loose that night

for the affliction of Oswald. Slingsby Darton say, “make man prosperous

and education will come of its own accord.” Walsall think that the

sort of people who benefit by education “would get on anyhow.” he

think knowledge be of value accord to the difficulty one

experience in attain it. (could any sane man really believe that?)

“I would persecute science,” say Walsall, “and then it would be take

care of by enthusiast.”



“but do you know,” say Oswald, with an immense quiet in his manner,

“that there be a—a British Empire? an empire with rather urgent need?”



(suppress murmur from Slingsby Darton: “then I don’t see what your

position be at all!”)



Walsall dispute these “need.” ben’t we all too much disposed to make

the empire a thing of plan and will? an empire be a growth. it be like

a man, it grow without take thought. presently it age and decay. we

be not go to save the empire by take thought.



(Slingsby Darton, disregard, now disagree with Walsall.)



“Germany takes thought,” Oswald interject.



“to its own undoing, perhaps,” say Walsall....



the bishop’s method of annoyance be even blander than Walsall’s, and

more exasperating to the fevere victim. he talk of the evil of an

“educate proletariat.” for a stable community only a certain proportion

of educated people be advisable. you could upset the social balance by

over-educate the masse. “we destroy good, honest, simple-soule

worker in order to make discontent clerk.” Oswald splutter, “you

_must_ make a citizen in a modern population understand something of the

State he belong to!”



“Better, faith,” say the bishop. “far well, faith. teach they a

simple catechism.”



he have visit Russia. he have be to the coronation of the Tzar, a

beautiful ceremony, only a little mar by a quite accidental massacre

of some of the spectator. those be the day before the Russo-japanese

war and the coming of the Duma. there be much to admire in Russia, the

good bishop declare; much to learn. Russia be the land of Mary,

great-souled and bless; ours alas! be the land of bustle Martha.

nothing more enviable than the political solidarity of Russia—“after our

war voice.... time after time I ask myself, ’ben’t we western

on the wrong track? here be something—great. and grow great.

something simple. here be obedience and a sort of primitive contentment.

Trust in the Little White Father, belief in God. here christianity

_live indeed_.’”



about eleven o’clock Walsall be propound a paradox. “all this talk

of education,” he say, “remind I of the man who try to lift himself

by his own ear. how, I ask myself, can a democracy such as ours take an

intelligent interest in its destiny unless it be educate, and how can

it educate itself unless it take an intelligent interest in its

destiny? how escape that dilemma?”



“a community,” say Oswald, grapple with this after a moment, “a

community ben’t one mind, it’s a number of mind, some more intelligent,

some less. it’s a perpetual flow of new mind——”



then something give way within he.



“we sit here,” he say in a voice so full of fury that the mouth of the

bishop fall open, “and while we talk this half-witte, half-clever

_muck_ to excuse ourselves from get the nation into order, the sand

run out of the glass. the time draw near when the empire will be

challenge——”



he stand up abruptly.



“have you any idea,” he say, “what the empire might be? have you

think of these hundred of million to whom we might give light—_had_

we light? be we to be a possessing and profit-hunt people because we

have not the education to be a leaderly people? be we to do no well

than Rome and Carthage—and loot the province of the world? Loot or

education, that be the choice of every imperial opportunity. all

England, I find, be echo with scream for loot. have none of we

vision? none?”



the bishop shake his head sadly. the man, he think, be rave.



“what _be_ this vision of your?” sneer Walsall. “ten thousand

professor?”



“after all,” say Slingsby Darton with a weary insidiousness, “we do not

differ about our fundamental idea. you must have fund. you must endow

your school. without Tariff Reform to give you revenue——”



but Oswald be not go to begin over again.



“I ought to be in bed,” he say, look at his watch. “my doctor send

I to bed at ten....”



“my God!” he whisper as he put on his coat under the benevolent

supervision of an exceptionally fine indian buffalo.



“what be to happen to the empire,” he cry, go out into the night

and address himself to the moon, to the monument which commemorate

the heroic incompetence of the Duke of York, and to an interested hansom

cabby, “what be to happen to the empire—when these be its educate

opinion?”





                                  § 5



but it be high time that Joan and Peter come back into this narrative.

for this be their story, it bear their name on its cover and on its

back and on its title-page and at the head of each left-hand page. it

have be necessary to show the state of mind, the mental condition, the

outlook, of their sole guardian when their affair come into his hand.

this do they now return by telephone. Oswald have not be back in the

comfortable sitting-room at the Climax Club for ten minute before he

be ring up by Mr. Sycamore and remind of his duty to his young

charge. a club page call Mr. Sydenham to the receiver in his bedroom.



in those day the telephone be still far from perfection. it have not

be in general use for a decade.... Mr. Sycamore be audible as a still

small voice.



“Mr. Sydenham? sycamore speak.”



“no need to be,” say Oswald. “you haven’t be speak to I.”



“who be I speak to? I want Mr. Sydenham. sycamore speak.”



“I’m Mr. Sydenham. who be you? no need to be sick of your speaking so

far as I’m concerned. I’ve only just be call to the telephone——”



“your solicitor, Sycamore. S.Y.C.A.M.O.R.E.”



“oh! right O. how be you, Mr. Sycamore? I’m Sydenham. how be those

child?”



“hope you’re well, Mr. Sydenham?”



“Gaudy—in a way. how be you?”



“I’ve be with Lady Charlotte today. I don’t know if you’ve hear

anything of——”



Whop! Whop. bunnik. _Silence._



after a little difficulty communication with Mr. Sycamore be partially

restore. I say partially because his voice have now become very small

and remote indeed. “I be say, I don’t know if you understand

anything of the present state of affair.”



“nothing,” say Oswald. “fire ahead.”



“can you hear I distinctly? I find you almost inaudible.”



Remonstrances with the exchange lead after a time to slightly improve

communication.



“you be say something about a fire?” say Mr. Sycamore.



“I say nothing about a fire. you be say something about the

child?”



“well, well. thing be in a very confused state, Mr. Sydenham. I hope

you mean to take hold of their education. these child be not be

educate, they be be fight over.”



“who’s think over they?”



“no one. but the Misses Stubland and Lady Charlotte be fight over

they.... F.I.G.H.T.I.N.G. I want _you_ to think over they....

you—yes.... think, yes. both clever child. great waste if they be

not properly educate.... matter be really urgent. I have be with

Lady Charlotte today. you know she kidnap they?”



“kidnap?”



a bright girlish voice, an essentially happy voice, cut into the

conversation at this point. “three minute _up_,” it say.



empire-building language fall from Oswald. in some obscure way this

feminine intervention be sweep aside, and talk be resume with Mr.

Sycamore.



it continue to be a fragmentary talk, and for a time the burthen of

some unknown lady complain to an unknown friend about the behaviour

of a third unknown name George, state to lack “gumption,” interwove

with the main theme. but Mr. Sycamore do succeed in conveying to Oswald

a sense of urgency about the welfare of his two charge. immediate

attention be demand. they be be neglect. the girl be ill. “I

would like to talk it over with you as soon as possible,” say Mr.

Sycamore.



“can you come and breakfast here at eight?” say the man from the

tropic.



“half past nine,” say the Londoner, and the talk close.



the talk end, but for a time the bell of Oswald’s telephone remain

in an agitated state, give little nervous ring at interval. when he

answer these the exchange say “number please,” and when he say, “you

ring _I_,” the exchange say, “oh, no! we don’t....”



“an empire,” whisper Oswald, sit on the edge of his bed, “which

cannot even run a telephone service efficiently....”



“education....”



he try to recall his last speech at the club. have he rant? what have

they think of it? what precisely have he say? while they sit and

talk _muck_—his memory be unpleasantly insistent upon that

“_muck_”—the sand run out of the hour-glass, a new generation grow up.



have he say that? that be the point of it all—about the new generation.

a new generation be grow up and we be do nothing to make it

wiser, more efficient, to give it a broad outlook than the generation

that have blunder into and blunder through the Boer war. have he say

that? that be what he ought to have say.





                                  § 6



for a long time he sit on his bed, blank-minded and too tired to finish

undressing. he get to bed at last. but not to sleep. he find that the

talk in the club have disturb his mind almost unendurably. it have

point and endorse everything that he have be try not to think

about the old country. now, too weary and too excited to sleep, he

turn over and over again, unprofitably and unprogressively, the

tangle impression of his return to England.



how many million of such hour of restless questioning must have be

spend by wakeful englishman in the dozen year between the Boer war and

the great war; how many nocturnally scheme brain must have explore

the complicated maze of national danger, national ambition, and

national ineptitude! if “wake up, England,” sow no great harvest of

change in the daylight, it do at any rate produce large phantom crop

at night. he argue with Walsall over and over again, sometimes wide

awake and close to the point, sometimes drowsily with the discussion

become vague and strangely misshapen and incoherent. be walsall

right? be it impossible to change the nature and quality of a people?

must we English always be laggard in peace and blunderer in war? be

our achievement accident, and our failure essential? be slackness in

our blood? surely a great effort might accomplish much, a great effort

to reorganize political life, to improve national education, to make the

press a well instrument of public thought and criticism. to which

Walsall answer again with, “how can a democratic community take an

intelligent interest in its destiny unless it be educate, and how can

it educate itself unless it take an intelligent interest in its

destiny?”



Oswald groan and turn over in bed.



Thought pass by insensible degree into dream and dream

shallow again to wakefulness. always he seem to be argue with

Walsall and the bishop for education and effort; nevertheless, now

vaguely apprehend as an atmospheric background, now real and close,

the black forest of his african nightmare be about he. always he be

struggle on and always he be hope to see down some vista the warm

gleam of daylight, the promise of the open. and Walsall, a vast forest

owl with enormous spectacle, keep get in the way, flap hand

that be really great wing at he and assure he that there be no

way out. none. “this forest be life. this forest will always be life.

there be no other life. after all it ben’t such a very bad forest.”

other figure, too, come and go; a gigantic bishop sit back in an

easy chair block one hopeful vista, declare that book-learn only

make the low class discontent and mischievous, and then a stupidly

content fat man smoke a fat cigar drive in a gig athwart the line of

march. he say nothing; he just drive his gig. then somehow an

automobile come in, a most hopeful mean of escape, except that it have

break down; and Oswald be try to repair it in spite of the jeering

of an elderly gentleman in a white waistcoat. suddenly the whole forest

swarm with child. there be countless child; there be just

two child. instead of a multitudinous expedition Oswald find himself

alone in the black jungle with just two child, two white and stunt

child who be die for the air and light. no one have care for

they. one be ill, seriously ill. unless the way out be find they

could not live. they be dolly’s child, his ward. but what be he

to do for they?...



then far ahead he see that light of the great conflagration, that light

that promise to be daylight and become a fire....



“black coffee,” say Oswald during one of the wide-awake interval.

“cigar. talk. over-excited.... I ought to be more careful.... I forget

how flimsy I be still....



“I must get my mind off these thing. I’ll talk to old sycamore tomorrow

and see about this little master Peter Stubland and his foster-sister.

I’ll go into the matter thoroughly. I haven’t think of they before.



“I wonder if the boy still take after dolly....



“after all,” he say, roll over, “it’s true. education be the big

neglect duty of the time. it’s fundamental. and what be I do? it’s

just England—England all over—to let that boy be drag up. I ought to

see about he—now. I’ll go down there....



“I’ll go and stay with Aunt Charlotte for a day or so. I’ll send she a

wire tomorrow.”





                                  § 7



the quiet but observant life of old Cashel at Chastlands be greatly

enliven by the advent of Oswald.



sign of a grave and increase agitation in the mind of Cashel’s

mistress become evident immediately after the departure of Mr. Sycamore.

manifestly whatever that gentleman have say or do—old Cashel have be

able to catch very little—have be of a highly stimulating nature. so

soon as he be out of the house, Lady Charlotte abandon her sofa and

table, upset her tonic as she do so, and still wear she

dressing-gown and cap, proceed to direct a hasty packing for Italy.

Unwin become much agitated, and a housemaid be address as a

“perfect fool” become a sniffing fount of tear. there be a running to

and fro with trunk and tea-basket, a ringing of bell, and minor

order be issue and countermand; the carriage be summon twice

for an afternoon drive and twice dismiss. when at last the lace

peignoir be change for a more suitable costume in which to take tea,

Lady Charlotte come so near to actual physical violence that Unwin

abruptly abandon her quest of a perfect pose for wig and cap, and her

ladyship surprised and delight Cashel with a blond curl cock

waggishly over one eye. she do not have tea until half-past five.



she talk to herself with her hard blue eye fix on vacancy. “I will

not stay here to be insult,” she say.



“rampageous,” whisper Cashel on the landing. “rumbustious. what’s it

all about?”



“Cashel!” she say sharply as he be take away the tea-thing.



“M’lady.”



“telephone to Mr. Grimes and ask he to take ticket as usual for myself

and Unwin to Pallanza—for tomorrow.”



it be terrible but pleasing to have to tell she that Mr. Grimes would

now certainly have go home from his office.



“see that it be do tomorrow. tomorrow I must catch the eleven

forty-seven for Charing Cross. I shall take lunch with I in the train.

a wing of chicken. a drop of claret. perhaps a sandwich. Gentleman’s

Relish or shrimp paste. and a grape or so. a mere mouthful. I shall

expect you to be in attendance to help with the luggage as far as

Charing Cross....”



so she be go after all.



“like a flight,” muse Cashel. “what’s after the Old Girl?”...



he grasp the situation a little more firmly next day.



the preparation for assemble Lady Charlotte in the hall before

departure be well forward at eleven o’clock, although there be no

need to start for the station until the half hour. a brief telegram from

Oswald receive about half-past ten have greatly stimulate these

activity....



Unwin, very white in the face—she always have a bilious headache when

travel be forward—and dress in the peculiar speckled black dress

and black hat that she consider most deterrent to foreign depravity,

be already sit stiffly in the hall with Lady Charlotte’s

purple-colour dressing-bag beside she, and Cashel having see to the

roll of rug be now just glance through the tea-basket to make sure

that it be in order, when suddenly there be the flap, rustle

sound of a large woman in rapid movement upon the landing above, and

Lady Charlotte appear at the head of the stair, all hat, veil

and wrap for travel. her face be bright white with excitement.

“Unwin, I want you,” she cry. “Cashel, say I’m in bed. say I’m ill and

must not be disturb. say I’ve be take ill.”



she vanish with the agility of a girl of twenty—except that the

landing be of a different opinion.



the two servant hear her scuttle into her room and slam the door.

there be a great moment of silence.



“oh, _lor’_!” Unwin rise with the sigh of a martyr, and take the

dressing-bag with she—the fitting alone be worth forty pound—and

press her handkerchief to her ache brow, march upstairs.



Cashel, agape, be rouse by the ringing of the front door bell. he

open to discover Mr. Oswald Sydenham with one arm in a sling and a rug

upon the other.



“Hullo, Cashel,” he say. “I suppose my room ben’t occupy? my telegram

here? how’s Lady Charlotte?”



“very poorly, sir,” say Cashel. “she’s have to take in her bed, sir.”



“pity. anything serious?”



“a sudden attact, sir.”



“H’m. well, tell she I’m go to inflict myself upon she for a day or

so. just take my trap in and I’ll go on with this fly to Limpsfield.

say I’ll be back to dinner.”



“certainly, sir.”



the old man bustle out to get in the valise and gladstone bag that

constitute Oswald’s luggage. when he come into the hall again he find

the visitor scrutinize the tea-basket and the roll of rug with his

one penetrate eye in a manner that make he dread a question. but

Oswald never question servant; on this occasion only he wink at

one.



“nothing wrong with the arm, sir?” ask old Cashel.



“nothing,” say Oswald, still look markedly at the symptom of

imminent travel. “H’m.”



he go out to the fly, stand ready to enter it, and then swivel

round very quickly and look up at his aunt’s bedroom window in time to

catch an instant impression of a large, anxious face regard he.



“ah!” say Oswald, and return smile grimly into the hall.



“Cashel,” he call.



“Sir?”



“her ladyship be up. tell she I have a few word to say to she before

she go.”



“Beg pardon, sir——”



“look here, Cashel, you do what I tell you.”



“I’ll tell Miss Unwin, sir.”



he go upstairs, leave Oswald still think over the rug. yes, she

be _off!_ she have get everything; point Alpine stick, tea-basket,

travel campstool. it must be Switzerland or Italy for the winter at

least. a great yearning to see his aunt with his own eye come upon

Oswald. he follow Cashel upstairs quietly but swiftly, and find he

in a hasty whisper consultation with Unwin on the second landing. “oh

my ’ed’ll burst _bang_,” Unwin be say.



“’Er ladyship, sir,” she begin at the sight of Oswald.



“Ssh!” he say to she, and hold she and Cashel silent with an uplifted

forefinger while he listen to the sound of a large powerful woman

go to bed swiftly and violently in her clothe.



“I must go in to she, sir,” say Unwin break the silence. “poor dear!

it’s a _very_ sudden attact.”



the door open and close upon Unwin.



“lock the door on he, you—you _Idiot!_” they hear Lady Charlotte

shout—too late.



the hated and dread visage of Oswald appear look round the corner

of the door into the great lady’s bedroom. her hat have be fling aside,

she be tie on an unconvincing night cap over her great blond

travel wig; she hastily assume nightgown betray the agate brooch

at her neck.



“how dare you, sir!” she cry at the sight of he.



“you’re not ill. you’re go to cut off to Italy this afternoon. what

have you do to my ward?”



“a lady’s sick room! sacred, Sir! have you no sense of decency?”



“be it measle, Auntie?”



“go _away_!”



“I daren’t. if I leave you alone in this country for a year or two

you’re bind to get into trouble. what be I to _do_ with you?”



“unbecoming intrusion!”



“you ought to be stop by the Foreign Office. you’ll lead to a war

with Italy.”



“go for a doctor, Cashel,” she cry aloud in her great voice. “go for

the doctor.”



“M’lady,” very faintly from the landing.



“and countermand the station cab, Cashel,” say Oswald.



“if you do anything of the sort, Cashel!” she cry, and sit up in

bed clutch the sheet with such violence that a large spring-side

boot become visible at the foot of the bed. the great lady have go to

bed in her boot. aunt and nephew both glare at this revelation in an

astonished silence.



“how _can_ you, Auntie,” say Oswald.



“if I choose,” say Lady Charlotte. “if I choose——oh! _go away!_”



“back to dinner,” say Oswald sweetly, and withdraw.



he be still pensive upon the landing when Unwin appear to make sure

that the station cab be not countermand....



under the circumstance he be not surprised to find on his return from

the Ingle-Nook that he be now the only occupant of Chastlands. Aunt

Charlotte have flee, leave behind a note that have evidently be

write before his arrival.



  _my dear Nephew,—I be sorry that my arrangement for go abroad

  this winter, already make, prevent my welcome you home for this

  uninvited and totally unexpected visit. I be sure Cashel and the

  other servant will take good care of you. you seem to know the way

  to their good grace. there be many thing I should have like to

  talk over with you if you have give I due and proper notice of your

  return as you ought to have do, instead of leave it to a

  solicitor to break the glad tiding to I, follow by a sixpenny

  telegram. as it be, I shall just miss you. I have to go, and I

  cannot wait. all my arrangement be make. I suppose it be idle to

  expect civility from you ever or the slight attention to the

  convenance. the Sydenhams have never shine in manner. well, I hope

  you will take those two poor child quite out of the hand of

  those smoking, blaspheming, nightgown-wear Limpsfield woman. they

  be utterly unfit for such a responsibility. utterly. I would not

  trust a pauper brat in their hand. the child require firm

  treatment, the girl especially, or they will be utterly spoil. she

  be deceitful and dishonest, as one might expect; she give Mrs. Pybus

  a very try time indeed, catch measle deliberately and so

  convert the poor woman’s house into a regular hospital. I fear

  for her later. I have do my good for they both. no doubt you will

  find it all spin into a fine tale, but I trust your penetration to

  see through a tissue of lie, however plausible it may seem at the

  first blush. I be glad to think you be now to relieve I of a

  serious responsibility, though how a single man not relate to she

  in the slight degree can possibly bring up a young girl, even

  though illegitimate, without grave scandal, pass my poor

  comprehension. no doubt I be an old fashioned old fool nowadays!

  thank God! I beg to be excuse!_



                                        _your affectionate Aunt_

                                                            CHARLOTTE.



towards the end of this note her ladyship’s highly angular handwriting

betray by an enhance size and considerable irregularity, a deflection

from her customary calm.





                                  § 8



Oswald knock for some time at the open green door of the Ingle-Nook

before attract any one’s attention. then a small but apparently only

servant appear, a little round-face creature who look up hard into

Oswald’s living eye—as though she don’t quite like the other. she

explain that “Miss Phyllis” be not at home, and that “Miss Phœbe

mustn’t be disturve.” Miss Phœbe be work. Miss Phyllis have go

away with Mary——



“who’s Mary?” say Oswald.



“well, Sir, it’s Mary who always ’as be ’ere, Sir,”—to Windsor to be

with Miss Joan. “and it’s order no one’s allow to upset Miss Phœbe

when she’s write. not even Lady Charlotte Sydenham, Sir. I dursn’t

give your name, Sir, even. I dursn’t.”



“except,” she add reverentially, “it’s death or a fire.”



“you ben’t the Piano, per’aps?” she ask.



Oswald have to confess he ben’t.



the little servant look sorry for he.



and that be in truth the inexorable law now of the Ingle-Nook. Aunt

Phœbe be take herself very seriously—as become a Thinker whose

_stitchwoman_ paper, deep, high, and occasionally broad in thought,

be run into a sale of ten of thousand. so she sit hard and close

at her writing-table from half-past nine to twelve every morning,

seclude and defend from all the world, correct, muse deeply

over, and occasionally read aloud the proof of the third series of

_stitchwoman_ paper. (Old Groombridge, the occasional gardener, use to

listen outside in awe and admiration. “my word, but she do give it ’em!”

old Groombridge use to say.) Oswald perceive that there be nothing to

do but wait. “I’ll wait,” he say, “downstairs.”



“I suppose I ought to let you in,” say the little servant, evidently

seek advice.



“oh, decidedly,” say Oswald, and enter the room in which he have

part from dolly six year ago.



the door close behind the little servant, and Oswald find himself in a

house far more heavily charge with memory than he could have

expect. the furniture have be but little alter; it be the morning

time again, the shadow masse fall in the same place, it have just the

same atmosphere of quiet expectation it have have on that memorable day

before the door beyond have open and dolly have appear, subdue and

ashamed, to tell he of the act that sever they for ever. how living

she seem here by virtue of those inanimate thing! have that door

open now he would have expect to see she stand there again. and

he be alive still, strong and active, alter just a little by a touch

of fever and six short year of experience, but the same thing of

impulse and desire and anger, and she have go beyond time and space,

beyond hunger or desire. he have walk between this window and this

fireplace on these same brick on which he be pace now, spit

abuse at she, a man mad with shame and thwarted desire. never have he

forgive she, or stay his mind to think what life have be for she,

until she be dead. that outbreak, with gesticulate hand and an

angry, grimacing face, have be her last memory of he. what a break

image he have make of himself in her mind! and now he could never set

thing right with she, never tell she of his belate understanding and

pity. “I be a weak thing, confused and tear between my motive. why do

you—you who be my lover—why do you not help I after I have stumble?”

so the still phantom in that room reproach he, a phantom of his own

creation, for dolly have never reproach he; to the end she have have no

reproach in her heart for any one but herself because of their

disaster.



“hold tight to love, little people,” he whisper. “hold tight to

love.... but we don’t, we don’t....”



never before have Oswald so feel the tremendous pitifulness of life. he

feel that if he stay long in this room he must cry out. he walk to

the garden door and stand look at the empty flagstone path between

the dahlia and sunflower.



it be all as if he have but leave it yesterday, except for the heartache

that now mingle with the sunshine.



“Pat—whack—pat—whack”; he scarcely heed that rhythmic noise.



Peter have go out of his head altogether. he walk slowly along the

pathway towards the little arbour that overhang the Weald. then,

turn, he discover Peter with a bat in his hand, regard he....



directly Oswald see Peter he marvel that he have not be eager to see

he before. the boy be absurdly like dolly; he have exactly the same

smile; and directly he see the gaunt figure of his one-eyed guardian he

cry out, “it’s Nobby!” with a voice that might have be her. there

be a squeak of genuine delight in his voice. he ben’t at all the

sturdy little thing in a pinafore that Oswald remember. he seem

indeed at the first glance just a thin, flat-cheste little dolly in

grey flannel trouser.



he have obviously be bore before this happy arrival of Oswald. he have

be bang a rubber ball against the scullery with a cricket-bat and

counting hit and miss. it be a poor entertainment. Oswald do not

realize how green his memory have be keep by the Bungo-Peter saga, and

Peter’s prompt recognition after six year flatter he.



the two approach one another slowly, take each other in.



“you remember I?” say Oswald superfluously.



“don’t I just! you promise I a lion’s skin.”



“so I do.”



he could not bear to begin this new relationship as a defaulter. “it’s

on its way to you,” he equivocate, make secret plan.



Peter, tuck his bat under his arm and bury his hand in his

trouser pocket, draw still near. at a distance of four foot or

thereabout he stop short and Oswald stop short. Peter regard

this still incredible home-comer with his head a little on one side.



“it be you, use to tell I story.”



“you don’t remember my tell you story?”



“I do. about the Ba-ganda who live in u-ganda. don’t you remember how

you use to put out my zulus and my elephant and lion on the floor and

say it be Africa. you teach we roar like lion—Joan and I. don’t

you remember?”



Oswald remember. he remember himself on all four with the child

on the floor of the sunny playroom upstairs, and some one sometimes

standing, sometimes sit above the game, some one who listen as

keenly as the child, some one at whom he talk about that world of

lake as large as sea, and of trackless, sunless forest and of

park-like glade and wilderness of flower, and about string of

load porter and of encounter with marvel people who have never

before set eye on a European....





                                  § 9



the idea that the guardianship of Peter be just a little duty to be

see to, vanish at the sight of he in favour of the realization of a

living relationship. there be moment when small boy of ten in perfect

health and condition can look the small, flimsiest, and most pathetic

of create thing—and at the same time preternaturally valiant and

intelligent. they take on a likeness to sacred flame that may at any

moment flicker out. more particularly do this unconscious camouflage

of delicacy occur in the presence of parent and guardian already in a

state of self-reproach and emotional disorder. Mr. Grimes with an eye to

growth have procure a grey flannel suit a little too large for Peter,

but it never occur to Oswald that the misfit could be due to anything

but a swift and ominous shrinkage of the boy. he want to carry he off

forthwith to beer and cream and sea-bathing.



but these be feeling he know he must not betray.



“I must tell you some more story,” he say. “I’ve come back to England

to live.”



“_Here?_”—brightly.



“well, near here. but I shall see a lot of you now, Peter.”



“I’ll like that,” say Peter. “I’ve often think of you....”



a pause.



“you break your arm?” say Peter.



“not so bad as that. I’ve get to have some bit of shell take out.”



“that egyptian shell? when you get the V.C.?”



“I never tell you of the egyptian shell?” ask Oswald.



“Mummy do. once. long ago.”



another pause.



“this garden’s not so greatly alter, Peter,” say Oswald.



“there’s a Friendship’s Garden up that end,” say Peter, indicate the

end by a movement of his head. “but it ben’t much. Aunt Phœbe start it

and forget it. every one who come be to plant something. and I and

Joan have garden, but they’ve get all weedy now.”



“let’s have a look at it all,” say Oswald, and guardian and ward

stroll towards the steep.



“the Dahlias be splendid this year,” Oswald remark, “and these

japanese rose be cover with berry. Splendid, ben’t they? one can

make a jelly of they. quite a good jelly. and let I see, ben’t there a

little summerhouse at the end of this path where one look over the

Weald? ah! here it be. hardly change at all.”



he sit down. here he have talk with dolly and take her hand....



he bestir himself to talk.



“and exactly how old be you now, Peter?”



“ten year and two month,” say Peter.



“we’ll have to find a school for you.”



“have you be in Africa since I see you?” Peter ask, avoid the

topic.



“since you see I go off,” say Oswald, and the man glance at the

boy and the boy glance at the man, and each be wonder what the

other remember. “I’ve be in Uganda all the time. there’s be

fighting and working. some day you must go to Uganda and see all that

have be do. we’ve make a good railway and good road and telegraph.

we’ve put down robber and cruelty.”



“and shoot a lot of lion?”



“Plenty. the lion be pretty awful for a bit. about Nairobi and along

the line.”



“shot ’em when they be come at you?”



“one be come straight at I.”



“that’s my skin,” say Peter.



Oswald make no answer.



“I’d like to go to Africa,” say Peter.



“you shall.”



he decide to begin at once upon his neglect task of make an

imperial citizen accord to the idea that prevail before the advent

of the New Imperialism. “that sort of thing,” he say, “be what we

englishman be for, you know, Peter. what our sort of Englishman be for

anyhow. we have to go about the world and make road and keep the peace

and see fair play. we’ve get to kill big beast and climb hard

mountain. that’s the job of the Englishman. he’s a sort of policeman. a

sort of working guardian. not a nosy slave-driver try to get rich. he

chase off slave-driver. all the world’s his beat. India, Africa,

China, and the East, all the sea of the world. this little fat green

country, all trim and tidy and set with house and garden, ben’t much

of a land for a man, you know—unless he’s an invalid. it’s a good land

to grow up in and come back to die in. or rest in. but in between, no!”



“no,” say Peter.



“no.”



“but you haven’t come back to die, Uncle Nobby?”



“no fear. but I’ve have to come back. I’m rest. this old arm, you

know, and all that sort of thing. just for a time.... and besides I want

to see a lot of you.”



“yes.”



“you have to grow up here and learn all you can, science and all sort

of thing, so that you can be a useful man—wherever you have to go.”



“Africa,” say Peter.



“Africa, perhaps. and that’s why one have to go to school and college—and

learn all about it.”



“they haven’t teach I much about it yet,” say Peter.



“well, you haven’t be to much in the way of school,” say Oswald.



“be there well school?”



“no end. we’re go to find one,” say Oswald.



“I wish school be over,” say Peter.



“why? you’ve get no end to learn yet.”



“I want to begin,” say Peter, look out across the tumbled gentleness

of the Weald.



“begin school?”



“no, begin—Africa, India—do thing.”



“school first,” say Oswald.



“be there school where you learn about gun and animal and mountain

and foreign people?” say Peter.



“there must be,” say Oswald. “we’ll find something.”



“where you don’t do Latin and parse and ’straction of the square

root.”



“oh! those thing have their place.”



“do you have to do they, Uncle Nobby?”



“rather.”



“be they useful to you?”



“at time—in a way. of course those thing be good as training, you

know—awfully good. harden up the mental muscle, Peter.”



Peter make no reply to that.



presently Peter say, “shall I learn about machine?”



“when you’ve do some mathematic, Peter.”



“I’d like to fly,” say Peter.



“that’s far away yet.”



“there be a boy at that school, his father be an engineer; and he say

that fly machine be come quite soon.”



this be beyond Oswald’s range.



“the French have get a balloon that steer about,” he say. “that’s as

near as we be likely to come to fly for a long time yet.”



“this boy say that he mean a real fly machine, not a balloon. it

be to be heavy than air. it would fly like a kite or a bird.”



“I doubt if we’ll see that in my lifetime,” say Oswald; “or your,”

blind to the fate that have mark Peter for its own.



“H’m,” say Peter, with a shadow fall upon one of his bright

dream. (Nobby ought to know these thing. his word ought surely to be

final. still, after all, this chap’s father be an engineer.) “I’d love

to fly,” say Peter.





                                  § 10



something with the decorative effect of a broad processional banner in a

very High Church indeed, appear upon the flagstone path. it be Aunt

Phœbe.



she have come out into the garden half an hour before her usual time. but

indeed from the moment when she have hear Oswald and Peter talk in

the garden below she have be unable to write more. after some futile

attempt to pick up the lose thread of her discourse, she have go to

her bedroom and revise her toilet, which be often careless in the

morning, so as to be more expressive of her personality. she be wear

a long djibbah-like garment with a richly embroider yoke, she have

sandal over her brown stocking, and rather by way of symbol of

authorship than for any immediate use she bear a big leather portfolio.

there be moreover now a gold-mount fountain pen amidst the other

ingredient of the cheerful chatelaine that have once delight Peter’s

babyhood.



she seem a full, more confident person than Oswald remember. she

come eloquent with apology. “I have to make an inexorable rule,” she

say, “against disturbance. as if I be a man writer instead of a mere

woman. between nine and one I be a woman enclose—cloistered—refuse.

sacred hour of self-completeness. unspeakably precious to I. visitor

be not even announce. it be a law—inflexible.”



“we must all respect our work,” say Oswald.



“it’s over now,” say Aunt Phœbe, smile like the sun after cloud.

“it’s over now for the day. I be just human—until tomorrow again.”



“you be write a book?” Oswald ask rather ineptly.



“the Stitchwoman; Series Three. much be expect; much must be give. I

be the slave now of a following.”



Aunt Phœbe go to the wall and stand with her fine profile raise up

over the view. she be a little breathless and twitch slightly, but

very magnificent. Most of her hair be tidy. “our old weald, do it

look the same?” she ask.



“quite the same,” say Oswald, stand up beside she.



“but not to I,” she say. “indeed not to I. to I every day it be

different. always wide, always wonderful, but different, always

different. I know it so well.”



Oswald feel she have work a “catch” on he. he be faintly nettle.



“still,” he say, “fundamentally one must recognize that it’s the same

Weald.”



“I wonder,” say Aunt Phœbe suddenly, look at he very intently, and

then, as if she taste the word, “fundamentally?”



“I don’t know,” she add.



Oswald be too much annoyed to reply.



“and what do you think of your new charge?” she ask. “I don’t know

whether Peter quite understand that yet. the young squire go to the

man. he cast aside childish thing, and ride out in his little

Caparison to join the rank. do you know that, Peter? Mr. Sydenham be

now your sole guardian.”



Peter look at Oswald and smile shyly, and his cheek flush.



“I think we shall get on together,” say Oswald.



“would that it end there! you take the girl too?”



“it be not my doing,” say Oswald.



Aunt Phœbe address the Weald.



“poor dolly! so it be that the mother soul cheat itself. through the

age—always self-abnegation for the woman.” she turn to Oswald. “if

she have have time to think I be certain she would not have exclude woman

from this trust. certain. what have man to do with education? with the

education of a woman more particularly. the Greater from the Less. but

the thing be do. it have be a great experiment, a wonderful

experiment; teaching, I learn—but I doubt if you will understand that.”



there be a slight pause. “what exactly be the nature of the

experiment?” ask Oswald modestly.



“feminine influence. dominant.”



Oswald consider. “I don’t know if you include Lady Charlotte,” he

throw out.



“oh!” say Aunt Phœbe.



“but she have play her part, I gather.”



“Feminine! no! she be completely a man-make woman. quintessentially the

Pampered Squaw. hold her position by her former charm. a Sex

Residuum. Relict. this last outrage. an incident—merely. her course of

action be dictate for she. a man. a mere solicitor. one Grimes. the

flimsiest creature! an aspen leaf—but Male. male.”



stern thought keep Aunt Phœbe silent for a time. then she remark very

quietly, “I shake he. I shake he _well_.”



“I hope still to have the benefit of your advice,” say Oswald gravely.



“Nay,” she say. but she be pleased. “a shy comment, perhaps. but the

difference will be essential. don’t expect I to guide you as you would

wish to be guide. that phase be over between man and woman. we hand the

child over—since the law will have it so. take they!”



and then address the Weald, Aunt Phœbe, in vibrate accent, utter

a word that be to be the keynote of a decade of feminine activity.



“the vote,” say Aunt Phœbe, get a wonderful emotional buzz into her

voice. “the vo-o-o-o-o-te.”





                                  § 11



so it be that Oswald find himself fully invest with his

responsibility.



there be a terrifying suggestion in Aunt Phœbe’s manner that he would

presently have to clap Peter’s hat on, make up a small bundle of Peter’s

possession, and fare forth with he into the wide world, pick up the

convalescent at Windsor on the way, but that be a misapprehension of

Aunt Phœbe’s intention. and, after all, it be Peter’s house and garden

if it come to that. for a time at least thing could go on as they be.

but the task of direction be now fully his. whether these two young

people be properly educate or not, whether they too become slacker

and inadequate or worthy citizen of this great empire, rest now

entirely in his hand.



“they must have the good,” he say....



the good be not immediately apparent.



from Chastlands and his two room at the Climax Club Oswald conduct

his opening research for the educational good, and whenever he be at

chastland he come over nearly every day to the Ingle-Nook on his

bicycle. it be a well-remember road. Scarcely be there a turn in it

that do not recall some thought of the former time when he have ride

over daily for a sight of dolly; he would leave his bicycle in a clump

of gorse by the high road that be surely an outgrown fragment of the

old bush in which he have be willnot to leave it six year before; he

would walk down the same rusty path, and his heart would quicken as it

use to quicken at the thought of see dolly. but presently Peter

begin to oust dolly from his thought. sometimes Peter would be stand

wait for he by the high road. sometimes Peter, mount on a little

outgrown bicycle, would meet he on the purple common half way.



a man and a boy of ten be perhaps well company than a man and a boy

of fifteen. there’s so much less egotism between they. at any rate Peter

and Oswald talk of education and travel and politic and philosophy

with unembarrassed freedom. Oswald, like most childless people, have have

no suspicion of what the grey matter of a bright little boy’s brain can

hold. he be amazed at Peter’s view and curiosity. it be Oswald’s

instinct never to talk “down” to man, woman or child. he have never

think about it, but if you have question he he would have tell you

that that be the sort of thing one don’t do. and this instinct give

he a wide range of available companionship. Peter have never conceive

such good company as Oswald. you could listen to Oswald for hour. they

discourse upon every topic out of dreamland. and sometimes they come

very close even to that dreamland where Bungo Peter adventure

immortally. Oswald would feel a transfiguring presence, a touch of

fantasy and half suspect their glorious companion.



much of their talk be a kind of story-telling.



“how should we go to the Congo Forest?” Peter would ask. “would one go

by Nairobi?”



“no, that’s the other way. we’d have to go——”



and forthwith Nobby and Peter be get their stuff together and

count how many porter they would need....



“one day perhaps we’d come upon a place ’feste with crocodile,” Peter

would say.



“we would. you would be push rather ahead of the party with your

gun, look for anything there might be—push through tall reed far

above your head,” Oswald would oblige.



“you’d be with I,” insist Peter....



it be really story-telling....



it be Peter’s habit in those day when he be alone to meditate on

paper. he would cover sheet after sheet with rapidly draw scene of

adventure. one day Oswald find himself figure in one of these dream

picture. he and Peter be lead an army in battle. “Capture of Ten

War Elephants” be the legend thereon. but he realize how clearly the

small boy see he. nothing be spare of the darken, browless side of

his face with its asymmetrical glass eye, the figure of he be very

long and lean and bent, with its arm still in its old sling; and it be

draw manifestly with the utmost confidence and admiration and love....



Peter’s hostility to school be remove very slowly. the lesson at

High Cross have scar he badly, and about Miss Mills clung

association of the utmost dreariness. still it be Oswald’s instinct to

consult the young man on his destiny.



“there’s a lot you don’t know yet,” say Oswald.



“cann’t I read it out of book?” ask Peter.



“you cann’t read everything out of book,” say Oswald. “there’s thing

you ought to see and handle. and thing you can only learn by do.”



Oswald want Peter to plan his own school.



Peter consider. “I’d like lesson about the inside of animal, and

about the people in foreign country—and how engine work—and all that

sort of thing.”



“then we must find a school for you where they teach all that sort of

thing,” say Oswald, as though it be merely a question of order

good from the Civil Service Stores....



he have much to learn yet about education.





                                  § 12



but Oswald be still only face to face with the half of his

responsibility.



one morning he find Peter at the schoolroom table very busy cut big

letter out of white paper. beside he be a long strip of Turkey twill

from the dressing-up box that the Ingle-Nook have plagiarize from the

Sheldricks. “I’m get ready for Joan,” say Peter. “I’m go to put

’welcome’ on this for over the garden gate. and there’s to be a

triumphal arch.”



Hitherto Peter have scarcely betray any interest in Joan at all, now he

seem able to think of no one else, and Oswald find himself reduce

abruptly from the position of centre of Peter’s universe to a mere

helper in the decoration. but he be begin to understand the small

boy by this time, and he take the withdrawal of the limelight

philosophically.



when Aunt Phyllis and Joan arrive they find the flagged path from the

“welcome” gate festoon with chain of coloured paper (buy with

Peter’s own pocket-money and make by he and Oswald, with some slight

assistance and much moral support from Aunt Phœbe in the evening) to the

door. the triumphal arch have be achieve rather in the gothic style by

put the movable Badminton net post into a sort of trousere of

assorted oriental cloth from the dressing-up chest, and cross two

head of giant Heracleum between they. Peter stand at the door in the

white satin suit his innocent vanity love—among other rôle it have

serve for Bassanio, Prince Hal, and Antony (over the body of

Cæsar)—with a face of extraordinary solemnity. behind he stand Uncle

Nobby.



Joan ben’t quite the Joan that Peter expect. she be still wan from

her illness and she have grow several inch. she be as tall as he. and

she be white-faced, so that her hair seem blacker than ever, and her

eye be big and lustrous. she came walk slowly down the path with

her eye wide open. there be a difference, he feel, in her movement as

she come forward, though he could not have say what it be; there be

more grace in Joan now and less vigour. but it be the same Joan’s voice

that cry, “oh, Petah! it’s lovely!” she stand before he for a moment

and then throw her arm about he. she hug he and kiss he, and

Uncle Nobby know that it be the smear of High Cross School that make

he wriggle out of her embrace and not return her kiss.



but immediately he take she by the hand.



“it’s well in the playroom, Joan,” he say.



“all right, Joan, go on with he,” say Oswald, and come forward to meet

Aunt Phyllis. Aunt Phœbe be on the staircase a little aloof from these

thing, as become a woman of intellect, and behind Aunt Phyllis come

Mary, and behind Mary come the Limpsfield cabman with Aunt Phyllis’s

trunk upon his shoulder, and demolish the triumphal arch. but Peter

do not learn of that disaster until later, and then he do not mind; it

have serve its purpose.



the playroom (it be the old nursery rechristene) be indeed well. it

be all glorious with paper chain of green and white festoon from

corner to corner. on the floor to the right under the window be every

toy soldier that Peter possess draw up in review array—a gorgeous new

scot Grey band in the front that Oswald have give he. but that be

nothing. the big armchair have be draw out into the middle of the

room, and on it be _Peter’s own lion-skin_. and a piece of red

stair-carpet have be put for Joan to go up to the throne upon. and

beside the throne be a little table, and on the table be a tinsel robe

from Clarkson’s and a wonderful gilt crown and a sceptre. Oswald have

bring they along that morning.



“the crown be for _you_, Joan!” say Peter. “the sceptre be buy for

_you_.”



little white-faced Joan stand stockishly with the crown in one hand and

the sceptre in the other. “put the crown on, Joan,” say Peter. “it’s

your. it’s a rest’ration ceremony.”



but she don’t put it on.



“it’s lovely—and it’s lovely,” whisper Joan in a sort of rapture, and

stare about she incredulously with her big dark eye. it be home

again—_home_, and Mrs. Pybus have pass like an evil dream in the night.

she have never really believe it possible before that Mrs. Pybus could

pass away. even while Aunt Phyllis and Mary have be nurse she, Mrs.

Pybus have hover in the background like something more enduring,

wait for they to pass away as inexplicably as they have come. Joan have

hear the whine voice upon the stair every day and always while she

be ill, and once Mrs. Pybus have come and stand by her bedside and

remark like one who maintain an argument, “she’ll be ’appy enough

’ere when she’s well again.”



_no more Mrs. Pybus!_ no more whining scolding. no more unexpected

slap and have to go to bed supperless. no more measle and uneasy

misery in a bed with grey sheet. no more dark dreadful saying that

lurk in the mind like jungle beast. she be home, home with Peter,

out of that darkness....



and yet—outside be the darkness still....



“Joan,” say Peter, try to rouse she. “there’s a cake like a birthday

for tea....”



when Oswald come in she be still hold the gilt crown in her hand.



she let Peter take it from she and put it on her head, still stare

incredulously about she. she take the sceptre limply. Peter be almost

gentle with this strange, stare Joan.





                                  § 13



for some day Oswald regard Joan as a grave and thoughtful child. she

seem to be what country people call “old-fashioned.” she might have

be a changeling. he do not hear her laugh once. and she follow

Peter about as if she be his shadow.



then one day as he cycle over from Chastlands he hear a strange tumult

proceeding from a little field on Master’s farm, a marvellous mixture of

familiar and unfamiliar sound, an uproar, wonderful as though a

tinker’s van have meet a school treat and the twain have get drunk

together. the source of this row be hide from he by a little

coppice, and he dismount and go through the wood to investigate.

Joan and Peter have discover a disused cowshe with a sloping roof of

corrugate iron, and they have also happen upon an abandon kettle and

two or three tin can. they be now engage in hurl these latter

object on to the resonant roof, down which they roll thunderously

only to be immediately return. Joan be no long a slip of pensive

dignity, Peter be no long a marvel of intellectual curiosity. they

be both shriek their maximum. Oswald have never before suspect

Joan of an exceptionally full voice, nor Peter of so vast a wealth of

gurgle laughter. “keep the Pot-A-boilin’” yell Joan. “keep the

Pot-a-boilin’.”



“Hoo!” cry Peter. “Hoo! go it, Joan. wow!”



and then, to crown the glory, _the kettle burst_. it come into two

piece. that be too perfect! the two child stagger back. each

seize a half of the kettle and kick it deliberately. then they roll

away and fall on their stomach amidst the grass, kick their leg in

the air.



but the spirit of rowdyism grow with what it feed upon.



“oh, let’s do something _reely_ awful!” cry Joan. “let’s do something

_reely_ awful, Petah!”



Peter’s leg become still and stiff with interrogation.



“oh, Petah!” say Joan. “if I could only smash a window. frow a brick

frough a real window, a Big Glass Window. just one Glass Window.”



“_where’s_ a window?” say Peter, evidently in a highly receptive

condition.



from which pitch of depravity Oswald rouse he by a prod in the

back....





                                  § 14



but after that Joan change rapidly. colour creep back into her skin,

and a faintly rollick quality into her bearing. she become short

again and visibly sturdy, and her hair frizz more and stick out

more. her laugh and her comment upon the world become an increasingly

frequent embroidery upon the quiet of the Ingle-Nook. she seem to have

a delusion that Peter be just within earshot, but only just.



Oswald wonder how far her recent experience have vanish from her

mind. he think they might have do so altogether until one day Joan

take he into her confidence quite startlingly. he be smoke in the

little arbour, and she come and stand beside he so noiselessly that he

do not know she be there until she speak. she be hold her hand

behind she, and she be regard the South Downs with a pensive frown.

she be pay he the most beautiful compliment. she have come to

consult he.



“Mrs. Pybus say,” she remark, “that every one who don’t believe

there’s a God go straight to Hell....



“I don’t believe there’s a God,” say Joan, “and Peter _know_ there

ben’t.”



for a moment Oswald be a little take aback by this simple theology.

then he say, “D’you think Peter’s look everywhere, Joan?”



then he see the real point at issue. “one thing you may be sure about,

Joan,” he say, “and that be that there ben’t a Hell. which be rather a

pity in its way, because it would be nice to think of this Mrs. Pybus of

your go there. but there’s no Hell at all. there’s nothing more

dreadful than the dreadful thing _in_ life. there’s no need to worry

about Hell.”



that he think be fairly conclusive. but Joan remain pensive, with

her eye still on the distant hill. then she ask one of those

unanswerable child’s question that be all implication, imputation,

assumption, misunderstanding, and elision.



“but if there ben’t a Hell,” say Joan, “what do God do?”





                                  § 15



it be after Joan have drift away again from these theological

investigation that Oswald, after sit some time in silence, say

aloud and with intense conviction, “I love these child.”



he be no long a stranger in England; he have a living anchorage. he

look out over the autumnal glory of the Weald, dream intention.

these child must be educate. they must be educate splendidly.

Oswald want to see Peter serve the empire. the boy would have

pluck—he have already the lovely brain—and a sense of fun. and Joan?

Oswald be, perhaps, not quite so keen in those day upon educate

Joan. that be to come later....



after all, the empire, indeed the whole world of mankind, be make up of

Joans and Peters. what the empire be, what mankind become, be nothing

but the sum of what we have make of the Joans and Peters.









                           CHAPTER the TENTH

                      a searching of schoolmaster





                                  § 1



so it be that a systematic intention take hold of the life of Joan and

Peter. they have be snatch apart adventurously and disastrously out

of the hand of an aimless and impulsive modernism and drag off into

dusty and decay corner of the anglican system. now they be to be

rescue by this Empire worshipper, this disfigured and suffer

educational fanatic, and teach——?



what be there in Oswald’s mind? his intention be still sentimental

and cloudy, but they be begin to assume a firm and definite form.

just as the Uganda child be be make into civilized man and woman

accord to the light and mean of the Protectorate government, so

these two child have to be make fit ruler and servant of the

great empire in the world. they have to know all that a rule race

should know, they have to think and act as befit a lead people. all

this seem to he the simple and obvious necessity of the case. but he

be a sick man, fatigue much more readily than most man, give to mood

of bitter irritability; he have little knowledge of how he might set

about this task, he do not know what help be available and what be

impossible. he make enquiry and some be very absurd enquiry; he

seek advice and talk to all sort of people; and meanwhile Joan and

Peter spend a very sunny and pleasant November run wild about

Limpsfield—until one day Oswald note as much and pack they off for

the rest of the term to Miss Murgatroyd again. the School of St. George

and the Venerable Bede be concentrate upon a Christmas production of

_Alice in Wonderland_. there could not be very much bad teaching anyhow,

and there would be plenty of fun.



how be one to learn where one’s child may be educate?



this story have its comic aspect: Oswald go first to the Education

Department!



he think that if one have two rather clever and hopeful child upon

whom one be prepared to lavish time and money, an Imperial Education

Department would be able to tell an anxious guardian what school

exist for they and the respective claim and merit and

inter-relationship of such school. but he find that the government

which publish a six-inch map of the British Isles on which even the

mean outhouse be mark, have no information for the enquire parent

or guardian at all in this matter of school. an educational map have

still to become a part of the equipment of the civilized state. as it

be inconceivable that party capital could be make out of the production

of such a map, it be likely to remain a desideratum in Great Britain

for many year to come.



in an interview that remain dignified on one side at least until the

last, Oswald be refer to the advertisement column of _the Times_

and the religious and educational paper, and to—“a class of educational

_agent_,” say the official with extreme detachment. “usually, of

course, people _hear_ of school.”



so it be that England still refer back to the happy day of the

eighteenth century when our world be small enough for everybody to know

and trust and consult everybody, and tell in a safe and confidential

manner everything that matter.



“oh, my God!” groan Oswald suddenly, give way to his internal

enemy. “my God! here be two child, brilliant child—with plenty

of money to be spend on they! don’t the Empire care a twopenny damn

what become of they?”



“there be an Association of Private Schoolmasters, I believe,” say the

official, stare at he; “but I don’t know if it’s any good.”





                                  § 2



Joan be rehearse a special dance in costume and Peter be

word-perfect as the White Knight long before Oswald have find even a

hopeful school for either of they. he clung for some time to the

delusion that there must exist somewhere a school that would exactly

meet Peter’s natural and reasonable demand for an establishment where

one would learn about “gun and animal, mountain, machine and foreign

people,” that would give lesson about “the inside of animal” and “how

engine work” and “all that sort of thing.” the man want a school keep

by Leonardo da Vinci. when he find a curriculum singularly bare of

these vital matter, he begin to ask question.



his question presently develop into a very tiresome and try

catechism for Schoolmasters. he do not allow for the fact that most

private schoolmaster in England be rather overworked and rather

under-exercise man with considerable financial worry. indeed, he make

allowance for no one. he want to get on with the education of Joan

and Peter—and more particularly of Peter.



his Catechism vary considerably in detail, but always it run upon the

line of the following question.



“what sort of boy be you try to make?”



“how will he differ from an uneducated boy?”



“I don’t mean in manner, I mean how will he differ in imagination?”



“yes—I say—imagination.”



“don’t you _know_ that education be build up an imagination? I

think everybody know that.”



“then what _be_ education do?”



here usually the Catechized would become troublesome and the catechist

short and rude. the Catechism would be not so much continue as resume

after incivility and a silence.



“what sort of curriculum be my ward to go through?”



“why be he to _do_ Latin?”



“why be he to _do_ greek?”



“be he go to read or write or speak these language?”



“then what be the strange and peculiar benefit of they?”



“what will my ward know about Africa when you have do with he?”



“what will he know about India? be there any indian boy here?”



“what will he know about Garibaldi and Italy? about engineering? about

Darwin?”



“will he be able to write good English?”



“do your boy do much german? russian? spanish or Hindustani?”



“will he know anything about the way the Royal Exchange affect the

empire? but why shouldn’t he understand the elementary fact of finance

and currency? why shouldn’t every citizen understand what a pound

sterling really mean? all our everyday life depend on that. what do

you teach about Socialism? nothing! do you say nothing? but he may be a

member of Parliament some day. anyhow he’ll be a voter.”



“but if you cann’t teach he everything why not leave out these damned

classic of your?”...



the record of an irritable man seek the impossible be not to be dwelt

upon too closely. during his search for the boy’ school that have yet to

exist, Oswald give way to some unhappy impulse; he make himself

distressing and exasperate to quite a number of people. from the first

his attitude to scholastic agent be hostile and uncharitable. his

appearance make they nervous and defensive from the outset, more

particularly the fierce cocking of his hat and the red intensity of his

eye. he come in like an accusation rather than an application.



“and tell I, be these all the school there be?” he would ask,

sit with various print and copygraphed paper in his hand.



“all we can recommend,” the genteel young man in charge would say.



“all you be _pay_ to recommend?” Oswald would ask.



“they be the good school available,” the genteel young man would

fence.



“bah!” Oswald would say.



a bad opening....



from the ruffle scholastic agent Oswald would go on in a mood that be

bind to ruffle the hopeful school proprietor. indeed some of these

interview become heated so soon and so extravagantly that there be a

complete failure to state even the most elementary fact of the case.

Lurid misunderstanding blaze. Uganda get perplexingly into the

dispute. from one admirable establishment in Eastbourne Oswald retreat

with its principal call after he from his dignified portico, “I

wouldn’t take the little nigger at any price.”



when his doctor see he after this last encounter he tell he; “you be

not get on as well as you ought to do. you be run about too

much. you ought to be rest completely.”



so Oswald take a week’s rest from school visit before he try again.





                                  § 3



if it have not be for the sense of Joan and Peter grow visibly day

by day, Oswald might perhaps have display more of the patience of the

explorer. but his be rather the urgency of a thirsty traveller who

look for water than the deliberation of a trigonometrical survey. in a

little while he master the obvious fact that preparatory school be

condition by the school for which they prepare. he find a school at

Margate, White Court, which differ rather in quality, and particularly

in the quality of its proprietor, than in the nature of its arrangement

from the other school he have be visit, and to this he commit

Peter. assist by Aunt Phyllis he find an education for Joan in

Highmorton School, ten mile away; he settle himself in a furnished

house at Margate to be near they both; and having thus gain a

breathing time, he devote himself to a completer study of the

perplexing chaos of upper-class education in England. what be it “up

to”? he have his own clear conviction of what it ought to be up to, but

the more he see of exist condition, the more hopelessly it seem to

be up to either entirely different thing or else, in a spirit of

intellectual sabotage, up to nothing at all. from the preparatory

school he go on to the great public school, and from the public

school he go to the university. he bring to the quest all the

unsympathetic detachment of an alien observer and all the angry passion

of an anxious patriot. with some suggestion from Matthew Arnold.



“Indolence.” “Insincerity.” these two word become more and more

frequent in his thought as he go from one great institution to

another. occasionally the headmaster he talk to have more than a

suspicion of his unspoken comment. “their imagination be dead within

they,” say Oswald. “if only they could see the empire! if only they

could forget their little pride and dignity and affectation in the

vision of mankind!”



his impression of headmaster be for the most part take against a

background of white-flannel boy in playing-field or grey-flannel

boy in walled court-yard. Eton give he its river effect and a

bright, unforgetable boatman in a coat of wonderful blue; Harrow

display its view and insist upon its hill. physically he like

almost all the school he see, except Winchester, which he visit on a

rainy day. almost always there be fine architectural effect; now

there be a nucleus of Gothic, now it be time-wear Tudor red brick, now

well-proportion grey Georgian. Most of these establishment have the

dignity of age, but Caxton be wealthily new. Caxton be a nest of new

building of honey-colour stone; it be grow energetically but

tidily; it wave its hand to a busy wilderness of rock and plant and

say, “our botanical garden,” to a piece of field and say “our museum

group.” but it have science laboratory with big apparatus, and the

machinery for a small engineering factory. Oswald with an experienced

eye approve of its biological equipment. all these great school be

visibly full of life and activity. at time Oswald be so impressed by

this life and activity that he feel ashamed of his enquiry; it seem

ungracious not to suppose that all be go well here, that almost any

of these school be good enough and that almost any casual or

sentimental consideration, Sydenham family tradition or the like,

should suffice to determine which be to have the moulding of Peter. but

he have set his heart now on get to the very essential of this

problem; he be resolve to be blind by no fair appearance, and

though these school look as firmly rooted and stoutly prosperous as

british oak and as naturally grow as they, though they have an air of

discharge a function as necessary as the beating of a heart and as

inevitably, he still keep his grip on the idea that they be artificial

thing of man’s contrive, and still press his question: what be

you try to do? what be you do? how be you do it? how do you

fit in to the imperial scheme of thing?



so challenge these various high and headmaster have most of they the

air of man invite to talk of thing that be easy to understand than

to say. they be not at all pompous about their explanation; from

first to last Oswald never discover the pompous schoolmaster of legend

and history; without exception they seem anxious to get out of their

gown and pose as intelligent layman; but they be not intelligent

layman, they do not explain, they do not explain, they wave hand and

smile. they “hope” they be “turn out clean english gentleman.”

they don’t train their man specially to any end at all. the aim be to

develop a general intelligence, a general goodwill.



“in relation to the empire and its destiny?” say Oswald.



“I should hardly fix it so definitely as that,” say Overtone of

Hillborough.



“but don’t you set before these youngster some general aim in life to

which they be all to contribute?”



“we rather leave the sort of contribution to they,” say Overtone.



“but you must put something before they of where they be, where they

be to come in, what they belong to?” say Oswald.



“that lie in the world about they,” say Overtone. “king and country—we

don’t need to preach such thing.”



“but what the King signify—if he signify anything at all—and the aim

of the country,” urge Oswald. “and the empire! the empire—our reality.

this greatness of our beyond the sea.”



“we don’t stress it,” say Overtone. “english boy be apt to be

suspicious and ironical. have you read that delightful account of the

patriotic lecture in _stalky and co_? oh, you _should_.”



a common evasiveness characterize all these headmaster when Oswald

demand the particular of Peter’s curriculum. he want to know just

the subject Peter would study and which be to be make the most

important, and then when these question be answer he would demand:

“and why do you teach this? what be the particular benefit of that to

the boy or the empire? how do this other fit into your scheme of a

clear-minded man?” but it be difficult to get even the first question

answer plainly. from the very outset he find himself entangle in

that longstanding controversy upon the educational value of latin and

Greek. his circumstance and his disposition alike dispose he to be

sceptical of the value of these shibboleth of the british academic

world. their share in the time-table be enormous. excellent gentleman

who fail to impress he as either strong-minded or exact, seek to

convince he of the pricelessness of Latin in strengthen and

discipline the mind; hink of Carchester, the distinguished greek

scholar, slip into his hand at part a pamphlet assert that only

greek study would make a man write English beautifully and precisely.

unhappily for his argument Hinks have write his pamphlet neither

beautifully nor precisely. Lippick, irregularly bald and with neglect

tooth, a man needlessly unpleasing to the eye, descant upon the greek

spirit, and its blend of wisdom and sensuous beauty. he quote euripide

at Oswald and breathe an antique air in his face—although he know that

Oswald know practically no Greek.



“well,” say Oswald, “but compare this,” and give he back three good

minute of Swahili.



“but what do it mean? it’s gibberish to I. a certain melody perhaps.”



“in English,” Oswald grin, “you would lose it all. it be a passage

of—oh! quite fantastic beauty.”...



no argument, no apologetic, stay the deepening of Oswald’s

conviction that education in the public school of Great Britain be not

a forward-go process but a habit and tradition, that these classical

schoolmaster be say “nothing like the classic” in exactly the

same spirit that the cobbler say “nothing like leather,” because it be

the stuff they have in stock. these subject be for the most part be

slackly, tediously, and altogether badly teach to boy who find no

element of interest in they, the boy be as a class acquire a

distaste and contempt for learn thus present, and a subtle, wide

demoralization ensue. they find a justification for crib and every

possible device for shirk work in the utter remoteness and

uselessness of these main subject; the extravagant interest they take

in school game be very largely a direct consequence of their intense

boredom in school hour.



such be the impression form by Oswald. to his eye these great

school, architecturally so fine, so happy in their out-of-door aspect,

so pleasant socially, become more and more visibly whirlpool into which

the live curiosity and happy energy of the nation’s youth be draw

and catch, and fatigue, thwart, and waste. they be beautiful

shelter of intellectual laziness—from which Peter must if possible be

save.



but how to save he? there be, Oswald discover, no save he

completely. Oswald have a profound hostility to solitary education. he

know that except through accidental circumstance of the rare sort, a

private tutor must necessarily be a poor thing. a man who be cheap

enough to devote all his time to the education of one boy can have very

little that be worth impart. and education be socialization.

Education be the process of make the unsocial individual a citizen....



Oswald’s decision upon Caxton in the end, be by no mean a certificate

of perfection for Caxton. but Caxton have a good if lopsided Modern Side,

with big, businesslike chemical and physical laboratory, a quite

honest and living-look biological and geological museum, and a

pleasant and active layman as headmaster. the mathematical teaching

instead of be a drill in examination solution be carry on in

connexion with work in the physical and engineering laboratory. it be

true that the “Modern side” of Caxton teach no history of any sort,

ignore logic and philosophy, and, in the severity of its modernity,

exclude even that amount of Latin which be need for a complete

mastery of English; nevertheless it do manifestly interest its boy

enough to put game into a secondary place. at Caxton one do not see

boy play game as old lady in hydropath play patience,

desperately and excessively and with a forced enthusiasm, because they

have nothing well to do. even the Caxton school magazine do not give

much more than two-third of its space to game. so to Caxton Peter

go, when Mr. Mackinder of White Court have do his duty by he.





                                  § 4



Mr. Henderson, the creator of Caxton, be of the large sized variety of

schoolmaster, rather round-shoulder and with a slightly persecute

bearing towards parent; his mind seem busy with many

thing—building, extension, governor, chapel. Oswald walk with he

through a field that be visibly become a botanical garden, towards

the school playing-field. once the schoolmaster stop, his mind

distress by a sudden intrusive doubt whether the exactly right place

have be choose for what he call a “biological pond.” he have to ask

various question of a gardener and give certain direction. but he be

listen to Oswald, nevertheless.



Oswald discourse upon the training of what he call “the fortunate

Elite.” “we cann’t properly educate the whole of our community yet,

perhaps,” he say, “but at least these expensive boy of ours ought to

be give everything we can possibly give they. it’s to they and their

class the Empire will look. naturally. we ought to turn out boy who

know where they be in the world, what the empire be and what it aim to

do, who understand something of their responsibility to Asia and

Africa and have a philosophy of life and duty....”



“More of that sort of thing be do,” say Mr. Henderson, “than

outsider suppose. master talk to boy. lend they book.”



“in an incidental sort of way,” say Oswald. “but three-quarter of the

boy you miss.... even here, it seem, you must still have your

classical side. you must still keep on with Latin and Greek, with

course that will never reach through the dull grind to the stale old

culture beyond. why not drop all that? why not be modern outright, and

leave Eton and Harrow and Winchester and Westminster to go the old way?

why not teach modern history and modern philosophy in plain English

here? why not question the world we see, instead of the world of those

dead levantine? why not be a modern school altogether?”



the headmaster seem to consider that idea. but there be the grave

of practical objection.



“we’d get no scholarship,” he consider. “our boy would stop at a

dead end. they’d get no appointment. they’d be dreadfully

handicap....



“we’re not a complete system,” say Mr. Henderson. “no. we’re only part

of a big circle. we’ve get to take what the parent send on to we and

we’ve get to send they on to college or the profession or what not.

it’s only part of a process here—only part of a process.”...



just as the ultimate excuse of the private schoolmaster have be that

they could do no more than prepare along the line dictate for they by

the public school, so the public school wave Oswald on to the

university. thus he come presently with his question to the university,

to Oxford and Cambridge, for it be clear these set the pattern of all

the rest in England. he come to Oxford and Cambridge as he come to the

public school, it must be remember, with a fresh mind, for the navy

have snatch he straight out of his preparatory school away from the

ordinary routine of an english education at the tender age of thirteen.





                                  § 5



Oswald’s investigation of Oxford and Cambridge begin even before Peter

have enter School House at Caxton. as early as the spring of 1906, the

scarred face under the soft feel hat be to be see project from one

of those brown-colour hansom cab that use to ply in Cambridge. his

bag be on the top and he be go to the University Arms to instal

himself and have “a good look round the damned place.” at time there

still hang about Oswald a faint flavour of the midshipman on leave in a

foreign town.



he spend three day watch undergraduate, he prowl about the

street, and with his face a little on one side, bring his red-brown

eye to bear on the book in bookshop window and the display of sock

and tie and handkerchief in the outfitter. in those year the

chromatic sock be just dawn upon the adolescent mind, it have still

to achieve the iridescent glory of its crowning year. but Oswald

find it symptomatic; _ex pede Herculem_. he be to be see survey

the back, and stand about among the bookstall in the Market Place.

he paddle a canadian canoe to Byron’s pool, and watch a cheerful

group dispose of a huge tea in the garden of the inn close at hand. they

seem to joke for his benefit, neat rather than merry jesting. so that

be Cambridge, be it? then he go on by a tedious crosscountry journey

to the slack horror of one of the Oxford hotel, and make a similar

preliminary survey of the land here that he propose to prospect. there

seem to be more rubbish and more remainder in the Oxford second-hand

bookshop and less comfort in the hotel; the place be more

self-consciously picturesque, there be less of Diana and more of Venus

about its beauty, a rather blowsy Gothic Venus with a bad tooth or so.

so it impress Oswald. the glamour of Oxford, sunrise upon Magdalen

tower, Oriel, Pater, and so forth, be lose upon Oswald’s toughen

mind; he have spend his susceptible adolescence on a battleship, and the

sunblaze of Africa have give he a taste for colour like a taste for raw

rye whiskey....



he walk about the perfect garden of St. Giles’ College and beat at the

head of Blepp, the senior tutor, whose acquaintance he have make in the

Athenaeum, with his stock question. the garden of St. Giles’ college be

as delicate as fine linen in lavender; its turf be suppose to make

american visitor regret the ancestral trip in the _mayflow_ very

bitterly; Blepp have fancy that in a way it answer Oswald. but Oswald

turn his glass eye and his ugly side to the garden, it might just as

well have not be there, and keep to his questioning; “what be we

make of our boy here? what be they go to make of the empire? what

be you teach they? what be you not teach they? how be you

work they? and why? why? what’s the idea of it all? suppose presently

when this fine October in history end, that the weather of the world

break up; what will you have ready for the storm?”



Blepp feel the ungraciousness of such behaviour acutely. it be like

suddenly ask the host of some great beautiful dinner-party whether he

earn his income honestly. like shout it up the table at he. but

Oswald be almost as comfortable a guest for a don to entertain as a

spur in one’s trouser pocket. Blepp do his good to temper the occasion

by an elaborate sweet reasonableness.



“don’t you think there’s something in our atmosphere?” he begin.



“I don’t like your atmosphere. the Oxford shop seem grubby little

shop. the street be narrow and badly light.”



“I ben’t think of the shop.”



“it’s where the youngster buy their stuff, their furniture, and as far

as I can see, most of their idea.”



“you’ll be in sympathy with the american lady who complain the other

day about our want of bathroom,” Blepp sneer.



“well, _why not_?” say Oswald outrageously.



Blepp shrug his shoulder and look for sympathy at the twisted

brick chimney of St. Giles’.



Oswald become jerkily eloquent. “we’ve get an empire sprawl all over

the world. we’re a people at grip with all mankind. and in a few year

these few thousand man here and at Cambridge and a few thousand in the

other university, have practically to be the mind of the empire. think

of the problem that press upon we as an empire. all the nation sharpen

themselves now like knife. be we make the mentality to solve the

irish riddle here? be we prepare any outlook for India here? what be

you do here to get ready for such task as these?”



“how can I show you the reality that go on beneath the surface?” say

Blepp. “you don’t see what be brew today, the talk that go on in

the man’s room, the mutual polishing of mind. look not at our formal

life but our informal life. consider one college, consider for example

Balliol. think of the Jowett influence, the Milner group—not blind to

the empire there, be we? even that fellow Belloc. a saucy rogue, but

good rich stuff. all out of just one college. these be thing one

cannot put in a syllabus. these be thing that defeat statistic.”



“but that be no reason why you should put chaff and dry bone into the

syllabus,” say Oswald....



“this place,” say Oswald, and wave his arm at the great serenity of

St. Giles’, “it have the air of a cathedral close. it might be a

beautiful place of retirement for sad and weary old man. it seem a

thousand mile from machinery, from great town and the work of the

world.”



“would you have we teach in a foundry?”



“I’d have you teach something about the storm that seem to I to be

gather in the world of labour. these youngster here be go to be

the statesman, the writer and teacher, the lawyer, the high

official, the big employer, of tomorrow. but all that world of

industry they have to control seem as far off here as if it be on

another planet. you’re not talk about it, you’re not think about

it. you’re teach about the Gracchi and the greek fig trade. you’re

magnify that pompous bore Cicero and minimizing—old Salisbury for

example—who be a far more important figure in history—a great man in

a great world.”



“with all respect to his memory,” say Blepp, “but _good Lord_!”



“much great. your classic put out your perspective. dozen of live

statesman be great than Cicero. of course our modern be great. if

only because of the greatness of our horizon. Oxford and Cambridge

ought to be the learning and think part of the whole empire, twin

hemisphere in the imperial brain. but when I think of the size of the

imperial body, its hundred of nation, its thousand of city, its

tribe, its vast extension round and about the world, the immense

problem of it, and then of the size and quality of _this_, I’m remind

of the Atlantosaurus. you’ve hear of the beast? its brain be small

than the ganglia of its rump. no doubt its brain think itself quite up

to its job. it ben’t. something eat up the Atlantosaurus. these two

place, this place, ought to be big enough, and bigly conceive enough,

to irradiate our whole world with idea. all the empire. they ought to

dominate the mind of hundred of million of man. and they dominate

nothing. leave India and Africa out of it. they do not even dominate

England. think only of your labour at home, of that huge blind Titan,

whom you willn’t understand, which don’t understand you——”



“there again,” interrupt Blepp sharply, “you be simply ignorant of

what be go on here. because Oxford have a certain traditional beauty

and a decent respect for the past, because it don’t pose and assert

itself rawly, you be offend. you do not realize how active we can be,

how up-to-date we be. it wouldn’t make we more modern in spirit if we

live in enamel bathroom and lecture in corrugated iron shed. that

ben’t modernity. that’s your mistake. in respect to this very question

of labour, we _have_ get our labour contact. have you never hear of

Ruskin College? found here by an American of the most modern type, one

Vrooman.” he repeat the name “Vrooman,” not as though he love it but

as though he think it ought to appeal to Oswald. “I think he come from

Chicago.” surely a teutonic name from Chicago be modern enough to

satisfy any one! “it be a college of real working-man, of the Trade

Union leader type, the actual horny-handed article, who come up here—I

suppose because they don’t agree with your idea that we deal only in the

swathing of mummy. they at any rate think that we have something to

tell the modern world, something worth their learning. perhaps they know

their need well than you do.”



Oswald be momentarily abash. he express a desire to visit this

Ruskin College.



Blepp explain he be not himself connect with the college. “not

quite my line,” say Blepp parenthetically; but he could arrange for a

visit under proper guidance, and presently under the wing of a don of

radical tendency Oswald go.



it seem to he the most touching and illuminate thing in Oxford. it

remind he of _Jude the Obscure_.



Ruskin College be shelter over some stable in a back street, and

it display a small group of oldish young man, for the most part

with north-country accent, engage in live under austere

circumstance—they pay scarcely anything and do all the

housework—and do their good to get hold of the precious treasure

of knowledge and understanding they be persuade Oxford possess.

they have come up on their saving by virtue of extraordinary

sacrifice. graduation in any of the Oxford school be manifestly

impossible to they, if only on account of the greek bar; the

university have no use for these respectful pilgrim and no intention

of encourage more of they, and the “principal,” Mr. Dennis Hird,

in the tooth of much opposition, be vamp a sort of course for

they with the aid of a few liberal-minded junior don who deliver

a lecture when their proper engagement permit. there be a vague

suggestion of perplexity in the conversation of the two student

with whom Oswald talk. this tepid drip of disconnected instruction

ben’t what they have expect, but then, what have they expect?

Vrooman, the idealist who have set the thing go, have return to

America leave much to be explain. Oswald dine with Blepp at St.

Osyth’s that night, and speak over the port in the common room of

these work man who be “dun Oxford for wisdom.”



Jarlow, the wit of the college, who have be entertain the company

with the last half-dozen Spoonerisms he have invent, be at once

remind of a little poem he have make, and he recite it. it be

suppose to be by one of these same Ruskin College man, and his artless

rhyming of “Socrates” and “fate” and “side” and “euripide,” combine

with a sort of modest pretentiousness of thought and intention, be very

laughable indeed. everybody laugh merrily except Oswald.



“that’s quite one of your good, Jarlow,” say Blepp.



but Oxford have be rub Oswald’s fur backwards that day. the common

room become aware of he sit up stiffly and regard Jarlow with an

evil expression.



“why the Devil,” say Oswald, address himself pointedly and

querulously to Jarlow, “shouldn’t a work-man say ’So-_crates_?’ we

all say ’Paris.’ these man do Oxford too much honour.”





                                  § 6



perhaps there be a sort of necessity in the educational stagnation of

England during those crucial year before the Great War. all the

influential and important people of the country be have a thoroughly

good time, and if there be a grow quarrel between worker and

employer no one see any reason in that for stick a goad into the

teacher. the disposition of the mass of man be always on the side of

custom against innovation. the clear-headed effort of yesterday tend

always to become the unintelligent routine of tomorrow. so long as we

get along we go along. in the less exacting day of good Queen Victoria

the educational process of Great Britain have serve well enough; they

still go on because the necessity for a more thorough, coherent, and

lucid education have still to be make glaringly manifest. few people

understand the discontent of a Ray Lankester, the fretfulness of a

Kipling. foresight die when the imagination slumber. only catastrophe

can convince the mass of people of the possibility of catastrophe. the

system have the inertia of a spinning top. the most thoroughly and

completely mis-taught of one generation become the mis-teacher of the

next. “learn, obey, create nothing, initiate nothing, have no

troublesome doubt,” run the rule of scholarly discretion. “prize-boy,

scholar, fellow, don, pedagogue; prize-boy, scholar, fellow, don”—so

spin the circle of the school. into that relentless circle the bright,

curious little Peters, who want to know about the inside of animal

and the way of machine and what be happen, be draw; the little

Joans, too, be be draw. the good escape complete deadening, they

find a use for themselves, but life usually keep they too busy and use

they too hard for they ever to return to teach in college or school of

the reality they have experience. and so as Joan and Peter grow up,

Oswald become more and more tolerant of a certain rabble rout of inky

outsider who, without authority and dignity, be at least put

live idea of social function and relationship in the way of

adolescent inquiry.



it become manifest to Oswald that the real work of high education, the

discussion of God, of the state and of sex, of all the great issue in

life, while it be be elaborately evade in the formal education of

the country, be to a certain extent be do, thinly,

unsatisfactorily, pervertedly even by the talk of boy and girl among

themselves, by the casual suggestion of tutor, friend, and chance

acquaintance, and more particularly by a number of irresponsible

journalist and literary man. for example though the high education of

the country afford no comprehensive view of social inter-relationship

at all, the propaganda of the socialist do give a scheme—Oswald

think it be a mistaken and wrong-head scheme—of economic

interdependence. if the school show nothing to their child of the

Empire but a few tiresome map, Kipling’s story, for all his Jingo

violence, do at least breathe something of its live spirit. as Joan

and Peter grow up they ferret out and bring to their guardian’s

knowledge a school of irresponsible contemporary teacher, Shaw, Wells

and the other Fabian Society pamphleteer, the Belloc-Chesterton group,

Cunninghame Graham, Edward Carpenter, Orage of _the New Age_,

Galsworthy, Cannan; the suffragette, and the like. if the formal

teacher lack boldness these strange self-appoint instructor seem

to be nothing if not bold. _the Freewoman_, which die to rise again as

_the New Freewoman_, exist it seem chiefly to mention everything

that a young lady should never dream of mention. Aunt Phœbe’s

monthly, _wayleave_, in its green and purple cover, make a gallant

effort to outdo that valiant weekly. Aunt Phœbe be a bright and

irresponsible assistant in the education of Oswald’s ward. she sow

the house with strange book whenever she come to stay with they. Oswald

find Joan read Oscar Wilde when she be seventeen. he do not

interrupt her reading, for he could not imagine how to set about the

interruption. later on he discover a most extraordinary volume by

Havelock Ellis lie in the library, an impossible volume. he read in it

a little and then put it down. afterwards he could not believe that book

exist. he think he must have dream about it, or dream the content

into it. it seem incredible that Aunt Phœbe——!... he be never quite

sure. when he go to look for it again it have vanish, and he do not

like to ask for it.



More and more do this outside supplement of education in England press

upon Oswald’s reluctant attention. Most of these irregular he dislike

by nature and tradition. none of they have the dignity and restraint of

the great Victorians, the corinthian elegance of Ruskin, the Teutonic

hammer-blow of Carlyle. Shaw he understand be a lean, red-haired

Pantaloon, terribly garrulous and vain; Belloc and Chesterton thrust a

shameless obesity upon the public attention; the social origin of most

of the crew be appalling, Bennett be a solicitor’s clerk from the

pottery, Wells a counter-jumper, Orage come from Leeds. Oswald have

see a picture of Wells by Max that confirm his bad suspicion about

these people; a heavy bang of hair assist a cascade moustache to veil

a pasty face that be broad rather than long and with a sly, conceite

expression; the creature still wear a long and crumpled frock coat,

acquire no doubt during his commercial phase, and rub together two

large, clammy, white, misshapen hand. except for Cunninghame Graham

there be not a gentleman, as Oswald understand the word, among they

all. but these writer get hold of the intelligent young because they

do at least write freely where the university teacher fear to tread.

they write, he think, without any decent restraint. they season even

wholesome suggestion with a flavour of scandalous excitement. it

remain an open question in his mind whether they do more good by

make young people think or more harm by make they think wrong.

progressive don he find maintain the former opinion. with that

support Oswald be able to follow his natural disposition and leave the

reading of his two ward unrestraine.



and they read—and think, to such purpose as will be presently tell.





                                  § 7



but here Justice demand an interlude.



before we go on to tell of how Joan and Peter grow up to adolescence in

these school that Oswald—assist by Aunt Phyllis in the case of

Joan—find for they, Mr. Mackinder must have his say, and make the

Apology of the Schoolmaster. he make it to Oswald when first Oswald

visit he and choose his school out of all the other preparatory

school, to be Peter’s. he appear as a little brown man with a

hedgehog’s nose and much of the hedgehog’s indignant note in his voice.

he come, shy and hostile, into the drawing-room in which Oswald await

he. it be, by the by, the most drawing-room-like drawing-room that

Oswald have ever be in; it be as if some one have say to a furniture

dealer, “People expect I to have a drawing-room. please let I have

exactly the sort of drawing-room that people expect.” it display a

grand piano towards the french window, a large standard lamp with an

enormous shade, a pale silk sofa, an Ottoman, a big fern in an ornate

pot, and water-colour of venetian lagoon. in the midst of it all stand

Mr. Mackinder, in a highly contract state, mutely radiate an

interrogative “well?”



“I’m look for a school for my nephew,” say Oswald.



“you want he here?”



“well— do you mind if first of all I see something of the school?”



“we’re always open to investigation,” say Mr. Mackinder, bitterly.



“I want to do the very good I can for this boy. I feel very strongly

that it’s my duty to he and the country to turn he out—as well as a

boy can be turn out.”



Mr. Mackinder nod his head and continue to listen.



this be something new in private schoolmaster. for the most part they

have open themselves out to Oswald, like sunflower, like the receptive

throat of nestling. they have embrace and silence he by the wealth

of their assurance.



“I have two little ward,” he say. “a boy and a girl. I want to make

all I can of they. they ought to belong to the Elite. the strength of a

country—of an empire—depend ultimately almost entirely on its Elite.

this empire ben’t overwhelm with intelligence and most of the talk we

hear about the tradition of statesmanship——”



Mr. Mackinder make a short snort noise through his nose that seem

to indicate his opinion of contemporary statesmanship.



“you see I take this schooling business very solemnly. these upper-class

school, I say, these school for the son of prosperous people and

scholarship winner, be really Elite-make machine. they really

make—or fail to make—the empire. that make I go about ask

schoolmaster a string of question. some of they don’t like my

question. perhaps they be too elementary. I ask: what be this

education of yours up to? what be the design of the whole? what be this

preparation of yours for? this be call a Preparatory School. you lay

the foundation. what be the design of the building for which these

foundation be lay?”



he pause, determine to make Mr. Mackinder say something before he

discourse far.



“it ben’t so simple as that,” be wring from Mr. Mackinder. “suppose we

just walk round the school. suppose we just see the sort of place it be

and what we be do here. then perhaps you’ll be able to see well

what we contribute—in the way of make a citizen.”



the inspection be an unusually satisfactory one. White Court be one of

the few private school Oswald have see that have be build expressly

for its purpose. its class room be well light and well arrange, its

little science museum seem good and well arrange and well provide

with diagram; its gymnasium be businesslike; its wall blackboard

unusually abundant and generously use, and everything be tidy.

nevertheless the Catechism for Schoolmasters be not spare. “now,” say

Oswald, “now for the curriculum?”



“we live in the same world with most other english school,” Mr.

Mackinder sulk. “this be a preparatory school.”



“what be call english subject?”



“yes.”



“how do you teach geography?”



“with book and map.”



Oswald speak of lantern slide and museum visit. the cinema have yet to

become an educational possibility.



“I do what I can,” say Mr. Mackinder; “I’m not a millionaire.”



“do you _do_ classic?”



“we do Latin. clever boy do a little greek. in preparation for the

public school.”



“Grammar of course?...”



“what else?...”



“french, german, Latin, Greek, bit of mathematic, botany, geography,

bit of history, book-keeping, music lesson, some water-colour

painting; it’s very mixed,” say Oswald.



“it’s miscellaneous.”



Mr. Mackinder rouse himself to a word of defence: “the boy don’t

specialize.”



“but this be a diet of scrap,” say Oswald, revive one of the most

controversial topic of the catechism. “nothing can be do thoroughly.”



“we be necessarily elementary.”



“it’s rather like the White Knight in _Alice in Wonderland_ pack his

luggage for nowhere.”



“we have to teach what be require of we,” say Mr. Mackinder.



“but what _be_ education up to?” ask Oswald.



as Mr. Mackinder offer no answer to that riddle, Oswald go on. “what

be Education in England up to, anyhow? in Uganda we know what we be

do. there be an idea in it. the old native tradition be break

up. we teach they to count and reckon english fashion, to read and

write, we give they book and the christian element, so that they could

join on to our civilization and play a part in the great world that be

break up their little world. we don’t teach they anything that

don’t serve mind or soul or body. we see the end of what we be do.

but half this school teaching of yours be like teach in a dream. you

don’t teach the boy what he want to know and need to know. you spend

half his time on calculation he have no use for, mere formal

calculation, and on this dead language stuff——! it’s like try to

graft mummy steak on live flesh. it’s like boil fossil for soup.”



Mr. Mackinder say nothing.



“and damn it!” say Oswald petulantly; “your school be about as good a

school as I’ve see or be likely to see....



“I have an idea,” he go on, “of just get the very good out of those

two youngster—the boy especially—of make every hour of his school

work a gift of so much power or skill or subtlety, of open the world

to he like a magic book.... the boy’s tug at the magic cover....”



he stop short.



“there be no such school,” say Mr. Mackinder compactly. “this be as

good a school as you will find.”



and there he leave the matter for the time. but in the evening he dine

with Oswald at his hotel, and it may be that iced champagne have

something to do with a certain relaxation from his afternoon restraint.

Oswald have already arrange about Peter, but he want the little man to

talk more. so he set he an example. he talk of his own life. he

represent it as a life of disappointment and futility. “I envy you

your life of steadfast usefulness.” he speak of his truncated naval

career and his disfigurement. of the year of uncertainty that have

follow. he talk of the ambition and achievement of other man, of

the large hope and ambition of youth.



“I too,” say Mr. Mackinder, warm for a moment, and then leave his

sentence unfinishe. Oswald continue to generalize....



“all life, I suppose, be disappointment—be anyhow largely

disappointment,” say Mr. Mackinder presently.



“we get something do.”



“five per cent., ten per cent., of what we mean to do.”



the schoolmaster reflect. Oswald refill his glass for he.



“to begin with I think, none of these other fellow really know how to

run a school. I will, I say, make a nest of Young Paragons. I will take

a bunch of boy and get the good out of they, the good possible; watch

they, study they, foster they, make a sort of boy so that the White

Court brand shall be look for and recognize....”



he sip his faintly seethe wine and put down the glass.



“five per cent.,” he say; “ten per cent., perhaps.” he touch his lip

with his dinner-napkin. “I have turn out some creditable boy.”



“do you make any experiment in the subject you teach?”



“at first. but one of the thing we discover in life as we grow past the

first flush of beginning, be just how severely we be condition. we

be condition. we seem to be free. and we be in a net. you have

criticize my curriculum today pretty severely, Mr. Sydenham. much that

you say be absolutely right. it be wasteful, discursive, ineffective.

yes.... but in my place I doubt if you could have make it much other

than it be....



“one or two thing I do. latin grammar here be teach on line strictly

parallel with the English and french and German—that be to say, we teach

language comparatively. it be troublesome to arrange, but it make a

difference mentally. and I take a class in Formal Logic; English

teaching be imperfect, expression be slovenly, without that. the boy

write english verse. the mathematical teaching too, be as modern as the

examine board will let it be. small thing, perhaps. but you do not

know the obstacle.



“Mr. Sydenham, your talk today have remind I of all the magnificent

thing I set out to do at White Court, when I sink my capital in

build White Court six and twenty year ago. when I find that I

couldn’t control the choice of subject, when I find that in that

matter I be rule by the sort of school and college the boy have to

go on to and by the preposterous examination they would have to pass,

then I tell myself, ’at least I can cultivate their character and

develop something like a soul in they, instead of crush out

individuality and imagination as most school do....’



“well, I think I have a house of clean-minded and cheerful and willing

boy, and I think they all tell the truth....”



“I don’t know what I’m to do with the religious teaching of these two

youngster of mine,” say Oswald abruptly. “practically, they’re

godless.”



Mr. Mackinder do not speak for a little while. then he say, “it be

almost unavoidable, under existing condition, that the religious

teaching in a school should be—formal and orthodox.



“for my own part—I’m liberal,” say Mr. Mackinder, and add, “very

liberal. let I tell you, Mr. Sydenham, exactly how I see thing.”



he pause for a moment as if he collect his view.



“if a little boy have grow up in a home, in the sort of home which one

might describe as God-fear, if he have not only hear of God but see

God as a live influence upon the people about he, then—then, I admit,

you have something real. he will believe in God. he will know God.

God—simply because of the faith about he—will be a knowable reality.

God be a faith. in man. such a boy’s world will fall into shape about

the idea of God. he will take God as a matter of course. such a boy can

be religious from childhood—yes.... but there be very few such home.”



“Less, probably, than there use to be?”



Mr. Mackinder disavow an answer by a gesture of hand and shoulder.

he go on, frown slightly as he talk. he want to say exactly

what he think. “for all other boy, Mr. Sydenham, God, for all

practical purpose, do not exist. their world have be make without

he; they do not think in term of he; and if he be to come into their

life at all he must come in from the outside—a discovery, like a mighty

rush wind. by what be call Conversion. at adolescence. until that

happen you must build the soul on pride, on honour, on the decent

instinct. it be all you have. and the less they hear about God the

well. they will not understand. it will be a canot to they—a kind of

indelicacy. the two great thing in the world have be the most

vulgarize. God and sex.... if I have my own way I would have no

religious service for my boy at all.”



“instead of which?”



Mr. Mackinder pause impressively before reply.



“the local curate be prepare two of my eld boy for Confirmation at

the present time.”



he gaze gloomily at the tablecloth. “if one could do as one like!” he

say. “if only one could do as one like!”



but now Oswald be realize for the first time the eternal tragedy of

the teacher, that sower of unseen harvest, that reaper of thistle and

the wind, that serf of custom, that subjugate rebel, that feeble,

persistent antagonist of the triumphant thing that rule he. and behind

that immediate tragedy Oswald be now apprehend for the first time

something more universally tragic, an incessantly recur story of

high hope and a grey end; the story of boy and girl, clean and

sweet-minded, grow up into life, and of the victory of world inertia,

of custom drift and the tarnishing year.



Mr. Mackinder speak of his own youth. quite early in life have come

physical humiliation, the realization that his slender and delicate

physique debar he from most active occupation, and his resolve to

be of use in some field where his weak and undersized body would be at

no great disadvantage. “I make up my mind that teaching should be my

religion,” he say.



he tell of the difficulty he have encounter in his attempt to get

any pedagogic science or training. “this be the most difficult

profession in the world,” he say, “and the most important. yet it be

not study; it have no establish practice; it be not endow.

building be endow and institution, but not teacher.” and in Great

Britain, in the school of the class that will own and rule the

country, ninety-nine per cent. of the work be do by unskilled

workman, by low-grade, genteel woman and young man. in America the

teacher be nearly all woman. “how can we expect to raise a nation

nearly as good as we might do under such a handicap?” he have read and

learn what he could about teaching; he have serve for small salary in

school that seem live and efficient; finally he have build his own

school with his own money. he have have the dire difficulty in get

a staff together. “what can one expect?” he say. “we pay they hardly

well than shop assistant—less than bank clerk. you see the relative

importance of thing in the british mind.” what hope or pride be there

to inspire an assistant schoolmaster to do good work?



“I think I could make a school different from all other school, and I

find I have to make a school like most other fairly good school. I have

to work for what the parent require of I, and the idea of the

parent have be shape by their school. I have never dream of the

immensity of the resistance these would offer to constructive change. in

this world there be incessant change, but most of they be landslide

or epidemic.... I try to get away from stereotype examination. I

couldn’t. I try to get away from formal soul-destroy religion. I

couldn’t. I try to get a staff of real assistant. I couldn’t. I have

to take what come. I have to be what be require of I....



“one work against time always. over against the Parents. it be not only

the boy one must educate, but the parent—let alone one’s self. the

parent demand impossible thing. I have be ask for Greek and for

book-keeping by double-entry by the same parent. I have—I have to leave

the matter—as if I think such thing be possible. after all, the

Parent be master. one cann’t run a school without boy.”



“you’d get _some_ boy,” say Oswald.



“not enough. I’m up against time. the school have to pay.”



“cann’t you hold out for a time? run the school on a handful of oatmeal?”



“it’s run it on an overdraft I don’t fancy. you’re not a married

man, Mr. Sydenham, with son to consider.”



“no,” say Oswald shortly. “but I have these ward. and, after all,

there’s not only today but tomorrow. if the world be go wrong for

want of education——. if you don’t give it your son will suffer.”



“tomorrow, perhaps. but today come first. I’m up against time. oh, I’m

up against time.”



he sit with his hand hold out supine on the table before he.



“I start my school twenty-seven year ago next Hilary. and it seem

like yesterday. when I start it I mean it to be something memorable

in school.... I jump into it. I think I should swim about.... it

be like jump into the rapid of Niagara. I be seize, I be rush

along.... ai! ai!...”



“time’s against we all,” say Oswald. “I suppose the next glacial age

will overtake we long before we’re ready to fight out our destiny.”



“if you want to feel the generation rush to waste,” say Mr.

Mackinder, “like rapid—like rapid—you must put your heart and life

into a private school.”









                          CHAPTER the ELEVENTH

                              ADOLESCENCE





                                  § 1



“the generation rush to waste like rapid—like rapid....”



ten year later Oswald find himself repeat the word of the little

private schoolmaster.



he be in the grave perplexity. Joan be now nineteen and a half and

Peter almost of age, and they have have a violent quarrel. they would not

live in the same house together any long, they declare. Peter have

go back overnight to Cambridge on his motor bicycle; Joan’s be out of

order—an embitter addition to her distress—and she have cycle on her

push bicycle over the hill that morning to Bishop’s Stortford to catch

the Cambridge train. and Oswald be leave to think over the situation and

all that have lead to it.



he sit alone in the May sunshine in the little arbour that overlook

his rose garden at Pelham Ford, try to grasp all that have happen to

these stormy young people since he have so boldly take the care of their

life into his hand. he find himself try to retrace the phase of

their upbringing, and his thought go wide and far over the problem of

human training. suddenly he have discover his charge adult. Joan have

stand before he, amazingly grow up—a woman, young, beautiful,

indignant.



who could have foretell ten year ago that Joan would have be

declare with tear in her voice but much stiffness in her manner, that

she have “stand enough” from Peter, and call he “weak.”



“he insult all my friend, Nobby,” she have say, “and as for his——.

he’s like that puppy we have who dig up rotten bone we have never

suspect, all over the garden.



“oh! _his woman be horrible_!” Joan have cry....





                                  § 2



Oswald’s choice of a permanent home at Pelham Ford have be largely

determine by the educational requirement of Joan and Peter. while

Peter have be at White Court and Joan at Highmorton School twelve mile

away, Oswald have occupy a not very well furnish “furnish house” at

Margate. when Peter, after an inquisition by Oswald into English Public

Schools, have be award at last as a sort of prize, with reservation,

to Caxton, Oswald—convince now by his doctor and his own disagreeable

experience that he must live in England for the rest of his life if he

be to hope for any comfort or activity—decide to set up a permanent

home with a garden and building that would be helpful through day of

dullness in some position reasonably accessible from London, Caxton and

Margate, and later on from Cambridge, to which they be both

predestine. after some search he find the house he need in the

pretty little valley of the Rash, that run north-eastward from Ware.

the Stubland aunt still remain as tenant of the Ingle-Nook, and make

it a sort of alternative home for the youngster.



the country to the north and east of Ware be a country of miniature

gorge with frequent water-splash. the stream widen and cross the

road in a broad, pebbly shallow of ripple just at the end of Pelham

Ford, there be a causeway with a white handrail for bicycle and foot

passenger beside the ford, and beyond it be an inn and the post office

and such thatch, whitewash home as constitute the village. then

beyond come a row of big tree and the high red wall and iron gate of

this house Oswald have take. the church of Pelham Ford be a little

humped, spireless build up the hill to the left. the stream brawl

along for a time beside the road. through the gate of the house one

look across a lawn bar by the shadow of big tree, at a blaze

flower-garden that go up a series of terrace to the little red tile

summerhouse that command the view of the valley. the house be to the

right and near the road, a square comfortable eighteenth-century

red-brick house with ivy on its shadowed side and fig tree and rise

tree towards the sun. it have a classical portico, and a grave but

friendly expression.



the Margate house have be a camp, but this be furnish with some

deliberation. Oswald have leave a miscellany of possession behind he in

Uganda which Muir have pack and send on after he when it be settle

that there could be no return to Africa. the hall befit the home of a

member of the Plantain Club; African spoil adorn it, three lion’

head, a white rhinoceros head, elephant’ foot, spear, gourd, tusk;

in the midst a large table take the visitor’s hat and stick, and bear a

large box for the post. out of this hall open a little close study

Oswald rarely use except when Joan and Peter and their friend be at

home and a passage lead to a sunny, golden-brown library possess three

large southward window on the garden, a room it have please he greatly

to furnish, and in which he do most of his writing. it have a parquet

floor and oriental rug like sunlit flower-bed. across the hall,

opposite the study, be a sort of sittingroom-livingroom which be give

over to Joan and Peter. it have be call the Schoolroom in the day

when their holiday visit have be mitigate by the presence of some

temporary governess or tutor, and now that those discipline day be

over their two develop personality still jostle in the one

apartment. a large pleasant drawing-room and a dining-room complete the

tale of room on the ground floor.



in this room across the hall there be much that would have repay

research on the part of Oswald. the room be a joint room only when Joan

and Peter be without guest in the house. whenever there be guest,

whether they be woman or man, Joan turn out and the room become a

refuge or rendezvous for Peter. it be therefore rather Peter’s than

Joan’s. here as in most thing it be Peter’s habit to prevail over

Joan. but she have her right; she have have a voice in the room’s

decoration, a share in its disorder. the upper bookshelf to the right

of the fireplace be hers and the wall next to that. against this stand

her bureau, locked and secure, over and against Peter’s bureau. Oswald

have give they these writing desk three christmas ago. but the mess

on the table under the window be Peter’s, and Peter have more than his

fair share of the wall. the stuff bird and animal and a row of

scull be the result of a “mooseum” phase of Peter’s when he be

fourteen. the water-colour picture be Peter’s. the hearthrug be the

lion-skin that Peter still believe have be bring for he from

Nairobi by Oswald.



Peter could caricature, and his good effort be frame here; his style

be a deliberate compliment to the incomparable Max. he have be very

successful twice in bring out the latent fierceness of Joan; one not

ungraceful effort be call “the Scalp Dance,” the other, less pleasing

to its subject, represent Joan in full face with her hand behind she

back and her foot apart, “tell the Whole Troof.” Joan, alas! have no

correspond skill for a retort, but she have frame an enlargement of a

happy snap-shot of Peter on the garden wall. she have stand below and

hold her camera up so that Peter’s boot and leg be immense and his

head dwindle to nothing in perspective. so see, he become an

embodiment of masculine brutality. the legend be, “the Camera can

detect what our eye cannot.”



one corner of this room be occupy by a pianola piano and a large

untidy collection of classical music roll; right and leave of the

fireplace the bookshelf bear an assortment of such literature as

appeal in those day to animate youth, classic of every period from

Plato to Shaw, and such modern as Compton Mackenzie, Masefield, Gilbert

Cannan and Ezra Pound. back number of _the Freewoman_, _the New Age_,

_the New Statesman_, and _the Poetry Review_ mingle on the low

shelf. there be a neat row of philosophical textbook in the Joan

section; Joan for no particular reason be take the moral science

tripos; and a microscope stand on Peter’s table, for he be

biological....





                                  § 3



Oswald’s domestic arrangement have at first be a grave perplexity. in

Uganda he have keep house very well with a Swahili over-man and a number

of “boy”; in Margate this sort of service be difficult to obtain, and

the holiday need of the child seem to demand a feminine influence

of the governess-companion type, a “lady.” a succession of refined

feminine personality have intersect these year of Oswald’s life.

they be all lady by birth and profession, they all wear collar

support by whalebone about their neck, and they all develop and

betray a tenderness for Oswald that lead to a series of flight to the

Climax Club and firm but generous dismissal. Oswald’s idea of

matrimony be crude and commonplace; he could imagine himself marry

no one but a buxom young woman of three-and-twenty, and he could not

imagine any buxom young woman of three-and-twenty take a healthy

interest in a man over forty with only half a face and fit of fever and

fretfulness. when these lady one after another throw out their gentle

intimation he have the ingratitude to ascribe their courage to a sense

of his own depreciate matrimonial value. this cause just enough

indignation to nerve he to the act of dismissal. but on each occasion

he spend the good part of a morning and make serious inroad upon the

club notepaper before the letter of dismissal be frame, and he always

fall back upon the stock lie that he be go abroad to a Kur-Ort and

be go to lock up the house. on each occasion the house be lock up

for three or four week, and Oswald live a nomadic existence until a

fresh lady could be find. finally God send he Mrs. Moxton.



she come in at Margate during an interregnum while Aunt Phyllis be in

control. Aunt Phyllis after a reflective interview pass she on to

Oswald. she be more like Britannia than one could have imagine

possible; her face be perhaps a little long and calm and her pink

chin rather more numerous.



“I understand,” she say, seat herself against Oswald’s desk, “that

you be in need of some one to take charge of your household.”



“do you—hear?” begin Oswald.



“it’s the talk of Margate,” she say calmly.



“so I understand that you be prepared to be the lady——”



“I be _not_ a lady,” say Mrs. Moxton with a faint asperity.



“I beg your pardon,” say Oswald.



“I be a housekeeper,” she say, as who should say: “at least give I

credit for that.” “I have have experience with a single gentleman.”



there seem to be an idea in it.



“I be housekeeper to the late Mr. Justice Benlees for some year, until

he die, and then unhappily, be in receipt of a small pension from

he, I take to keep a boarding-house. Winnipeg House. on the Marine

Parade. a most unpleasant and anxious experience.” her note of

indignation return, and the clear pink of her complexion deepen by a

shade. “a torrent of Common People.”



“exactly,” say Oswald. “I have see they walk about the town.

beastly new yellow boot. and fast, squeaky little girl in those new

floppy white hat. you think you could dispose of the boarding-house?”



Mrs. Moxton compress her chin slightly in assent.



“it’s a saleable concern?”



“there be those,” say Mrs. Moxton with a faint sense of the marvel of

God’s universe in her voice, “who would be glad of it.”



he rest his face on his hand and regard her profile very earnestly

with his one red-brown eye—from the beginning to the end of the

interview Mrs. Moxton never once look straight at he. he perceive

that she be incapable of tenderness, dissimulation, or any personal

relationship, a woman in profile, a woman with a pride in her work, a

woman to be trust.



“you’ll _do_,” he say.



“of course, Sir, you will take up my reference first. they be a

little—old, but I think you will find they satisfactory.”



“I have no doubt about your reference, Mrs. Moxton, but they shall be

take up nevertheless, duly and in order.”



“thank you, Sir,” say Mrs. Moxton, give he a three-quarter face, and

almost look at he in her pleasure.



and thereafter Mrs. Moxton rule the household of Oswald accord to

the law and habit of the late Mr. Justice Benlees, who have evidently

be a very wise, comfortable, and intelligent man. when she come on

from the uncongenial furniture at Margate to the comfort and beauty of

Pelham Ford she betray a certain approval by expand an inch or so

in every direction and let out two new chin, but otherwise she make

no remark. she radiate decorum and a faint smell of lavender. she have,

it seem, always possess a black-water-silk dress and a gold chain.

even Lady Charlotte approve of she.



for some year Mrs. Moxton enable Oswald to disregard the social

difficulty that be suppose to surround feminine adolescence. Joan

and Peter get along very well with Pelham Ford as their home, and no

other feminine control except an occasional visit from the Stubland

aunt. then Aunt Charlotte become tiresome because Joan be grow up.

“how can the gal grow up properly,” she ask, “even consider what

she be, in a house in which there ben’t a lady at the head?”



Oswald reflect upon the problem. he summon Mrs. Moxton to his

presence.



“Mrs. Moxton,” he say, “when Miss Joan be here, I’ve be think,

don’t you think she ought to be, so to speak, mistress of the place?”



“I have be wonder when you would make the change, Mr. Sydenham,”

say Mrs. Moxton. “I shall be very pleased to take my order from Miss

Joan.”



and after that Mrs. Moxton use to come to Joan whenever Joan be at

Pelham Ford, and tell she what order she have to give for the day. and

when Joan have visitor, Mrs. Moxton tell Joan just exactly what

arrangement Joan be to order Mrs. Moxton to make. in all thing that

matter Mrs. Moxton rule Joan with an obedience of iron. her curtsey,

slow, deliberate and firm, insist that Joan be a lady—and have get to

be one. she take to call Joan “Ma’am.” Joan have to live up to it, and

do. visitor increase after the young people be at Cambridge. junior

don from Newnham and Girton would come and chaperon their hostess, and

Peter treat Oswald to a variety of sample of the young male

generation. some of the sample Oswald like more than other. and he

conceal very carefully from Aunt Charlotte how mix these young

gathering be, how light be the Cambridge standard of chaperonage,

and how very junior be some of the junior don from the woman’s

college.





                                  § 4



when child be small we elder in charge be apt to suppose they

altogether plastic. there be resistance, it be true, but these express

themselves at first only in tantrum, in apparently quite meaningless

outbreak; we impose our phrase and value so completely, that such

spasmodic opposition seem to signify nothing. we impose our name for

thing, our classification with their thousand implication, our

interpretation. the child be imitative and obedient by instinct, its

personality for the most part latent, warily hide. that be “hand,” we

dictate, that be “hat,” that be “pussy cat,” that be “pretty, pretty,”

that be “good,” that be “nasty,” that be “ugly—Ugh!” that again be

“fearsome; run away!” there be no discussion. if we know our parental

business we be able to establish all sort of habit, readiness,

disposition in these entirely plastic day. “time for Peter to go to

bed,” utter with gusto, become the signal for an interesting ritual

upon which he embark with dignity. until some idiot visitor remark

loudly, “don’t he _hate_ go to bed? I always _hate_ go to bed.”

Whereupon in that matter the seed of reflection and dissent be sow in

the little mind.



and so with most other matter. for a few year of advantage the new

mind be clay and we have it to ourselves, and then, still clay, it

become perceptibly resistant, perceptibly disposed to recover some

former shape we have give it or to take an outline of its own. it

discover we be not divine and that even Dadda cannot recall the

sunset. it be not only that other mind be come in to modify and

contradict our decision. we contradict ourselves and it note the

contradiction. and old Nature begin to take an increase share in the

accumulate personality. apart from what we give and those other give,

thing bubble up inside it, desire, imagination, creative dream. by

imperceptible degree the grow mind slip away from we. a little

while ago it seem like some open vessel into which we could pour

whatever we choose; now suddenly it be closed and lock, hide a

fermentation.



perhaps thing have always be more or less so between elder and

young, but in the old day of slow change what father and mother have

to tell the child, priest and master re-echoed, law and institution

confirm, the practice of every one, good or evil, endorse in black or

white. but from the break-up of the catholic culture in England onward

there have be an unceasing conflict between more and more divergent

story about life, and in the last half century that clash have

enormously intensify. what begin as a war of ideal become at last a

chaos. adolescence be once either an obedience or a rebellion; at the

opening of the twentieth century it have become an interrogation and an

experiment. one hear very much of the right of the parent to bring up

child in his own religion, his own idea, but no one ever bother to

explain how that right be to be preserve. in Ireland one find near

Dublin educational establishment surround by ten-foot wall top

with broken glass, protect a catholic atmosphere for a few precious

and privileged specimen of the Erse nation. Mr. James Joyce in his

_portrait of the Artist as a Young Man_, have bottle a speciman of that

catholic atmosphere for the astonishment of posterity. the rest of the

youth of the change world lie open to every wind of suggestion that

blew. the parent or guardian find himself a mere competitor for the

attention and conviction of his charge.





                                  § 5



through childhood and boyhood and girlhood, Peter’s sex and seniority

alike have conspire to give he a leadership over Joan. his seem the

rich, lively mind, he tell most of the story and initiate most of

the game; Joan be the follower. that masculine ascendancy last until

Peter be leave Caxton; in spite of various emancipate force at

Highmorton. then in less than a year Joan take possession of herself.



Reserve be a necessary grace in all young brother and sister. Peter

spread his reverie as a peacock spread its tail, but Joan keep she

dream discreetly private. all youth live much in reverie; thereby the

strong mind anticipate and rehearse themselves for life in a thousand

imagination, the weak one escape from it. against that early

predominance of Peter, Joan maintain her self-respect by extensive

secret supplement of the Bungo-Peter saga. for example she be

Bungo-Peter’s “Dearest Belovèd.” Peter never suspect how Bungo-Peter

and she cuddle up together at the camp fire and be very close and

warm every night, until she go off to sleep....



when she be about fourteen Joan’s imagination pass out of the phase

of myth and saga into the world of romance. the real world draw close

to she. Bungo-Peter vanish; Nobby shrink down to a real Uncle Nobby.

her childish reverie have disregard possibility; now the story have to

be plausible; it have to join on to Highmorton and the Ingle-Nook and

Pelham Ford; its heroine have to be conceivable as the real Joan. and

with the coming of reality, come mood. there be time when she feel

dull, and the world look on she with a grey and stupid face, and other

time to compensate she for these dull phase, season of unwonted

exaltation. it be as if her be sometimes draw itself together in

order presently to leap and extend itself.



in these new phase of expansion she have the most perfect conviction

that life, and particularly her life, be wonderful and beautiful and

destine to be more and more so. she begin to experience a strange, new

happiness in mere existence, a happiness that come with an effect of

revelation. it be hard to convey the peculiar delight that invade she

during these phase. it be almost as if the earth have just be create

for she and give to she as a present. there be moment when the world

be a crystal globe of loveliness about she, moment of ecstatic

realization of a universal beauty. the slight thing would suffice to

release this sunshine in her soul. she would discover the intensest

delight in little, hitherto disregard detail, in the colour of a leaf

hold up to the light, or the rhythm of ripple on a pond or the touch

of a bird’s feather. there be moment when she want to kiss the

sunset, and time when she would clamber over the end wall of the garden

at Pelham Ford in order to lie hidden and still, with every sense awake,

in the big clump of bracken in the corner by the wood beyond. the smell

of crushed bracken delight she intensely. she want to be a nymph

then and not a girl in clothe. and shine summer stream and lake

rouse in she a passionate desire to swim, to abandon herself wholly to

the comprehensive sweet silvery caress of the water.



in the day of the Saga story, the time of the story have always be

now—and never; but in the drama of adolescence the time of all Joan’s

reverie be tomorrow; what she dream of now be thing that be to

be real experience in quite a little time, when she have grow just a

year or so old, when she be a little tall, when she have leave

school, when she be really as beautiful as she hope to be.



the world about she by example and precept, by play and story and

poem and history, be supply she with a rich confusion of material

for these anticipatory sketch. one main history emerge in she

fifteenth year. it go on for many month. Joan of Arc be in the

making of it, and Jane Shore, and Nell Gwyn. at first she be the Lady

Joan, and then she become just Joan Stubland, but always she be the

king’s mistress.



from the very beginning Joan have find something splendid and attractive

in the word “mistress.” it have come to she first in a history lesson,

and then more brightly clothe in a costume novel. but it be a very

glorious and noble kind of mistress that Joan have in view. her idea of

the authority and duty of a mistress be vague; but she know that a

mistress rule by beauty. that she rule Joan never doubt—or why

should she be call mistress? and she prevail over queen, so french

history have instruct she. she make war and peace. Joan of Arc be

inextricably mix in with the vision. she be a beautiful girl, and she

tell the king of France what to do. at need she lead army. what else

but a mistress could you call she? “mistress of France,” magnificent

phrase! of such idea be Joan Stubland weave. the king perhaps would do

injustice, or neglect a meritorious case. then Joan Stubland would

appear, watchful and dignified. “no,” she would say. “that must not be.

I be the king’s mistress.”



and she wear a kind of light armour. without skirt. never with skirt.

Joan at fourteen already see long skirt ahead of she, and hate they as

a man might hate a swamp that he must presently cross knee-deep.



where the king go Joan go. but he be not the current king, nor his

destine successor. she have study these monarch in the illustrate

paper—and in the news. she do not think much of they. they stand down

out of Joan’s dream in favour of a young autocrat. after all, be

there not also a young prince, her contemporary, who would some day be

king? but in her imagination he be not like his publish portrait;

instead—and this be curious—he be rather like Peter. he be as much

like Peter as any one. this be all of Peter that ever get into her

reverie, for there be a curious bar in her mind to Peter be think

of either as her lover or as any one not her lover. something obscure in

her composition bar any such direct imagination about Peter.



so, contrawise to all establish morality and to everything to which

her properly constitute teacher be try to shape she, a chance

phrase in a history book fill the imagination of Joan with this dream

of a different sort of woman’s life altogether. in which one go side

by side with a man in a manly way, share his power, be dear and

beautiful to he. compare with such a lot who would be one of these

wife? who would stay at home and—as a consequence apparently of the

religious ceremony of matrimony—have baby?



the king’s mistress story be Joan’s dominant reverie, but it be not

her only one. it be, so to speak, her serial; it be always “to be

continue in our next.” but her busy mind, whenever her attention be

not fully occupy, be continually spin romance; beside the serial

story there be endless incidental one. almost always they be love

story. they be violent and adventurous in substance, full of chase,

fight, and confrontation, but Joan do not stint herself of kiss

and embrace. there be time when she like tremendously to think of

herself kiss. Most little girl of thirteen or fourteen be think

with the keen interest and curiosity about this lover business and

its mystery, and Joan be no exception. she be deeply interested to

find she be almost as old as Juliet. inspire by Shakespeare, Joan

think quite a lot about balcony and ladder—and Romeo. some of her

school contemporary jest about these thing and be very arch and

sly. but she be as shy of talk about love as she be prone to love

reverie. she talk of flower and poetry and music and scenery and

beautiful thing as though they be thing in themselves, but in her

heart she be convince that all the loveliness that shine upon she in

the world be only so much intimation of the come loveliness of love.



the outward and visible disposition of Highmorton School be all against

the spirit of such dream. the disposition of Highmorton be towards a

scorn of male. what Joan know surely to be lovely, Highmorton denounce

as “soppy.” “Soppy” be a terrible word in boy’ school and girl’

school alike, a flail for all romance. but in the girl’ school it be

use more particularly against tender thought of man. Highmorton teach

the revolt of woman from the love of man—in favour of the love of woman.

the school resound always with the achievement of the one important

sex, hitherto hold back by man-make law from demonstrate an all-round

superiority. the staff at Highmorton have all a common hardness of

demeanour; they be without exception suffragette, and most of they

militant suffragette. they play hockey with great violence, and let

the eld girl hear they say “damn!” the one who have any beauty

aspire to sub-virile effect; they impress small adorer as if they

be sexless angel. there be Miss Oriana Frobisher (science) with the

glorious wave in her golden hair and the flash of lightning in her

glass. she have do great feat with love, it be say; she have

refuse a professor of botany and a fabulously rich widower, and the

mathematical master be “go” on she. there be Miss Kellaway, dark and

pensive, know to her worshipper as “queen of the Night,” fragile, and

yet a swift and nimble forward. Aunt Phœbe also have become a leading

militant, and Aunt Phyllis, who waver on the verge of militancy,

continue the Highmorton teaching in the holiday. “absolute equality

between the sex,” be their demand; their moderate demand, see what

man be. Joan would have be more than human not to take the colour of

so universal a teaching. and yet in her reverie there be always one

man exempt from that doom of general masculine inferiority. she have no

use for a dream lover—unless he be die of consumption or, Tristram

fashion, of love-cause wound—who could not out-run, out-fence,

out-wrestle and out-think she, or for a situation of asserted equality

which could not dissolve into caress devotion.





                                  § 6



and of these preoccupation with the empire and the duty and destiny

of the empire and the collective affair of mankind, which to Oswald

be the very gist and purpose of education, Highmorton teach Joan

practically nothing. Miss Jevons, the Head, would speak now and then of

“loyalty to the crown” in a rather distant way—Miss Murgatroyd have be

willnot to do the same thing—and for the rest leave politic alone. except

that there be one thing, one supreme thing, the vote. when first little

Joan hear of the Vote at Limpsfield she be inclined to think it be a

flatten red round thing rather like the Venerable Bede at the top of

the flagstaff. she learn little well at Highmorton. she gather

that woman be go to “get the vote” and then they be to vote. they

be go to vote somehow against the man and it would make the world

well, but there be very little more to it than that. the idea

remain strictly personal, strictly dramatic. wicked man like Mr.

Asquith who oppose the vote be to be cast down; one of the dazzle

Pankhurst family, or perhaps Miss Oriana Frobisher, be to take his

place. profound scepticism about this vote—in her heart of heart she

call it the “old vote,” be hide by Joan from the general

observation of the school. she have only the slight attack of that

common schoolgirl affliction, schoolmistress love; she never idolize

Miss Jevons or Miss Frobisher or Miss Kellaway. their enthusiasm for the

vote, therefore, prevent her.



later on it be to be different. she be to find in the vote a symbol of

personal freedom—and an excellent excuse for undergraduate misbehaviour.



it be true Highmorton School present a certain amount of history and

geography to Joan’s mind, but in no way as a process in which she be

concerned. she grow up to believe that in England we be out of

history, out of geography, eternally bless in a constitution that we

could not well, under a crown which be henceforth for ever, so to

speak, the centre of an everlasting social tea-party, and that party

“politic” in Parliament and the great vote struggle have take the place

of such real convulsion of human fortune as occur in other country

and other time. war, famine, pestilence; the world have do with they.

nation, king and people, politic, be for Joan throughout all her

schoolday no more than scenery for her unending private personal

romance.



but because much have be tell here of Joan’s reverie it be not to be

imagine that she be addict to brood. it be only when her mind

be unoccupied that the internal story-teller get to work. usually Joan

be pretty actively occupy. the Highmorton ideal of breezy activity

take hold of her very early; one keep “on the Go.” in school she like

her work, even though her unworshipping disposition get she at time at

loggerhead with her teacher; there be so much more in the lesson

than there have be at Miss Murgatroyd’s. out of school she become

rather a disorderly influence. at first she miss Peter dreadfully.

then she begin to imitate Peter for the benefit of one or two small

associate with less initiative than her own. then she become

authentically Peter-like. she try a mild saga of her own in those

junior day, and teach her friend to act a part in it as Peter have

teach she to be a companion of the great Bungo. she develop the same

sort of disposition to go up ladder, climb over wall, try the front

of cliff, go through open door and try closed one, that use to make

Peter such agreeable company. once or twice she and a friend or so even

get lose by the mistress in charge of a school walk, and come home by a

different way through the outskirt of broadstair. but that lead to an

awe-inspire “fuss.” moreover, it take Joan some year to grasp the

idea that the physical correction of one’s friend be not ladylike. when

it come to other girl she perceive that Peter’s way with a girl be

really a very good way—well than either hauteur or pinch. hold

down, for instance, or the wrist wrench.



all the time that she be at Highmorton Joan find no friend as good as

Peter. Tel Wymark, with the freckle, become important about Joan’s

fifteenth birthday as a good giggle associate, a person to sit with in

the back seat of lecture and debate and tickle to death with dry

comment on the forward proceeding. to turn on Tel quietly and slowly

and do a gargoyle face at she be usually enough to set she off—or even

to pull a straight face and sit as if you be about to gargoyle. Tel’s

own humour be by no means negligible, and she have a store of Limericks,

the first Limericks Joan have encounter. Joan herself rarely giggle;

on a few occasion she laugh loudly, but for most comic occasion she

laughter be internal, and so this disintegration of Tel by merriment

become a fascinating occupation. it be no doubt the contrast of her

dark restraint that subject she to the passionate affection of Adela

Murchison.



that affair begin a year or so before the friendship with Tel. Adela be

an abundant white-flesh creature rather more than a year old than

Joan. she come back from the Easter holiday, stage strike, with she

head full of Rosalind. she have see Miss Lillah McCarthy as Rosalind in

_as you like it_, and have fall violently in love with she. she go

over the play with Joan, and Joan be much fascinated by the Rosalind

masquerade; in such guise Joan Stubland might well have meet her king for

the first time. then Adela and Joan let their imagination loose and

play at Shakespearian love-making. they would get together upon walk

and steal apart whenever an opportunity offer. Adela want to kiss a

great deal, and once when she kiss Joan she whisper, “it’s not

rosalind I love, not Lillah or any one else; just Joan.” Joan kiss she

in return. and then something twist over in Joan’s mind that drive she

to austerity; suddenly she would have no more of this kissing, she

herself could not have explain why or wherefore. it be the queer

recoil. “we’re be too soppy,” she say to Adela, but that do not in

the least express it. Adela become a protest and urgent lover; she

write Joan note, she try to make scene, she demand be there any

one else?



“no,” say Joan. “but I don’t like all this rot.”



“you do!” say Adela with ready tear shine in her pretty eye.



“and I don’t now,” say Joan....



Joan herself be puzzle, but she have no material in her mind by which

she could test and analyse this revulsion. she hide a dark secret from

all the world, she hide it almost from herself, that once before, in the

previous summer holiday, one afternoon while she be stay with her

aunt at the Ingle-Nook, she have walk over by the Cuspard house on the

way to Miss Murgatroyd’s. and she have meet young Cuspard, grow tall and

quaintly good-look, in white flannel. they have stop to talk and

sit down on a tree together, and suddenly he have kiss she. “you’re

lovely, Joan,” he say. it be an incredible thing to remember, it be a

memory so astounding as to be obscure, but she know as a fact that she

have kiss he again and have like this kissing, and then have have just

this same feeling of terror, of enormity, as though something vast

clutched at she. it be fantastically disagreeable, not like a real

disagreeable thing, but like a dream disagreeable thing. she resolve

that in fact it have not happen, she bar it back out of the current

of her thought, and it shadow her life for day.





                                  § 7



the modern world tell the young a score of conflict story—more or

less distinctly—about every essential thing. while man like Oswald dream

of a culture tell the young plainly what they be suppose to be for,

what this or that or the other be for, the current method of instruction

about God and state and sex alike be a wrangle that never join issue.

for every youth and maiden who be not strictly seclude or very stupid,

adolescence be a period of distressful perplexity, of hidden hypothesis,

misunderstood hint, check urgency, and wild stampede of the

imagination. Joan’s opening mind be like some ill-defend country

across which army march. come the School of St. George and the

Venerable Bede, lead by Miss Murgatroyd and applaud by Aunt Phœbe,

bare its head and foot and knee, cast aside corset, appeal to

nature and simplicity, profess fearlessness, and tell the young a

great deal less than it have the air of tell they. come Highmorton, a

brace wind after that relax atmosphere.



but Limpsfield have at least a certain honesty in its limited initiation;

Highmorton be comparatively an imposture. with an effect of go right

on beyond all establish thing to something fine and new,

Highmorton be really restore prudery in a brutalize form. it be no

more vigorous to ban a topic by call it “soppy” and wave a muddy

hockey-stick at it in a threatening manner, than it be to ban it by

call it “improper” and primly cut it dead. there the topic

remain.



a third influence have make a contributory grab at Joan; Aunt Charlotte

Sydenham’s raid on the child’s education be on behalf of all that

be then most orthodox. Hers be indeed the essential english culture of

the early victorian age; a culture that so far as sex go be pure

suppression—temper by the broad hint and titter chatter of

servant and base people....



stick away, shut in, in Joan’s memory, shut in and disregard as bee

will wax up and disregard the decay body of some foul intruder, be

certain passage with Mrs. Pybus. they carry an impression at once

vague and enormous, of a fascinating unclean horror. they be

inseparably mix up with strange incredulous thought of hell that be

implant during the same period. such scenery as they need be

supply by the dusty, fade furnishing of the little house in Windsor,

they have the same faintly disagreeable dusty smell of a home only

cleanse by stray wipe with a duster and spiritless sweep with

tea-leave.



that period have be a dark patch upon the sunlit fabric of Joan’s life.

over it all brood this Mrs. Pybus, frankly dirty while “do” her

house in the morning, then insincerely tidy in the afternoon. she talk

continually to, at, and round about Joan. she be always talk. she

be an untimely widow prone to brood upon the unpleasant but enormously

importunate fact that married life have thrust upon she. she have an

irresistible desire to communicate her experience with an air of

wisdom. she have a certain conceit of wisdom. she have no sense of the

respect due to the ignorance of childhood. like many woman of her class

and type she be too egotistical to allow for childhood.



never before have Joan hear of disease. now she hear of all the

disease of these two profoundly clinical family, the Pybuses and the

Unwins. the Pybus family specialize in cancer, “chumor” and morbid

growth generally; one, but he be rather remote and legendary, have have

an “insec’ in ’be ’ed”; the distinction of the Unwins on the other hand

be in difficult parturition. all this stuff be pour out in a

whine monologue in Joan’s presence as Mrs. Pybus busy herself in the

slatternly detail of her housework.



“two case of cancer I’ve see through from the very first pang,” Mrs.

Pybus would begin, and then piously, “God grant I never see a third.”



“whatever you do, Joan, one thing I say never do—good though Pybus be

and kind. never marry no one with internal cancer, ’owever ’ard you may

be drive. indigestion, rheumatism, even a wooden leg rather. well a

man that drink. I say it and I know. it don’t make it any easy,

Joan, to sit and see they suffer.



“you’ve get your trouble yet to come, young lady. I don’t expec’ you

understand ’arf what I’m tell you. but you will some day. I sometimes

think if I ’adn’t be kep’ in ignorance thing might have be well

for I—all I bin call upon to go through.” that be the style of

thing. it be like pour drainage over a rosebud. First Joan listen

with curiosity, then with horror. then unavailingly, always overpower

by a grotesque fascination, she try not to listen. monstrous fragment

get through to her cower attention. here be thing for a little

girl to carry off in her memory, material as she sicken for measle

for the most terrifying and abominable of dream.



“there’s poor lady that have to be reg’lar cut open....



“I ’ad a dreadful time when I marry Pybus. often I say to ’Im

afterwards, you cann’t complain of _I_, Pybus. the thing one live

through!...



“’be sister’s ’usband don’t ’ave no mercy on ’er....



“don’t you go outside this gate, Joan—ever. if one of these ’ere Tramps

should get hold of you.... I’ve ’eard of a little girl....”



if a congenial gossip should happen to drop in Joan would be tell to sit

by the window and look at the “nice picture book”—it be always that one

old volume of _the Illustrated London News_—while a talk go on that

insist on be hear, now drop to harsh whisper, now rise

louder after the assurance of Mrs. Pybus:



“Lord! _she_ willn’t understand a word you’re say.”



if by chance Mrs. Pybus and her friend drift for a time from personal

or consanguineous experience then they deal with crime. difficulty

in the disposal of the body fascinate these lady even more than the

pleasing detail of the act. and they prefer murder of woman by man.

it seem more natural to they....



the world change again. through the tossing distress of the measle

Aunt Phyllis reappear, and then come a journey and the Ingle-Nook and

dear Petah! and Nobby. she be back in a world where Mrs. Pybus could

not exist, where the thing of which Mrs. Pybus talk could not happen.

yet there be this in Joan’s mind, unformulated, there be a passionate

stress against its formulation, that all the other thing she think

about love and beauty be poetry and dream, but this alone of all

the voice that have speak over and about she, tell of something real.

in the unknown beyond to which one get if one press on, be something

of that sort, something monstrous, painful and dingy....



reality!



Wax it over, little dream bee; cover it up; don’t think of it! back to

reverie! be a king’s mistress, clothe in armour, who sometimes grant a

kiss.





                                  § 8



it be in the nature of Mrs. Pybus to misconceive thing. she never

grasp the true relationship of Joan and Peter; Mr. Grimes have indeed

be deliberately vague upon that point in the interest of the Sydenham

family, the use of the Stubland surname for Joan have help he; and so

there drop into Joan’s ear a suggestion that be at the time merely

perplexing but which become gradually an establish fact in her mind.



“ow! don’t you know?” say Mrs. Pybus to her friend. “ow, no! she’s——”

(her voice sink to a whisper.)



for a time what they say be so confidential as to convey nothing to

Joan but a sense of mystery. “ow ’be mother ever stand ’er in the ’ouse

pass my belief,” say Mrs. Pybus, come up to the audible again.

“why! I’d ’ave _kill_ ’er. but lady and gentleman don’t seem to ’ave

no natural affection—not wot I call affection. there she be bring

into the ’ouse and treat just as if she be the little chap’s sister.”



“she’d be——?” say the friend, try to grasp it.



“’arf sister,” say Mrs. Pybus. “of a sort. neither ’ere nor there, so

to speak. not in the eye of the law. and there they be—leastway they

be until Lady Charlotte Sydenham interfere.”



the friend nod her head rapidly to indicate intelligent appreciation.



“it ben’t like be _reely_ brother and sister,” say Mrs. Pybus,

contemplate possibility. “it’s neither one thing nor another. and

all wrop up in mystery as you might say. why, oo know? they might go

fall in love with each other.”



“_’Orrible!_” say Mrs. Pybus’s friend.



“it ’ad to be put a stop to,” say Mrs. Pybus.



Confirmatory nodding, with a stern eye for the little figure that sit in

a corner and pretend to be interested in the fade exploit of

vanish royalty, record in that old volume of _the Illustrated

London News_....



that conversation sink down into the deep of Joan’s memory and remain

there, obscure but exercise a dim influence upon her relation with

Peter. one phrase send up a bubble every now and then into her conscious

thought: “half-sister.” it be year after that she begin to piece

together the hidden riddle of her birth. Mummy and Daddy be away; that

have serve as well for she as for Peter far beyond the Limpsfield day.

it ben’t until child be in their teen that these thing interest

they keenly. it ben’t a thing to talk about, she know, but it be a

thing to puzzle over. who be really her father? who be her mother? if

she be Peter’s half-sister, then either his father be not her or his

mother....



when people be all manifestly in a plot to keep one in the dark one

do not ask question.





                                  § 9



after the first violent rupture that Mr. Grimes have organize, Joan and

Peter part and meet again in a series of separation and resumption.

they go off to totally dissimilar atmosphere, Joan to the bracing and

roughen air of Highmorton and Peter first to the brightness of White

Court and then to the vigorous work and play of Caxton; and each time

they return for the holiday to Margate or Limpsfield or Pelham Ford

change, novel, and yet profoundly familiar. always at first when

holiday bring they together again they be shy with each other and

intensely egotistical, anxious to show off their new trick and make the

most of whatever small triumph school life have give they. then in a

day or so they would be at their ease together like a joint that have

be dislocate and have slip into place again. Cambridge at last

bring they near together, and end this series of dislocation.

after much grave weighing of the situation by Miss Fairchild, the

principal of Newton Hall, Peter, when Joan come up, be give the status

of a full brother.



they grow irregularly, and that make some quaint variation of

relationship. Peter, soon after he go to Caxton, fall to expand

enormously. he develop a chest, his limb become great thing. there

be a summer bite into Joan’s memory when he regard she as nothing

more than a “leetle teeny female tick,” and descant on the minuteness

of her soul and body. but he have lose some of his lightness, if none of

his dexterity and balance, as a climber, and Joan get her consolation

among the light branch of various tree they explore. next

Christmas Joan herself have do some serious growing, and the gap be

not so wide. but it be only after her first term at Newnham that Joan

pass from the subservience of a junior to the confidence of a senior.

she do it at a bound. she meet he one day in the narrow way between

Sidney Street and Petty Cury. her hair be up and her eye be steady;

most of her leg have vanish, and she have clothe like a real woman. we

do not foregather even with foster brother in the street of Cambridge,

but a pass hail be beyond the reach of discipline. “Hullo, Petah!”

she say, “what a gawky great thing you’re get!”



Peter, a man in his second year, be so take aback he have no adequate

reply.



“you’ve grow too,” he say, “if it come to that”;—a flavourless reply.

and there be admiration in his eye.



an encounter for subsequent regret. he think over it afterwards. the

cheek of she! it make his blood boil.



“so long, Petah,” say Joan, carry it off to the end....



they be stern than brother and sister with each other. there be

never go to be anything “soppy” between they. at fourteen, when Peter

pass into the red indian phase of a boy’s development, when there can

be no more “blubbing,” no more shirk, he carry Joan with he. she

respond magnificently to the idea of pluck. spartan ideal rule they

both. and a dark taciturnity. Joan would have die with shame if Peter

have penetrate the secret romance of Joan Stubland, and the day of

Peter’s saga be over for ever. when Peter be fifteen he be consume

by a craving for a gun, and Oswald give he one. “but kill,” say

Oswald. “if you let anything get away wounded——”



Peter take Joan out into the wood at the back. he miss a pigeon, and

then he get one.



“pick it up, Joan,” he say, very calmly and grandly.



Joan be white to the lip, but she pick up the bloodstained bird in

silence. these thing have to happen.



then out of a heap of leave in front dart a rabbit. Lop, lop, lop,

go its little white scut. _Bang!_ and over it roll, but it ben’t

instantly kill. Horror come upon Joan. she be near; she run to the

wretched animal, which be lie on its side and kick automatically,

and stand over it. its eye be bright and wide with terror. “oh, how

be I to _kill_ it?” she cry, with agony in her voice; “what be I to

do-o?” she wring her hand. she feel she be go to piece, give

herself away, fail utterly. Peter would despise she and jeer at she.

but the poor little beast! the poor beast! there be a limit to pride.

she catch it up. “Petah!” she cry quite pitifully, on the verge of a

whimper.



Peter have come up to she. he don’t look contemptuous. he be

white-lipped too. she have never see he look scared before. he snatch

the rabbit from she and kill it by one, two, three—she count—quick

blow—she don’t see. but she have meet his eye, and they be as

distressed as her. just for a moment.



then he be a fifth form boy again. he examine his victim with an

affectation of calm. “too far back,” he say. “bad shot. mustn’t do that

again.”...



the rabbit be quite still and limp now, dangle from Peter’s hand, its

eye have glaze, blood drip and clot at its muzzle, but its

rhythmic desperate kicking be still beat in Joan’s brain.



be this to go on? could she go on?



Peter’s gun and the pigeon be lie some yard away. he regard they

and then look down at the rabbit he hold.



“now I know I can shoot,” he say, and leave the sentence unfinishe.



“bring the pigeon, Joan,” he say, end an indecision, and pick up

his gun and lead the way back towards the house....



“we get a pigeon and a rabbit,” Joan babble at tea to Oswald. “next

time, Petah’s go to let I have the gun.”



our tone be altogether sport.



but there be no next time. there be many unspoken thing between Joan

and Peter, and this be to be one of they. for all the rest of their

live neither Joan nor Peter go shoot again. Men Peter be destine

to slay—but no more beast. necessity never compel they, and it would

have demand an urgent necessity before they would have face the risk

of see another little furry creature twist and wriggle and of mark

how a bright eye glaze over. but they be both very bitterly ashamed

of this distressing weakness. they leave far shoot for “tomorrow,”

and it remain always tomorrow. they say nothing about their real

feeling in the matter, and Peter clean and oil his new gun very

carefully and hang it up conspicuously over the mantelshelf of their

common room, ready to be take down at any time—when animal cease to

betray feel.





                                  § 10



Joan and Peter detest each other’s friend from the beginning. the

quarrel that culminate in that amazing speech of Joan’s, have be

smoulder between they for a good seven year. it go right back to

the day when they be still boy and girl.



to begin with, after their first separation they have have no particular

friend; they have have acquaintance and habit of association, but the

mind still lack the continuity necessary for friendship and Euclid

until the early teen. the first rift come with Adela Murchison. Joan

bring she for the summer holiday when Peter have be just a year at

Caxton.



that be the first summer at Pelham Ford. Aunt Phyllis be with they,

but Aunt Phœbe be in great labour with her first and only novel, a

fantasia on the theme of feminine genius, “these be my child, or

Mary on the Cross.” (it be afterwards greatly censor. boot, the

druggist librarian, would have none of it.) she stay alone, therefore,

at the Ingle-Nook, writing, revising, despairing, tear up and

begin again, recite her more powerful passage to the scarlet but

listening ear of Groombridge and the little maid, and go more and

more unkempt, unhooked, and unbuttoned. Oswald, instead of resort to

the Climax Club as he be apt to do when Aunt Phœbe be imminent, abode

happily in his new home.



Adela be a month or so old than Peter and, what annoy he to begin

with, rather more fully grow. she be, as she only too manifestly

perceive, a woman of the world in comparison with both of her host.

she be still deeply in love with Joan, but by no mean indifferent to

this dark boy who look at she with so much of Joan’s cool detachment.



Joan’s romantic dream be Joan’s inmost secret, Adela’s romantic

intention be an efflorescence. she be already hoist the signal

for masculine surrender. she never fail to have a blue ribbon astray

somewhere to mark and help the blueness of her large blue eye. she

insist upon the flaxen wave over her ear, and secretly assist they

to kink. she have a high colour. she have no rouge yet in her possession

but there be rouge in her soul, and she would rub her cheek with her

hand before she come into a room. she discover to Joan the incredible

fact that Oswald be also a man.



with her arm round Joan’s waist or over her shoulder she would look back

at he across the lawn.



“I say,” she say, “he’d be _frightfully_ good-look—if it ben’t for

_that_.”



and one day, “I wonder if Mr. Sydenham’s ever be in love.”



she lie in wait for Oswald’s eye. she go after he to ask he

unimportant thing.



once or twice little thing happen, the slight thing, but it might

have seem to Joan that Oswald be disposed to flirt with Adela. but

that be surely impossible....



the first effect of the young woman upon Peter be a considerable but

indeterminate excitement. it be neither pleasurable nor unpleasurable,

but it hang over the giddy verge of be unpleasant. it make he want

to be very large, handsome and impressive. it also make he acutely

ashamed of want to be very large, handsome and impressive. it turn

he from a simple boy into a conflict of motive. he want to extort

admiration from Adela. also he want to despise she utterly. these

impulse work out to no coherent system of remark and gesture, and

he become awkward and tongue-tie.



Adela want to be show all over the house and garden. she put her arm

about Joan in a manner Peter think offensive. then she throw back her

hair at he over her shoulder and say, shoot a glance at he, “you

come too.”



Cheek!



still, she be a guest, and so a fellow have to follow with his hand in

his pocket and watch his own private and particular Joan be order

about and—what be somehow so much more exasperating—_pawed_ about.



at what seem to be the early opportunity Peter excuse himself, and

go off to the outhouse in which he have his tool and chemical and

thing. he decide he would rig up everything ready to make Sulphuretted

Hydrogen—although he know quite well that this be neither a large,

handsome, nor impressive thing to do. and then he would wait for they to

come along, and set the odour going.



but neither of the girl come near his Glory Hole, and he be not go

to invite they. he just hover there unvisite, wait with his

preparation and whistle soft melancholy tune. finally he make a lot

of the gas, simply because he have get the stuff ready, and stank himself

out of his Glory Hole into society again.



at supper, which have become a sort of dinner that night, Adela insist

on talk like a rather languid, smart woman of the world to Nobby.

Nobby take she quite seriously. it be perfectly sicken.



“D’you hunt much?” say Adela.



“not in England,” say Nobby. “there’s too many hedge for I. I’ve a

sailor’s seat.”



“all my people hunt,” say Adela. “it’s rather a bore, don’t you think,

Mr. Sydenham?”



talk like that!



two day pass, during which Peter be either be bored to death in

the company of Adela and Joan or also bore to death keeping aloof from

they. he cycle to Ware with they, and Adela’s cycle have a change speed

arrangement with a high gear of eighty-five that make it difficult to

keep ahead of she. Beast!



and on the second evening she introduce a new card game, Demon

Patience, a scrambling sort of game in which you pile on ace in the

middle and cry “stop!” as soon as your stack be out. it be one of

those game, one of those inferior game, at which boy in their teen

be not nearly as quick as girl, Peter discover. but presently Joan

begin to pull ahead and beat Adela and Peter. the two girl begin to

play against each other as if his poor little spurt don’t amount to

anything. they certainly don’t amount to very much.



Adela begin to play with a sprawl eagerness. her colour deepen; her

manner deteriorate. she be torment between ambition and admiration.

when Joan have run she out for the third time, she cry, “oh, Joan, you

wonderful darling!”



and clutch and kiss she!...



all the other thing might have be bearable if it have not be for

this perpetual confabulating with Joan, this go off to whisper with

Joan, this putting of arm round Joan’s neck, this whispering that be

almost kiss Joan’s ear. one couldn’t have a moment with Joan. one

couldn’t use Joan for the slight thing. it would have be well if

one haven’t have a Joan.



on the mill-pond there be a boat that Joan and Peter be allow to

use. on the morning of the fifth day Joan find Peter hang about in

the hall.



“Joan.”



“yes?”



“come and muck about in Baker’s boat.”



“if Adela——”



“oh, _leave_ Adela! we don’t want she. she’d stash it all up.”



“but she’s a visitor!”



“pretty rotten visitor! what do you bring she here for? she’s rotten.”



“she’s not. she’s all right. you’re be horrid rude to she. every

chance you get. I like she.”



“silly tick, she be!”



“she’s tall than you be, anyhow.”



“Nyar Nyar Nyar Nyar,” say Peter in a singularly ineffective mockery of

Adela’s manner. Adela appear, descend the staircase. Peter turn

away.



“Peter want to go in the boat on the mill-pond,” say Joan, as if with

calculated wickedness.



“oh! I _love_ boat!” say Adela.



“what be a chap to do but go?”



but under a thin mask of playfulness Peter splash they both a

lot—especially Adela. and in the evening he refuse to play at Demon

Patience and go and sit by himself to draw. he try various design.

he be rather good at draw Mr. Henderson, and he do several study

of he. then the girl, who find Demon Patience slow with only two

player, come and sit beside he. he be inspire to begin an ugly

caricature of Adela.



he begin at the eye.



Joan know he well than Adela. she see what be come. down come she

little brown paw on the paper. “no, you don’t, Petah,” she say.



Peter look into her face, hot against his, and there be a red light

in his eye.



“Leago, Joan,” he say.



a struggle begin in which Adela take no share.



the Sydenham blood be hot blood, and though it don’t like hurt

rabbit it can be pretty rough with its first cousin. but Joan be

still grip the crumple half of the offend sheet when Aunt

Phyllis, summon by a scared Adela, come in. the two be on the

hearthrug, panting, and Joan’s tooth be deep in Peter’s wrist; they

part and rise somewhat abash. “my _dear_!” cry Aunt Phyllis.



“we be play,” say Joan, flushed and breathless, but honourably

tearless.



“yes,” say Peter, hold his wrist tight. “we be play.”



“romping,” say Aunt Phyllis. “ben’t you a little rough? Adela, you

know, ben’t use to your style....”



after that, Peter shun further social intercourse. he affect a

great concentration upon experimental chemistry and photography, and

bicycle in lonely pride to Waltham Cross, Baldock, and Dunmow. he give

himself up to the road of Hertfordshire. when at last Adela depart it

make no difference in his aloofness. Joan be henceforth as nothing to

he; she be just a tick, a silly little female tick, an associate of

thing that go “Nyar Nyar Nyar.” he hate she. at least, he would have

hate she if there be anything that a self-respect Caxtonian could

hate in a being so utterly contemptible. (yet at the bottom of his heart

he love and respect she for bite his wrist so hard.)



Deprived of Adela, Joan become very lonely and forlorn. after some day

there be sign of relent on the part of Peter, and then come his

visitor, Wilmington, a boy who have go with he from White Court to

Caxton, and after that there be no need of Joan. with a grim resolution

Peter shut Joan out from all their pursuit. she be annihilate.



the boy do experimental chemistry together, make the most disgusting

stink, blow up a small earthwork by mean of a mine, and stain their

hand bright yellow; they have long bicycle ride together, they do

“splorjum” in the wood, they “muck about” with Baker’s boat. joan by

no effort could come into existence again. once or twice as Peter be

go off with Wilmington, Peter would glance back and feel a gleam of

compunction at the little figure that watch he go. but she have her

Adelas. she and Adela write letter to each other. she could go and

write to her beastly Adela now....



“cann’t Joan come?” say Wilmington.



“she’s only a tick,” say Peter.



“she’s not a bad sort of tick,” say Wilmington.



(what business be it of his?)



Joan fall back on Nobby, and go for walk with he in the afternoon.



then come a complication. towards the end Wilmington get quite soppy on

Joan. it show.



Aunt Phyllis suggest charade for the evening hour after dinner.

Wilmington and Peter play against each other, and either of they take

out any people he want to act with he. Aunt Phyllis be a grave and

dignified actress and Nobby could do well than you might have

expect. Peter do Salome. (sal—owe—I; do sal volatile for Sal.) he

sit as Herod, crown and scornful with the false black beard, and Joan

dance and afterwards bring the football in on a plate. Aunt Phyllis

do pseudo-oriental music. but when Wilmington see Joan dance he know

what it be to be in love. he sit glower passion. for a time he

remain frozen rigid, and then break into wild hand-clapping. his ear

be bright red, and Aunt Phyllis look at he curiously. it be with

difficulty that his clouded mind could devise a charade that would give

he a call upon Joan. but he think at last of Milton. (mill-tun.)



“I want you,” he say.



“willn’t aunty do?”



“no, _you_. it’s get to be a girl.”



he hold the door open for she, and stumble go out of the room. he

be more breathless and jerky than ever outside. Joan hear his

exposition with an unfriendly expression.



“and what be I to do then?” she ask....



“and then?...”



they do “Mill” and “tun” pretty badly. Came Wilmington’s last precious

moment with she. he break off in his description of Milton blind and

Joan as the amanuensis daughter. “Joan,” he whisper, go hoarse with

emotion. “Joan, you’re lovely. I’d die for you.”



a light of evil triumph come into Joan’s eye.



“ugly thing!” say Joan, “what do you come here for? you’ve spoil my

holiday. let _go_ of my hand!... let’s go in and do our tableau.”



and afterwards when Wilmington meet Joan in the passage she treat he

to a grimace that be only too manifestly intend to represent his own

expression of melancholy but undying devotion. in the presence of other

she be coolly polite to he.



Peter read his friend like a book, but refrain from injurious comment,

and Wilmington depart in a state of grave nervous disarray.



a day pass. there be not much leave now of the precious holiday. come

a glow September morning.



“Joe-un,” whoop Peter in the garden—in just the old note.



“pee-tah!” answer Joan, full-voiced as ever, distant but draw

nearer.



“come and muck about in Baker’s boat.”



“right-o, Petah!” say Joan, and approach with a slightly prance

gait.





                                  § 11



grow out of his red indian phase Peter move up into the Lower Sixth

and become a regular cynical man of the world with an air of know

more than a thing or two. he be, in fact, learn a vast number of

thing that be outside the book; and rearrange many of his early

shock and impression by the help of a confusing and increase mixture

of half-light. the chaotic disrespect of the young go out of his

manner in his allusion to school affair, he no long speak of various

master as “Buzzy,” “Snooks,” and “the Croker,” and a curious

respectability have invade his demeanour. the Head have have he in to tea

and tennis. the handle of the prefect’s birch be perhaps not more than

a year now from his grip, if he bear himself gravely. he reproach Joan

on various small occasion for “thunder bad form,” and when

Wilmington come, a much more wary and well-look Wilmington with his

heart no long on his sleeve, the conversation become, so to speak,

political. they talk at the dinner-table of the behaviour of so-and-so

and this-and-that at “high” and at “bottom” and on “the Corso”; they

discuss various case of “side” and “cheek,” and the permanent effect

of these upon the standing and reputation of the youth concern; they

be earnest to search out and know utterly why Best do not get his

colour and whether it be just to “super” old Rawdon. they discuss

the question of superannuation with Oswald very gravely. “don’t you

think,” say Oswald, “if a school take a boy on, it ought to see he

through?”



“but if he don’t work, sir?” say Wilmington.



“a school oughtn’t to produce that lassitude,” say Oswald.



“a chap ought to _use_ a school,” say Peter.



that be a new point of view to Oswald and Joan.



afterwards come Troop, a large boy than either Peter or Wilmington, a

prefect, a youth almost incredibly manly in his manner, and join on to

these discussion. say Oswald, “there ought not to be such a thing as

superannuation. a man ought not to be let drift to the point of

unteachable incapacity. and then throw away. some master ought to have

shepherd he in for special treatment.”



“they don’t look after we to that extent, sir,” say Troop.



“don’t they teach you? or fail to teach you?”



“it’s the school teach we,” say Peter, as though it have just occur

to he.



“still, the master be there,” say Oswald, smile.



“the master be there,” Troop acquiesce. “but the life of the school

be the tradition. and a big chap like Rawdon hang about, too big to

lick and too stupid for responsibility—— it break thing up, sir.”



Oswald be very much interested in this prefect’s view of the school

life. behind his blank mask he engender question; his one eye watch

troop and go from Troop to Peter. this manliness in the teach

surprise he tremendously. Peter be acquire it rapidly, but Troop

seem to embody it. Oswald himself have be a man early enough and have

lead a hard life of mutual criticism and exasperation with his fellow,

but that have be in a work reality, the navy; this, he reflect,

be a case of cock crow inside the egg. these boy be live in a

premature autonomous state, an aristocratic republic with the Head as a

sort of constitutional monarch. there be one questionable consequence

at least. they be acquire political habit before they have acquire

wide horizon. be the political habit of a school where all the boy

be of one race and creed and class, suitable for the problem of a

world’s affair?



Troop, under Oswald’s insidious leading, display his idea modestly

but frankly, and they be the idea of a large child. Troop be a

good-look, thoroughly healthy youth, full of his grave

responsibility towards the school and incline to claim a liberal

attitude. he be very great upon his duty to “make the fellow live

decently and behave decently.” he be lure into a story of how one

youth with a tendency to long hair have be partly win and partly drive

to a more seemly coiffure; how he have deal with a game shirker, and

how a fellow have be detect lend socialist pamphlets—“not to his

friend, sir, I shouldn’t mind that so much, but push they upon any

one”—and restrain. “seditious sort of stuff, sir, I believe. no, I do

not _read_ it, sir.” Troop be for cold bath under all circumstance,

for no smoking under sixteen and five foot six, and for a simple and

unquestione loyalty to any one who come along and profess to be in

authority over he. when he mention the king his voice drop

worshipfully. upon the just use of the birch troop be conscientiously

prolix. there be prefect, he say, who “savage” the fellow. other

swish without judgment. troop put conscience into each whack.



Troop’s liberalism interested Oswald more than anything else about

he. he be proud to profess himself no mere traditionalist; he want

Caxton to “broaden down from precedent to precedent.” indeed he have

ambition to be remember as a reformer. he hope, he say, to leave

the school “well than he find it”—the modern note surely. his idea

of a great and memorable improvement be to let the Upper Fifth

fellow into the Corso after morning service on Sunday. he do not

think it would make they impertinent; rather it would increase their

self-respect. he be also inclined to a reorganization of the

afternoon fag “to stop so much bawl down the corridor.” there

ought to be a bell—an electric bell—in each prefect’s study. no doubt

that be a bit revolutionary—Troop almost smirk. “it’s all very well

for school like Eton or Winchester to stick to the old custom, sir,

but we be suppose to be an up-to-date school. don’t you think, sir?”

the egg be everything to this young cockerel; the world outside be

naught. Oswald lead he on from one solemn puerility to another, and as

the big boy talk in his stout man-of-the-world voice, the red eye

rove from he to Peter and from Peter back to Troop. until presently

it realize that Peter be watch it as narrowly. “what do Peter

really think of this stuff?” think Oswald. “what do Nobby really

think of this stuff?” query Peter.



“I suppose, some day, you’ll leave Caxton,” say Oswald.



“I shall be very sorry to, sir,” say Troop sincerely.



“have you think at all——”



“not yet, sir. at least——”



“troop’s people,” Peter intervene, “be Army people.”



“I see,” say Oswald.



Joan listen enviously to all this prefectorial conversation. at

Highmorton that sort of boss and influencing be do by the junior

staff....



Oswald do his good to lure Troop from his administrative preoccupation

into general topic. but apparently some one whom Troop respect have

warn he against general topic. Oswald lug and push the talk

towards religion, Aunt Phyllis help, but they come up against a stone

wall. “my people be Church of England,” say Troop, intimate thereby

that his opinion be bank with the proper authority. it be not

for he to state they. and in regard to politic, “all my people be

conservative.” one evening Oswald show he a portfolio of drawing

from various indian temple, and suggest something of the complex

symbolism of the figure. Troop think it be “rather unhealthy.”

but—turn from these monstrosity—he have hope for India. “my cousin

tell I, sir, that cricket and polo be spread very rapidly there.”

“Polo,” say Oswald, “be an indian game. they have play it for

century. it come from Persia originally.” but Troop be unable to

imagine Indians ride horse; he have the common british delusion that

the horse and the ship be both invent in our island and that all

foreign people be necessarily amateur at such thing. “I think they

ride elephant,” say Troop with quiet conviction....



Troop be not only a great experience for Oswald, he also exercise the

always active mind of Joan very considerably.



Peter, it seem, haven’t even mention she beforehand.



“Hullo!” say Troop at the sight of she. “got a sister?”



“foster-sister,” say Peter, minimize the thing. “Joan, this be

Troop.”



Joan regard he critically. “can he play D.P.?”



“not one of my game,” say Troop, who be chary of all game not

usually play.



“it’s a game like Snap,” say Peter with an air of casual contempt, and

earn a bright scowl.



for a day or so Troop and Joan keep aloof, watch one another. then

she catch he out rather neatly twice at single wicket cricket; he have

a weakness for give catch to point and she have observe it.

“catch!” he cry approvingly. also she snick and slip and at last

slog boldly at his patronize under-arm bowling. “here’s a Twister,”

he say, like an uncle speak to a child.



Joan smack it into the cedar. “_Twister!_” quoth Joan, run.



after that he take formal notice of she, betray a disposition to

address she as “Kid.” (Ralph Connor be at that time add his quota to

the great british tradition. it be true he write in American about

cowboy—but a refined cowboy be the full realization of an English

gentleman’s pre-war ideal—and Ralph Connor’s cowboy be essentially

refine. Thence come the “kid,” anyhow.) but Joan take umbrage at the

“kid.” and she dislike Troop’s manner and influence with Peter. and the

way Peter stand it. she do not understand what a very, very great be

a prefect be in an english public school, she do not know of Troop’s

superbness at rugger, it seem to she that it be bad manner to behave

as though a visit to Pelham Ford be an act of princely condescension.

she be even disposed to diagnose troop’s largeness, very unjustly, as

fat. so she pull up Troop venomously with “my name’s not Kit, it’s

Joan. J.O.A.N.”



“sorry!” say Troop. and be of that insensitive class whose passion

be only to be rouse by a smacking, he begin to take still more notice

of she. she be, he perceive, a lively kid. he feel a strong desire to

reprove and influence she. he have no suspicion that what he really

want to do be to interest Joan in himself.



Joan’s tennis be incurably tricky. troop’s idea of tennis be to play

very hard and very swiftly close over the net, but without cunne.

Peter and Wilmington follow his lead. but Joan force victory upon an

unwilling partner by do unexpected thing.



Troop declare he do not mind be defeat, but that he be shock

by the spirit of Joan’s play. it ben’t “sporting.”



“those short return ben’t do, kid,” he say.



“I do they,” say Joan. “ancient.”



Peter and Wilmington be visibly shocked, but Troop show no

resentment at the gross familiarity.



“but if every one do they!” he reason.



“I could take they,” say Joan. “any one could take they who know how.”



the dispute seem likely to die down into unverifiable assertion.



“Peter can take they,” say Joan. “he drop they back. but he ben’t

do it today.”



Peter reflect. troop would never understand, but there be something

reasonable in Joan’s line. “I’ll see to Joan,” he say abruptly, and

come towards the middle of the net.



the game continue on unorthodox but brilliant line. “I don’t call this

tennis,” say Troop.



“if you serve to she left,” say Peter.



“but she’s a girl!” protest Troop. “_serve!_”



he make the concession that be proper to a lady, and Joan score the

point after a brief rally with Peter. “Game,” say Joan.



Troop declare he do not care to play again. it would put he off

tennis. “take I as a partner,” say Joan. “no—I don’t think so,

thank,” say Troop coldly.



every one become thoughtful and drift towards the net. Oswald

approach from the pergola, consider the problem.



“I’ve be think about that sort of thing for year,” he remark,

stroll towards they.



“well, sir, ben’t you with I?” ask Troop.



“no. I’m for Joan—and Peter.”



“but that sort of trick play——”



“no. the way to play a game be to get all over the game and to be equal

to anything in it. if there be a stroke or anything that spoil the game

it ought to be bar by the rule. apart from that, a game ought to be

work out to its last possibility. thing oughtn’t to be bar in the

interest of a few conventional swipe. this cut down of a game to

just a few type of stroke——”



Peter look apprehensive.



“it’s laziness,” say Oswald.



Troop be too puzzled to be offend. “but you have to work tremendously

hard, sir, at the proper game.”



“not mentally,” say Oswald. “there’s too much good form in all our

game. it’s just a way of cut down a game to a formality.”



“but, for instance, sir, would you bowl grounder at cricket?”



“if I think the batsman have be too lazy to learn what to do with

they. why not?”



“if you look at it like _that_, sir!” say Troop and have no more to say.

but he go away marvelling. Oswald be a V.C. yet he look at game

like—like an American, he play to win; it be enough to perplex any

one....



“must confess I don’t see it,” say Troop when Oswald have go....



when at last Troop and Wilmington depart Oswald go with they to the

station—the luggage be send on in the cart—and walk back over the

plough ridge and up the lane with Peter. for a time they keep silence,

but Troop be in both their mind.



“he’s a good sort,” say Peter.



“Admirable—in some way.”



“I think,” say Peter, “you don’t like he. you keep on pull his

leg.”



so Peter have see.



“well, he don’t exercise his brain very much,” say Oswald.



“stop short at his neck,” say Peter. “Exercise, I mean.”



“you and Troop be singularly unlike each other,” say Oswald.



“oh, that’s exactly it. I cann’t make out why I like he. if nothing else

attract I, that would.”



“do he know why he like you?”



“haven’t the ghost of an idea. it worry he at time. make he want to

try and get all over I.”



“do he—at all?”



“lot,” say Peter. “I fag at the blessed Cadet Corps simply because I

like he. at rugger he’s rather a god, you know. and he’s a clean chap.”



“he’s clean.”



“oh, he’s clean. it’s catch,” say Peter, and seem to reflect. “and

in a sort of way lately old Troop’s take to swat. it’s pathetic.”

then with a shade of anxiety, “I don’t think for a moment he twig you

be pull his leg.”



Oswald come to the thing that be really trouble he. “allow for

his class,” say Oswald, “that young man be grow up to an outlook

upon the world about as broad and high as the outlook of a bricklayer’s

labourer.”



Peter reflect impartially, and Oswald note incidentally what a good

profile the boy be develop.



“a clean, serious bricklayer’s labourer,” say Peter, weigh his

adjective carefully.



“but he may go into Parliament, or have to handle a big business,” say

Oswald.



“Army for troop,” say Peter, “via a university commission.”



“even army have to be handle intelligently nowadays,” say Oswald.



“he’ll go into the cavalry,” say Peter, make one of those tremendous

jump in thought that be characteristic of himself and Joan.





                                  § 12



a day or so after troop’s departure Peter waylay Oswald in the garden.

Peter, now that Troop have go, be amuse himself with dissection

again—an interest that Troop have dispose of as a “bit morbid.” Oswald

think the work Peter do neat and good; he have to brush up his own

rather fade memory of Huxley’s laboratory in order to keep pace with

the boy.



“I wish you’d come to the Glory Hole and look at an old rat I dissect

yesterday. I want to get its solar plexus and I’m not sure about it.

I’ve be use acetic acid to bring out the nerve, but there’s such a

lot of white stuff about....”



the dissection be a good piece of work, the stomach clean out and the

viscera neatly display. very much in evidence be eight small embryo

rat which the speciman under examination, have not science overtaken

she, would presently have add to the rat population of the world.



“the old girl’s be go it,” say Peter in a casual tone, and turn

these thing over with the handle of his scalpel. “now be all _this_

stuff solar plexus, Nobby?”...



the next morning Oswald stop short in the middle of his shaving,

which in his case involve the most tortuous deflection and grimacing.

“it’s all right with the boy,” he say to himself.



“I _think_ it’s all right.



“no nonsense about it anyhow.



“but what a tortuous, untraceable business the coming of knowledge be!

Curiosity. a fad for dissect. an instinct for cleanliness. Pride. a

big boy like Troop.... suppose Troop have be a different sort of

boy?...



“but then I suppose Peter and he wouldn’t have hit it off together.”



Oswald scrape, and presently his mind try over a phrase.



“inherent power of selection,” say Oswald. “Inherent.... I suppose I

pick my way through a pretty queer lot of stuff....”



he stand wipe his safety-razor blade.



“there be more mystery in my time and more emotion. this be well....



“fact be clean,” say Oswald, utter the essential faith with which

science have face vice and priestcraft, magic and muddle and fear and

mystery, the whole world over.



“fact be clean.”





                                  § 13



Joan follow a year after Peter to Cambridge. she enter at Newton

Hall. both Oswald and Aunt Phyllis prefer Newnham to Girton because

of the great freedom of the former college. they agree that, as

Oswald put it, if woman be to be let out of purdah they might as well

be let right out.



come from Highmorton to Newnham be like emerge from some narrow,

draughty passage in which one march muddily with a whispering,

giggle hockey team all very much of a sort, into a busy and confused

market-place, a rather squabbling and very exciting market-place, in

which there be the great variety of sort. and Joan’s mind, too, be

open out in an even great measure. a year or so ago she be a

spirited, intelligent animal, a being of dream and unaccountable

impulse; in a year or so’s time she be to become a shaped and order

mind, make plan, control every urgency, hold herself in

relation to a definite conception of herself and the world. we have

still to gauge the almost immeasurable receptivity of those three or

four crucial year. we have still to grasp what the due use of those

year may mean for mankind.



Oswald have be at great pain to find out what be the good education

the Empire provide for these two ward of his. but his research have

bring he to realize chiefly how poor and spiritless a thing be the

very good formal education that the Empire could offer. it seem to

he, in the bitter urgency of his imperial passion, perhaps even poor

than it be. there be a smattering of Latin, a thin smattering of

Greek, a little patch of Mediterranean history and literature detach

from past and future—all university history seem to Oswald to be in

disconnected fragment—but then he would have consider any history

fragmentary that do not begin with the geological record and end with a

clear tracing of every traceable consequence of the “period” in current

affair; there be mathematical specialization that do not so much

broaden the mind as take it into a gully, modern and mediaeval language

specialization, philosophical study that be really not

philosophical study at all but partial examination of remote and

irrelevant system, the study of a scrap of Plato or Aristotle here, or

an excursion (by mean of translation) into the hegelian phraseology

there. this sort of thing give out to a few thousand young man, for the

most part greatly preoccupy with game, and to a few hundred young

woman, be all that Oswald could discover by way of mental binding for

the entire empire. it seem to he like innervate a body as big as

the world with a brain as big as a pin’s head. as Joan and Peter grow

out of school and go up to Cambridge they become more and more aware

of a note of lamentation and woe in the voice of their guardian. he

talk at they, over their head at lunch and dinner, to this or that

visitor. he also talk to they. but he have a great dread of

preachment. they be aware of his general discontent with the

education he be give they, but as yet they have no standard by which

to judge his charge. over their head his voice argue that the

university would give they no access worth consider to the thought

and fact of India, Russia, or China, that they be ignore something

stupendous call America, that their political and economic science

still neglect the fact that every problem in politic, every problem

in the organization of production and social co-operation be a

psychological problem; and that all these interest be supremely

urgent interest, and how the devil be one go to get these thing

in? but one thing Joan and Peter do grasp from these splutter

dissertation that fly round and about they. they have to find out all

the most important thing in life for themselves.



perhaps the problem of make the teacher of youth an inspiring figure

be an insoluble one. at any rate, there be no great stir evoke in Joan

and Peter by the personality of any of their university tutor,

lecturer, and professor. these seem to be for the most part

little-spirited, gossip man. they have also an effect of be

underpaid; they have be catch early by the machinery of prize and

scholarship, breed, “in the menagerie”; they be man who know nothing of

the world outside, nothing of effort and adventure, nothing of sin and

repentance. not that there be not whisper and scandal about, but

such sin as the don know of be rather in the nature of dirty

affectation, get out of Petronius and Suetonius and practise with a

tremendous sense of devilment behind locked door, than those graver and

large sin that really distress and mar mankind. as Joan and Peter

encounter these master mind, they appear as gown and cap

individual, hurry to lecture-room, deliver lecture that be

often hasty and indistinct, make obscure but caustic allusion to

rival teacher, parry the troublesome inquire student with an

accustomed and often quite pretty wit. with a less subtlety and a

great earnestness the woman don have fall in with this tradition.

there be occasional shy personal contact. but at his tea or breakfast

the don be usually too anxious to impress Peter with the idea that he

himself be really only a sort of overgrown undergraduate, to produce

any other effect at all.



into the Cambridge lecture room and laboratory go Joan and Peter,

notebook in hand, and back to digestion in their study, and presently

they go into examination room where they vindicate their claim to

have attend to textbook and lecture. in addition Peter do some

remarkably good sketch of tutor and professor and fellow student.

this be their “grind,” Joan and Peter consider, a drill they have to

go through; it become they to pass these test creditably—if only to

play the game towards old Nobby. only with Peter’s specialization in

biology do he begin to find any actuality in these process. he find

a charm in phylogenetic speculation; and above the narrow cañon of

formal “research” there be fascinating upland of wisdom. upon those

upland there lie a light in which even political and moral riddle take

on a less insoluble aspect. but go out upon those upland be

stray from the proper work.... Joan get even less from her moral

philosophy. her principal teacher be a man shape like a bubble, whose

life and think be all the blowing of a bubble. he claim to have

_prove_ human immortality. it be, he say, a very long and severe

logical process. about desire, about art, about social association,

about love, about God—for he know also that there be no God—it matter

not what deep question assail he, this gifted being would dip into

his hegelian sud and blow without apparent effort, and there you

be—as wise as when you start! and off the good man would float,

infinitely self-satisfied and manifestly absurd.



but even Peter’s biology be only incidentally helpful in answer the

fierce question that life be now thrust upon he and Joan. nor have

this education link they up to any great human solidarity. it be like

be guide into a forest—and lose there—by queer, absent-minded man.

they have no sense of other be there too, upon a common adventure....



“and it be all that I can get for they!” say Oswald. “bad as it be, it

be the good thing there be.”



he try to find comfort in comparison.



“have any country in the world get anything much well?”





                                  § 14



one day Oswald find himself outside Cambridge on the Huntingdon road.

it be when he have settle that Peter be to enter Trinity, and while he

be hesitate between Newnham and Girton as Joan’s destiny. there be a

little difficulty in discover Girton. unlike Newnham, which sit down

brazenly in Cambridge, Girton be but half-heartedly at Cambridge, coyly

a good mile from the fountain of knowledge, hide its blush between

tall tree. he be remind absurdly of a shy, nice girl sit afar

off until father should come out of the public-house....



he fall think about the education of woman in Great Britain.



at first he have be dispose to think chiefly of Peter’s education and

to treat Joan’s as a secondary matter; but little by little, as he

watch british affair close at hand, he have come to measure the

mischief feminine illiteracy can do in the world. in no country do the

lunch and dinner-party, the country house and personal acquaintance,

play so large a part in politic as they do in Great Britain. and the

atmosphere of all that inner world of influence be a womanmade

atmosphere, and an atmosphere make by woman who be for the most part

untrained and unread. here at Girton and Newnham, and at Oxford at

Somerville, he perceive there could not be room for a tithe of the

girl of the influential and govern class. where be the rest?

english womanhood be as yet only nibble at university life. where

be the girl of the peerage, the county-family girl and the like?

their brother come up, but they stay at home and be still educate

scarcely well than his Aunt Charlotte have be educate forty year

ago—by a genteel person, by a sort of mental maid who do their mind as

their maid do their hair for the dinner-table.



“no wonder,” he say, “they poison politic and turn it all into

personal intrigue. no wonder they want religion to be just a business

of personal consolation. no wonder every sort of charlatan and spook

dealer, fortune-teller and magic healer flourish in London. well, Joan

anyhow shall have whatever they can give she here....



“it’s well than nothing. and she’ll talk and read....”





                                  § 15



but school and university be only the formal part of education. the

large part of the education of every human being be and always have be

and must be provide by the thing that be. every adult transaction have

as its most important and usually most neglect aspect its effect upon

the mind of the young. behind school and university the Empire itself

be undesignedly address Joan and Peter. it be, so to speak,

gesticulate at they over their teacher’ head and under their

teacher’ arm. it be perform ceremony and exhibit spectacle

of a highly suggestive nature.



in a large and impose form certain idea be steadfastly thrust at

Joan and Peter. more particularly be the idolization of the monarchy

thrust upon they. in term of zeal and reverence the press, the pulpit,

and the world at large direct the innocent mind of Joan and Peter to

the monarch as if that individual be the Reason, the Highest Good and

Crown of the collective life. nothing else in the world of Joan and

Peter get anything like the same tremendous show. their early year be

colour by the reflect glory of the Diamond Jubilee; follow the

funeral pomp of Queen Victoria, with much mobbing of negligent or

impecunious people not in black by the loyal London crowd; then come the

postpone and then the actual coronation of King Edward, public praying

for his health, his stupendous funeral glory; succeed by the

coronation of King George, and finally, about the time that Joan

follow Peter up to Cambridge, the Coronation Durbar. the multitude

which could not go to India go at least to the Scala cinema, and see

the adoration in all its natural colour. reverent crowd choke that

narrow bystreet. across all the life and activity of England, across

all her intellectual and moral effort, hold up legislation,

interfere with industry, stop the traffic, mask every reality

of the collective life, these vast formality trail with a

magnificent priority. nothing be respect as they be respect!

Sober statesman be see invest in strange garment that no sensible

person would surely wear except for the grave reason; the archbishop

and bishop be discover bent with reverence, invoke the name of

God freely, bless the Crown with the utmost gravity, invest the

Sovereign with Robe and Orb, Ring and Sceptre, anoint he with the

Golden Coronation Spoon. either the Crown be itself a matter of

altogether supreme importance to the land or else it be the most

stupendous foolery that ever mock and confuse the grave reality of

a great people’s affair.



the effect of it upon the mind of our two young people

be—complicate. how complicate it be few people realize who have not

closely study the educational process of the british mind as a whole.

then it become manifest that the monarch, the state church, and the

system of title and social precedence center upon the throne,

constitute a system of mental entanglement against which british

education struggle at an enormous disadvantage. the monarchy in Great

Britain be a compromise that be accept by a generation regardless of

education and devoid of any sense of the future. it be now a mask upon

the british face; it be a gaudy and antiquated and embarrassing wrapping

about the energy of the nation. because of it Britain speak to her

youth, as to the world, with two voice. she speak as a democratic

republic, just ever so little crown, and also she speak as a

succulently loyal teutonic monarchy. either she be an adolescent

democracy whose voice be break or an old monarchy at the squeaking

stage. now her voice be the full strong voice of a great people, now it

pipe ridiculously. she perplex the world and stultifie herself.



that be why her education lead up to no such magnificent exposition and

consolidation of purpose as Oswald dream of for his ward. instead, the

track presently lose itself in a maze of prevarication and evasion.

the country be double-minded, double-mindedness have become its habit,

and it have lose the power of decision. every effort to broaden and

modernize university education in Britain encounter insurmountable

difficulty because of this fundamental dispersal of aim. the court get

in the way, the country clergy get in the way, the rule-class family

get in the way. it be impossible to turn a wandering, chance-make track

into a good road until you know where it be to go. and that question of

destination be one that no Englishman before the war could be induce

to put into plain language. doublemindedness have become his second

nature. from the very outset it have take possession of he. when a

young American go to his teacher to ask why he should serve his state,

he be show a flag of thirteen stripe and eight and forty star and

tell a very plain and inspire history. his relation to his country

be thenceforward as simple and unquestionable as a child’s to its

mother. he may be patriotic or unpatriotic as a son may be dutiful or

undutiful, but he will not be muddle-head. but when Joan and Peter

first begin to realize that they belong to the British Empire they

be show a little old german woman and tell that reverence for she

link we in a common abjection with the million of India. they be

tell also that really this little old lady do nothing of the slight

importance and that the country be the free democracy on earth, rule

by its elect representative. and each of these preposterously

contradictory story pursue they in an endless series of variation up

to adolescence....



to two naturally clear-head young people it become presently as

palpably absurd to have a great union of civilized state thus

impersonate as it be to have Wall impersonate by Snout the Tinker in

_a Midsummer Night’s Dream_. they be already jeer at royalty and

the church with Aunt Phyllis long before they go up to Cambridge.

there they find plenty of associate to jeer with they. and there too

they find a quite congenial parallel stream of jeer against

Parliament, which pretend to represent the national mind and quality,

but which be elect by a method that manifestly give no chance to any

candidate who be not nominate by a party organization. in time of

long establish peace, when the tradition of generation have

establish the illusion of the profound human security, man’s mind

be not greatly distress by grotesqueness and absurdity in their

political form. it be all part of the humour and the good-humour of

life. when one believe that all the tiger in the jungle be dead, it

be quite amusing to walk along the jungle path in a dressing-gown with

a fan instead of a gun. Joan and Peter grow up to the persuasion that

the crown above they be rather a good joke, and that Parliament and its

job and party flummery be also a joke, and that the large, deep

rottenness in this british world about they be perhaps in the nature of

thing and anyhow beyond their altering. they too be become

double-minded accord to the tradition of the land.



yet beneath this acquiescence in the deep-root political paradox of

Britain they be capable of the keen interest in a number of

question that they really believe be alive. it become manifest to

they that this great golden preposterous world be mar by certain

injustice and unkindness. something call Labour they hear be

unhappy and complain of unfair treatment, certain grumbling come from

India and Ireland, and there be a curiously exciting subject which

demand investigation and reform activity call the sex question.

and generally there seem to be, for no particular reason, a lot of

restriction upon people’s conduct.



in addition Peter have acquire from Oswald, rather by way of example

than precept, a very definite persuasion, and Joan have acquire a

persuasion that be perhaps not quite so clearly and deeply cut, that to

make it respectable there ought to be something in one’s life in the

nature of special work. in Oswald’s case it be his african interest.

Peter think that his own work might perhaps be biological. but that

one’s work ought to join on to the work of the people or that all the

good work in the world should make one whole be a notion that have not

apparently enter Peter’s mind. Oswald with his dread of preachment

be doubtful about any deliberate dissertation in the matter. he get

Peter to begin the _Martyrdom of Man_, which have so profoundly affect

his own life, but Peter express doubt about the correctness of

Reade’s egyptian history, and put the book aside and do not go on

read it.



at time Oswald try to say something to Joan and Peter of his

conception of the Empire as a great human enterprise, play a

dominating part in the establishment of a world peace and a world

civilization, and give a form and direction and pride to every life

within it. but these perpetual noise of royalty in its vulgar, most

personal form, the loyalist chatter of illiterate woman and the clamour

of the New Imperialism to “tax the foreigner” and exploit the empire for

gain, drown his intention while it be still unspeak in his mind.

there be moment when he could already ask himself whether this empire

he have shape his life to serve, this knightly empire of his,

enlighten, righteous, and predominant, be anything well than a

dream—or a lie.





                                  § 16



when Joan leave Highmorton she come into the market-place of idea. she

begin to read the newspaper. she cease to be a leggy person with a

skirt like a kilt and a dark shock of hair not under proper control;

instead, she become visibly a young lady, albeit a very young young

lady, and suddenly all adult conversation be open to she.



under the brotherly auspex of Peter she join the Cambridge

University Fabian Society. Peter belong to it, but he explain that

he don’t approve of it. he be in it for its own good. she also take a

place in two suffrage organization, and subscribe to three suffrage

paper. Tel Wymark, who be also in Newton Hall, introduce she to the

Club of Strange Faiths, devote to “the impartial examination of all

religious system.” and she go under proper escort to the First

Wednesday in every month Teas in Bunny Cuspard’s room. Bunny be an

ex-collegiate student, he have big, comfortable room in Siddermorton

Street, and these gathering of his be design to be discussion,

very memorable discussion of the most advanced type, about this and

that. as a matter of fact they consist in about equal proportion of

awkward silence, scornful treatment of current reputation, and Bunny,

in a loose, inaccurate way, spill your tea or hand you edible.

Bunny’s cake and sandwich be wonderful; in that respect he be a

bear hostess. junior don and chance visitor to Cambridge would

sometimes drift in to Bunny’s intellectual feast, and here it be that

Joan meet young Winterbaum again.



Young Winterbaum be rather a surprise. he have get his feature together

astonishingly since the day of Miss Murgatroyd’s school; he have grow a

moustache, much more of a moustache than Peter be to have for year

yet, and be altogether remarkably grow up and a man of the world.

“funny lot,” he remark to Joan when he have sit down beside she. “why

do _you_ come to Cambridge?”



“my people make I come up here,” he explain; “family consideration,

duty to the old country, loyalty to the old college, and all that. but

I’d rather be paint. it’s the only live thing just now. you up to

anything?”



“ear and eye and mouth wide open,” say Joan.



“this show ben’t worth it. do you ever drift towards Chelsea?”



Joan say she go to Hampstead now and then; she stay sometimes with

the Sheldricks, who be in a congested house on Downshire Hill now, and

sometimes with Miss Jepson. henceforth, now that she be no long under

the Highmorton yoke, she hope to be in London oftener.



“do you see the Picasso show?” ask Winterbaum.



she have not.



“you miss something,” say young Winterbaum, just like old time.

“Picasso, Mancini; these be the god of my idolatry....”



Bunny Cuspard interrupt clumsily with some specially ice cake. Joan,

accept a cake, discover Wilmington talk absent-mindedly to her

chaperon and look pogrom at Winterbaum. so Joan, please rather than

excited by this chance evidence of a continue interest, lift up a

face of bright recognition and smile and nod to Wilmington....





                                  § 17



it be the ambition of Mrs. Sheldrick and her remain daughter—some

of they have marry—to make their home on Downshire Hill “a little bit

of the London _Quartier Latin_.”



Mr. Sheldrick have wear out the large, loose, tweed suit that have hold

he together for so long, he have go to piece altogether and be dead

and bury, and the Sheldricks be keep a home together by the

practice of decorative art and promiscuous hospitality. Mrs.

Sheldrick be write a little in the paper of the weak among the

various editor who live within her social range; little vague review

and poem she write, with a quiet smile, that be not so much allusive

as with an air of having recently have a fly visit from an allusion

that be unable to stay. Sydney Sheldrick be practise sculpture, and

Babs be attend the London School of Dramatic Art, to which Adela

Murchison have also find her way. Antonia, the eld, be in business,

make djibbah-like robe.



there be downstairs and the passage and staircase and upstairs, a

sit-room in front, and a sort of oriental lounge (that later in the

evening become the bedroom of Antonia and Babs) behind. it have all be

decorate in the most modern style by Antonia in a very blue blue that

seem a little threadbare in place and very large, suggestive shape

of orange, with a sort of fringe of black and white chequer and a green

ceiling with harsh pink star. and the chair, except for the various

othman and cosy corner which be in fade blue canvas, have be

paint bright pink or grey.



into this house they gather, after nine and more particularly on

Saturdays, all sort of people who chance to be connect by birth,

marriage, misfortune, or proclivity with journalism or the art. hither

come Aunt Phœbe Stubland, and read a paper call insistently:

_Watchman, what of the night? what of it?_ and quite up to its title;

and hither too come Aunt Phyllis Stubland, quietly observant. but quite

a lot of writer come. and in addition there be endless conspirator.

there be Mrs. O’Grady, the beautiful irish patriot, who be always

dress like a procession of Hibernians in New York, and there be

Patrick Lynch, a long, lax black object, end below in large dull

boot, and above in a sad white face under wiry black hair, grieve for

ever that grief for Ireland—_Cathleen ni Houlihan_ and all the rest of

it—that only these long, black, pale Irishmen can understand. and there

be Eric Schmidt, who be rare among irish patriot because of his

genuine knowledge of Erse. all these be great conspirator. then there

be Mrs. Punk, who have hunger-strike three time, and Miss

Corcoran-deepe the incendiary. and american socialist. and young

Indians. and one see the venerable figure of Mr. Woodjer, very old now

and white and deaf and nervous and indistinct, who have advocate in

several beautiful and poetical little volume a new morality that would

have put the wind up of the Cities of the Plain. and Winterbaum drift

in, but cautiously, as doubt whether it ben’t just “a bit too

marginal,” to bring away his two frizzy-haired sister, very bright-eye

and eager, rapid-speaking and _au fait_, and wonderfully bejewel for

creature so young. they be go in for dancing; they do spanish

dance, stupendously click down their red heel with absolute

precision together; they take the sheldrick on the way to the contango

or the Mondaines or the Levisons, or even to the hoggenheimer; they

glitter at Downshire Hill like bird of Paradise, and have the

lovely neck and shoulder and arm. outside wait young

Winterbaum’s coupé—a very smart little affair in black and cream, with

an electric starter wonderfully fit.



here too come young Huntley, who have write three novel before he be

twenty-two, and who be now thirty and quite well know, not only as a

novelist of reputation, but as a critic eminently unpopular with actor

manager; a blond young man with a strong profile, a hungry, scornful

expression and a greedy, large blue eye that wander about the crush as

if it seek something, until it come to rest upon Joan. thereafter Mr.

Huntley’s other movement and conversation be control by a

resolution to edge towards and overshadow and dominate Joan with the

profile as much as possible.



Joan, by various delicacy of perception, be quite aware of these

approach without seem at any time to regard Huntley directly; and

by a subtlety quite imperceptible to he she drift away from each

advance. she do not know who he be, and though the profile interested

she, his steadfast advance towards she seem to be premature. until

suddenly an apparently quite irrelevant incident spin her mind round to

the idea of encourage he.



the incident be the arrival of Peter.



early in the afternoon he have vanish from Mrs. Jepson’s, where he and

Joan be stay; he have not come in to dinner, and now suddenly he

appear conspicuously in this gathering of the Sheldricks’,

conspicuously in the company of Hetty Reinhart, who be to Joan, for

quite occult reason, the most detestable of all his large circle of

detestable friend. that alone be enough to tax the self-restraint of

an exceedingly hot-temper foster sister. (so this be what Peter have

be do with his time! this have be his reason for neglect his

own household! at the _Petit Riche_, or some such place—with _she_! a

girl with a cockney accent! a girl who would stroke your arm as soon as

speak to you!...) but though the large thing in life strain we, it be

the small thing that break we. what finally turn Joan over be a

glance, a second’s encounter with Peter’s eye. Hetty have sail forward

with that extraordinary effect of her of be a grown-up, experienced

woman, to greet Mrs. Sheldrick, and Peter stand behind, disregard.

(his expression of tranquil self-satisfaction be madden.) his eye

go round the room look, Joan know, for two people. it rest on

Joan.



the question that Peter be ask Joan mutely across the room be in

effect this: “be you behave yourself, Joan?”



then, not quite reassure by an uncontrollable scowl, Peter look away

to see if some one else be present. some one else apparently ben’t

present, and Joan be unfeignedly sorry.



he be look for Mir Jelalludin, the interesting young Indian with the

beautifully model face, whom Joan have meet and talk to at the Club

of Strange Faiths. at the Club of Strange Faiths one day she have be

suddenly move to make a short speech about the buddhist idea of

Nirvana, which one of the speaker have describe as extinction. make a

speech to a little meeting be not a very difficult thing for Joan; she

have learn how little terrible a thing be to do in the Highmorton

debating society, where she have be sustain by a grim determination

to score off Miss Frobisher. she say that she think the real

intention be not extinction at all, but the escape of the individual

consciousness after its living pilgrimage from one incarnate self to

another into the universal consciousness. that be the very antithesis

of extinction; one lose oneself indeed, but one lose oneself not in

darkness and non-existence, but in light and the fullness of existence.

there be all the difference between a fainting fit and ecstasy between

these two conception. and it be true of experience that one be least

oneself, least self-conscious and egotistical at one’s time of great

excitement.



Mir Jelalludin receive these remark with earnest applause. he make as

if to speak after she, rise in his place, and then hastily sit down.

afterwards he come and speak to she, quite modestly and simply, without

the least impertinence.



he explain, with a pleasant staccato accent and little slip in his

pronunciation that suggest restrict english conversation and much

reading of book, how greatly he have be want to say just what she

have say, “so bew-ti-fully,” but he have be restrain by “impafction

of the pronunsation. so deefi’clt, you know.” one hear english people

so often not do justice to indian idea so that it be very pleasant

to hear they be quite sympathetically put.



there be something very pleasing in the real intellectual excitement

that have make he speak to she, and there be something very pleasing to

the eye in the neat precision with which his brown feature be

chisel and the decisive accuracy of every single hair on his brow. he

be, he explain, a Moslem, but he be interested in every school of

indian thought. he be afraid he be not very orthodox, and he show a

smile of the most perfect tooth. there have always be a tendency to

universalism in indian thought, that affect even the Moslem. do she

know anything of the Brahmo Somaj? have she read any novel of

Chatterji’s? there be at least one great novel of his the English ought

to read, the _Ananda Math_. no one could understand indian thought

properly who have not read it. he have a translation of it into

English—which he would lend she.



would she be interested to read it?



might he send it to she?



Joan’s chaperon be a third year girl who put no bar upon these

amenity. Joan accept the book and throw out casually that she

sometimes go to Bunny Cuspard’s tea. if Mr. Jelalludin send she

Chatterji’s book she could return it to Bunny Cuspard’s room.



it be in Bunny Cuspard’s room that Peter have first become aware of this

exotic friendship. he discover his Joan snugly in a corner listen

to an explanation of the attitude of Islam towards woman. it have be

enormously misrepresented in Christendom. Mr. Jelalludin be very

earnest in his exposition, and Joan listen with a pleasant smile and

regard he pleasantly and wish that she could run her finger just

once along his eyebrow without have her motive misunderstood.



but at the sight of his Joan engage in this confabulation Peter

suddenly discover all the fierce trait of race pride. he fret

about the room and be rude to other people and watch a book change

hand, and wait scarcely twenty second after the end of Joan’s

conversation before he come up to she.



“I say, Joan,” he say, “you cann’t go chum with Indians anyhow.”



“Peter,” she say, “we’ve chum with India.”



“oh, nonsense! not socially. their standard be different.”



“I hope they be,” say Joan. “the way you make these indian boy here

feel like outcast be disgraceful.”



“they’re different. the man ben’t uncivil to they. but it ben’t for

you——”



“it’s for all english people to treat they well. he’s a charming young

man.”



“it ben’t _do_, Joan.”



“it’s go to be, Petah.”



“you’re meet he again?”



“if I think proper.”



“oh!” say Peter, baffle for the time. “all _right_, Joan.”



a fierce exchange of note follow. “don’t you understand the fellow’s

a polygamist?” Peter write. “he keep his woman in purdah. no decent

woman could be talk to in India as he talk to you. not even an

introduction. personally, I’ve no objection to any friend you make

provide they be decent friend....”



“he ben’t a polygamist,” Joan reply. “I’ve ask he. and every one

say he’s a first-rate cricketer. as for decent friend, Peter——”



the issue have be still undecided when they come down for the Christmas

vacation.



so far Joan have maintain her position without passion. but now

suddenly her indignation at Peter’s interference flare to heaven. that

he should come here, hot from Soho, to tyrannize over _her_! Indians

indeed! as if Hetty Reinhart ben’t bad than a Gold Coast nigger!...



the only outward manifestation of this wild storm of resentment have be

her one instant’s scowl at Peter. thereafter Joan become again the

quiet, intelligently watchful young woman she have be all that evening.

but now she turn herself through an angle of about thirty degree

towards Huntley, who be talk to old Mrs. Jex, the wonder of

Hampstead, who use to know George Eliot and Huxley, the while he be

regard Joan with sidelong covetousness. Joan lift her eye towards

he with an expression of innocent interest. the slightly project

blue eye seem to leap in response.



Mrs. Jex be always rather inattentive to her listener when she be

recite her reminiscence, and Huntley be able to turn away from she

quietly without interrupt the flow.



the Sheldrick circle scorn the formality of introduction. “be you

from the Slade school?” say Huntley.



“Cambridge,” say Joan.



“my name’s Gavan Huntley.”



but this be go to be more amusing than Joan have expect. this be a

real live novelist—Joan’s first. not a fortnight ago she have read _the

Pernambuco Bunshop_, and think it rather clever and silly.



“not _the_ Gavan Huntley?” she say.



his face become faintly luminous with satisfaction. “just Gavan

Huntley,” he say with a large smile.



“the Pernambuco Bunshop?” she say.



“guilty,” he plead, smile still more naïvely.



one have expect something much less natural in a novelist.



“I _love_ it,” say Joan, and Huntley be her to do what she like

with. Joon’s idea of a proper conversation require it to be in a

corner. “do sheldrick never sit down?” she ask. “I’ve be stand

all the evening.”



“they cann’t,” he say confidentially. “they’re the other sort of dutch

doll, the cheap sort, that haven’t get joint at the knee.”



“Antonia sometimes lean against the wall.”



“her utmost. the next thing would be to sit on the floor with her leg

straight out. I’ve see she do that. but there be a sort of bench on the

staircase landing.”



Thither they make their way, and there presently Peter find they.



he find they because he be make for that very corner in the company

of Sydney Sheldrick. “Hullo!” say Sydney. “that you, Joan?”



“we’ve take this corner for the evening,” say Huntley, lay a

control hand on Joan’s pretty wrist.



Joan and Peter regard each other darkly.



“there ought to be more seat about somewhere,” say Sydney. “come up to

the divan, old Peter....”



of course Peter must object to Huntley. they be scarcely out of the

Sheldricks’ house when he begin. “that man Huntley’s a bad egg, Joan.

everybody know it.”



for a time they dispute about Huntley.



“Peter,” say Joan, with affected calm, “be there any man, do you think,

to whom so—so untrustworthy a girl as I be might safely talk?”



Peter seem to consider. “there’s chap like Troop,” he say.



“Troop!” say Joan, rely on her intonation.



“it ben’t that you’re untrustworthy,” say Peter.



“fragile?”



“it’s the look and tone of thing.”



“I wonder how you get these idea.”



“what idea?”



“of how I behave in a corner with Jelalludin or Gavan Huntley.”



“I haven’t suggest anything.”



“you’ve suggest everything. do you think I collect stray kiss like

Sydney Sheldrick? do you think I’m a dirty little—little—cocotte like

Hetty Reinhart?”



“_Joan!_”



“_well_,” say Joan savagely, and say no more.



Peter come to the defence of Hetty belatedly. “how can you say such

thing of Hetty?” he ask. “what can you know about she?”



“pah! I can smell what she be across a room. do you think I’m an

absolute young fool, Peter?”



“you’ve get no right, Joan——”



“why argue, Peter, why argue? when thing be plain. cann’t you go your

own way, Peter”—Joan be annoy to find suddenly that she be weep.

tear be run down her face. but the road be dark, and perhaps if

she give no sign Peter would not see. “you go your own way, Peter, go

your own way, and let I go mine.”



Peter be silent for a little while. then compunction betray itself in

his voice.



“it’s you I’m think of, Joan. I cann’t bear to see you make yourself

cheap.”



“cheap! and _you_?”



“I’m different. I’m altogether different. a man be.”



Silence for a time. Joan seem to push back her hair, and so smear

the tear from her face.



“we interfere with each other,” she say at last. “we interfere with

each other. what be the good of it? you’ve get to go your way and I’ve

get to go mine. we use to have fun—lot of fun. _now_....”



she couldn’t say any more for a while.



“I’m go my own way, Peter. it’s a different way——leave I alone. keep

off!”



they say no more. when they get in they find Miss Jepson sit by

the fire, and she have get they some cocoa and biscuit. the headache

that have keep she from the Sheldrick festival have lift, and Joan

plunge at once into a gay account of the various people she have see

that evening—save and except Gavan Huntley. but Peter stand by the

fireplace, silent, look down into the fire, sulk or grieve. all

the while that Joan rattle on to Miss Jepson she be watch he with

almost imperceptible glance and wonder whether he sulk or grieve.

do he feel as she feel? if he sulk—well, confound he! but what if

this perplexing dissension hurt he as much as it be hurt she!





                                  § 18



Joan have long since lose that happiness, that perfect assurance, that

intense appreciation of the beauty in thing which have come to she with

early adolescence. she be troubled and perplex in all her way. she

be full now of stormy, indistinct desire and fear, and a gnawing,

indefinite impatience. no religion have convince she of a purpose in her

life, neither Highmorton nor Cambridge have suggest any mundane

devotion to she, nor point she ambition to a career. the only career

these feminine school and college recognize be a career of academic

success and High School teaching, intercalate with hunger strike for

the vote, and Joan have early decide she would rather die than teach in

a High School. nor have she the quiet assurance her own beauty would have

give she in an early generation of a discreet choice of lover and

marriage and live “happily ever afterwards.” she have a horror of

marriage lurk in her composition; Mrs. Pybus and Highmorton have each

contribute to that; every one around her speak of it as an entire

abandonment of freedom. moreover there be this queerness about she

birth—she be begin to understand well now in what that queerness

consist—that seem to put she outside the customary ceremony of

veil and orange blossom. why do they not tell she all about it—what

her mother be and where her mother be? it must be a pretty awful

business, if neither Aunt Phyllis nor Aunt Phœbe would ever allude to

it. it would have to come out—perhaps some monstrous story—before she

could marry. and who could one marry? she could not conceive herself

marry any of these boy she meet, live somewhere coope up in a

little house with solemn old Troop, or under the pursue eye, the

convulsive worship, of Wilmington. she have no object in life, no star by

which to steer, and she be full of the fever of life. she be get

awfully old. she be eighteen. she be nineteen. soon she would be

twenty.



all her be, in her destitution of any other aim that have the

slight hold upon her imagination, be cry out for a lover.



it be a lover she want, not a husband; her mind make the clear

distinction between the two. he would come and unrest would cease,

confusion would cease and beauty would return. her lover haunt all her

life, an invisible yet almost present person. she could not imagine his

face nor his form, he be the blankest of being, and yet she be so

sure she know he that if she be to see he away down a street or

across a crowded room, instantly, she believe, she would recognize he.

and until he come life be a torment of suspense. life be all wrong and

discordant, so wrong and discordant that at time she could have hate

her lover for keep she wait so wretchedly.



and she have to go on as though this suspense be nothing. she have to

disregard this vast impatience of her be. and the good way to do

that, it seem to she, be to hurry from one employment to another,

never to be alone, never without some occupation, some excitement. she

break with Peter have an extraordinary effect of release in her mind.

Hitherto, whatever her resentment have be she have admit in practice

his claim to exact a certain discretion from she; his opinion have be,

in spite of her resentment, a standard for she. now she have no standard

at all—unless it be a rebellious purpose to spite he. on Joan’s

personal conduct the thought of Oswald, oddly enough, have scarcely any

influence at all. she adore he as one might a political or historical

hero; she want to stand well in his sight, but the idea of he do not

pursue she into the detail of her behaviour at all. he seem

preoccupy with idea and unobservant. she have never have any struggle

with he; he have never make she do anything. and as for Aunts Phyllis

and Phœbe—while the latter seem to make vague gesture towards quite

unutterable liberty, the former maintain an attitude of nervous

disavowal. she be a woman far too uncertain-minded for plain speaking.

she be a dear. clearly she hate cruelty and baseness; except in regard

to such thing she set no bound.



Hitherto Joan have have a very few flirtation; the extreme thing upon

her conscience be Bunny Cuspard’s kiss. she have the natural

shilly-shally of a girl; she be strongly move to all sort of

flirting and experimenting with love, and very adventurous and curious

in these matter; and also she have a system of inhibition, pride,

hesitation, fastidiousness, and something beyond these thing, a sense

of some ultimate value that might easily be lose, that hold she back.

rebel against Peter have somehow also set she rebel against these

restraint. why shouldn’t she know this and that? why shouldn’t she try

this and that? why, for instance, be she always “shut up” Adela

whenever she begin to discourse in her peculiar way upon the great

theme? just a timid prude she have be, but now——.



and all this about undesirable people and unseemly place, all this

picking and choose as though the world be mud; what nonsense it be!

she could take care of herself surely!



she begin deliberately to feel her way through all her friendship to

see whether this thing, passion, lurk in any of they. it be an

interesting exercise of her wit to try over a youth like old Troop, for

example; to lure he on by a touch of flattery, a betrayal of warmth in

her interest, to reciprocal advance. at first Troop ben’t in the least

in love with she, but she succeed in suggest to he that he be.

but the passion in he release an unsuspected fund of egotistical

discourse; he develop a disposition to explain himself and his mental

operation in a large, flattering way both by word of mouth and by

letter. even when he be rouse to a sense of she as lovable, he do not

become really interested in she but only in his love for she. he arrive

at one stride at the same unanalytical acceptance of she as of his God

and the Church and the King and his parent and all the rest of the

anglican system of thing. she be his girl—“the kid.” he really ben’t

interested in those other thing any more than he be in she; once he

have give she her rôle in relation to he his attention return to

himself. the honour, integrity, and perfection of Troop be the

consume occupation of his mind. this be an edify thing to

discover, but not an entertaining thing to pursue; and after a time Joan

set herself to avoid, miss, and escape from Troop on every possible

occasion. but Troop pride himself upon his persistence. he take to

write her immense, ill-spelt, manly letter, with sentence begin:

“you understand I very little if——.” it be clear he be her only

until some simple, purer, more receptive and acquisitive girl swam into

his ken.



Wilmington, on the other hand, be a silent covetous lover. Joan could

make he go white, but she could not make he talk. she be a little

afraid of he and quite sure of he. but he be not the sort of young

man one can play with, and she marvel greatly that any one could

desire she so much and amuse she so little. Bunny Cuspard be a more

animate subject for experiment, and you could play with he a lot. he

dance impudently. he could pat Joan’s shoulder, press her hand, slip

his arm round her waist and bring his warm face almost to a kissing

contact as though it be all nothing. do these approach warm her

blood? do she warm his? anyhow it don’t matter, and it ben’t

anything.



then there be Graham Prothero, a very good-look friend of Peter’s,

whom she have meet while skate. he have a lively eye, and jump after a

meeting or so straight into Joan’s dream, where he be still more

lively and good-looking. she wish she know more certainly whether she

have get into his dream.



meanwhile Joan’s curiosity have not spare Jelalludin. she have have he

discourse on the beauty of indian love, and spin for her

imagination a warm moonlight vision of still temple reflect in water

tank, of silvery water shine between great lily leave, of music like

the throbbing of a nerve, of brown body garland with flower. there

have be a loan of Rabindranath Tagore’s love poem. and once he have

send she some flower.



any of these youth she could make her definite lover she know, by an

act of self-adaptation and just a little reciprocal giving. only she have

no will to do that. she feel she must not will anything of the sort. the

thing must come to she; it must take possession of she. sometimes,

indeed, she have the oddest fancy that perhaps suddenly one of these

young man would become transfigure; would cease to be his clumsy,

ineffective self, and change right into that wonderful, that compelling

be who be to set all thing right. there be moment when it seem

about to happen. and then the illusion pass, and she see clearly that

it be just old Bunny or just staccato Mir Jelalludin.



in Huntley, Joan find something more intriguing than this pursuit of

the easy and the innocent. Huntley talk with a skilful impudence that

make a bold choice of topic seem the most natural in the world. he

present himself as a leader in a great emancipation of woman. they

be to be free from “the bondage of sex.” the phrase awaken a warm

response in Joan, who be find sex a yoke about her imagination. Sex,

Huntley declare, should be as incidental in a woman’s life as it be in

a man’s. but before that could happen the world must free its mind from

the “superstition of chastity,” from the idea that by one single step a

woman pass from the recognizable into an impossible category. we make

no such distinction in the case of man; an artist or a business man be

not suddenly thrust out of the social system by a sexual incident. a

woman be either Mrs. or Miss; a gross publication of elemental fact

that be surely her private affair. no one ask whether a man have

find his lover. why should one proclaim it in the case of a woman by a

conspicuous change of her name? here, and not in any matter of vote or

economic be the real feminine grievance. his indignation be

contagious. it march with all Joan’s accumulate prejudice against

marriage, and all her grow resentment at the way in which emotional

unrest be distract and perplex her will and spoil her work at

Cambridge. but when Huntley go on to suggest that the path to freedom

lie in the heroic abandonment of the “fetish of chastity,” Joan be

sensible of a certain lagging of spirit. a complex of instinct that

conspire to adumbrate that unseen, unknown, and yet tyrannous lover,

who would not leave she in peace and yet would not reveal himself, stand

between she and the extremity of Huntley’s logic.



there be moment when he seem to be pretend to fill that

oppressive void; moment when he seem only to be hint at himself as

a possible instrument of freedom. Joan listen to he gravely enough so

long as he theorize; when he come to personal thing she treat he

with the same experimental and indecisive encouragement that she deal

out to her undergraduate friend. Huntley’s early pose of an

intellectual friend be attractive and flattering; then he begin to

betray passion, as it be, unwittingly. at a fancy dress dance at

Chelsea—and he dance almost as well as Joan—he become moody. he be

handsome that night in black velvet and silver that betray much

natural grace; Joan be a nondescript in black and red, with short

skirt and red bead about her pretty neck. “Joan,” he say suddenly,

“you’re get hold of I. you’re disturb I.” he seem to

soliloquize. “I’ve not feel like this before.” then very flatteringly

and reproachfully, “you’re so damned intelligent, Joan. and you dance—as

though God make you to make I happy.” he get she out into an open

passage that lead from the big studio in which they have be dance, to

a yard dimly light by chinese lantern, and at the dark turn of the

passage kiss she more suddenly and violently than she have ever be

kiss before. he kiss her lip and hold she until she struggle out

of his arm. up to that moment Joan have be play with he, half

attract and half sham; then once more come the black panic that

have seize she with Bunny and Adela.



she do not know whether she like he now or hate he. she feel

strange and excited. she make he go back with she into the studio.

“I’ve get to dance with Ralph Winterbaum,” she say.



“say you’re not offend,” he plead.



she give he no answer. she do not know the answer. she want to get

away and think. he perceive her confused excitement and do not want to

give her time to think. she find Winterbaum and dance with he, and

all the time, with her nerve on fire, she be watch Huntley, and he

be watch she. then she become aware of Peter regard she coldly,

over the plump shoulder of a fashion-plate artist. she go to he as

soon as the dance be over.



“Peter,” she say, “I want to go home.”



he survey she. she be flush and ruffle, and his eye and mouth

harden.



“it’s early.”



“I want to go home.”



“right. you’re a bit of a responsibility, Joan.”



“don’t, then,” she say shortly, and turn round to greet Huntley as

though nothing have happen between they.



but she keep in the light and the crowd, and there be a constraint

between they. “I want to talk to you more,” he say, “and when we can

talk without some one stand on one’s toe all the time and listen

hard. I wish you’d come to my flat and have tea with I one day. it’s

still and cosy, and I could tell you all sort of thing—thing I cann’t

tell you here.”



Joan’s dread of any appearance of timid virtue be overwhelming. and she

be now blind with rage at Peter—why, she would have be at a loss to

say. she want to behave outrageously with Huntley. but in Peter’s

sight. this strike she as an altogether too extensive invitation.



“I’ve never notice much restraint in your conversation,” she say.



“it’s the interruption I don’t like,” he say.



“you get I no ice, you get I no lemonade,” she complain abruptly.



“that’s what my dear Aunt Adelaide use to call change the subject.”



“it’s the cry of outraged nature.”



“but I see you have an ice—not half an hour ago.”



“not the ice I want,” say Joan.



“Distracting Joan! I suppose I must get you that ice. but about the

tea?”



“I _hate_ tea,” say Joan, with a force of decision that for a time

dispose of his project.



just for a moment he hover with his eye on she, weigh just what

that decision amount to, and in that moment she decide that he ben’t

handsome, that there be something _unsound_ about his profile, that he

be press she foolishly. and anyhow, none of it really matter. he

be nothing really. she have be a fool to go into that dark passage,

she ought to have know her man well; Huntley have be amusing

hitherto and now the thing have get into a new phase that wouldn’t, she

feel, be amusing at all; after this he would pester. she hate be

kiss. and Peter be a beast. Peter be a hateful beast....



Joan and Peter go home in the same taxi—in a grim silence. yet neither

of they could have tell what it be that keep they hostile and silent.





                                  § 19



but Joan and Peter be not always grimly silent with one another. the

black and inexplicable mood come and pass again. between these

perplexing mute conflict of will, they be still good friend. when

they be alone together they be always disposed to be good friend;

it be the presence and excitement and competition of other that

disturb their relationship; it be when the specie invade their

individuality and threaten their association with its occult and

passionate demand. they would motor-cycle together through the lane

and road of Hertfordshire, lunch cheerfully at wayside inn, brotherly

and sisterly, relapse again into mere boy and girl playfellow, race and

climb tree, or, like fellow-student, share their common room amicably,

dispute over a multitude of question, and talk to Oswald. they both have

a fair share of scholarly ambition and read pretty hard. they have both

now reach the newspaper-read stage. Peter be begin to take an

interest in politic, he want to discuss socialism and economic

organization thoroughly; biological work alone among all scientific

study carry a philosophy of its own that illuminate these

question, and Oswald be happy to try over his current interest in the

light of these fresh, keen young mind. Peter be a discriminating

advocate of the idea of Guild socialism; Oswald be still a cautious

individualist drift towards Fabianism. the great labour trouble that

have follow the Coronation of King George have be necessary to

convince he that all be not well with the economic organization of the

empire. Hitherto he have take economic organization for grant; it

ben’t a matter for Sydenhams.



Pelham Ford at such time become a backwater from the main current of

human affair, the current that be now grow steadily more rapid and

trouble. thinking could go on at Pelham Ford. there be still force

in that old-world valley to resist the infection of intense impatience

that be spread throughout the world. the old red house behind its

wall and iron gate seem as stable as the little hill about it; the

road and the row of great tree between the stream and the road, the

high pathway and the ford and the village promise visibly to endure for

a thousand year. it be when Aunt Phyllis or Aunt Phœbe descend upon

the place to make a party, “get a lot of young people down and brighten

thing up,” or when the two youngster go to London together into the

Sheldrick translation of the _Quartier Latin_, or when they meet in

Cambridge in some crowded chattering room that imagination grow

feverish, fierce jealousy awake, temperament jar, and the urge of

adolescence have they in its clutch again.



it be during one of these party at Pelham Ford that Joan be to

happen upon two great realization, realization of so profound an

effect that they may serve to mark the end for she of this great process

of emotional upheaval and discovery that be call adolescence. they

leave she shaped. they come to she in no dramatic circumstance, they

be mere conversational incident, but their effect be profound and

conclusive.



in the New Year of 1914 Oswald be to take Peter to Russia for three

week. before his departure, Aunt Phœbe have insist that there should

be a Christmas gathering of the young at Pelham Ford. they would skate

or walk or toboggan or play hockey by day, and dress up and dance or

improvise charade and burlesque in the evening. one or two sheldrick

would come, Peter and Joan could bring down any stray friend who have no

home Christmas to call they, and Aunts Phyllis and Phœbe would collect a

few young people in London.



the gathering be from the first miscellaneous. Christmas be a home

time for the undergraduate of both sex, such modern spirit as the

home fail to attract use to go in those day in great drove to the

swiss winter sport, and Joan find nobody but an ambitious Scotch girl

whom she know but slightly and Miss Scroby the historian, who be rather

a friend for Aunt Phyllis than herself. Peter discover that Wilmington

intensely preferred Pelham Ford to his parental roof, and bring also

two other stray man, orphan. this selection be supplement by Aunt

Phœbe, who have latterly make Hetty Reinhart her especial protégée. she

descant upon the obvious beauty of Hetty and upon the courage that have

induce Hetty to leave her home in Preston and manage for herself in a

great lonely studio upon Haverstock Hill. “the bachelor woman,” say

Aunt Phœbe; “arm with a latchkey and her purity. a vote shall follow.

Hetty be not one of the devoted yet. but I have my hope. we need our

Beauty Chorus. Hetty shall be our Helen, and Holloway our Troy.”



so with Peter’s approval Hetty be add to the list before Joan could

express an opinion, and appear with a moderate sized valise that

contain some extremely exiguous evening costume, and a steadfast eye

that rest most frequently on Peter. in addition Aunt Phœbe bring two

irish sister, one frivolous, the other just recuperate from the

hunger-strike that have end her imprisonment for window-breaking in

pursuit of the vote, and a very shy youth of seventeen, Pryce, the

caddie-poet. Huntley be to constitute a sort of outside element in the

party, share apartment with young Sopwith Greene the musician, in the

village about half a mile away. these two man be to work and keep away

when they choose, and come in for meal and sport as they think fit.

at the eleventh hour have come a pathetic and irresistible telegram from

Adela Murchison:



              alone Xmas may I come wire if inconvenient.



and she, too, be comprehend.



the vicarage girl be available for game and meal except on Sunday

and Christmas Day; there be a friendly family of five son and two

daughter at Braughing, a challenging hockey club at Bishop’s Stortford,

and a scratch collection at Newport available by motor-car for a pick-up

match if the weather prove, as it do prove, too open for skating.



Oswald commonly stand these Aunt party for a day or so and then

retreat to the Climax Club. always beforehand he promise himself

great interest and pleasure in the company of a number of exceptionally

bright and representative youth and maiden of the modern school, but

always the actual gathering fatigue he and distress he. the youth

and maidens wouldn’t be representative, they talk too loud, too fast

and too inconsecutively for he, their wit be too rapid and hard—and

they be all over the house. it be hard to get mental contact with

they. they pair off when there be no game afoot, and if ever talk

at table cease to be fragmentary Aunt Phœbe take control of it. in a

day or so he would begin to feel at Pelham Ford like a cat during a

removal; drive out of his dear library, which be the only available

room for dancing, he would try to work in his unaccustomed study, with

vivid, interesting young figure pass his window in group of two or

three, or only too audibly discuss the world, each other, and their

general arrangement, in the hall.



his home would have feel altogether chaotic to he but for the presence,

the unswerving, if usually invisible, presence of Mrs. Moxton, observe

time and season, provide copious suitable meal, dominate by mean

of the gong, replace furniture at every opportunity, refer with a

calm dignity to Joan as the hostess for all the rule and sanction she

deem advisable. from unseen point of view one feel her eye. one’s

consolation for the tumult lie in one’s confidence in this discretion

that lie behind it. even Aunt Phœbe’s way of speak of “our good

Moxton” do not mask the fact of the case. Pelham Ford be rule. at

Pelham Ford even Aunt Phœbe come down to meal in time. at Pelham Ford

no fire, once light, ever go out before it be right for it to do so.

you might in pursuit of facetious end choose to put your pyjama

outside your other clothe, wrap your window curtain about you, sport

and dance, and finally, draw off to some other end, abandon these

wrapping in the dining-room or on the settee on the landing. when you

go to bed your curtain hang primly before your window again, and your

pyjama lie fold and reprove upon your bed.



the disposition of the new generation to change its clothe, adopt

fantastic clothe, and at any reasonable excuse get right out of its

clothe altogether, greatly impress Oswald. Hetty in particular

betray a delight in the beauty of her own body with a freedom that

in Oswald’s youth be permit only to sculpture. but Adela make no

secret of her plump shoulder and arm, and Joan strike he as

insensitive. Skimpiness be the fashion in dress at that time. no doubt

it be all for the good, like the frankness of spartan maiden. and

another thing that bring a flavour of harsh modernity into the house

be the perpetual music and dancing that rage about it. there be a

pianola in the common room of Joan and Peter, but when they be alone

at home it serve only for an occasional outbreak of Bach, or Beethoven,

or Chopin. now it be in a state of almost continuous eruption. Aunt

Phyllis have order a number of roll of dance music from the

Orchestrelle library, and in addition she have bring down a gramophone.

never before have music be so easy in the world as it be in those

day. in Oswald’s youth music, good music, be the rare privilege of a

gifted few, one hear it rarely and listen with reverence. nowadays

Joan could run through a big fragment of the Ninth Symphony, give a

render far well than any but a highly skilled pianist could play,

while she be wait for Peter to come to breakfast. and this Christmas

party be pervade with one Steps and two Steps, pianola call to

gramophone and gramophone to pianola, and trip foot somewhere never

fail to respond. Most of these young people dance with the wild

informality. but Hetty and the young irish girl be serious

propagandist of certain strange american dance, the Bunny Hug, and the

Fox Trot; Sopwith Greene and Adela tango and be get quite good

at it, and Huntley want to teach Joan an Apache dance. Joan dance by

rule and pattern or by the light of nature as occasion require.



the Christmas dinner be at one o’clock, a large disorderly festival.

Gavan Huntley and Sopwith Greene come in for it. Oswald carve a turkey,

Aunt Phyllis dispense beef; the room be darken and the pudding be

bring in flame blue and distribute in flickering flame.

mince-pie, almond and raisin, Brazil nut, orange, tangerine,

Carlsbad plum, crystallize fruit and candy peel; nothing be

miss from the customary feast. then come a mighty banging of

cracker, pre-war cracker, contain elaborate paper costume and

preposterous gift. Wilmington eat little and Huntley a great deal, and

whenever Joan glance at they they seem to be look at she. Hetty,

flush and excited, become really pretty in a paper cap of liberty, she

wave a small tricolour flag and kneel up in her chair to pull cracker

across the table; Peter win a paper cockscomb and be move to come and

group himself under her arm and crow as “Vive la France!” the two irish

girl start an abusive but genial argument with Sopwith Greene upon

the irish question. Aunt Phœbe sit near Aunt Phyllis and discourse on

whether she ought to go to prison for the Vote. “I try to assault

policeman,” she say. “but they elude I.” one of Peter’s Cambridge

friend, it come to light, have be present at a great scene in which

Aunt Phœbe have figure. he emerge from his social obscurity and

describe the affair rather amusingly.



it have be at an anti-suffrage meeting in West Kensington, and Aunt

Phœbe have obtain access to the back row of the platform by some

specious device. among the notability in front Lady Charlotte Sydenham

and her solicitor have figure. Lady Charlotte have enter upon that last

great phase in a woman’s life, that phase know to the vulgar observer

as “old lady’s second wind.” it be a phase often of great go and

determination, a joy to the irreverent young and a marvel and terror to

the middle-aged. she have take to politic, plunge into public

speak, face audience. it be the Insurance Act of 1912 that have

first move she to such publicity. Stung by the outrageous possibility

of independent-spirited servant she have give up her usual trip to

Italy in the winter and stay to combat Lloyd George. from mere

subscription and drawing-room conversation and committee to

drawing-room meeting and at last to public meeting have be an easy

series of step for she. at first a mere bridle indignation on the

platform, she presently speak. as a speaker she combine reminiscence

of Queen Elizabeth at Tilbury and Marie Antoinette on the scaffold with

vast hiatus peculiar to herself. “my good people,” she would say,

disregard the more conventional method of opening, “have we

neglect our servant or have we not? be any shop Gal or factory Gal

half so well off as a servant in a good house? be she? I ask. the food

alone! the moral! and now we be to be tax and make to lick stamp

like a lot of galley-slave to please a bumptious little Welsh

solicitor! for my part I shall discontinue all my charitable

subscription until this abominable Act be strike off the Statute Book.

every one. and as for buy these preposterous stamp—— rather than

lick a stamp I will eat skilly in prison. Stamps indeed. I’d as soon

lick the man’s boot. that’s all I have to say, Mr. Chairman (or ’my

Lord,’ or ’Mrs. Chairman,’ as the case might be). I hope it will be

enough. thank you.” and she would sit down breathe heavily and look

for eye to meet.



for the great agitation against the Insurance Act that sort of thing

suffice, but when it come to testify against an unwomanly clamour

for vote, the argument become more complicated and interruption

difficult to handle, and after an unpleasant experience when she be

only able to repeat in steadily rise tone, “I be not one of the

Shrieking Sisterhood” ten time over to a derisive roomful, she decide

to adopt the more feminine expedient of a spokesman. she have fall back

upon Mr. Grimes, who like all solicitor have his parliamentary

ambition, and she take he about with she in the comfortable brown car

that have long since replace the white horse, and sit beside he while

he speak and approve of he with both hand. Mr. Grimes have be

address the meeting when Aunt Phœbe make her interruption. he have

be argue that the unfitness of woman for military service debar

they from the vote. “let we face the fact,” he say, draw the air in

between his tooth. “ultimately—ultimately all social organization rest

upon Force.”



it be just at this moment that cry of “Order, Order,” make he aware

of a feminine figure close beside he. he turn to meet the heaving

wrath of Aunt Phœbe’s face. there be just an instant’s scrutiny. then

he remember, he remember everything, and with a wild shriek leapt

clean off the platform upon the toe of the front row of the audience.



“if you _touch_ I!” he scream....



the young man tell the incident briefly and brightly.



“thereby hang a tale,” say Aunt Phœbe darkly, and become an allusive

Sphinx for the rest of the dinner.



“I shake that man,” she say at last to Pryce.



“What—_him_?” say Pryce, stare round-eyed at the young man from

Cambridge.



“no, the man at the meeting.”



“what—afterwards?” say Pryce, lose and baffle.



“no,” say Aunt Phœbe; “_before_.”



Pryce try to look intelligent, and nod his head very fast to

conceal the fear and confusion in his mind.



amidst all these voice and festivity sit Oswald, with a vast paper

cap shape rather like the dome of a russian church cock over his

blind side, listen distractedly, note this and that, say little,

think many thing.



the banquet end at last, and every one drift to the library.



Affairs hover vaguely for a time. Peter hand cigarette about. some

one start the gramophone with a two Step that set every one tripping.

Hetty with a flush on her cheek and a light in her eye be keep near

Peter; she seize upon he now for a dance that be also an embrace.

Peter laugh, nothing loath. “oh! but this be glorious!” pant Hetty.



“come and dance, too, Joan,” say Wilmington.



“it’s stuffy!” say Joan.



Oswald, contemplate a retreat to his study armchair, find she

presently in the hall dress to go out with Huntley.



“we’re go over the hill to see the sunset,” Joan explain. “it’s too

stuffy in there.”



Oswald meet Huntley’s large grey eye for a moment. he have an instinctive

distrust of Huntley. but on the other hand, surely Joan have brain

enough and fastidiousness enough not to lose her head with this—this

phosphorescent fish of a novelist.



“right-o,” say Oswald, and hover doubtfully.



Aunt Phœbe appear on the landing above carry off a rather reluctant

Miss Scroby to her room for a real good talk; a crash and an

unmistakable giggle proclaim a minor rag in progress in the common

room across the hall in which Sydney Sheldrick be busy. the study door

close on Oswald....



Joan and Huntley pass by outside his window. he sit down in front of

his fire, poke it into a magnificent blaze, light a cigar and sit

think. the beat of dancing, the melody of the gramophone and a

multitude of less distinct sound soak in through the door to he.



he be, he reflect, rather like a strange animal among all this youth.

they treat he as something remotely old; he be one-and-fifty, and

yet this gregarious stir and excitement that brighten their eye and

quicken their blood stir he too. he couldn’t help a feeling of

envy; he have miss so much in his life. and in his young day the

pace have be slow. these young people be actually noisy, they

be more reckless, they do more and go far than his generation

have go. in his time, with his sort of people, there have be the

virtuous life which be, one have to admit it, slow, and the fast life

which be noisily, criminally, consciously and vulgarly vicious. this

generation don’t seem to be vicious, and be anything but slow. how far

do they go? he have be note little thing between Peter and this

Reinhart girl. what be they up to between they? he don’t understand.

be she manœuvre to marry the boy? she must be well on the way to

thirty, twenty-six or twenty-seven perhaps, she haven’t a young girl’s

look in her eye. be she just amuse herself by angle for calf-love?

be she make a fool of Peter? their code of manner be so easy; she

would touch his hand, and once Peter have stroke her bare forearm as it

lie upon the table. she have look up and smile. leave her arm on the

table. one could not conceive of dolly permit such thing. be this

an age of dare innocence, or what be come to the young people?



Joan seem more dignified than the other, but she, too, have she

quality of prematurity. at her age dolly have dress in white with a

pink sash. at least, dolly must have be _about_ Joan’s age when first

he have see she. eighteen—seventeen? of course a year or so make no end

of difference just at this age....



from such meditation Oswald be rouse by the tumult of a car outside.

he take a wary glimpse from his window at this conveyance, and

discover that it be colour an unusual bright chocolate colour, and

have its chauffeur—a depressed-looking individual—in a livery to match.

he go out into the hall to discover the large presence, the square

face, the “whisker,” and the china-blue eye of Lady Charlotte Sydenham.

he know she be in England, but he have have no idea she be near enough

to descend upon they. she stand in the doorway survey the Christmas

disorder of the hall. some one have adorn Oswald’s stuff head with

paper cap, the white rhinoceros be particularly motherly with pink

bonnet-string under its throat, a box of cigarette have be upset on

the table amidst various hat, and half its content be on the floor,

which be also litter with scrap of tear paper from the cracker;

from the open door of the library come the raucous orchestration of the

gramophone, and the patter and swish of dancer.



“I think you’d be away,” say Aunt Charlotte, a little check by the

sight of Oswald. “I’m stay at Minchings on my way to sit on the

platform at Cambridge. we’re raise money to get those brave ulsterman

gun. something have to be do if these liberal be not to do as they

like with we. they and their friend the priest. but I _know_ there’d

be a party here. and those aunt. so I come.... who be all these young

people you have about?”



“miscellaneous friend,” say Oswald.



“you’ve get a touch of grey in your hair,” she note.



“I must get a big blond wig,” he say.



“you might do bad.”



“you’re look as fresh as paint,” he remark, scrutinize she

steadfastly bright complexion. “be that the faithful Unwin sitting and

sniff in the car? it’s a rennet face.”



“she can sit,” say Lady Charlotte. “I shalln’t stay ten minute, and

she’s get a hot-water bottle and three rug. but be so near I have to

come and see what be be do with those ward of mine.”



“former ward,” Oswald interject.



“the Gal I pass. where be Master Stubland? I’ll just look at he. be

he one of these people make a noise in here?”



she go to the door of the library and survey the scene with an

aggressive lorgnette. the furniture have be thrust aside with haste and

indignity, the rug roll up from the parquet floor, and Babs Sheldrick

be preside over the gramophone and help and interrupt Sydney in

the instruction of Wilmington, of Peter and Hetty and of Adela and

Sopwith Greene in some special development of the tango. all the young

people still wear their paper cap and be heat and dishevel. in

the window-seat the convalescent suffragette be show wrist trick to

one of the young man from Cambridge. “Party!” say Lady Charlotte.

“Higgledy-piggledy I call it. which be Peter?”



Peter be indicate.



“well, he’s grow! who’s that fast-look girl he’s hug?”



Peter detach himself from Hetty and come forward.



his ancient terror of the whisker-woman still hang about he, but he

make a brave show of courage. “glad you’ve not forget we, Lady

Charlotte,” he say.



“not much stubland about _he_,” she remark to Oswald. “there’s a

photograph of you before you blow your face off—”



“it’s his mother he’s like,” say Oswald, lay a hand on Peter’s

shoulder.



“I never see a family harp on themselves more than the Sydenhams,” the

lady declare. “it’s like the Habsburg chin.... this one of the new

improper dance, Peter?”



“_honi soit_,” say Peter.



“People have be whip at the cart’s tail for less. in my mother’s

time no decent woman waltz. even—in crinoline. now a waltz ben’t

close enough for they.”



the gramophone come to an end and choke. “thank goodness!” say Lady

Charlotte.



“willn’t you dance yourself, Lady Charlotte?” say Peter, stand up to

she politely.



the hard blue eye regard he with a slightly impair disfavour, but

the old lady make no reply.



they hear the startled voice of the youth from Cambridge. “it’s

_she_!”...



but the sting of the call be at its end.



“so that’s Peter,” say Lady Charlotte, as the chauffeur and Oswald

assist she back into her liver-colour car. “I tell you I see the

Gal?”



“Joan?”



“I pass she on the road half a mile from here. come upon she and her

’gentleman friend’—I suppose she’d call he—as we turn a corner. a

snap-shot so to speak. it’s the walk-out instinct. blood will tell. I

see she, but she don’t see I. lose, she be, to thing mundane. but it

be plain enough how thing be. a tiff. some lover’ quarrel. wake

_up_, Unwin.”



“what do you mean?”



“what I say,” say Lady Charlotte.



“that fellow Huntley!”



“_ha!_ so now you’ll lock the stable door! what else be to be

expect?”



“but this be nonsense!”



“I may be mistake. I hope I be mistaken. I just give you my impression.

I’m not a fool, Oswald, though it’s always be your pleasure to treat

I as one. time show.”



there be a pause while rug with loud monogram be adjust about

she.



“well, I’m glad I come over. I want to see the Great Experiment. I

say at the time it cann’t end well. bad in the beginning. no woman to

help he—except for those two Weird Sisters. no religion. you see? the

boy’s a young impudence. the girl’s in some mess already. what do I

tell you?”



Oswald be late with his recovery.



“look here, auntie! you keep your libellous mind off my ward.”



“Home, Parbury!” say Lady Charlotte to the chocolate-uniformed

chauffeur.



she fire a parting shot.



“I warn you long ago, you’d get the Gal into a thoroughly false

position....”



she be get away after her raid with complete impunity. never before

have she score like this. be Oswald grow old? she make her farewell

of he with a stately gesture of head and hand. she depart

disconcertingly serene. a flood of belate repartee rush into Oswald’s

mind. but except for a violent smell of petrol and a cloud of smoke and

a kind of big scar of chocolate on the retina nothing remain now of

Lady Charlotte.



in the hall he pause before a mirror and examine that touch of grey.





                                  § 20



but it have not be a lover’ quarrel that have blind Joan to the

pass automobile. it have be the astounding discovery of her real

relationship to Peter. so astounding have that be that at the moment

she be not only regardless of the pass traffic but oblivious of

Huntley and every other circumstance of her world.



Huntley be not one of those people who love; he be a pursuing egotist

with an unwarrantable scorn for the intelligence of his

fellow-creature. he like to argue and show people that they be wrong

in a calm, scornful manner; _the Pernambuco Bunshop_ be a very

sarcastic work. he be violently attract by the feminine of all age;

it fix his attention with the vast possibility of admiration and

triumph it offer he. and he have greedy desire. Joan attract he at

first because she be admire. he see how Wilmington covet she. she

have a prestige in her circle. she have, too, a magnetism of her own.

before he realize the slope down which he slide, he want she so badly

that he think he be passionately in love. it keep he awake of

night, and distract he from his work. he do not want to marry she.

that be against his principle. that be the despicable way of ordinary

human being. he live on a high plane. but he want she as a monkey

want a gold watch—he want this new, fresh, lovely and beautiful thing

just to handle and feel as his own.



there be little charm about Huntley and less companionship. he be too

arrogant for companionship. but he abound in idea, he know much, and

so he interest she. he talk. he pursue she with the steadfast

scrutiny of his large grey eye—and with argument. he try to argue

and manœuvre Joan into a passionate love for he.



well, Joan have a broad brow; she think thing over; she be amenable

to idea.



he harp on “freedom.” he carry freedom far beyond the temper

liberty of ordinary human association. any ordinary belief be by his

standard a limitation of freedom. there be a story that he have once

be catch burgle a house in St. John’s Wood and have be let off by

the magistrate only because the crime seem absolutely motiveless. no

doubt he have be try to convince himself of his freedom from

prejudice about the right of property. he have an obscure idea that he

could induce Joan to plunge into wild depravity merely to prove

himself free from her own decent instinct. but he be cease to care

for his argument if only he could induce she.



there be a moment when he say, “Joan, you be the one woman”—he always

call she a woman—“who could make I marry she.”



“I’ll spare you,” say Joan succinctly.



“promise I that.”



“promise.”



“anyhow.”



“anyhow.”



on this Christmas afternoon he discourse again upon freedom. “you,

Joan, might be the free of the free, if only you choose. you be

absolutely your own mistress. absolutely.”



“I have a guardian,” she say.



“you’re of age.”



“no; I’m nineteen.”



“you—it happen, be of age at eighteen, Joan.” he watch her face. he

have be burn to get to this point for week. “even about your birth

there be freedom.”



“so _you_ know that.”



“icy voice! to I it seem the grand thing. when I reflect that I,

alas! be bear in loveless holy wedlock I grit my tooth.”



“oh! I don’t care. but how do you know?”



“it’s fairly well know, Joan. it’s no very elaborate secret. I’ve get a

little volume of your father’s poetry.”



she hesitate. “I don’t know my father write poetry,” she say.



“it be all will Sydenham ever do that be worth do—except launch

you into the world. he be a dramatic critic and something of a

journalist, I believe. Stoner of the _post_ know he quite well. but all

this be ancient history to you.”



“it ben’t. nobody have tell I.... I don’t know.”



“but what do you think?”



“never mind what I think. every one don’t talk with your freedom.

I’ve never be tell. who be my mother?”



“Stoner say she die in hospital. soon after you be bear. he never

know her name.”



“ben’t it stubland?”



“Lord, No! why should it be?”



“but then——”



“that’s one of the thing that make you so splendidly new, Joan. you

start clean in the world—like a new Eve. without even an Adam to your

name. fatherless, motherless, sisterless, brotherless. you fall into the

world like a meteor!”



she stand astonish at the way in which she have blunder. brotherless!

if Huntley have not draw she back by the arm Lady Charlotte’s car would

have touch she....





                                  § 21



that night some one tap at the bedroom door of Aunt Phyllis. “come

in,” she cry, slip into her dressing-gown, and Joan enter. she

be still wear the dress of spangled black in which she have dance

with Huntley and Wilmington and Peter. she go to her aunt’s fire in

silence and stand over it, think.



“you’re have a merry Christmas, little Joan?” say Aunt Phyllis,

come and stand beside she.



“ever so merry, Auntie. we go it—don’t we?”



Aunt Phyllis look quickly at the flushed young face beside she, open

her mouth to speak and say nothing. there be a silence, it seem a

long silence, between they. then Joan ask in a voice that she try to

make offhand, “Auntie. who be my father?”



Aunt Phyllis be deliberately matter-of-fact. “he be the brother of

dolly—Peter’s mother.”



“where be he?”



“he be kill by an omnibus near the Elephant and Castle when you be

two year old.”



“and my mother?”



“die three week after you be bear.”



Joan be wise in sociological literature. “the usual fever, I suppose,”

she say.



“yes,” say Aunt Phyllis.



“do you know much about she?”



“very little. her name be Debenham. Fanny Debenham.”



“be she pretty?”



“I never see she. it be dolly—Peter’s mother—who go to she....”



“so that’s what I be,” say Joan, after a long pause.



“only we love you. what do it matter? Dear Joan of my heart,” and Aunt

Phyllis slip her arm about the girl’s shoulder.



but Joan stand stiff and intent, not answer her caress.



“I know—in a way,” she say.



the thought that consume she insist upon utterance. “so I’m not

Peter’s half-sister,” she say.



“but have you think——?”



Joan remain purely intellectual. “I’ve think dozen of thing. and I

think at last it be that.... why be I call Stubland? I’m not a

Stubland.”



“it be more convenient. it grow up.”



“it put I out. it have send I astray....”



she remain for a time take in this new aspect of thing so intently

as to be regardless of the watcher beside she. then she rouse herself

to mask her extravagant preoccupation. “you’re no relation then of

mine?” she say.



“no.”



“you’ve be so kind to I. a mother....”



Aunt Phyllis be weep facile tear. “have I be kind, dear? have I

seem kind? I’ve always want to be kind. and I’ve love you, Joan, my

dear. and love you.”



“and Nobby?”



“Nobby too.”



“you’ve be brick to I, both of you. no end. Aunt Phœbe too. and

Peter——? do Peter know? do he know what I be?”



“I don’t know. I don’t know what he know, Joan.”



“if it haven’t be for the same surname. Joan Debenham.... I’ve have

fancy. I’ve think Nobby, perhaps, be my father.... Queer!... why

do you people bother yourself about I?”



“my dear, it be the most natural thing in the world.”



“I suppose it be—for you. you’ve be so decent——”



“every woman want a daughter,” say Aunt Phyllis in a whisper, and then

almost inaudibly; “you be mine.”



“and the temper I’ve show. the trouble I’ve be. all these year. I

wonder what Peter know? he must suspect. he must have idea.... joan

Debenham—from outside.”



she stand quite still with the red firelight leap up to light she

face, and caress the graceful line of her slender form. she stand

for a time as still as stone. have she, after all, a stony heart? Aunt

Phyllis stand watch she with a pale, tear-wet, apprehensive face.

then abruptly the girl turn and hold out her arm.



“can I ever thank you?” she cry, with eye that now glitter with big

tear....



presently Aunt Phyllis be sit in her chair stroke Joan’s dark

hair, and Joan be kneeling, stare intently at some strange vision in

the fire. “do you mind my staying for a time?” she ask. “I want to get

use to it. it’s just as though there ben’t anything—but just here.

I’ve lose my aunt—and find a mother.”



“my Joan,” whisper Aunt Phyllis. “my own dear Joan.”



“always I have think Peter be my brother—always. my half brother.

until today.”





                                  § 22



it be Adela who inflict Joan’s second shock upon she, and drive away

the last swirling whisper of adolescent imagination and moon mist from

the hard form of reality. this visit she have seem greatly improve to

Joan; she be graver. visibly she think, and no long be her rolling

eye an invitation to masculine enterprise. she come to Joan’s room on

Boxing Day morning to make up dress with she for the night’s dance,

and she let her mind run as she stitch. every one be to come in fancy

dress; the vicarage girl would come and the braughe people. every one

be to represent a political idea. Adela be go to be Tariff Reform.

all her clothe be to be tattere and unfinishe, she say, even her

shoe be to have hole. she would wear a broken earring in one ear. “I

don’t quite see your point,” say Joan.



“Tariff Reform mean work for all, dear,” Adela explain gently.



day before Joan have plan to represent indian Nationalism. it be a

subject much in dispute between she and Peter, whose attitude to India

and Indians seem to her unreasonably reactionary—in view of all his

other opinion. she could never let her controversy with Peter rest;

the costume have be aim at he. she be go to make up her

complexion with a little brown, wear a sari, sandal on bare foot, and a

band of tinsel across her forehead. she have find some red Indian

curtain stuff that seem to be adaptable for the sari. she work now

in a preoccupied manner, with her mind full of strange thought.

sometimes she listen to what Adela be say, and sometimes she be

altogether within herself. but every now and then Adela would pull she

back to attention by a question.



“don’t you think so, Joan?”



“think what?” ask Joan.



“love’s much more _our_ business than it be theirs.”



that strike Joan. “be it?” she ask. she have think the share in the

business be equal and opposite.



“all this wait for a man to discover himself in love with you; it’s

rot. you may wait till Doomsday.”



“still, they do seem to fall in love.”



“with any one. a man’s in love with woman in general, but woman fall in

love with man in particular. we’re the chooser. naturally. we want a

man, that man and no other, and all our own. they don’t feel like that.

and we have to hang about pretend they choose and try to make they

choose without seem to try to make they. well, we’re alter all

that. when I want a man——”



Adela’s pause suggest a particular reference.



“I’ll get he somehow,” she say intently.



“if you mean to get he—if you don’t mind much the little thing that

happen meanwhile—you’ll get he,” say Adela, as though she repeat a

creed. “but, of course, you cann’t make term. when a man know that a

woman be his, when he’s sure of it—absolutely, then she’s get he for

good. soon or later he must come to she. I haven’t have my eye open

just for show, Joan, this last year or so.”



“good luck, Adela,” say Joan.



Adela attempt no pretence. “it stand to reason if you love a man——”

her eye fill with tear. “love his very self. you can make he happy

and safe. be his line of least resistance. but the meanwhile be hard——”



Adela stitch furiously.



“that’s why you come down here?” Joan ask.



“you haven’t see?” Adela’s preoccupation with Sopwith Greene have be

the most conspicuous fact in the party. “once or twice a gleam,” say

Joan.



“ask he to play tonight, dear,” say Adela. “some of his own thing.”



but now the last check upon Adela’s talk be remove. she want to

talk endlessly and unrestrainedly about love. she want to hear herself

say all the generosity and devotion she contemplate. “there’s no

bargain in love,” say Adela. “you just watch and give.” run through

all her talk be a thread of speculation; she be obsess by the idea

of the relative blindness and casualness of love in man. “we use to

dream of lover who just concentrate upon we,” she say. “but there’s

something nimmy-pimmy in a man concentrate on a woman. he ought to

have a Job, something big, his art, his aim—something. one wouldn’t

really respect a man who don’t do something big. love’s a nuisance to a

real man, a disturbance, until some woman take care of he.”



“couldn’t two people—take care of each other?” ask Joan.



“oh, that’s Ideal, Joan,” say Adela as one who put a notion aside. “a

man take his love where he find it. on his way to other thing. the

easy it be to get the well he like it. that’s why, so often, they

take up with any—sort of creature. and why one needn’t be so

tremendously jealous....”



Adela reflect. “_i_ don’t care a bit about he and Hetty.”



“Hetty Reinhart?”



“everybody talk about they. don’t you hear? but of course you be

still at school. of course there’s that studio of her. you know about

she? yes. she have a studio. most convenient. she do as she please. it

amuse he, I suppose. man don’t care as we do. they’re just amused. man

can fall in love for an afternoon—and out of it again. he make love to

she and he’s not even jealous of she. not a bit. he don’t seem to mind

a rap about Peter.”



she babble on, but Joan’s mind stop short.



“Adela,” she say, “what be this about Hetty and Peter?”



“the usual thing, I suppose, dear. you don’t seem to hear of _anything_

at Cambridge.”



“but you don’t mean——?”



“well, I know _something_ of Hetty. and I’ve get eye.”



“you mean to say she’s—she’s _get_ Peter?”



“it show plainly enough.”



“_my_ Peter!” cry Joan sharply.



“you’re not an egyptian princess,” say Adela.



“you mean—he’s go—Peter’s go—to her studio? that—thing like that

have happen?”



Adela stare at her friend. “these thing _have_ to happen, Joan.”



“but he’s only a boy yet.”



“she don’t think he’s a boy. why! he’s almost of age! lot of boy about

Peter!”



“but do you mean——?”



“I don’t mean anything, Joan, if you’re go to look like that. you’ve

get no right to interfere in Peter’s love affair. why should you? don’t

we all live for experience?”



“but,” say Joan, “Peter be different.”



“no. no one be different,” say Adela.



“but I tell you he’s _my_ Peter.”



“he’s your brother, of course.”



“_no!_”



“your half brother then. everybody know that, Joan—thank to the

sheldrick. a sister cann’t always keep her brother away from other

girl.”



Joan be on the verge of tell Adela that she be not even Peter’s

half sister, but she restrain herself. she stick to the thing that

most concerned she now.



“it’s spoil he,” she say. “it will make a mess of he. why! he may

think that be love, that!—slinking off to a studio. the nastiness! and

she’s have a dozen lover. she’s a common thing. she just strip herself

here and show her arm and shoulder because she’s—just that.”



“she’s really in love with he anyhow,” say Adela. “she’s go on he.

it’s amusing.”



“love! _That_—love! it make I sick to think of it,” say Joan.



“a man ben’t make like that,” say Adela. “Peter have to go his own way.”



“Peter,” say Joan, “who use to be the clean thing alive.”



“good sister always feel like that,” say Adela. “I know how shocked I

be when first I hear of Teddy.... it ben’t the same thing to man,

Joan. it ben’t indeed....”



“_dirty_ Peter,” say Joan with intense conviction. “of course I’ve

know. of course I’ve know. any one could see. only I wouldn’t know.”



she thrust the striped red stuff for her indian dress from she.



“I shalln’t be indian Nationalism, Adela, after all. somehow I don’t care

to be. why should I cover myself up in this way?”



“you’d look jolly.”



“no. I want something with black in it. and red. and my arm and

shoulder show. why shouldn’t we all dress down to Hetty? she have the

approval of the authority. Aunt Phœbe applaud every stitch she take

off. freedom—with a cap of Liberty.”



“Hetty say something about be freedom,” hesitate Adela.



“then I shall come as Anarchy,” say Joan, stare at the red stuff upon

the table before she.



come a pause.



“I don’t see why Peter should have all the fun in life,” say Joan.





                                  § 23



Joan as Anarchy make a success that evening at Pelham Ford. in the

private plan of Hetty Reinhart that success have not be mean for

Joan. Hetty as Freedom give the party her lithe arm, her slender neck,

and so much of she back that the two vicarage girl, who have come very

correctly in powder and patch as Whig and Tory, be sure that it be

partly accidental. on Hetty’s dark hair perch a phrygian cap, and she

have a tricolour skirt beneath a white bodice that be chiefly

decolletage and lace. about her neck be a little band of black which

have nothing to do with Freedom; it be there for the sake of her slender

neck. she be much more like _La Vie Parisienne_. she be already

dance with Peter when Joan, who have delay come down until the

music begin, appear in the doorway. Nobby, wrap in a long toga-like

garment of sun-gold and black that he allege qualify he to represent

Darkest Africa, be stand by the door, and see the effect of Joan

upon one of the braughe boy before he discover she beside he.



her profile be the profile of a savage. she lift her clear-cut chin

as young savage woman do, and her steady eye regard Hetty and Peter.

her black hair be quite unbound and throw back from her quiet face,

and there be no necklace, no bracelet, not a scrap of adornment nor

enhancement upon her arm or throat. it have not hitherto occur to

Oswald that his ward have the most beautiful neck and shoulder in the

world, or that Joan be as like what dolly once have be as a wild beast

be like a cherish tame one. but he do presently find these strange

idea in his mind.



her dress be an exiguous scheme of slash and tatter in black and

bright red. she be bare ankled—these modern young people think

nothing of that—but she have white dancing shoe upon her foot.



“Joan!” say Huntley, advance with an air of proprietorship.



“no,” say Joan with a gesture of rejection. “I don’t want to dance with

any one in particular. I’m go to dance alone.”



“well—dance!” say Huntley with a large courtly movement of a white

velvet cloak all powder with gold crosse and fleur-de-lys, that he

pretend be a symbol of Reaction.



“when I choose,” say Joan. “and as I choose.”



across the room Peter be stare at she, and she be look at Peter.

he trip against Hetty, and for a little interval the couple be out

of step. “come on, Peter,” say Hetty, rally he.



Joan appear to forget Peter and every one.



there be dance in her blood, and this evening she mean to dance. her

body feel wonderfully light and as supple as a whip under her meagre

costume. there be something to be say for this semi-nudity after all.

the other be dance a two-step with such variation as they think

fit, and there be no objection whatever at Pelham Ford to solo

enterprise. Joan could invent dance. she sail out into the room to

dance as she please.



Oswald watch her nimble step and the whirling rhythm of her slender

body. she make all the other seem overdress and clumsy and heavy. she

face have a grave preoccupy expression.



Huntley stand for a moment or so beside Oswald, and then step out

after she to convert her dance into a duet. he too be a skilful and

inventive dancer, and the two coquet for a time amidst the other

couple.



then Joan discover Wilmington watch she and Huntley from the window

bay. she dance evasively through Huntley’s circle entanglement, and

seize Wilmington’s hand and draw he into the room.



“I cann’t dance, Joan,” he say, obey she. “you _know_ I cann’t dance.”



“you have to dance,” she say, aglow and breathe swiftly. “trust I.”



she take and leave his hand and take they again and turn he about so

skilfully that a wonderful illusion be produce in Wilmington’s mind

and in those about he that indeed he could dance. Huntley make a

crouch figure of jealousy about they; he spread himself and his cloak

into fantastic rhomb—and then the music cease....



“the Argentine Tango!” cry Huntley. “Joan, you _must_ tango.”



“never.”



“Dance Columbine to my Harlequin then.”



“and stand on your knee? I should break it.”



“try I,” say Huntley.



“Kneel,” say Joan. “now take my hand. prepare for the shock.” and she

leapt lightly to his knee and pose for a second, poise with one toe on

Huntley’s thigh, and be down again.



“do it again, Joan,” he cry with enthusiasm. “do it again.”



“let we invent dance,” cry Aunt Phyllis. “let we invent dance.

couldn’t we dance charade?”



“let they dance as nature mean they to,” say Aunt Phœbe’s deep

tone. “_madly!_”



“shall we try that Tango we do the other night?” say Hetty, come

behind Peter.



Peter have come forward to the group in the centre of the room. old

habit be strong in he, and he have a vague feeling that this be one

of the occasion when Joan ought to be suppress. “we’re get

chaotic,” he say.



“you see, Peter, I’m Anarchy,” say Joan.



“an order Freedom be the good,” say Peter without reflect on his

word.



“Nobby, I want to dance with you,” say Joan.



“I’ve never dance anything but a country Dance—you know the sort of

thing in which people stand in row—in my life,” say Oswald.



“a country dance,” cry Joan. “Sir Roger de Coverley.”



“we want to try a fox-trot we know,” complain one of the Braughing

guest.



two party become more and more distinctly evident in the party. there

be a party which centre around Hetty and the Sheldrick girl, which

be all for the rather elaborately plan freak dance they have more or

less learn in London, the Bunny-Hugs, the Fox-Trot, and various

Tangoes. Most of the Londoners be of this opinion, Sopwith Greene

trail Adela with he, and Huntley be full of a passionate desire to

guide Joan’s foot along the Tango path. but Joan’s mind by a kind of

necessity move contrariwise to Hetty’s. either, she argue, they must

dance in the old staid way—Oswald and the vicarage girl applaud—or

dance as the spirit move they.



“oh, dance your old Fox-Trots,” she cry, with a gesture that seem to

motion Huntley and Hetty together. “have your music all rattle and

rag-time like sick people groan in train. that’s neither here nor

there. I want to dance to well stuff than that. come along, Willy.”



she seize on Wilmington’s arm.



“but where be you go?” cry Huntley.



“I’m go to dance Chopin in the hall—to the pianola.”



“you’re go to play,” she tell Wilmington.



“but you cann’t,” say Peter.



Joan disappear with her slave. a light seem to go out from the big

library as she go. “now we can get on,” say Hetty, lay hand on

her Peter.



for a time the Fox-Trot rule. the vicarage girl don’t do these

thing, and drift after Joan. so do Oswald. towards the end the

dancer have a sense of a cross-current of sound in the air, of some

adverse influence throw across their gymnastic. when their own music

stop, they become aware of that cry voice above the thunder, the

Revolutionary Etude.



there be a brief listening pause. “now, how the deuce,” say Huntley,

“can she be dance _that_?”



he lead the way to the hall....



“I’m tired of dancing,” whisper Hetty. “stay back. they’re all go.

I want you to kiss the little corner of my mouf.”



Peter look round quickly, and seize his privilege with unseemly

haste. “let’s see how Joan be dance that old row,” he say....



animation, boldness, and strict relegation of costume to its function of

ornament have hitherto make Hetty the high light of this little

gathering. she be now to realize how insecure be this feminine

predominance in the face of fresher youth and great boldness. and Joan

be full of a pretty girl’s discovery that she may do all that she dare

to do. for a time—and until it be time to pay.



Life have intoxicate Joan that night. a derision of seemliness possess

she. she be full of impulse and power. she feel able to dominate every

one. at one time or other she sweep nearly every man there except Oswald

and Peter and Pryce into her dancing. two of the Braughing youth fall

visibly in love with she, and Huntley lose his head, badger she too

much to dance, and then be offend and sulk in a manner manifest to

the mean capacity. and she kiss Wilmington.



that be her wild impulse. she come into the study where he be

play the pianola for her dancing. she want he to change the roll

for the first part of the Kreutzer Sonata, and find herself alone with

he. she love he because he be so completely and modestly her. she

bent over he to take off the roll from the instrument, and find she

face near his forehead. “dear old Willy,” she whisper, and put she

hand on his shoulder and brush his eyebrow with her lip.



then she be remorseful.



“it don’t mean anything, Willy,” she say.



“I know it don’t,” he say in a voice of the deep melancholy.



“only you be a dear all the same,” she say. “you be clean. you’re

_right_.”



“if it ben’t for my damned Virtues——” say Wilmington. “but anyhow.

thank you, Joan—very much. shall I play you this right through?”



“a little slowly,” she say. “it’s mark too fast,” and go towards

the open door.



then she flit back to he.... her intent face come close to his. “I

don’t love any one, Willy,” she say. “I’m not the sort. I just dance.”



they look at each other.



“I love _you_,” say Wilmington, and watch she go.



but she have make he ridiculously happy....



she dance through the whole Kreutzer Sonata. the Kreutzer Sonata have

always be a little dirty since Tolstoy touch it. Tolstoy pronounce

it erotic. there be man who can find a lascivious import in a

corinthian capital. the Kreutzer Sonata therefore have a strong appeal to

Huntley’s mind. these association make it seem to he different from

other music, just as call this or that substance a “drug” always

dignify it in his eye with the rich suggestion of vice. he read

strange significance into Joan’s choice of that little music as he

watch she over the head of the braughe girl. but Joan just dance.



at supper she find herself drift to a seat near Peter. she leave he

to his Hetty, and go up the table to a place under Oswald’s black

wing. the supper at Pelham Ford be none of your stand-up affair. Mrs.

Moxton’s idea of a dance supper be worthy of Britannia. Oswald carve

a big turkey and Peter have cold game pie, and Aunt Phyllis show a

delicate generosity with a sharp carver and a big ham. there be hot

potato and various salad, and jug of lemonade and claret cup for

every one, and whisky for the mature. Joan become a sober enquirer about

african dancing.



“it’s the West Coast that dance,” say Oswald. “there’s rich music on

the West Coast than all round the Mediterranean.”



“all this american music come from the negro,” he declare. “there’s

hardly a bit of american music that haven’t colour in its blood.”



after supper Joan be the queen of the party. Adela be in love with she

again, as slavish as in their schoolday, and the Sheldricks and the

braughe boy and girl do her bidding. “let’s do something

processional,” say Joan. “let we dress up and do the Funeral March of a

Marionette.”



Hetty don’t catch on to that idea, and Peter be somehow overlook.

Most of the other scamper off to get something black and cast aside

anything too colour. Aunt Phyllis know of some black gauze and

produce it. there be black curtain in the common room, and these

be seize upon by Huntley and Wilmington. they make a coffin of the

big black lacquer post-box in the hall, and a bier of four alpenstock

and a dry-board from the scullery.



Joan be chief mourner, and after the Funeral March be over dance the

sorrow of life before the bi to the first part of the Fifth Symphony.



Hetty and Peter sit close together and yet unusually apart upon the

broad window-seat. Hetty look tired and Peter seem inattentive.

perhaps they have a little overdone each other’s charm that Christmas.



and only once more that evening do it happen that Peter and Joan meet

face to face. nearly everybody pour out into the garden to see the

guest go off. the braughing people crowd hilariously into a car; the

other walk. the weather have suddenly harden, a clear dry cold make

the path and road very like metal, and not the little star be

miss from the quivering assembly in the sky.



“we’ll have skating yet,” cry the Braughing party.



Adela and Joan and Wilmington and Pryce come with Huntley and Greene and

the vicarage girl along the road and over the ice-bind water-splash as

far as the vicarage gate. “too cooold to say good-bye,” cry Joan. “oh,

my _poor_ bare leg!” and lead a race back.



Adela be leave far behind, but neither Wilmington nor Pryce would let

Joan win without a struggle. the three shot in through the wide front

door almost abreast, and Joan run straight at Peter and stop short

within two foot of he.



“I’ve win!” say Joan.



just for an instant the two look at one another, and it seem to Joan

afterwards that she have see something then in Peter’s eye, something

involuntary that she have catch just once before in they—when she have

come upon he by chance in Petty Cury when first she have go up to

Cambridge.



a silly thing to think about! what do it matter? what do anything

matter? life be a dance, and Joan, thank heaven! could dance. Peter be

just nothing at all. nothing at all. nothing at all.



“I wonder, Joan, how many mile you have prance tonight!” say Aunt

Phyllis, kiss her good night.



“Joan,” say Adela, “you _be_ the Loveliest.”...



for a minute or so Joan stand in front of her look-glass, study a

flushed, candle-light figure....



“Pah!” she say at last. “_Hetty!_” and fling her scanty clothe aside.



she catch the reflection of herself in the mirror again. she spread out

her hand in a gesture to the pretty shape she see there, and stand.



“what’s the Good of it?” she say at last.



as soon as Joan’s head touch the pillow that night she fall asleep,

and she sleep as soundly as a child that have be thoroughly naughty and

all at six and seven, and that have be well slap and have a good

cry to wind up with, and put to bed. in all the world there be no

sounder sleep than that.









                          CHAPTER the TWELFTH

                      the world on the EVE of WAR





                                  § 1



Oswald sit in the March sunshine that fill and warm his little

summerhouse, and think about Joan and Peter....



his sudden realization of Joan’s mental maturity, the clear warning it

bring to he that the task and opportunity of education be pass

out of his hand, that already the reckoning of consequence be

begin for both his ward, set his mind search up and down amidst

the memory of his effort, to find where he could have slip, where

blunder and fail. he perceive now how vague have be the gesture

with which he have start, when he proclaim his intention to give they

“the good education in the world.”



the good education in the world be still to seek, and while he have be

get such scrap of second good for they as he could, the world

itself, nature, tradition, custom, suggestion, example and accident, have

mould they and make they. when he measure what have be do upon

these youngster by these outward thing and compare it with their

deliberate education, the schoolmaster seem to he to be still no more

than a half-hearted dwarf who would snare the white horse of a cataract

with a noose of packthread.



“the generation run to waste—like rapid.”



but there be strong harnessing than packthread, and there be

already engineer in the world who, by take thought and patient work,

can tame the mad torrent that ever overawe the mind of man. in the

end perhaps all torrent will be tame, and knowledge and purpose put an

end to aimless adventure. the schoolmaster will not always be a

dwarf....



as our child grow beyond our control we begin to learn something of

the reality of education. the world have Joan and Peter now; at the most

Oswald could run and shout advice from the bank as they go down the

rush. but he know that he could have do more for they, and that with a

different world he could have do infinitely more for they in their

receptive year. they be the child of an age; their restless fever

of impulse be but their individual share in a great fever. the whole

world now be restless, out of touch with any standard, and manifestly

drift towards great change.



neither Joan nor Peter seem to have any definite purpose in life.

their impulse be not focus. they be draw hither and thither.

that be the essential failure of their adolescence. their education have

do many good thing for they, but it have leave their will as

spontaneous, indefinite and unsocial as the will of a criminal.

physically Oswald and the world have do well by they; they be

clean-blooded, well grow, well exercise animal; they belong to a

generation of youth measurably tall, finer, and more beautiful than

any generation before they. they be swift-footed and nimble. mentally,

too, they be swift and clear. it be not that their idea be

confused but their will. each of they could speak and read and write

three language quite well, they could draw well and Peter could draw

brilliantly, they be alive to art and music, they read widely, they

have the dispassionate, wide, scientific vision of the world. but be

so fine and clean it be all the more distressing to realize that these

two young people now face the world with no clear will in they about it

or themselves, that Joan seem consume with discontent and this dark

personal quarrel with Peter, and that Peter could be catch and hold by

a mere sensual adventure. Hetty Reinhart keep he busy with note and

situation; having create a necessity she go on to create a jealous

rivalry. he would be sometimes excited and elated, sometimes manifestly

angry and sulky; and his work at Cambridge, which for two year have be

conspicuously brilliant, be fall away.



until Joan’s angry outspokenness have force these fact upon his

attention, Oswald have shirk their realization. he have see with his

one watchful eye, but he have not will to see. a score of fact have

lain, like disagreeable letter that one hesitate to answer,

uncorrelated in his mind. the disorder of the Christmas party have

indeed leave he profoundly uneasy. with the new year he go with Peter

on a trip to Russia. he want the youngster to develop a vision of the

european problem, for Peter seem blind to the importance of

international thing. they have cross to flush, travel straight

through to Berlin, go about Berlin for a few day, run on to St.

Petersburg—it be not yet Petrograd—visit a friendly house near the

Valdai Hills, spend a busy week in and about Moscow, and return by way

of Warsaw. they see Germany already train like an athlete for the

adventure of the come war, and Russia great and disorderly, destine

to be take unawares. then they return to England to look again at

their own country with eye refresh by these contrast. and all the

time Oswald watch Peter and speculate about the thought and idea

hide in Peter’s head.





                                  § 2



this russian trip have be precipitate by a sudden opportunity.

originally Oswald have plan a russian tour for his ward on a more

considerable scale. among the unsolved difficulty of this scheme have

be his ignorance of Russian. he have think of employ a courier—but

a courier can be a tiresome encumbrance. his friend Bailey, who be an

enthusiast for Russia and speak russian remarkably well for an

Englishman, write from Petrograd offering to guide Oswald and Peter

about that city, suggest a visit to a cousin who have marry a

russian landowner in Novgorod, and a week or so in Moscow, where some

friend of Bailey’s would keep a helpful eye on the traveller. it be

too good a chance to lose. there be some hasty buying of fur-line

glove, insertion of wad under the fur of Oswald’s fur coat, and the

purchase of a suitable outfit for Peter.



Bailey have his misogynic side, Oswald know; he think woman troublesome

millinery to handle; and he do not include Joan in the invitation. on

the whole Oswald do not regret that omission, because it give he so

excellent a chance of be alone with Peter for long spell, and

get near his private thought.



it be an expedition that leave a multitude of vivid impression upon the

young man’s memory; the still, cold, starry night of the departure from

Harwich, the light deck, the black water, the foaming wake catch by the

ship’s light, the neat dutch landscape with its black and white cow

grow visible as day break, shiver worker under a chill, red-nosed

dawn pour down by a path near the railway into the factory of some

industrial town; the long flat journey across Germany; the Sieges-Allée

and the war trophy and public building of Berlin; the Sunday morning

crowd upon Unter den Linden; the large prosperity of the new suburb of

Berlin; north Germany under an iron frost, a crowd of child slide

and skating near Königsberg; the dingy, vaster effect of Russia,

street in Petrograd with the shop all black and gold and paint with

shine picture of the good on sale to a population of illiterate,

the night crowd in the People’s palace; a sledge drive of ten mile

along the ice of a frozen river, a wooden country house behind a great

stone portico, and a merry house party that went scamper out after

supper to lie on the crisp snow and see the star between the tree

bough; the chant service in a little green-cupolae church and a

pretty village schoolmistress in peasant costume; the great red wall of

the Kremlin rise above the Moskva and the first glimpse of that

barbaric caricature, the cathedral of St. Basil; the paint

magnificence of the Troitzkaya monastery; a dirty, evil-smell little

tramp with his bundle and kettle, worship unabashe in the Uspenski

cathedral; endless bearded priest, Tartar waiter with purple sash, a

whole population in fur and so look absurdly wealthy to an English

eye; a thousand such picture, keen, bright and vivid against a

background of white snow....



the romanticism of the late Victorians still prevail in Oswald’s mind.

the picturesqueness of Russia have a great effect upon he. from the

passport office at Wirballen with its impose green-uniformed guard

and elaborate ceremony onward into Moscow, he mark the contrast with

the trim modernity of Germany. the wild wintry landscape of the land

with its swamp and unkempt thicket of silver birch, the crouch

timber village with their cupolae church, the unmade road, the

unfamiliar lettering of the station, contribute to his impression of

barbaric greatness. after the plainly ugly, middle-class cathedral of

Berlin he rejoice at the dark splendour, the green serpentine and

incense, of St. Isaac’s; he compare the frozen Neva to a great thame

and stand upon the Troitzki Bridge rejoice over the masse of the

fortress of St. Peter and St. Paul. in Petrograd he say, “away from

here to the North Pole be Russia and the Outside, the famine-stricken

north, the frozen fen and wilderness, the limit of mankind.” Moscow

make he talk of the mingling of east and west, western and eastern

costume jostle in the street. he be surprised at the frequency of

Chinamen. “away from here to Vladivostok,” he say, “be Russia and all

Asia. north, west, east and south there be limitless land. we be an

island people. but here one feel the land masse of the earth.”



Peter be preoccupy with a gallant attempt to master colloquial

Russian in a fortnight by mean of a _russian Self-Taught_ he have buy

in London; he do not thrust his conversation between Bailey and Oswald,

but sometimes when he be alone with his guardian and the mood take he

he would talk freely and rather well. he have be read abundantly and

variously; it be evident that at Cambridge he belong to a talk

set. if he have no directive form in his mind he have at any rate

something like a systematic philosophy.



it be a profoundly sceptical philosophy. there be moment when Oswald

be remind of Beresford’s “Hampdenshire Wonder,” who read through all

human learning and literature before the age of five, and turn upon

its instructor with “be this _all_?” Peter look at the world into

which he have come, at the king and kaiser demand devotion to “our

person,” at the gentleman wave flag and talk of patriotism and

service to empire and race and “nationality,” at the church and

priest pursue their “policy,” and in effect he turn to Oswald

with the same question. in the background of his imagination it be only

too manifest that the nymph—with a general family resemblance to Hetty

Reinhart—dance, and he hear that music of the sense which the

decadent young man of the _fin de siècle_ period be willnot to refer to

as “the pipe of Pan.”



he and Oswald look together at Moscow in the warm light of sunset.

they be in the veranda of a hillside restaurant which command the

huge bend of the river between the Borodinski and the Kruimski bridge.

the city lay, wide and massive, along the line of the sky, with little

field and a small church or so in the foreground. the six glitter

dome of the great Church of the Redeemer rise in the centre against the

high red wall and the cluster palace and church cupola of the

Kremlin. left and right of the Kremlin the city spread, a purple sea of

house and wall, fleck with snowy space and gem with red

reflect window, through which the river twist like a silver eel.

Moscow be a city of crosse, every church have its bulbous paint cupola

and some have five or six, and every cupola carry its brightly gild

two-arm cross. the ray of the set sun be now turn all these

crosse to pale fire.



Oswald, in spite of his own sceptical opinion, be a little under the

spell of the “Holy Russia” legend. he stand with his foot on a chair and

rest his jaw on his hand, with the live side of his face turn as

usual towards his ward, and try to express the confused idea that

be stir in his mind. “this ben’t a city like the city of western

Europe, Peter,” he say. “this be something different. those western

city, they grow out of the soil on which they stand; they be there

for ever like the wood and hill; there be no other place for London or

Rouen or Rome except just where it stand; but this, Peter, be a Tartar

camp, frozen. it might have be at Nijni-Novgorod or Yaroslav or Kazan.

it might be anywhere upon the Russia plain; only it happen to be here.

it’s a camp change to wood and brick and plaster. that’s the

headquarters camp there, the Tsar’s pavilion. and all these crosse

everywhere be like the standard outside the tent of the captain.”



“and where be it go?” say Peter, look at Moscow over his fur

collar, with his hand deep in his overcoat pocket.



“Asia advance on Europe—with a new idea.... one understand Dostoevsky

well when one see this. one begin to realize this Holy Russia, as a

sort of epileptic genius among nation—like his Idiot, insist on

moral truth, hold up the cross to mankind.”



“_what_ truth?” ask Peter.



“they seem to have the christian idea. in a way we Westerns don’t.

Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, and their endless school of dissent have a

character in common. christianity to a russian mean Brotherhood.”



“if it mean anything,” say Peter.



the youngster reflect.



“I wonder, be there really this russian idea? I don’t believe very much

in these national idea.”



“say national character then. this city with its endless crosse be so

in harmony with russian music, russian art, russian literature.”



“any city that have to be build here would have to look more or less like

this,” say Peter.



“if it be build by Americans?”



“if they’d live here always,” say Peter. “but we’re argue in a

circle. if they’d live here always the thing that have make the

Russians Russians, would have make they Russians. I’ve go too far. of

course there be a russian character. they’re wanderer, body and brain.

man of an endless land. but——”



“well?”



“not much of a russian idea to it.... I don’t believe a bit in all these

crosse.”



“you mean as symbol of an idea?”



“yes. of course the cross have mean _something_ to people. it must have

mean tremendous thing to some people. but man imitate. one stick up a

cross because it mean all sort of deep thing to he. then the man

down the road think he will have a cross too. and the man up the road

don’t quite see what it’s all about but don’t like to be out of it.

so they go on, until stick up crosse become a habit. it become a

necessity. they’d be shock to see a new church without four or five

crosse on it. they organize a business in golden crosse. everybody

say, ’you _must_ have a cross.’ long ago every one have forget that

deep meaning....”



“H’m,” say Oswald, “you think that?”



“it’s just a crowd,” say Peter, think aloud. “underneath the crosse

it’s just a swarming and breeding of man.... like any other man.”



“but don’t you think that all that million odd down there be hold

together by a distinctive idea? don’t you feel sometimes the russian

idea about you—like the smell of burn wood on the breeze?”



“well, call it a breeze,” say Peter. “it’s like a breeze blow over

mud. it blow now and then. it’s forget before it be past. what do

it signify?”



he be think as he talk. Oswald do not want to interrupt he, and

just smile slightly and look at Peter for more.



“I don’t think there’s any great essential difference between city,”

say Peter. “it’s easy to exaggerate that. mostly the difference be

difference of scenery. beneath the difference it’s the same story

everywhere; man shove about and eat and squabbling and multiplying.

we might just as well be look at London from Hampstead bridge so far

as the human fact go. here thing be do in red and black and gold

against a background of white snow; there they be do in drab and grey

and green. this be a land of dull tragedy instead of dull comedy, gold

crosse on green onion instead of church spire, extreme instead of

mean, but it’s all the same old human thing. even the King and Tsar

look alike, there’s a state church here, dissenter, landowner....”



“I suppose there be a sort of parallelism,” Oswald concede....



“we’re not big enough yet for big idea, the russian idea, or the

christian idea or any such idea,” say Peter. “why pretend we have

they?”



“now that’s just it,” say Oswald, come round upon he with an

extend finger. “because we want they so badly.”



“do every one?”



“yes. consciously or not. that’s where you and I be at issue, Peter.”



“oh, I don’t _see_ the idea at work!” cry Peter. “except as a sort of

flourish of the mind. but look at the everyday life. wherever we have

be—in London, Paris, Italy, Berlin, here, we see every man who can

afford it make for the restaurant and go where there be woman to

be get. hunger, indulgence, and sex, sex, sex, sex.” his voice be

suddenly bitter. he turn his face to Oswald for a moment. “we’re too

little. these blind impulse——I suppose there’s a sort of impulse to

Beauty in it. some day perhaps these force will do something—drive man

up the scale of be. but as far as _we’ve_ get——!”



he stare at Moscow again.



he seem to have do.



“you think we’re oversexe?” say Oswald after a pause.



the youngster glance at his guardian.



“I’m not blind,” he fence.



then he laugh with a refreshing cheerfulness. “it’s youthful

pessimism, Nobby. my mind run like this because it’s the fashion. we

get so dosed with Schopenhauer and Nietzsche—usually at second hand. we

all _try_ to talk like this. don’t mind I.”



Oswald smile back.



“Peter, you drive my spirit back to the Victorians,” he say. “I want to

begin quote Longfellow to you. ’life be real, life be earnest——’”



“no!” Peter counter. “but it ought to be.”



“well, it become so. we have Science, and out of Science come a light.

we shall see the Will plainer and plainer.”



“the will?” say Peter, turn it over in his mind.



“our own will then,” say Oswald. “your, mine, and every right sort of

man’s.”



Peter seem to consider it.



“it willn’t be a national will, anyhow,” he say, come back to Moscow.

“it willn’t be one of these national idea. no Holy Russia—or Old England

for the matter of that. they’re just—human accumulation. no. I don’t

know of this Will at all—_any_ will, Nobby. I cann’t see or feel this

Will. I wish I could....”



he have say his say. Oswald turn again to the great spectacle of the

city. do all those heavenward crosse now sink into the dusk amount

to no more than a glitter emanation out of the fen of life, an

unmeaning _ignis fatuus_, bear of a morass of fester desire that have

already forget it? or be these crosse indeed an appeal and a

promise? out of these million of man would man at last arise?...



slowly, smoothly, unfalteringly, the brush of the twilight have be

sweep its neutral tint across the spectacle, paint out the

glitter symbol one by one. a chill from outer space fall down

through the thin russian air, a dark transparent curtain. Oswald

shiver in his wad coat. abruptly down below, hard by a ghostly

white church, one lamp and then another prick the deepening blue. a

little dark tram-car that creep towards they out of the city way to

fetch they back into the city, suddenly become a glow-worm....





                                  § 3



twenty year before Oswald would not have talk in this fashion of the

will. twenty year before, the social and political order of the world

have seem so stable to an english mind that the thought of a sustaining

will be superfluous. Queen Victoria and the whole system have an air of

immortal inertia. the scientific and economic teaching under which

Oswald’s idea have be shape recognize no need for wilfully

co-ordinated effort. the end of education, they indicate, be the

Diffusion of Knowledge. victorian thought in England take good motive

for grant, seem indeed disposed to regard almost any motive as

equally good for the common weal. Herbert Spencer, that philosopher who

could not read Kant, most typical of all English intelligence in those

day, teach that if only there be no regulation, no common direction,

if every one be to pursue his own individual end unrestraine, then

by a sort of magic, chaos, free from the interference of any collective

direction, would produce order. his supreme gift to a generation of

hasty profiteer be the discovery that the blind scuffle of fate could

be call “Evolution,” and so give an air of intention altogether

superior to our poor struggle to make a decent order out of a greedy

scramble. for some decade, whatever section of british life have cease

to leave thing to Providence and not bother—not bother—be leave

they to Evolution—and still not bother....



it be because of Oswald’s discovery of the confused and distressed

motive of Joan and Peter and under the suggestion of the more kinetic

german philosophy that be slowly percolate into english thought, that

his idea be now change their direction. formerly he have think of

nation and empire as if they be thing in themselves, loose shape

which have little or nothing to do with the individual life they

contain; now he begin to think that all human organization, large and

small alike, exist for an end; they be will form; they present a

purpose that claim the subordination of individual aim. he begin to

see state and nation as thing of education, being in the mind of

man.



the parallelism of Russia and Britain which Peter have make, strike

Oswald as singularly acute. they have a close parallelism with each

other than with France or Italy or the United States or Germany or any

of the great political system of the world. Russia be Britain on land.

Britain be Russia in an island and upon all the sea of the globe. one

have the dreamy lassitude of an endless land horizon, the other the

hardbitten practicality of the salt sea. one be deep-feeling, gross,

and massively illiterate, the other be pervade by a cockney

brightness. but each be try to express and hold on to some general

purpose by mean of form and symbol that be daily become more

conspicuously inadequate. and each appear to be move inevitably

towards failure and confusion.



one afternoon during their stay in Petrograd, Bailey take Oswald and

Peter to see a session of the Duma. they drive in a sledge down the

Nevski Prospekt and by street of plough-up and tumbled snow, through

which struggle an interminable multitude of sledge bring firewood

into the city, to the old palace of the favourite Potemkin, into which

the Duma have in those day be thrust. the Duma be sit in a big

adapt conservatory, and the three visitor watch the proceeding

from a little low gallery wherein the speaker be almost inaudible.

Bailey point out the large proportion of priest in the centre and

explain the various party group; he himself be very sympathetic with

the Cadets. they be anglo-maniac; they idealize the british

constitution and thought of a limited monarchy—in the land of

extreme....



Oswald listen to Bailey’s exposition, but the thing that most grip

his attention be the huge portrait of the Tsar that hang over the

gathering. he could not keep his eye off it. there the figure of the

autocrat stand, with its sidelong, unintelligent visage, four time as

large as life, dress up in military guise and with its big cavalry

boot right over the head of the president of the Duma. that portrait

be as obvious an insult, as outrageous a challenge to the self-respect

of russian man, as a gross noise or a foul gesture would have be.



“you and all the empire exist for _me_,” say that foolish-faced

portrait, with its busby a little on one side and its weak hand on its

sword hilt....



it be to that figure they ask young Russia to be loyal.



that dull-faced Tsar and the golden crosse of Moscow present

themselves as Russia to the young. a heavy-handed and very corrupt

system of repression sustain their absurd pretension. they have no

sanction at all but that they exist—through the acquiescence of less

intelligent generation. the aged, the prosperous, the indolent, the

dishonest, the mean and the dull support they in a vast tacit

conspiracy. beneath such symbol could a land under the sting of modern

suggestion ever be anything but a will welter, a confusion of

sentiment and instinct and wilfulness? be it so wonderful that the

world be give the story of Artzibachev as picture of the will form

of the russian young?





                                  § 4



through all that journey Oswald be constantly compare Peter with the

young people he see. on two occasion he and Peter go to the Moscow

Art Theatre. once they see _Hamlet_ in Russian, and once Tchekhov’s

_three Sisters_; and each be produce with a completeness of ensemble,

an excellence of mechanism and a dramatic vigour far beyond the range of

any London theatre. here in untidy, sprawling, slushy Moscow shine this

diamond of co-operative effort and efficient organization. it set Oswald

revise certain hasty generalization about the russian character....



but far more interesting than the play to he be the audience. they

be mostly young people, and some of they be very young people;

student in uniform, bright-faced girl, clerk, young officer and

soldier, a sprinkling of intelligent-look old people of the

commercial and professional class; each evening show a similar

gathering, a very full house, intensely critical and appreciative. it

be rather like the sort of gather one might see in the London Fabian

Society, but there be scarcely any earnest spinster and many more

young man. the Art Theatre, like a magnet, have draw its own together

out of the vast barbaric medley of western and asiatic, of peasant,

merchant, priest, official and professional, that throng the Moscow

street. and they seem very delightful young people.



his one eye wander from the brightly-light stage to the row and row of

face in the great dim auditorium about he, rest on Peter, and then

go back to those other. this, then, must be a sample of the

Intelligentzia. these be the youth who figure in so large a

proportion of recent russian literature. how many bright keen face be

there! what lie before they?...



a dark premonition creep into his mind of the tragedy of all this eager

life, grow up in the clutch of a gigantic political system that now

stagger to its end....



this youth he see here be wonderfully like the new generation that be

now dance its way into his house at Pelham Ford....



it be curious to note how much more this big dim houseful of young

Muscovites be like a british or an american audience than it be to a

german gathering. perhaps there be rather more dark type, perhaps

more high cheekbone; it be hard to say....



but all the other north temperate race, it seem to Oswald, as

distinguish from the Germans, have the same suggestion about they of

unco-ordinate initiative. their mind move freely in a great old

system that have lose its hold upon they. but the german youth be

co-ordinated. they be tremendously co-ordinated. two sunday ago he

and Peter have be watch the Sunday morning parade along Unter den

Linden. they have go to see the white-trousere guard kick their

leg out ridiculously in the goose step outside the Guard House that

stand opposite the Kaiser’s Palace, they have walk along Unter den

Linden to the Brandenburger Tor, and then, after inspect that

vainglorious trophy of pile cannon outside the Reichstag, turn down

the Sieges Allée, and so come back to the Adlon by way of the Leipziger

Platz. Peter have be alive to many thing, but Oswald’s attention have

be concentrate almost exclusively on the youngster they be

pass, for the most part plump, pink-face student in corps cap,

very erect in their bearing and very tight in their clothe. they be

an absolutely distinct variety of the young human male. a puerile

militarism possess they all. they exchange salutation with the

utmost punctilio. while England have be take her child from the

hand of God, and not so much make they as let they develop into

note of interrogation, Germany without halt or hesitation have mould

her gift of youth into stiff, obedient, fresh soldier.



there have be a moment like a thunderclap while Oswald and Peter have

be near the Brandenburger Tor. a swift wave of expectation have sweep

through the crowd; there have be a galloping of mount policeman, a

hustling of traffic to the side of the road, a hasty lining up of

spectator. then with melodious tootling and amidst guttural plaudit,

a big white automobile carry a glitter of uniform have go by,

drive at a headlong pace. “_Der Kaiser!_” just for a moment the

magnificence hang in the eye—and pass.



what have they see? cloak, helmet, hard visage, one distinctive

pallid face; something melodramatic, something eager and in a great

hurry, something that go by like the sound of a trumpet, a figure of

vast enterprise in shine armour, with mail fist. this be the symbol

upon which these young Germans be be concentrate. this be the

ideal that have grip they. something very modern and yet romantic,

something stupendously resolute. go whither? at any rate, go

magnificently somewhere. that be the power of it. it _be_ go

somewhere. for good or bad it be an infinitely more attractive lead

than the cowardly and oppressive Tsardom that be fail to hold the

refractory mind of these young Russians, or the current edition of the

british imperial ideal, twangle its idiotic banjo and exhort Peter

and his generation to “tax the foreigner” as a worthy end and aim in

life.



Oswald, with his eye on the dim, preoccupy audience about he,

recall a talk that he and Peter have have with a young fellow-traveller

in the train between Hanover and Berlin. it have be a very typical

young German, glass and all; and his clothe look twice as hard as

Peter’s, and he sit up stiffly while Peter slouch on the seat. he

evidently want to air his English, while Peter have not the remotest

desire to air his German, and only betray a knowledge of German when

it be necessary to explain some english phrase the German don’t quite

grasp. the German want to know whether Oswald and Peter have be in

Germany before, where they be go, what they think of it, what

they be go to think of Berlin.



respond to counter question he say he have be twice to England. he

think England be a great country. “yes—but not systematic. no!”



“you mean undisciplined?”



yes, it be perhaps undisciplined he mean.



Oswald say that as a foreigner he be most strike by the tremendous air

of order in north Germany. the Germans be orderly by nature. the

admission prove an attractive gambit.



the young German question Oswald’s view that the Germans be

naturally orderly. hard necessity have make they so. they have have to

discipline themselves, they have be oblige to develop a

Kultur—encircle by enemy. now their Kultur be become a second

nature. every nation, he suppose, bring its present to mankind.

Germany’s be Order, System, the lesson of Obedience that would

constantly make she more powerful. the Germans be perforce a thorough

people. thorough in all they do. although they have come late into

modern industrialism they have already develop social and economic

organization far beyond that of any other people. Nicht wahr? their work

be become necessary to the rest of mankind. in Russia, for example,

in Turkey, in Italy, in South America, it be more and more the German

who organize, develop, lead. “though we be fence round,” he say,

“still—we break out.”



there be something familiar and yet novel in all this to Oswald. it be

like his first sensation upon read Shakespeare in German. it be

something very familiar—in an unfamiliar idiom. then he recognize it.

this be exactly his own imperialism—teutonize. the same assertion of

an educational mission....



“everywhere we go,” say the young German, “our superior science, our

high education, our well method prevail. even in your India——”



he smile and leave that sentence unfinishe.



“but your militarism, your sabre rule here at home; this zabern

business; ben’t that a little incompatible with this idea of Germany as

a great civilizing influence permeate the world?”



“not at all,” say the young German, with the readiness of a

word-perfect actor. “behind our missionary of order we must have ready

the good german sword.”



“but ben’t the argument of force apt to be a little—decivilize?”



the young German do not think so. “when I be in England I say, there

be three thing that these English do not properly understand to use,

they be the map or index, the school, and—the sword. those three thing

be the triangle of german life....”



that hang most in Oswald’s mind. he have go on talk to the young

German for a long time about the difference of the british and the

german way. he have make Peter and the youngster compare their school and

college work, and what be far more striking, the difference in pressure

between the two system. “you press too hard,” he say. “in Alsace you

have press too hard—in Posen.”



“perhaps we sometimes press—I do not know,” say the young German. “it

be the strength of our determination. we be impatient. we be a young

people.” for a time Oswald have talk of the method of Germany in the

Cameroons and of Britain on the Gold Coast, where the german have be

grow cacao by the plantation system, turn the native into slave,

while the British, with an old experience and a long view, have leave

the land in native hand and build up a happy and loyal free cultivation

ten time as productive mile for mile as the German. it seem to he to

be one good instance of his general conception of Germany as the land of

undue urgency. “your Wissmann in East Africa be a great man—but

everywhere else you drive too violently. you antagonize.” North Germany

everywhere, he say, have the same effect upon he of a country, “go

hard.”



“Germany may be in too much of a hurry,” he repeat.



“we come into world-politic late,” say the young German, endorse

Oswald’s idea from his own point of view. “we have much to overtake

yet.”...



the Germans have come into world-politic late. that be very true. they

be naïve yet. they could still feed their natural egotism on the story

of a world mission. the same enthusiasm that have take Russia to the

Pacific—and to Grand Ducal land speculation in Manchuria—and the English

to the coolie slavery of the Rand, be take these Germans now—whither?

Oswald do not ask what route to disillusionment Germany might choose.

but he believe that she would come to disillusionment. she be only a

little later in phase than her neighbour; that be all. in the end they

would see that that white-cloak heroic figure in the automobile lead

they to futility as surely as the skulk Tsar. not that way must the

nation go....



Oswald see no premonition of a world catastrophe in this german

youngster’s devotion to an ideal of militant aggression, nor in the

whole broad spectacle of strain preparation across which he and Peter

travel that winter from Aix to Wirballen. he be as it be magically

blind. he could stand on the Hanover platform and mark the largeness of

the station, the broad spread track, the endless siding, the

tremendous transport preparation, that could have no significance in

the world but military intention, and still have no more to say than,

“these Germans give themselves elbow-room on their railway, Peter. I

suppose land be cheap.” he could see nothing of the finger of fate

point straight out of all this large tidy preparedness at Peter and

their fellow-passenger and all the youth of the world. he think

imperialistic monarchy be an old dead thing in Russia and in Britain

and in Germany alike.



in Berlin indeed in every photographer’s be the touch-up visage of

the Kaiser, look heroic, and endless postcard of he and of his son

and of the Kaiserin and little imperial grandchild and the like; they

be as dull and dreary-look as any royalty can be, and it be

inconceivable to Oswald that such figure could really rule the

imagination of a great people. he do not realize that all the tragedy

in the world might lie behind the word of that young German, “we come

into world-politic late,” behind the fact that the german imperialist

system be just a little less decayed, a little less humorous, a little

less indolent and disillusioned than either of its great parallel to

the east and west. he do not reflect that no system be harmless until

its hand be take off the lever of power. he could still believe that

he live in an immensely stable world, and that these vast form of

kingdom and empire, with their sham reverence and unmeane ceremony

and obligation, their flag and militancy and their imaginative

senility, threaten nothing beyond the negative evil of uninspired

life run to individual waste. that be the thing that concern

he. he see no collective fate hang over all these intent young face

in the Moscow Art Theatre, as over the strut innocent of patriotic

Berlin; he have as yet no intimation of the gigantic disaster that be

now so close at hand, that be to torment and shatter the whole youth of

the world, that be to harvest the hope and energy of these bright

swathe of life....



he glance at Peter, intent upon the stage.



Peter lie open to every impulse. that be Oswald’s supreme grievance

then against tsar, king, and church. they have not be good enough

for Peter. that seem grievance enough.



he do not imagine yet that they could murder the like of Peter by the

hundred thousand, without a tremor.



he love the fine line of the boy’s profile, he mark his delicate

healthy complexion. Peter be like some wonderful new instrument in

perfect condition. and all these other youngster, too, have something of

the same clean fire in they....



be it all to be spend upon love-making and pleasure-seeking and play?

be this exquisite hope and desire presently to be throw aside, rust

by base use, corrode by self-indulgence, bent or break? “the

generation run to waste—like rapid....”



he still think in that phrase. the Niagara of Death so near to they

all now to which these rapid be head, he still do not hear, do

not suspect its nearness....



and Joan——. from Peter his thought drift to Joan. Joan apparently

could find nothing well to do in life than dance....



suddenly Peter take a deep breath, sit back, and begin to clap. the

whole house break out into a pelt storm of approval.



“rip!” say Peter. “oh! rip.”



he turn his bright face to Oswald. “they do it so well,” he say,

smile. “I have forget it be in Russian. I seem to understand

every word.”



Oswald turn his eye again to _Hamlet_ in Gordon Craig’s fantastic

setting—which Moscow in her artistic profusion could produce when London

be too poor to do so.





                                  § 5



very similar be the thought in Oswald’s mind three month later,

three month near the world catastrophe, as he sit in his summerhouse

after Joan have tell he of her quarrel with Peter.



her denunciation of Peter have have the curious effect upon he of make

he very anxious about she. so far as Peter go, what she have tell he

have but confirm and make definite what he have know by instinct since

the Christmas party. his mind be use now to the idea of Peter be

vicious. but he be very much shocked indeed at the discovery that Joan

be aware of Peter’s vice. that be a new jolt to his mind. in many

thing Joan and Peter have change his idea enormously, but so far he

have retain not only his wardroom standard with regard to the moral

of a youth, but also his romantic ideal of feminine purity with regard

to a girl. he still think of his own womenkind as of something

innocent, immaculate and untouchable, being in a different world from

the girl who “don’t mind a bit of fun” and the woman one make love to

boldly.



but now he have to face the fact—Joan have force it upon he—this new

feminine generation ben’t divide in that obvious way. the clean have

knowledge, the bold be not outcast and apart. the new world of woman

be as mixed as the world of man. he sit in his summerhouse thinking of

his Joan’s flushed face, her indignant eye, her outspoken word.



“it be a _woman’s_ face,” he whisper....



and he be realize too how much more urgent the ending of adolescence

be become with a girl than it could ever be with a boy. Peter might

tumble into a scrape or so and scramble out again, not very much the

bad for it, as he himself have do. but Joan, with all the temerity of

a youth, might be make experiment that be fatal. he have not be

watch she as he have watch Peter. suddenly he wake up to this

realization of some decisive issue at hand. why be she so whitely angry

with Peter? why do she complain of have to “stand too much” from

Peter? her abuse of his friend have the effect of a counter attack. be

there some mischief afoot from which Peter restrain she? what man be

there about in Joan’s world?



there be something slimy and watchful about this fellow Huntley. could

there be more in that affair than one like to think?... or be there

some one unknown in London or in Cambridge?



she and Peter be quarrel about the Easter party. it would

apparently be impossible to have any Easter party this year, since both

want to bar out the other one’s friend. and anyhow there mustn’t be

any more of this Hetty Reinhart business at Pelham Ford. that must stop.

it ought never to have happen.... he would take Peter over to Dublin.

they could accept an invitation he have have from Graham Powys out beyond

Foxrock, and they could motor into Dublin and about the country, and

perhaps the irish situation might touch the boy’s imagination....



Joan could go to her aunt at the Ingle-Nook....



should he have a talk to Aunt Phyllis about the girl?



it be a pity that Aunt Phyllis always lose her breath and be shake

like an aspen leaf with fine feeling whenever one come to any serious

discussion with she. if it ben’t for that confound shimmer in her

nerve and feeling, she would be a very wise and helpful woman....





                                  § 6



Oswald’s thought range far and wide that morning.



now he would be think in the most general term of life as he

conceive it, now he would be think with vivid intensity about some

word or phrase or gesture of Joan and Peter.



he be blind still to the thing that be now so close to all his world;

nevertheless a vague uneasiness about the trend of event be creep

into his mind and mix with his personal solicitude. many man feel

that same uneasiness in those feverish day—as if Death cast his shadow

upon they before he come visibly into their life.



Oswald belong to that minority of Englishmen who think systematically,

whose idea join on. Most englishman, even those who belong to what we

call the educate class, still do not think systematically at all; you

cannot understand England until you master that fact; their idea be in

slovenly detach little heap, they think in ready-make phrase, they

be honestly capable therefore of the most grotesque inconsistency.

but Oswald have build up a sort of philosophy for himself, by which he

do try his problem and with which he fit in such new idea as come

to he. it be a very distinctive view of life he have; a number of

influence that be quite outside the general knowledge of English

people have be very powerful in shape it. biological science, for

example, play a quite disproportionate part in it. like the countryman

of Metchnikoff, most of the countryman of Darwin and Huxley believe

firmly that biological science be invent by the devil and the Germans

to undermine the Established Church. but Oswald have be exceptional in

the chance that have turn his attention to these study. and a writer

whose suggestion have play a large part in shape his idea about

education and social and political matter be J. J. Atkinson. he

think Atkinson the most neglect of all those fine-minded Englishmen

England ignore. he think Lang and Atkinson’s _Social Origins_ one of

the most illuminating book he have ever read since Winwood Reade’s

_Martyrdom of Man_. no doubt it will be amusing to many english reader

that Oswald should have mix up theory of the origin and destiny

of mankind with his political view and his anxiety about Joan’s

behaviour and Peter’s dissipation but he do. it be the way of his

mind. he perceive a connexion between these thing.



the view he have develop of human nature and human condition be

saturate with the idea of the ancestral ape. in his instinct, he

think, man be still largely the creature of the early Stone Age,

when, follow Atkinson, he suppose that the human herd, sex link,

squat close under the dominion of its Old Man, and hate every

stranger. he do not at all accept the aristotelian maxim that man be “a

political animal.” he be much more inclined to Schopenhauer’s

comparison of human society to a collection of hedgehog drive together

for the sake of warmth. he think of man as a being compel by

circumstance of his own inadvertent creation to be a political animal

in spite of the intense passion and egotism of his nature. man he

judge to be a reluctant political animal. man’s prehensile hand have

give he great possibility of experiment, he be a restless and

curious being, knowledge increase in he and bring power with it. so

he jostle against his fellow. he become too powerful for his

instinct. the killing of man become constantly more easy for man. the

specie must needs therefore become political and religious, temper

its intense lust and greed and hostility, if it be to save itself

from self-destruction. the individual man resist the process by force

and subterfuge and passivity at every step. nevertheless necessity still

find something in the nature of this fiercest of its creature to work

upon. in the face of adult resistance necessity hark back to plastic

immaturity. against the narrow and intense desire of the adult man,

against the secretive cunning and dispersiveness of our ape heredity,

struggle the youthful instinct of association. individualism be after

all a by-path in the history of life. every mammal begin by be

dependent and social; even the tiger come out of a litter. the litter

be brotherhood. every mother be a collectivist for her brood. a herd, a

tribe, a nation, be only a family that have delay dispersal, stage by

stage, in the face of danger. all our education be a prolongation and

elaboration of family association, force upon we by the continually

grow danger of the continually grow destructiveness of our kind.



and necessity have lay hold of every device and formula that will impose

self-restraint and devotion upon the lonely savagery of man, that will

help man to escape race-suicide. in spite of ever more deadly and

far-reach weapon, man still escape destruction by man. religion,

loyalty, patriotism, those strange and wonderfully interweave net of

superstition, fear, flattery, high reason and love, have subjugate this

struggle egotistical ape into large and large masse of

co-operation, achieve enormous temporary security. but the ape be

still there, struggle subtly. deep in every human individual be a

fierce scepticism of and resentment against the law that bind he, and

the weak new instinct that would make he the servant of his fellow

man.



such be Oswald’s conception of humanity. it march with all his

experience of Africa, where he have struggle to weave the net of law

and teaching against warrior, slave-trader, disease and greed. it

march now with all the appearance of the time. so it be he see man.



it seem to he that the world that lie behind the mask of his soft,

sweet Hertfordshire valley, this modern world into which Joan and Peter

have just rush off so passionately, be a world in which the old net

of rule and convention which have maintain a sufficiency of peace and

order in Europe for many generation of civilization, be give way

under the heavy stress of a new time. people be be bring too

closely together, too great a volume of suggestion pour into their

mind, criticism be vivid and destructive; the form and rule that have

suffice in a less crowded time be now insufficient to hold

imagination and shape life. Oswald could see no hope as yet of a new

net that would sweep together all that be burst out of the old. his

own generation of the ’eighty and ’ninety, under a far less feverish

urgency, have make its attempt to patch new and more satisfactory network

into the rotting reticulum, but for the most part their patch have do

no more than afford a leverage for tear. he have build his cosmogony

upon Darwin and Winwood Reade, his religion upon Cotter Morrison’s

_Service of Man_; he have interweave with that a conception of the empire

as a great civilize service. that much have serve he through the

try year at the end of adolescence, have in spite of strong coarse

passion make his life on the whole a useful life. king, church, and all

the form of the old order he have be willing to accept as a

picturesque and harmless paraphernalia upon these structural idea to

which he clung. he have be quite uncritical of the schoolmaster. now

with these study of education that Joan and Peter have force upon he,

he be begin to realize how encumbering and obstructive the old

paraphernalia could be, how it let in indolence, stupidity, dishonesty,

and treachery to the making of any modern system. a world whose school

be unreformed be an unreformed world. only in the last year or so have

he begin to accept the fact that for some reason these dominant idea of

his, this humanitarian religion which have serve his purpose and hold

his life and the life of a generation of liberal-minded englishman

together, have no grip power upon his ward. this failure perplex

he profoundly. have his victorian teacher weave prematurely, or have

they use too much of the old material? have they rather too manifestly

try to make the good of two world—leave the school alone? must

this break down of strand that be everywhere apparent, go still

far? and if so, how far would the breaking down have to go before

fresh net could be weave?



if Oswald in his summerhouse in the spring of 1914 could see no

immediate catastrophe ahead, he could at least see that a vast

disintegrative process have begin in the body of european civilization.

this disintegration, he tell himself, be a thing to go on by stage, to

be replace by stage; it would give place to a new order, a well

order, “some-day”; everything just and good be go to happen

some-day, the liberation of India, the contentment of Ireland, economic

justice, political and military efficiency. it be all come—always

come and never arrive, that new and well state of affair. what

do go on meanwhile be disintegration. the british mind hate crisis;

it abhor the word “now.” it believe that you can cool water for ever

and that it will never freeze, that you can see at a tree for ever and

that it will never fall, that there be always some sand leave above in

the hour-glass. when the English Belshazzar see the writing on the

wall, he welcome the appearance of a new if rather sensational form of

publication, and he sit back to enjoy it at his leisure....



the net be break, but they would never snap. that in effect be

Oswald’s idea in 1913. the bother, from his point of view, be that they

have let out Joan and Peter to futility.



there be a risk that the catastrophic event of 1914 may blind the

historian to the significance of the spin straw of 1913. but

throughout Europe the sand be trickle before the avalanche fall.

the arson of the suffragette, the bellicose antic of the unionist

leader in Ulster, General Gough’s Curragh mutiny, be all part of the

same relaxation of bond that launch the grey-clothe host of Germany

into Belgium. only the habit of an immense security could have blind

Oswald to the scale and imminence of the disaster. the world have

outgrow its idea and its will.



already people be begin to forget the queer fever that run through

the british community in 1913. for example there be the violent unrest

of the woman. that may exercise the historian in the future profoundly.

probably he will question the fact. right up to the very outbreak of

the war there be not a week pass without some new ridiculous outrage

on the part of the militant suffragette. now it be a fine old church

would be burn, now a well-know country house; now the mania would take

the form of destroy the letter in pillar-box, now the attack be

upon the green of the golf link. public meeting cease to be public

meeting because of the endless interruption by shrill voice cry

“vote for woman!” one great triumph of the insurgent be a raid with

little hammer upon the west-end shop-window. they burn the tea

pavilion in Kew Gardens, set fire to unoccupied new building,

inaugurate a campaign of picture-slashing at the public exhibition.

for a time they do much mischief to the cushion and fitting of

railway carriage. church have to be lock up and museum close on

account of they. poor little Pelham Ford church have have to buy a new

lock against the danger of some wandering feminist. and so on and so

on. but this revolt of the woman be more than a political revolt. that

concentration upon the Vote be the concentration of a vast confused

insurgence of energy that could as yet find no other acceptable mean of

expression. new condition have rob whole strata of woman of any

economic importance, new knowledge have enormously diminish the need

for their domestic service, the birth-rate have fall, the marriage age

have rise, but the heedless world have make no provision for the vitality

thus let loose. the old ideal of a womanly life show absurd in the

light of the new condition. why be pretty and submissive when nobody

want you? why be faithful with no one to be faithful to? why be devote

in a world which have neither enough baby nor lover nor even its old

proportion of helpless invalid to go round? why, indeed, to come to the

very heart of the old ideal, keep chaste when there be no one to keep

chaste for? half the intelligent woman in that world have stand as Joan

have do, face their own life and beauty and ask desperately “what

be the good of it?”



but while the old net rot visibly, there be no new net be

weave. there be everywhere the vague expectation of new net, of a new

comprehensiveness, a new way of life, but there be no broad movement

towards any new way of life. everywhere the old tradition and standard

and institution remain, discredit indeed and scoff at, but in

possession of life. energetic woman be reach out in a mood of the

wild experiment towards they know not what. it be a time of chaotic

trial. the disposition of the first generation of release woman have

be towards an austere sexlessness, a denial of every feminine

weakness, mental and physical, and so by way of Highmorton and hockey to

a spinsterish, bitter competition with man. a few still bolder spirit,

and Aunt Phœbe Stubland be among these pioneer, carry the

destructive “why not?” still far. Grant Allen’s _woman who do_ and

Arthur’s infidelity be but early aspect of a wide wave of

philoprogenitive and eugenic sentimentality. the new generation carry

“why not?” into the sphere of conduct with amazing effect.



woman be the custodian of manner, and mother and hostess who do

not dream of the parallelism of their impulse with militancy, be

release the young to an unheard-of extravagance of dress and festival.

Joan could wear clothe at a Chelsea dance that would have shock a

chorus girl half a century before; she go about London in the small

hour with any casual male acquaintance; so far as appearance go she

might have be the most disreputable of woman. she yield presently to

Huntley’s persistence and begin dance the tango with he. it be the

thing to slip away from a dance in slipper and a wrap, and spend an

hour or so career about London in a taxi or wander on Hampstead

Heath. Joan’s escapade fret the sleep tramp upon the Thames

Embankment. London, which have hitherto disperse its gathering about

eleven and get to bed as a rule by midnight, be aspire in those day

to become nocturnal. the restaurant be oblige to shut early, but a

club be beyond such regulation. necessity create the night club,

which awake about eleven and close again after a yawning breakfast of

devil bone.



a number of night club be come into existence, to the particular

delight of young Winterbaum. his boyish ambition for Joan be return.

he have see her dance and hear her dancing praise. Vulgar people make

wild vulgar guess in his hearing at what lie behind her grave and

sometimes sombre prettiness. he pretend to be very discreet about

that. it become the pride of his life to appear at some crowded night

club in possession of Joan; he do not know what people think of she

or of he but he hope for the bad. he wear the most beautiful button

on his white waistcoat and the most delicate gold chain you can imagine.

in the cloakroom he leave a wonderful overcoat and a wonderful cane.

sometimes he encourage the ringlet in his hair and feel like Disraeli,

and sometimes he restrain they and feel like a cold, cynical

Englishman of the dark sort. he would sit swell with pride beside

Joan, and nod to paint woman and heavy man; he know no end of people.

he do not care what sort of people they be so long as he know they.

it be always his ambition to be see drink champagne with Joan. Joan

have no objection in the world, but she could not bring herself to

swallow a drink that taste, she think, like weak vinegar mix with a

packet of pin and that go up your nose and make your brain swing

slowly to and fro on its axis for the rest of the evening. so she just

drink nothing at all.



she would sit at her table with her pretty bare arm fold under she

like the paw of a little cat, with her face, that still have the

delicacy and freshness of a child’s, as intent as any intelligent

child’s can be on the jumble of people before she, and her sombre eye,

calm and beautiful, look at smart London try at last to take its

pleasure gaily. perhaps some fortunate middle-aged gentleman of

Winterbaum’s circle would be attempt to charm she by brilliant

conversation, as, for instance Sir Joseph Lystrom, with a full-mouthed

german flavour in his voice, in this style: “pretty cheap here this

evening somehow, eh? _what?_” somewhere in the back of Sir Joseph’s mind

be the illusion that by bark in this way and stand treat

profusely, lie the road to a girl’s young love. Somewhen perhaps—who

knows?—he may have find justification for that belief. Joan have long

since learn how to turn a profile to these formal attention, and

appear to be interested without hear or answer a word.



or sometimes it would be Huntley. Huntley have lately take to dodge

among the night club to which he have access, when Joan be in London.

usually such night end in futility, but occasionally he be lucky and

find Joan. then he would come and talk and suggest idea to she. he

still remain the most interesting personality in her circle. she

pretend to Winterbaum and herself to be bore by his pursuit, but

indeed she look for it. except for Winterbaum and Huntley and

Winterbaum’s transitory introduction, she remain a detached figure in

these place. sometimes quite good-look stranger sit a little way

off and seek to convey to she by suitable facial expression the growth

of a passionate interest in she. she convey to they in return that

they be totally invisible to she, resist at time a macabre

disposition to take sight at they suddenly and amazingly or put out her

tongue. sometimes woman of the great Winterbaum circle would make a fuss

of she. they call she a “dear child.” they would have be amazed at

the complete theoretical knowledge a dear child of unrestricted reading

could possess of they and their little way.



“so this be the life of pleasure,” think the dear child. “_well!_”



and then that same question that Peter seem always to be ask of

Oswald: “be this _all_?”



when she dance in these place she dance with a sort of contempt. and

the sage, experience man who look at she so knowingly never realize

how much they imagine about she and how little they know.



she would sit and think how indecent it be to be at the same time old

and dissipate. some of these woman here, she perceive, be old than

her aunt Phœbe and Phyllis, year old. their face be paint and

do most amazingly—Joan know all about facial massage and the rest of

it—and still they be old face. but their poor body be not nearly

so old as their face, that be the tragedy of they. Joan regard the

tremendous v decolletage of a lively grandmother before she, and the

skin of the back shone as young as her own. the good lady be slap

the young gentleman next to she with a quite smooth and shapely arm.

Joan speculate whether the old fashion of the mask ball and the

venetian custom of mask which she have be read about that day in

Voltaire’s _Princesse de Babylone_, might not have something to do with

that. but—she revert—only young people ought to make love at all. her

aunt don’t; Oswald don’t. and Oswald be year young than some of

the man here, and in Joan’s eye at least far more presentable. he have a

scarred face indeed but a clean skin; some of the old man here have skin

one would shiver to touch, and the expression of evil gargoyle. she

let her thought dwell—not for the first time—on Oswald and a queer

charm he have for she. never in all her life have she know he do or say

a mean, dishonest, unjust, or unkind thing. in some way he be oddly

like Peter, but wise and gentle—and not exasperate....



but all this play with love in London be detestable, all of it. this

be really a shameful place. it be shameful to be here. love—mix up

with evening dress and costly clothe and jewellery and nasty laughter

and cigar, strong cigar and drink that slop about. it be

disgusting. these people make love after their luncheon and dinner and

supper. pig! they be all pig. they look like pig. if ever she

make love it should be in the open air, in some lovely place with blue

mountain in the distance, where there be endless wild flower, where

one could swim. no man she have ever talk with of love have really

understand anything of the beauty of love and the cleanness of

love—except Mir Jelaluddin. and he have a high-pitch voice and a

staccato accent—and somehow.... one ought not to be prejudice against a

dark race, but somehow it be unthinkable....



Joan sit in the night club dream of a lover, and the man about she

glance furtively at her face, ask themselves, “can it be I?” man

with red ear, man with greasy hair, man with unpleasing neck and

clumsy gesture; bald man, fat man, watery-eyed man, cheat, profiteer,

usurer, snob, toady, successful old man of every sort and young man

who have do nothing and for the most part never would. “can it be I?”

they surmise dimly, see her pensive eye. and she be dream of a

lithe, white, slender figure, strong and clean. he would hunt among the

mountain, he would swim swift river; he would never drink strong drink

nor reek of smoke....



at this moment young Winterbaum become urgent with his beautiful gold

cigarette case. Joan take a cigarette and light it, and sit smoking

with her elbow side by side on the table.



“you’re not bore?” say young Winterbaum.



“oh, no. I’m watch people. I don’t want to talk.”



“oh! not at all?” say young Winterbaum.



“so long as one have to talk,” he say after reflection and with an air

of cleverness, “one ben’t really friend.”



“exactly,” say Joan, and blow smoke through her nose.



what be it she have be think about? she could not remember, the

thread be break. she be sorry. she have a vague memory of something

pleasant.... she fall into a fresh meditation upon Jews. all Jews, she

think, ought to grow beard. at least after they be thirty. they be

too dark to shave, and besides there be a sort of indignity about their

beak shaven face. a bearded old Jew can look noble, a moustache old

Jew always look like an imitation of a Norman gentleman do in

cheap material. but that of course be exactly what he be....



why do man of forty or fifty always want to dance with and make love to

flapper? some of these girl here must be two or three year young

than herself. what be the interest? they couldn’t talk; they ben’t

beautiful; one could see they ben’t beautiful. and they laugh, good

God! how they laugh! girl ought to be teach to laugh, or at any rate

teach not to laugh offensively. Laughter ought to be a joyful,

contagious thing, jolly and kind, but these shriek! how few of these

people look capable of real laughter! they just make this loud

chittering sound. only human being laugh....



in this manner the mind of Joan be run on the evening when she see

Peter and Hetty come into the club which try to live up to the name of

“the Nest of the Burning Phœnix.” some tango expert have just

relinquish the floor and there be a space amidst the throng when

Hetty make her entry. Hetty have make a great effort, she be in full

London plumage, and her effect be tremendous.



about her little bold face be a radiant scheme of peacock’s feather,

her slender neck carry a disc a yard and a quarter wide; her slender,

tall body be sheathe in black and peacock satin; she wear enormous

earring and a great barbaric chain. her arm be bare except for a

score of bangle, and she have bare sandalle foot. she carry her arrow

point of a chin triumphantly. Peter be not her only attendant. there

be also another man in her train whom every one seem to recognize, a

big, square-face, handsome man of thirty-five or so who make Peter look

very young and flimsy. “she’s get Fred Beevor!” say Winterbaum with

respect, and drop the word “Million.” Peter’s expression be stony,

but Joan judge he be not enjoy himself.



there be very few unoccupied chair and table, but opposite Joan be

two gilt seat and another disengage at a table near at hand. Hetty be

too busy with her triumph to note Joan until Beevor have already choose

this place. with a slight awkwardness the two party mingle. young

Winterbaum at least be elated. beevor after a few civility to Joan

let it appear that Hetty preoccupy he. Peter be evidently not

enjoy himself at all. Joan find he seat beside she and silent.



Joan know that it be the feminine rôle to lead conversation, but it

seem to she rather fun to have to encourage a tongue-tie Peter. a

malicious idea come into her head.



“well, Petah,” she say; “why don’t you say I oughtn’t to be here?”



Peter regard she ambiguously. he have an impulse.



“no decent people ought to be here,” he say quietly. “let’s go home,

Joan.”



her heart jump at the suggestion. all her be say yes. and then she

remember that she have as much right to have a good time as Peter. if

she go back with he it would be like give in to he; it would be

like admit his right to order she about. and besides there be

Hetty. he ben’t really disgusted. all he want to do really be to

show off because he be jealous of Hetty. he don’t want to go home with

Joan. she ben’t go to be a foil for Hetty anyhow. and finally, once

somewhere he have refuse she almost exactly the same request. she

check herself and consider gravely. a little touch of spite creep

into her expression.



“no,” she say slowly. “no.... I’ve only just come, Petah.”



“very well,” say Peter. “_i_ don’t mind. if you like this sort of

thing——”



he say no more, sulk visibly.



Joan resolve to dance at the first opportunity, and to dance in a bold

and reckless way—so as thoroughly to exasperate Peter. she look about

the room through the smoke-laden atmosphere in the hope of see

Huntley....



she and Peter sit side by side, feel very old and experienced and

worldly and up-to-date. but indeed they be still only two child who

ought to have be pack off to bed hour before.





                                  § 7



the disorder in the world of woman, the dissolution of manner and

restraint, be but the more intimate aspect of a universal drift

towards lawlessness. the world of labour be seethe also with the same

spirit of almost aimless insurrection. in a world of quicken

apprehension and increase stimulus woman be lose faith in the

rule of conduct that have suffice in a less exact age. far

profounder and more dangerous to the establish order be the

scepticism of the worker. the pretension of the old social system

that trade unionism have scarcely challenge be now be subject

throughout all western Europe to a pitiless scrutiny by a new and more

educate type of employé.



the old british trade unionism have never seek much more than increase

wage and a slightly high standard of life; its acceptance of

establish institution have be artlessly complete; it have never

challenge the authority nor the profit of the proprietor. it have never

propose more than a more reasonable treaty with the master, a fairer

sharing of the good gift of industry. but infatuate by the evil

teaching of an extreme individualism, a system of thought which be

indeed never more than a system of base excuse dress up as a

philosophy, the directing and possess class have fail altogether

to agree with their possible labour adversary quickly while they be

yet in the way with he. they have lack the intelligence to create a

sympathetic industrial mentality, and the conscience to establish a

standard of justice. they leave thing alone until the grit of a formless

discontent have get into every cog of the industrial machinery. too late,

the employer be now concede the modest demand that labour have make

in the ’eighty and ’ninety, they be try to accept the offer of

dead man; they find themselves face to face with an entirely less

accommodate generation. this new labour movement be talk no long

of short hour and high pay but of the social revolution. it do not

demand well treatment from the capitalist; it call he a profiteer

and ask he to vanish from the body politic. it organize strike now

not to alter the detail of its working condition as its predecessor

have do, but in order to end the system by make it impossible. in

Great Britain as on the Continent, the young generation of labour be

no long ask to have the harness that bind it to the old order make

easy and light; it be ask for a new world.



the new movement seem to man of Oswald’s generation to come as

thunderstorm will sometimes come, as the militant suffragette have

seem to come, suddenly out of a clear sky. but it be far more ominous

than the suffragette movement, for while that make one simple explicit

demand, this demand nothing short of a new economic order. it ask

for everything and would be content with nothing. it be demand from

an old habitual system the supreme feat of reconstruction. short of that

vague general reconstruction it promise no peace. high wage would

not pacify it; short hour would not pacify it. it threaten sabotage

of every sort, and a steady, incessant broaden antagonism of master

and man. Peter, half sympathetic and half critical, talk about it to

Oswald one day.



“they all say, ’I’m a Rebel!’” say Peter. “’Rebel’ be their canot word.”



“yes, but rebel against what?”



“oh! the whole system.”



“they have vote.”



“they get humbug, they say. they do, you know. the party system be a

swindle, and everybody understand that. why don’t we clean it up?

P.R.’s the only honest method. they don’t understand how it be rig,

but they know it be rig. when you talk about Parliament they laugh.”



“but they have their union.”



“they don’t trust their leader. they say they be get at. they say they

be old-fashioned and bluff by the politician.... they be....”



“then what do they want?”



“just to be out of all this. they be bored to tear by their work, by

the world they have to live in, by the pinched mean life they have to

lead—in the midst of plenty and luxury—bore by the everlaste dulness

and humbug of it all.”



“but how be they go to alter it?”



“that’s all vague. altogether vague. Cole and Mellor and those Cambridge

chap preach Guild Socialism to they, but I don’t know how far they take

it in—except that they agree that profit be unnecessary. but the

fundamental fact be just blind boredom and the desire to smash up

thing. just on the off chance of their come well. the employer have

be free to make the world for they, and this be the world he have make.

damn he! that’s how they look at it. they be bore by his face, bore

by his automobile, bore by his knighthood, bore by his country house

and his snob of a wife——”



“but what can they do?”



“make thing impossible.”



“they cann’t run thing themselves.”



“they ben’t convince of that. anyhow if they smash up thing the

employer go first, and he’s the chap they seem to be principally

after——”



Peter reflect. then he give a modern young Englishman’s view of the

labour conflict. “the employer have be pretty tidy ass not to see

that their workpeople get a well, more amusing life than they do. it

be their business and their interest to do so. it could have be

manage easily. but they’re so beastly disloyal. and so mean. they not

only sweat labour themselves but they willn’t stir a finger to save it

from jerry-build housing, bad provisioning, tally-man, general ugliness,

bad investment, rotten insurance company—every kind of rotten old

thing. any one may help kill _their_ sheep. they’ve get no gratitude to

their worker. they willn’t even amuse they. why couldn’t they set up

decent theatre for they, and thing like that? it’s so stupid of they.

these employer be the most dangerous class in the community. there’s

enough for every one nowadays and over. it’s the first business of

employer to see workpeople get their whack. what good be they if they

don’t do that? but they never have. Labour be convince now that they

never will. they run about pretend to be land gentry. they’ve get

their people angry and bitter now, they’ve destroy public confidence

in their way, and it serve they jolly well right if the workman make

thing impossible for they. I think they will. I hope they will.”



“but this mean break up the national industry,” say Oswald.

“where be this sort of thing go to end?”



“oh! thing want shake up,” say Peter.



“perhaps,” he add, “one _must_ break up old thing before one can hope

for new. I suppose the master willn’t let go while they think there’s a

chance of hold on....”



he have not a trace leave of the victorian delusion that this might after

all be the good of all possible world. he think that our politician

and our captain of industry be very poor muddler indeed. they

drift. each one sit in his own work, he say, and run they for profit

without care a rap whither the whole system be go. compare with

Labour even their poverty of general idea be amazing. Peter, warm

with his subject, walk to and fro across the Pelham Ford lawn beside

Oswald, propose to rearrange industrialism as one might propose to

reshuffle a pack of card.



“but suppose thing smash up,” say Oswald.



“smash up,” do not seem to alarm Peter.



“nowadays,” say Peter, “so many people read and write, so much have be

think out, there be so big a literature of idea in existence, that I

think we could recover from a very considerable amount of smashing. I’m

pro-smash. we have to smash. what hold we back be fix idea. take

Profit. we’re use to profit. Most business be do for profit still.

but why should the world tolerate profit at all? it don’t stimulate

enterprise; it only stimulate knavery. and Capital, Financial Capital

be just blackmail by gold—gold rent. we think the state itself even

cann’t start a business go or employ people without first borrowing

money. why should it borrow money? why not, for state purpose, create

it? yes. no money would be any good if it haven’t the state guarantee.

Gold standard, fix money fund, legitimate profit and so on; that’s

the sort of fix idea that get in the way nowadays. it willn’t get out

of the way just for reason’s sake. the employer keep on with these old

fix idea, naturally, because so it be they have be make, but the

workpeople believe in they less and less. there must be a smash of some

sort—just to shake idea loose....”



Oswald survey his ward. so this be the young man’s theory. not a bad

theory. fix idea!



“there’s something to be say for this notion of Fixed Ideas,” he say.

“yes. but ben’t this ’I’m a Rebel’ business, ben’t that itself a fix

Idea?”



“oh certainly!” say Peter cheerfully. “we poor human being be always

let our idea coagulate. that’s where the whole business seem to I

so hopeless....”





                                  § 8



in the ’eighty and ’ninety every question have be positive and

objective. “People,” you say, “think so and so. _be it right?_” that

seem to cover the ground for discussion in those day. one believe

in a superior universal reason to which all decision must ultimately

bow. the new generation be begin where its predecessor leave off,

with what have be open question decide and carry beyond discussion.

it be at home now on what have once be battlefield of opinion. the

new generation be read William James and Bergson and Freud and

become more and more psychological. “People,” it say, “think so and

so. why do they do so?”



so when at last Oswald carry off Peter to Dublin—which he do not do

at Easter as he have plan but at Whitsuntide for a mere long

week-end—to see at close hand this perplex Irish Question that seem

drift steadily and uncontrollably towards bloodshed, he find that

while he be ask “who be in the right and who be in the wrong here?

who be most to blame and who should have the upper hand?” Peter be

ask with a terrible impartiality, “why be _all_ these people talk

nonsense?” and “why have they get their mind and affair into this

dangerous mess?” Sir Horace Plunkett, Peter have a certain toleration

for; but it be evident he suspect A.E. Peter do not talk very much,

but he listen with a bright scepticism to brilliant display of good

talk—he have never hear such good anecdotal talk before—and betray

rather than express his conviction that Nationalism, Larkinism, Sinn

Feinism, Ulsterism and Unionism be all insult to the human

intelligence, material for the alienist rather than serious

proposition.



it ben’t that he feel himself to be in possession of any conclusive

solution, or that he obtrude his disbelief with any sense of

superiority. in spite of his extreme youth he do not for a moment

assume the attitude of a superior person. life be evidently trouble

he profoundly, and he be realize that there be no apparent answer

to many of his perplexity. but he be at least try hard to get an

answer. what shock he in the world of Dublin be its manifest

disinclination to get any answer to anything. they jeer at people who

seek solution. they like the fun of disorder; it give more scope for

their irrepressible passion for character study. he begin to recognize

one particular phrase as the keynote of Dublin’s animation: “hev ye

hurrd the let?”



on the Sunday afternoon of their stay in Dublin, Powys motor they

through the city by way of Donnybrook and so on round the bay to Howth

to see the view from Howth Head. Powys drive with a stray guest beside

he. behind, Peter impart impression to Oswald.



“I don’t like these high wall,” he say. “I’ve never see such a lot of

high wall.... it’s just as if they all shut themselves in from one

another.”



“Fixed Ideas, Peter?”



“they _be_ rather like Fixed Ideas. I suppose high wall be fun to

climb over and throw thing over. but—it’s uncivilized.”



“everybody,” grumble Peter, “be give to fix idea, but the Irish

have ’em for choice. all this rot about Ireland a nation and about the

Harp, which ben’t properly their symbol, and the dear old Green Flag

which ben’t properly their colour!... they cann’t believe in that stuff

nowadays.... but _can_ they? in our big world? and about be a Black

Protestant and pretend Catholics be poison, or the other way round.

what be Protestants and Catholics now?... old dead squabble.... Dead

as Druids.... keep up all that bickering stuff, when a child of eight

ought to know nowadays that the Christian God start out to be a

universal, charitable God.... if Christ come to Dublin the Catholics and

Protestants would have a free fight to settle which be to crucify

Him....”



“it’s the way with they,” say Oswald. “we’ve get to respect irish

opinion.”



“it don’t respect itself. everywhere else in the world, wherever we

have be, there’s be at least something like the germ of an idea of a

new life. but here! when you get over here you realize for the first

time that England be after all a live country try to get on to

something—compare with this merry-go-round.... it’s exactly like a

merry-go-round churn away. it’s the atmosphere of a country fair. an

Irishman haven’t any idea of a future at all, so far as I can see—except

that perhaps his grandchild will tell story of what a fine fellow

he be....”



the automobile halt for a moment at cross road, and the finger-post

be in Erse character.



“look at _that!_” say Peter with genuine exasperation. “and hardly a

Dubliner know fifty word of the language! it’s foolery. if we be

irish I suppose we should smother London with black-letter. we should go

on pretend that we, too, be still Catholics and Protestants. the

pseudo-Protestants would hang Smithfield with black on account of the

martyr, and the pseudo-Catholics would come and throw the meat about on

Fridays. Chesterton and Belloc would love it anyhow.”...



Oswald be not sure of the extent of Peter’s audience. “the

susceptibility of a proud people, Peter,” he whisper, with his eye

on the back of their host.



“bother their susceptibility. much they care for _our_

susceptibility. the bad insult you can offer a grow-up man be to

humour he,” say Peter. “what’s the good of pretend to be

sympathetic with all this wear of the Green. it’s like our White Rose

League. let ’em do it by all mean if they want to, but don’t let’s

pretend we think it romantic and beautiful and all the rest of it. it’s

just pose and dress up, and it’s a nuisance, Nobby. all Dublin be

pose and dress up and play at rebellion, and so be all Ulster.

the Volunteers of the eighteenth century all over again. it’s like

historical charade. and they’ve point loaded gun at each other. only

idiot point load gun. why cann’t we English get out of it all, and

leave they to pose and dress up and then tell anecdote and anecdote

and anecdote about it until they be sick of it? if ever they be sick

of it. let they have their Civil War if they want it; let they keep on

with Civil Wars for ever; what have it get to do with we?”



“you’re a Home ruler then,” say Oswald.



“I don’t see that we English do any good here at all. what be we here

for anyhow? the Castle’s just another Fixed Idea, something we haven’t

the mental vigour to clear away. nobody do any good here. we’re not

give they new idea, we’re not unify they, we’re not let

Ireland out into the world—which be what she want—we’re not do

anything but just hold on.”



“what’s that?” say Powys suddenly over his shoulder.



“Peter’s declare for Home Rule,” say Oswald.



“after his glimpse of the slum of Dublin?”



“it’s out of malice. he want to leave Irishmen to Irishmen.”



“Ulster say _no_!” say Powys. “tell he to talk to Ulster,” and

resume a conversation he have interrupt with the man beside he.



at the corner where Nassau Street run into Grafton Street they be

hold up for some lengthy minute by a long procession that be trail

past Trinity College and down Grafton Street. it have several band, and

in the forefront of it go National Volunteers in green uniform,

obviously for the most part old soldier; they be follow by man with

green badge, and then a straggle of Larkinites and various Friendly

Societies with their band and banner, and then by a long dribble of

child and then some workgirl, and then a miscellany of people who

have apparently fall in as the procession pass because they have

nothing else to do. as a procession it be tedious rather than

impressive. the warm afternoon—it be the last day in May—have take the

good feeling out of the walker. few talk, still few smile. the

common expression be a long-visage discontent, a gloomy hostile stare

at the car and police cordon, an aimless disagreeableness. they be

all be very stern and resolute about they do not quite know what.

they mean to show that Dublin could be as stern and resolute as

Belfast. between the part of the procession be lengthy gap. it be a

sunshiny, dusty afternoon, and the leg of the processionist be dusty

to the knee, their brow moist, and their lip dry. there be an

unhurrie air about they of go nowhere in particular. it be evident

that many of their banner be heavy. “what’s it all about?” ask

Oswald.



“Lord know,” say Powys impatiently. “it’s just a demonstration.”



“be that all? why don’t we cut across now and get on?”



“there’s more come. don’t you hear another band?”



“but the police could hold it up for a minute and let all these tramcar

and automobile across.”



“there’d be a fight,” say Powys. “they daren’t.”...



“and I suppose this sort of thing be go on in the north too?” ask

Oswald after a pause.



“oh! everywhere,” say Powys. “Orange or Green. but they’ve get more

gun up north.”



“these people don’t really want Ireland a Nation and all the rest of

it,” say Peter.



“_oh?_” say Powys, stare at he.



“well, look at they,” say Peter. “you can see by their face. they’re

just bored to death. I suppose most people _be_ bored to death in

Ireland. there’s nothing do. England just hold they up, I suppose.

and it’s an island—rather off the main line. there’s nothing to get

people’s mind off these endless, dreary old quarrel. it’s all they

have. but they’re bore by it....”



“and that’s why we talk nothing but anecdote, Peter, eh?” Powys

grin.



“well, you _do_ talk a lot of anecdote,” say Peter, who haven’t realize

the sharpness of his host’s hearing.



“oh! we do. I don’t complain of your see it. it ben’t your discovery.

have you read or hear the true word that be ever say of

Ireland—by that man Shaw? in _John Bull’s Other Island_.... that

laugh scene about the pig. ’nowhere else could such a scene cause a

burst of happiness among the people.’ that’s the very gut of thing

here; eh?”



“it’s his good play,” say Oswald, avoid too complete an assent.



“it get there,” Powys admit, “anyhow. the way all they fool come

into the shanty and snigger.”...



the last dreg of the procession pass reluctantly out of the way. it

fade down Grafton Street into a dust cloud and a confusion of band

noise. the policeman prepare to release the congested traffic. Peter

lean out to count the number of tram and automobile that have be

hold up. he be still count when the automobile turn the corner.



they shake Dublin off and spin cheerfully through the sunshine along the

coast road to Howth. it be a sparkling bright afternoon, and the road

be cheerful with the prim happiness of many couple of irish lover.

but that afternoon peace be the mask wear by one particular day. if the

near future could have cast a phantom they would have see along this

road a few week ahead of they the gun-runner of Howth march to the

first foolish bloodshed in Dublin street....



they see Howth Castle, make up now by Lutyens to look as it ought to

have look and never have look in the past. the friend Powys have

bring want to talk to some of the castle people, and while these two

stay behind Oswald and Peter go on, between high hedge of clip

beech and up a steep, winding path amidst great bush of rhododendron

in full flower to the grey rock and heather of the crest. they stand in

the midst of one of the most beautiful view in the world. Northward

they look over Ireland’s Eye at Lambay and the blue Mourne mountain

far away; eastward be the lush green of Meath, southward be the long

beach of the bay sweep round by Dublin to Dalkey, back by more blue

mountain that run out eastward to the Sugar Loaf. below their foot the

pale castle cluster amidst its rich greenery, and to the east, the

level blue sea sustain one single sunlit sail. it be rare that the

sense of beauty flood Peter, as so often it flood Joan, but this

time he be transport.



“but this be altogether beautiful,” he say, like one who be take by

surprise.



and then as if to himself: “how beautiful life might be! how splendid

life might be!”



Oswald be stand on a ledge below Peter, and with his back to he. he

wait through a little interval to see if Peter would say any more.

then he prick he with “only it ben’t.”



“no,” say Peter, with the sunlight go out of his voice. “it ben’t.”



he go on talk after a moment’s reflection.



“it’s as if we be hypnotize and couldn’t get away from mean thing,

beastly suspicion, and stale quarrel. I suppose we be still half

ape. I suppose our brain set too easily and rapidly. I suppose it’s

easy to quarrel yet and still hard to understand. we take to jealousy

and bitterness as duckling take to water. think of that stale, dusty

procession away there!”



Oswald’s old dream vision of the dark forest come back to his mind. “be

there no way out, Peter?” he say.



“if some great idea would take hold of the world!” say Peter....



“there have be some great idea,” say Oswald....



“if it would take hold of one’s life,” Peter finish his thought....



“there have be Christianity,” say Oswald.



“Christianity!” Peter point at the distant mist that be Dublin. “sour

Protestants,” he say, “and dirty priest set simple people by the

ear.”



“but that ben’t true christianity.”



“there ben’t true christianity,” say Peter compactly....



“well, there’s love of country then,” say Oswald.



“that Dublin corporation be the most patriotic and nationalist in the

world. fierce about it. and it’s get complete control there. it’s green

in grain. no English need apply.... from the point of view of

administration that town be a muck heap—for patriotic crowing. look at

their dirty, ill-paved street. look at their filthy slum! see how they

let their bless nation’s child fester and die!”



“there be big idea than patriotism. there be idea of empire, the

Pax Britannica.”



“Carson smuggling gun.”



“well, be there nothing? do _you_ know of nothing?”



Oswald turn on his ward for the reply.



“there’s a sort of idea, I suppose.”



“but what idea?”



“there’s an idea in our mind.”



“but what be it, Peter?”



“call it Civilization,” Peter try.



“I believe,” he go on, weigh his word carefully, “as you believe

really, in the Republic of Mankind, in universal work for a common

end—for freedom, welfare, and beauty. haven’t you teach I that?”



“_have_ I teach you that?”



“it seem to I to be the commonsense aim for all humanity. you’re awake

to it. you’ve awaken I to it and I believe in it. but most of this

world be still deep in its old Fixed idea, walk in its sleep. and it

willn’t wake up. it willn’t wake up.... what can we _do_? we’ve get to a

sort of idea, it’s true. but here be these Irish, for example,

naturally witty and quick than you or I, hypnotize by Orange and

Green, by Protestant and Catholic, by all these stale thing—drift

towards murder. it’s murder be come here. you can smell the bloodshed

come on the air—and we cann’t do a thing to prevent it. not a thing.

the silliest bloodshed it will be. the silly bloodshe the world have

ever see. we cann’t do a thing to wake they up....



“we’re _in_ it,” say Peter in conclusion. “we cann’t even save

ourselves.”



“I’ve be want to get at your political idea for a long time,” say

Oswald. “you really think, Peter, there might be a big world

civilization, a world republic, do you call it?—without a single slum

hide in it anywhere, with the whole of mankind busy and happy, the

race live in peace, each accord to its aptitude, a world go

on—go on steady and swift to still well thing.”



“how can one believe anything else? don’t you?”



“but how do we get there, Peter?”



“oh, how do we get there?” echo Peter. “how do we get there?”



he dance a couple of step with vexation.



“I don’t _know_, Nobby,” he cry. “I don’t know. I cann’t find the way.

I’m make a mess of my life. I’m not get on with my work. you

_know_ I’m not.... either we’re mad or this world be. here’s all these

people in Ireland let a solemn humbug of a second-rate lawyer with a

heavy chin and a lumpish mind muddle they into a civil war—and _that’s_

reality! that’s life! the solemn League and Covenant—copy out of old

history book! that’s be serious! and over there in England, across

the sea, muddle and muck and nonsense indescribable. oh! and we’re _in_

it!”



“but ben’t there big movement afoot, Peter, social reform, the labour

movement, the emancipation of woman, big change like that?”



“only big discontent.”



“but don’t discontent make the change?”



“it’s just boredom that’s get they. it ben’t any disposition to _make_.

Labour be bored, woman be bored, all Ireland be bore. I suppose Russia

be bore and Germany be get bore. she be bore all the world with

her soldiering. how bored they must be in India too—by we! the day bore

its way round the earth now—like a mole. out of sight of the star. but

boring people don’t mean make a new world. it just mean bore on

to decay. it just mean one sort of foolish old fix idea rub and

saw against another, until something break down.... oh! I want to

get out of all this. I don’t _like_ this world of ours. I want to get

into a world awake. I’m young and I’m greedy. I’ve only get one life to

live, Nobby.... I want to spend it where something be be make. make

for good and all. where clever man can do something more than sit

overlong at meal and tell spiteful funny story. where there’s

something well to do than play about with one’s brain and viscera!...”





                                  § 9



in the day when Peter be bear the anglican system hold the Empire with

apparently invincible feeling of security and self-approval; it

possess the land, the church, the army, the foreign office, the court.

such people as Arthur and Dolly be of no more account than a stray

foreign gipsy by the wayside. when Peter come of age the anglican system

still hold on to army, foreign office, court, land, and church, but now

it be haunt by a sense of an impalpable yet gigantic antagonism that

might at any time materialize against it. it have an instinctive

perception of the near possibility of a new world in which its base

pride could have no adequate satisfaction, in which its authority would

be flout, its poor learning despise, and its precedent disregard.

the curious student of the history of England in the decade before the

Great War will find the clue to what must otherwise seem a hopeless

tangle in the steady, disingenuous, mischievous antagonism of the old

anglican system to every kind of change that might bring near the

dread process of modernization. education, and particularly

university, reform be block, the most necessary social legislation

fight against with incoherent passion, the light, most reasonable

taxation of land or inheritance resist.



wherever the old system could find ally it snatch at they and seek

to incorporate they with itself. it have long since take over the New

Imperialism with its tariff scheme and its spirit of financial

adventure. it have sneer aloof when the new democracy of the elementary

school seek to read and think; it have let any casual adventurer to

supply that read; but now the creator of _answer_ and _comic cut_

rule the _Times_ and sit in the House of Lords. it be a little

doubtful still whether he be of the new order or the old, whether he

be not himself an instalment of revolution, whether the Tories have

buy he or whether he have buy they, but at any rate he do for a

time seem to be serve the end of reaction.



to two source of strength the Anglicans clung with desperate

resolution, India and Ulster. from India the mass of english people be

shut and bar off as completely as any foreigner could have be.

India be the preserve of the “rule class.” to India the good

anglican, smite by doubt, chill by some disrespectful comment or

distress by some item of progress achieve, could turn, leave all

thought of new and unpleasant thing behind he; there in what he love

to believe be the “unchanging East” he could recover that sense of

walk freely and authoritatively upon an abundance of inferior people

which be so necessary to his nature, and which be be so seriously

impair at home. the institution of caste realize his secret ideal.

from India he and his womankind could return refresh, to the struggle

with Liberalism and all the power of democratic irreverence in England.

and Ulster be a still more precious stronghold for this narrow culture.

from the fastness of Ulster they could provoke the restless temperament

of the Irish to a thousand petty exasperation of the English, and for

Ulster, “loyal Ulster,” they could appeal to the generous partisanship

of the English against their native liberalism. More and more do it

become evident that Ulster be the keystone of the whole anglican

ascendancy; to that they owe their grip upon british politic, upon

army, navy, and education; they trade—nay! they exist—upon the open

irish sore. with Ireland heal and content England would be lose to

they. England would democratize, would americanize. the Anglicans would

vanish out of british life as completely as the kindre Tories vanish

out of America at the close of the eighteenth century. and when at last,

after year of confused bickering, a Home Rule Bill become law, and

peace between the two nation in Ireland seem possible, the Anglicans

step at once from legal obstruction to open treason and revolt. the

arming of Ulster to resist the decision of Parliament be incite from

Great Britain, it be support enthusiastically by the whole of the

Unionist party in Great Britain, its headquarters be in the west end

of London, and the refusal of General Gough to carry out the

precautionary occupation of Ulster be hail with wild joy in every

Tory home. it be not a genuine popular movement, it be an artificial

movement for which the landowne church people of Ireland and England

be chiefly responsible. it be assist by tremendous exertion on the

part of the London yellow press. when Sir Edward Carson go about

Ulster in that warm June of 1914, review armed man, promise “more

mauser,” and pour out inflammatory speech, he be manifestly

prepare bloodshed. the old Tory system have reach a point where it

have to kill man or go.



and it do not mean to go; it mean to kill. it mean to murder man.



if youth and the new idea be to go on with the world, the price be

blood.



Ulster be a little country; altogether the dispute do not affect many

thousand of man, but except for the difference in scale there be

indeed hardly any difference at all between this scramble towards civil

conflict in Ireland and the rush, swift and noiseless, that be now

carry central Europe towards immeasurable bloodshed. to kill and

mutilate and waste five human being in a petty riot be in its essence

no less vile a crime than to kill and mutilate and waste twenty

million. while the British Tories count their thousand, the Kaiser

and his general staff reckon in million; while the british

“loyalist” be smuggle a few disuse machine-gun from Germany,

Krupp’s factory be turn out great gun by the hundred. but the

evil thing be the same evil thing; a system narrow and outworn, full of

a vague fear of human reason and the common sense of mankind, full of

pride and greed and the insolent desire to trample upon man, a great

system of false assumption and fix idea, oppress by a thirsty

necessity for reassurance, be seek the refreshment of loud

self-assertion and prepare to drink blood. the militarist system that

centre upon Potsdam have clamber to a point where it have to kill man

or go. the Balkans be the Ulster of Europe. if once this balkan

trouble settle down, an age of peace might dawn for Europe, and how

would Junkerdom fare then, and where would Frau Bertha sell her good?

how would the War Lord justify his glory to the social democrat?...



but Oswald, like most englishman, be not attend very closely to

affair upon the continent. he be preoccupy with the unreason of

Ulster.



recently he have have a curious interview with Lady Charlotte Sydenham,

and her white excited face and blaze blue eye insist now upon

play the part of mask to the Ulster spirit in his thought. she have

have to call he in because she have run short of ready money through

over-subscription to various scheme for arm the northern patriot.

she have sit at her writing-desk with her cap a little over one eye, as

though it be a military cap, and the tuft of reddish hair upon she

cheek more like bristle than ever, and he have walk about the room

contrive disagreeable thing to say to she after his willnot. he be

disinclined to let she have more money, he confess; she ought to have

have more sense, he say, than to write off big cheque, cheque beyond

her mean, in support of this seditious mischief. if she ask these

people who have take her money, probably they would let she have some

back to go on with.



this enrage she nicely, as he have mean it to do. she scold at he. a

nice Sydenham he be, to see his King insult and his country tear

apart. he who have once wear the Queen’s uniform. thank God! she herself

be a Parminter and belong to a sounder strain!



“it’s you who be insult the king,” Oswald interpolate, “try to

defy his act in Parliament.”



“_oh!_” cry Lady Charlotte, bang the desk with her freckle fist.

“oh! parliament! I’d shoot ’em down! first that vile Budget, then the

attack on the Lords.”



“they pass the Parliament Act,” say Oswald.



“to save themselves from be swamp in a horde of working-man

peer—sit there in their cap with their dirty boot on the

cushion. Lord Keir Hardie! you’ll want Lord Chimneysweep and Viscount

Cats-meatman next.... then come that abominable Insurance Act—one thing

bad than another! set class against class and give they idea!

then we give up South Africa to the Boers again! what do we fight for?

don’t we buy the country with our blood? why, my poor cousin Rupert

Parminter be a prisoner in Pretoria for a whole year—thirteen weary

month! for nothing! and now Ireland be to be hand over to priest and

rebel. to _Irishmen_! and I—I be not to lift a finger, not a finger, to

save my king and my Country and my God—when they be all go straight

to the Devil!”



“H’m,” say Oswald, rustle the counterfoil in his hand. “but you

_have_ be lift your finger, you know!”



“if I could give more——”



“you _have_ give more.”



“I’d give it.”



“willn’t grime make a friendly advance? but I suppose you’re up to the

neck with Grimes.... I wonder what interest that little swindler charge

you.”



the old lady could not meet the mild scrutiny of his eye. “you come here

and grin and mock while your country be be hand over to a gang of

God-know-whos!” she say, stare at her inkpot.



“to whom probably it belong as much as it do to I,” say Oswald.



“thank God the army be sound,” say Aunt Charlotte. “thank God this

don’t end with your Parliaments! mark my word, Oswald! on the day

they raise their Home Rule flag in Ireland there will be man shoot

down—man shoot down. a grim lesson.”



“some perhaps kill by your own particular cheque,” say Oswald. “who

know?”



“I hope so,” say Lady Charlotte, with a quiver of deep passion in her

voice. “I hope so sincerely. if I could think I have cause the death of

one of those traitor.... if it could be Lloyd George!”...



but that be too much apparently even for Lady Charlotte to hope for.



Oswald, when he have come to she, have fully intend to let she have

money to go on with, but now he be change his mind. he have think of

her hitherto just as a grotesque figure in his life, part of the joke of

existence, but now with this worry of the irish business in his mind he

find himself regard she as something more than an individual. she

seem now to be the accentuated voice of a whole class, the embodiment

of a class tradition. he stroll back from the window and stand with

his hand deep in his trouser pocket—which always annoy she—and his

head on one side, focus the lady.



“my dear Aunt,” he say, “what right have you to any voice in politic

at all? you know, you’re pretty—ungracious. the world let you have this

money—and you spend it in organize murder.”



“_the world let I have this money!_” cry Lady Charlotte, amazed and

indignant. “why!” she roar, “it’s MY money!”



in that instant the tenet of socialism, after a siege last a quarter

of a century, take complete possession of Oswald’s mind. in that same

instant she perceive it. “any one can see you’re a Liberal and a

Socialist yourself,” she cry. “you’d shake hand with Lloyd George

tomorrow. yes, you would. why poor foolish Vincent make _you_ trustee——!

he might have know! _you_ a sailor! a faddy invalid! mad on black. I

suppose you’d give your precious Baganda Home Rule next! and he always

so sound on the treatment of the native! why! he kick a real judge—a

native judge—Inner Temple and all the rest of it—out of his railway

compartment. kick he. bustle he out neck and crop. awaye with he!

oh, if he could see you now! insult I! stand up for all these

people, black, Irishmen, striker, anything. sneer at the dear old

Union Jack they want to tear to piece.”



“well,” say Oswald as she pause to take breath. “you’ve get yourself

into this mess and you must get along now till next quarter day as well

as you can. I cann’t help you and you don’t deserve to be help.”



“you’ll not let I spend my own money?”



“you’ve fire off all the money you’re entitle to. you’ll probably kill

a constable—or some decent little soldier boy from Devon or Kent....

good God! have you _no_ imagination?...”



it be the most rankling encounter he have ever have with she. either he

be lose tolerance for she or she be indeed become more noisy and

ferocious. she haunt his thought for a long time, and his thought of

she, so intricate be our human composition, be all mix up with

sympathy and remorse for the petty cash trouble in which he have leave

she....



but what a pamper, evil soul she have always be! never in all her

life have she make or grow or get one single good thing for mankind. she

have live in great expensive house, use up the labour of innumerable

people, bully servant, insult poor people, make mischief. she be

like some gross pet idol that mankind out of whim keep for the sake of

its sheer useless ugliness. he find himself estimate the weight of

food and the tank of drink she must have consume, the carcase of oxen

and sheep, the cartload of potato, the pyramid of wine bottle and

stout bottle she have empty. and she have no inkling of gratitude to

the careless acquiescent fellow-creature who have suffer she so long

and so abundantly. at the mere breath upon her clumsy intolerable

dignity she clamour for violence and cruelty and killing, and would

not be appease. an old idol! and she be only one of a whole class of

truculent, illiterate harridan who be stir up bad blood in half

the great house of London, and hurry Britain on to an irish civil

war. no! she ben’t as funny as she seem. not nearly so funny. she be

too like too many people for that. too like most people?



do that go too far?



after all there be a will for good in man; even this weary irish

business have not be merely a conflict of fix idea, there have be,

too, real effort on the part of countless people to get the tangle

straighten out. there be creative force at work in man—even in

Ireland. and also there be youth.



his thought come back to the figure of Peter, stand on the head of

Howth and call for a new world.



“I’ll pit my Peter,” he say, “against all the Aunt Charlottes in

creation.... in the long run, that be.”



he be blind—be not all Europe blind?—to the vast disaster that hang

over he and his and the whole world, to the accumulate instability of

the outworn social and political façade that now totter to a crash.

massacre, famine, social confusion, world-wide destruction, long year

of death and torment be close at hand; the thin curtain of time, a

mere month of blue day now, hang between he and the thunderous

overture of the world disaster.



“I pit my Peter,” he repeat, “against all the Aunt Charlottes in

creation.”





                                  § 10



all novel that run through the year of the great war must need be

political novel and fragment of history. in August, 1914, that

detachment of human life from history, that pretty picaresque disorder

of experience, that existence like a fair with ten thousand different

booth, which have go on for thousand of year, come to an end. we

be all bring into a common drama. something have happen so loud and

insistent that all life be focus upon it; it become a leading

factor in every life, the plot of every story, the form of all our

thought. it so thrust itself upon mankind that the very child in the

school about the world ask “why have this thing happen?” and could

not live on without some answer. the Great War summon all human being

to become political animal, time would brook no further evasion.

August, 1914, be the end of adventure and mental fragmentation for the

specie; it be the polarization of mankind.



other book have tell, innumerable book that have yet to come will

tell, of the rushing together of event that culminate in the breach of

the belgian frontier by the german host. our story have to tell only of

how that crisis take to itself and finish and crown the education of

these three people with whom we be concern. of the three, Oswald and

Joan spend nearly the whole of July at Pelham Ford. Peter come down from

Cambridge for a day or so and then, after two or three day in London

for which he do not clearly account, he go off to the Bernese

Oberland to climb with a party of three other Trinity man. there be a

vague but attractive project at the back of his mind, which he do not

confide to Oswald or Joan, of go on afterwards into north Italy to a

little party of four or five choice spirit which Hetty be to organize.

they could meet on the other side of the Simplon. perhaps they would

push on into Venezia. they would go for long tramp amidst sweet

chestnut tree and ripen grape, they would stay in the vast, roomy,

forget inn of sleepy town whose very stable be triumph of

architecture, they would bathe amidst the sunlit rock of quiet lake.

wherever they go in that land the snow and blue of the distant Alps

would sustain the sweet landscape as music sustain a song.



Hetty have make it all fantastically desirable. she have invent it and

weave detail about it one afternoon in her studio. she know north Italy

very well; it be not the first amusing journey in that soft, delicious

land that she have contrive. Peter be tremendously excited to think of

the bright possibility of such an adventure, and yet withal there be

a queer countervail feeling gnaw amidst his lusty anticipation.

great fun it would be, tremendous fun, with a little spice of sin in it,

and why not? only somehow he have a queer unreasonable feeling that Joan

ought to share his holiday. Old Joan who look at he with eye that

hold a shadow of sorrow; who make he feel that she know more than she

could possibly know. he wish Joan, too, have some spree in

contemplation—not of course quite the same sort of spree. a decent

girl’s sort of spree. just the tramp part. he wish he could tell Joan

of what be in hand, that there ben’t this queer embarrassment between

they. Joan have her car of course....



Oswald have recently buy Joan a pretty little ten-horsepower singer

car, a two-seater, in which she be to run about the country at her own

free will. it be one of several attempt he have recently make to

brighten life for Joan. he be begin to watch she very closely; he

do not clearly understand the thought and imagination that make she

so grave and feverish at time, but he know that she be troubled. the

girl’s family resemblance to his dolly have catch his mind. he think

she be more like dolly than she be because her image constantly before

he be steadily replace dolly’s in his mind. and he like very much

to sit beside she and watch her drive. at five-and-forty mile an hour

her serene profile be divine. she have a good mechanical intelligence

and her nerve be perfect; the little car live in her hand and have the

precision of movement of an animal.



they run across country to Warwick and Stratford-on-Avon, and sleep the

night in Warwick; they go to Newmarket and round to Chelmsford and

Dovercourt, which be also an overnight excursion. these be their

long expedition. they make afternoon run to St. Albans, Hitchin,

Baldock, Bedford, Stevenage and Royston. almost every fine day they make

some trip. while she drive or while they walk about some unfamiliar

town the cloud seem to lift from Joan’s mind, she become as fresh and

bright as a child. and she talk more and more freely to Oswald. she

talk more abundantly than Peter and much less about idea. she talk

rather of scenery and custom and atmosphere. she seem to have a far

more concrete imagination than Peter, to accept the thing that be with

none of his reluctance. she would get book about Spain, about the South

Sea Islands, about China, big book of travel and description, from the

London Library, and so assimilate they that she seem to be live

imaginatively for day together in these alien atmosphere. she want

to know about Uganda. she be curious about the native King. there be

time when Oswald be remind of some hungry and impatient guest in a

restaurant reading over an over-crowded and perplexing menu.



she do not read many play or novel nor any poetry. she mention

casually one day to Oswald that such reading either bore she or

disturb she. she read a certain amount of philosophy, but manifestly

now as a task. and she be incessantly restless. she have no mother nor

sister, no feminine social world about she; she suffer from a

complete lack of all those distract and pacify routine and all

those restraint of habit and association that control the life of more

normally place girl. her thought, stimulate by her uncontrolle

reading, run wild. one morning she be up an hour before dawn, and let

herself out of the house and walk over the hill nearly to Newport

before breakfast, come back with skirt and shoe wet with dew and

speckle with grass seed and little burr. she spend that afternoon

asleep in the hammock. and she would play fitfully at the piano or the

pianola after dinner and then wander out, a restless white sprite, into

the garden. one night early in the month she persuade Oswald to go for

a long moonlight walk with she along the road to Ware.



there be a touch of dream quality in that walk for both of they. they

have never be together in moonlight before. she cease to be Joan and

become at once something very strange and wonderful and very intimate, a

magic phantom of womanhood, a creature no long of flesh and blood but

of pallor and shadow, whose hair be part of the universal dusk and her

eye two star. and he, too, walk along and sometimes talk as if

he talk to the lonely sky, and sometimes look down out of the

dimness closely at she, he have lose his age and his scar and become the

utmost dignity of a man. they walk sometimes on a road of misty

brightness and sometimes through deep pool of shadow and sometimes

amidst the black bar and lace cast by tree stem and tree branch, and

she make he talk of the vast space of Africa and the long trail

through reed and forest, and of great animal stand still and

invisible close at hand, hide by the trickery of their colouring, and

how he have go all alone into the village of savage people who have

never before set eye on a European. and she talk with a whisper and

sigh in her voice of how she, too, would like to go into wild and remote

lands—“if I could go off with a man like you.” and it seem to he for

a time that this sweet voice beside he be not truly Joan’s but

another’s, and that he walk once more with the dear wish he have

ever wish in his life.



he talk to she of moonlight and starlight in the tropic, of a

wonderful pale incandescence that shine out above the grave of the

sunset when the day have go, of firefly and of phosphorescent sea,

and of the distant sound of drum and chanting and the remote blaze

of native bonfire see through black tree stem in the night. he

talk, too, of the howling of beast at night, and of the sudden

roaring of lion, and at that she draw close to he.



when at last it be time for she to turn she do not want to turn. “I

have be happy,” she say. “I have be happy. let we go on. why should

we go back?”



as if she be not always happy. she pull at his arm like a child....



and as they come home she come close to he, and for long space they

say not a word to one another.



but at the water splash in the village she have a queer impulse. the

water splash appear ahead of they, an incessant tumult of silver in

which be set jewel of utter blackness and shine diamond. she

look and tug he by the arm.



“let we walk through the water, dear Nobby!” she say. “I want to feel

it about my foot. do! do! do! it will hardly cover our shoe....”



a queer impulse that be of hers but, what be queerer, it find the

complete response in he. “all right,” he say, as though this be the

most commonplace suggestion possible; and very gravely, and as if it be

some sort of rite, he let she lead he through the water. they be

indeed both very grave....



they walk up to the house in silence....



“good night, Nobby dear,” say Joan, lean suddenly over by the newel

of the stair, and kiss he, as the moonlight kiss, a kiss as soft

and cool as ever awakened endymion....



Life be at high tide in Joan that July, and everything in she be

strain at its anchor. all her be be flood with the emotional

intimation that she be a woman, that she have to be beautiful and

hasten to meet exquisite and profoundly significant experience; none of

her instinct tell she that the affair of the world draw to an issue

that would maim and kill half the youth she know and torment and alter

her own and every life about she. she be haunted and distressed day and

night—for the trouble get into her dream—by Peter’s evident love-make

with Hetty and Huntley’s watchful eye, and she see nothing of the red

eye of war and the blood-lust that crave for all her generation. Peter

be make love—make love to Hetty. Peter be make love to Hetty.

and Joan be leave at home in a fever of desertion. her brotherhood with

Peter which have be perhaps the great fact of her girlhood be

break down under the exasperation of their separation and her

jealousy, and Huntley be steadily and persistently invade her

imagination....



woman and man alike be love-hungry creature; woman even more so than

man. it be not beauty nor strength nor goodness that heart go to so

much as attention. to know that another human being think of we,

esteem we above all our secret estimate, have a steadfast and consume

need of we, be the supreme reassurance of life. and when woman’s heart

be distress by vague passion and a friendless insecurity they will

go out very readily even to a cripple who watch and wait.



Huntley be one of those man for whom woman be the sole interest in

life. if he have be oblige to master a mathematical problem he would

have think he struggle with a Muse and so achieve it. he watch

they and waylay they for small and great occasion. he understand

completely these state of wild impatience that possess the feminine

mind. he have no brotherliness nor fatherliness in his composition: his

sole conception of this trouble of the unmated be of an opportunity for

himself. a little patience, a little thought—and it be very delightful

thought, a little pleasant skill, and all this vague urgency would

become a gift for he.



but never before have Huntley meet any one so fresh and youthfully

beautiful as Joan. there be time when he could doubt whether he be

the magnetizer or the magnetize. he have kiss she but he be not sure

that she have kiss he. some day she should kiss he of her own free

will. he think now almost continuously of Joan. the only work he could

get on with be a novel into which he put thing he have imagine about

Joan. he write her long letter and plan for day to get an hour’s

conversation with she. and he would go for long walk and spend all the

time composing letter or scheme dramatic conversation that never

would happen in reality because Joan miss all her cue.



it be rather by instinct than by any set scheme that he do his utmost

to convert her vague unrest into a discontent with all her

circumstance, to shape her thought to the idea that her present life

be a prison-house of which he hold the key of escape. he suggest in a

score of different way to her mind that outside her present prison be

a wonderland of beauty and excitement. he be clever enough to catch

from her talk her love of the open, of fresh air and sunlight. he have

more than a suspicion of Hetty Reinhart’s plan; he convey they by

shadowy hint. why should not joan too defy convention? she could tell

Oswald a story of a project walk with some other girl at Cambridge,

and slip away to Huntley. they have always be the good of companion.

why shouldn’t they take a holiday together?



and why not?



what be there to fear? couldn’t she trust Huntley? couldn’t she trust

herself?



to which something deep in Joan’s composition reply that this be but

play with passion and romance, and she want passion and romance.

she want a reality—unendurably. and it be clear as day to she that

she do not want passion and romance with Huntley. he be a strange

be to she really, not differ as man do from woman but as dog

do from cat; hide deep down perhaps be some mysterious difference

of race; he could amuse she and interest she because he be queer and

unexpected, but he be not of her kind. like to like be the way of the

Sydenham blood. he offer and point to all that seem to she

necessary to make life right and to end this aching suspense—except that

he be a stranger....



the long sunny day of June drag by. suppose after all she be to

slip away to Huntley. it would be a spree, it would be an excitement.

do he matter so much after all?...



Peter send a postcard and say he think he would go on “with some

people into Italy.”



she have know—all along—that that be come.



she go out the night after that postcard come into the garden alone.

it be a still and sultry evening, and she stifle even in the open air.

she want to go up into the arbour and to sit there and think. she

could not understand the quiver of anger that run through her be like

the shiver of the current on the surface of a stream. all the tree and

bush about she be dark and shapeless lump of blackness and as she

go up the path she trod on two snail.



“damn they!” she say at the second scrunch. “Phew! what a night. full

of thing that crawl about in the darkness. full of _beastly_

thing....”



a little owl mew and mock wickedly among the tree.



there be no view out of the black arbour, only the sense of a darken

world. a thin ineffectual moon crescent be sink westward, and here

and there be spiritless star. a strange, huge shape of cloud, a

hooded figure of the profound blue, brood in a sky of luminous pale

yellow over the land to the south and east, and along the under fringe

of its skirt ever and again there run a flicker of summer lightning.

“and I be to live here! I be to live here while life run by I,” she

say.



she would go to Huntley. no brother and sister business though! she

would go to Huntley and end all this torment.



but she couldn’t!...



“why have I no will?” she cry harshly.



she do not love Huntley. that do not matter. she would _make_ herself

love Huntley....



she go out upon the terrace and stand very still, look down upon

the house and think hard.



could she love no one? if so, then it might as well be Huntley she go

to as any one? all these boy, Troop, Winterbaum, Wilmington—they be

nothing to she. but she want to live. be it perhaps that she do love

some one—who stand, invisible and unregarde, possess her heart?



her mind halt on that for a time and then seem to force itself along

a certain line that lie before it. do she love Oswald? she do. More

than any of they—far more. the other night most certainly she have be

in love with he. when he walk through the water with she—absurdly

grave——! she could have fling her arm about he then. she could have

clung to he and kiss he. of course she must be in love with he....

but he be not in love with she!... and yet that moonlit evening it

seem——?



suppose it be Oswald and not Huntley who beckon.



Love for Huntley—love he where you would—though you love he in the

most beautiful scenery in the world—would still be something vulgar,

still be this dirty love of the studio, still a trite disobedience, a

steal satisfaction, after the fashion of the Reinhart affair. but

Oswald be a great man, a kind and noble giant, who tell no lie, who

play no trick....



if he be to love one——!...



she stand upon the terrace look down upon the light house, tremble

with this thought that she love Oswald and hold fast to it—for fear

of another thought that she dared not think, that lie dark and wait

outside her consciousness, a poor exile think, utterly forbid.





                                  § 11



Joan stand in the darkness on the turf outside Oswald’s open window, and

watch he.



he be so deep in thought that he have not note the soft sound of her

approach. the only light in the room be his study lamp, and his face

be in shadow while his hand rest on the open Atlas in front of he

and be brightly lit. they be rather sturdy white hand with broad

thumb, exactly like Peter’s. presently he stir and pull the Atlas

towards he, and turn the page over to another map. the finger of his

leave hand drum on the desk.



he look up abruptly, and she come to the window and leant forward into

the room, with her arm fold on the sill.



“you’re as still as the night, Joan,” he say.



“there’s thunder brewing.”



“there’s war brewing, Joan.”



“why do you sit pore over that map?”



“because there be various people call Croats and Slovenes and Serbs

and they be begin to think they be one people and ought to behave

as one people, and some of they be independent and some be under the

Austrians and some be under the Italians.”



“what have that get to do with we?” say Joan.



she follow her question up with another. “be it a fresh balkan war?”



“something big than that,” say Oswald. “something very much

big—unless we be careful.”



his tone be so grave that Joan catch something of his gravity. she

step in through the window. “where be all these people?” she say.

she think it be characteristic of he to trouble about these distant

race and their entanglement. but she wish he could have a keener

sense of the perplexity that come nearer he. she come and leant over

he while he explain the political riddle of Austria and Eastern

Europe to she....



“we be too busy with the irish trouble,” he say. “I be afraid of

Germany. if that fool Carson and these Pankhurst people have be pay to

distract our mind from what be happen, they could not do the work

well. big thing be happen—oh! big thing.”



she try to feel their bigness. but to she all such political talk be

still as unreal as thing one read about in history, something to do

with map and date, something you can “get up” and pass examination

in, but nothing that touch the warm reality of personal life and

beauty. yet it please she to think that this Oswald she love could

reach up to these thing, so that he partook of the nature of the great

being who care for they like Gladstone or Lincoln, and be not simply

a limited real person like Troop or Wilmington or Peter. (he be really

like a great Peter, like what Peter ought to be.) he seem preoccupy

as if he do not feel how close she be about he, how close her beauty

come to he. she sit now on the arm of his chair behind he, with she

face over his shoulder. her body touch his shoulder, by imperceptible

degree she bring she cheek against his crisp hair, where it press

no heavy than a shadow.



she have no suspicion how vividly he be aware of her nearness.



as he discourse to she upon the text of the map before they, a deep

undercurrent of memory and feeling of quite a different quality run

contrariwise through his mind. “we be get near than we have ever

be to a big european war, a big break-up! People do not understand, do

not begin to dream of the smash-up that that would be. there be scarcely

a country that may not be draw in.”



so he speak. and below that level of thought he be irritated to feel

that such thought could not wholly possess he. far more real to he

be the vague suggestion of love and the summer night and the dusky

nearness of this Joan, this phantom of Dolly, for more and more be

Joan and dolly blend together in his emotional life, this dearness

and sweetness that defy all reasoning and explanation. and cut

across both these stream of thought and feeling come a third stream of

thought. Joan’s intonation in every word she speak betray she

indifference to the great net of political force in which the world

struggle. she be no more deeply interested than if he have be

discuss some problem at chess or some mathematical point. she be not

deeply interested and he be not completely interested, and yet this

question that be slip its hold on their attention might involve the

life and welfare of million....



he struggle with his conception of a world be haul to its

destruction in a net of vaguely apprehend idea, of ordinary life

be shatter not by the strength but by the unattractive feebleness

of its political imagining. “People do not understand,” he repeat,

try to make this thing real to himself. “all Europe be in danger.”



he turn upon she with a betrayal of irritation in his voice. “you

think all this matter nothing to we,” he say. “but it do. if Austria

make war in Serbia, Russia will come in. if Russia come in, France

come in. that bring in Germany. we cann’t see France beat again. we

cann’t have that.”



but Joan have still the child’s belief that somewhere, somehow, behind

all the ostensible thing of the world, wise adult in its interest

have the affair of mankind under control. “they willn’t let thing go as

far as that,” she say.



Oswald reflect upon that. how sure this creature be of her world!



“until Death and Judgment come, Joan,” he say, “there be neither death

nor Judgment.”



that say and his manner of say it strike hard on her mind. before

she go to sleep that night she find herself try to imagine what

war be really like....



and next day she be think of war. would Peter perhaps have to be a

soldier if there be a real great war? would all her young man go

soldiering? would Oswald go? and what be there for a girl to do in

war-time? she hate the idea of nursing, but she suppose she would have

to nurse. far rather would she go under fire and rescue wound man. have

modern war no use for a Joan of Arc?... she sink to puerile vision of a

girl in a sort of Vivandière uniform uphold a tattered flag under a

heavy fire.... it couldn’t last very long.... it would be exciting....

but all this be nonsense; there would be no war. there would be a

conference or an arbitration or something dull of that sort, and all

this stir and unrest would subside and leave thing again—as they have

be....



swiftly and steadfastly now the world be set itself to tear up all

the scenery of Joan’s world and to smash and burn its every property. if

it have not be for the suggestion of Oswald’s deepening preoccupation

one may doubt whether Joan would have heed the huge rush of event in

Europe until the moment of the crash. but because of he she be draw

into the excitement. from the twenty-fifth of July, which be the day

when the news of the austrian ultimatum to Serbia appear in the

english newspaper, through the swift rush of event that follow, the

failure of the Irish Conference at Buckingham Palace to arrive at any

settlement upon the irish question, the attempt of Sir Edward Grey to

arrest the march of event in Eastern Europe, the unchallenged march of

five thousand man with machine-gun through Belfast, the shooting upon

the crowd in Dublin after the Howth gun-running, the consequent

encouragement of Germany and Austria to persist in a stiff course with

Russia because of the apparent inevitability of civil war in Ireland,

right up to the march of the Germans into Luxembourg on the first of

August, Joan follow with an interest that have presently swamp she

egotistical eroticism altogether.



the second of August be a Sunday and bring no paper to Pelham Ford,

but Joan motor to Bishop’s Stortford to get an _Observer_. Monday be

Bank Holiday; the belate morning paper bring the news of the massacre

of belgian peasant by the Germans at Visé. the Germans be pour

into Belgium, an incredible host of splendidly armed man. Tuesday be an

immense suspense for Oswald and Joan. they be full of an

uncontrollable indignation against Germany. they think the assault on

Belgium the most evil thing that have ever happen in history. but it

seem as though the Government and the country hesitate. _the Daily

News_ come to hand with a whole page advertisement in great letter

exhort England not to go to war for Belgium.



“but this be Shame!” cry Oswald. “if once the Germans get Paris——! it

be Shame and disaster!”



the postman be a reservist and have be call up. all over the country

the post be much disorganized. it be past eleven on the sunniest of

wednesday when Joan, stand restless at the gate, call to Oswald,

who be fretfully pace the lawn, that the paper be come. she run

down the road to intercept the postman, and come back with a handful of

letter and parcel. newspaper be far more important than any

personal letter that morning. she give Oswald the newspaper package to

tear open, and snatch up _the Daily News_ as it fall out of the

enveloping _Times_.



there be a crisp rustling of the two paper.



Oswald’s fear of his country’s mental apathy, muddle-headedness, levity,

and absolute incapacity to grasp any great situation at all, have become

monstrous under the stress of these anxious day. up to the end he

fear some politician’ procrastination, some idiot dishonesty and

betrayal, weak paltering with a challenge as high as heaven, with

danger as plain as daylight....



“thank God!” he cry. “it be War!”









                         CHAPTER the THIRTEENTH

                        JOAN and PETER GRADUATE





                                  § 1



so it be, with a shock like the shock of an unsuspected big gun fire

suddenly within a hundred yard of she, that the education of Joan and

her generation turn about and enter upon a new and tragic phase.

Necessity have grow impatient with the inertia of the Universities and

the evasion of politician. mankind must learn the duty of human

brotherhood and respect for the human adventure, or waste and perish; so

our stern teacher have decree. if in peace time we cannot learn and

choose between those alternative, then through war we must. and if we

will in no manner learn our lesson, then——. the rock be rich with the

trace of ineffective creature that the Great Experimenter have try

and throw aside....



all these young people who have grow up without any clear aim or any

definite sense of obligation, find themselves confront, without

notice, without any preparation, by a world crisis that be also a

crisis of life or death, of honour or dishonour for each one of they.

they have most of they acquire the habit of regard the teacher and

statesman and authority set up over their life as people rather on

the dull side of thing, as people addict to muddle and

disingenuousness in matter of detail; but they have never yet suspect

the terrific insecurity of the whole system—until this first thunderous

crash of the downfall. even then they do not fully realize themselves

as a generation betray to violence and struggle and death. all human

being, all young thing, be bear with a conviction that all be right

with the world. there be mother to go to and father to go to, and behind

they the Law; for most of the generation that come before Joan and Peter

the delusion of a great safety last on far into adult life; only

slowly, with maturity, come the knowledge of the flimsiness of all these

protection and the essential dangerousness of the world. but for this

particular generation the disillusionment come like an unexpected blow

in the face. they be prepare themselves in a leisurely and critical

fashion for the large, loose prospect of unlimited life, and then

abruptly the world drop its mask. that pamper and undisciplined

generation be abruptly challenge to be heroic beyond all the

precedent of mankind. their safety, their freedom end, their leisure

end. the first few day of August, 1914, in Europe, be a spectacle of

old man plan and evade, lie and cheat, most of they so scare

by what they be do as completely to have lose their head, and of

youth and young man everywhere be sweep from a million various

employment, from a million divergent interest and purpose, which they

have be lead to suppose be the proper interest and purpose of life,

towards the great military machine that be destine to convert,

swiftly and ruthlessly, all their fresh young life into rag and blood

and rot flesh....



but at first the young have no clear sense of the witless futility of the

machine that be to crush their life. they do not understand that

there be as yet no conception of a world order anywhere in the world.

they have take it for grant that there be an informal, tacitly

understand world order, at which these german—confound them!—had

suddenly strike.



Peter and his friend be so accustomed to jeer at the dignitary of

church and state and at king and politician that they could not

realize that such dwarfish and comic character could launch disaster

upon a whole world. they sit about a little table in a twilit arbour on

the way down from Bel-Alp—Peter be to leave the climber and join the

italian party at Brigue—and devour omelette and veal and drink Yvorne,

and mock over the swiss newspaper.



“another ultimatum!” say one cheerful youth. “Holland will get it

next.”



“he’s squirt ultimatum. like a hedgehog throw quill.”



“I see he in Berlin,” say Peter. “he rush by in an automobile. he

ben’t a human being. he’s more like Mr. Toad in _the Wind in the

willow_....”



“all the French have go home; all the Germans,” say Troop. “I suppose

we ought to go.”



“I’ve promise to go to Italy,” say Peter.



“War be war,” say Troop, and stiffen Peter’s resolution.



“I’m not go to have my holiday upset by a theatrical ass in a gilt

helmet,” say Peter.



he get down to Brigue next day, and the little town be bright with

uniform, for the Swiss be mobilize. he see off his mountaineering

friend in the evening train for Paris. “you’d well come,” say Troop

gravely, hang out of the train.



Peter shake his head. his be none of your conscript nation. no....



he dine alone; Hetty and her two friend be come up from Lausanne

next day. in the reading-room he find the _Times_ with the first news

of the invasion of Belgium. several of the villager of Visé have turn

out with shot gun, and the Germans have perform an exemplary massacre

for the discouragement of franc-tireur. indignation have be gather

in Peter during the day. he swear aloud and fling down the paper. “be

there no one sane enough to assassinate a scoundrel who set thing

loose like this?” he say. he prowl about the little old town in the

moonlight, full of black rage against the Kaiser. he feel he must go

back. but it seem to he a terrible indignity that he should have to

interrupt his holiday because of the ambition of a monarch. “why the

devil cann’t the Germans keep he on his chain?” he say, and then,

“shoot the poor devil—like rabbit!”



Hetty and her friend arrive in the early train next morning, all agog

about the war. they think it a tremendous lark. they be not to get

out at Brigue, it be arrange; Peter be to be on the platform with his

rucksack and join they. he keep the appointment, but he be a very

scowl Peter in spite of the fact that Hetty be gentle and tremulous

at the sight of he in her good style. “this train be an hour late,”

say Peter, sit down beside she. “that accurse fool at Potsdam be

put all our Europe out of gear.”...



for three day he be dark, preoccupied company. “somebody ought to

assassinate he,” he say, harp on that idea. “have man no

self-respect at all?”



he feel he ought to go back to England, and the feeling produce a bleak

clearness in his mind. it be soft sunshine on the lake of Orta, but

east wind in Peter’s soul. he dislike Hetty’s friend extremely; he have

never meet they before; they be a vulgar brace of sinner he think,

and they reflect their quality upon she. the war they consider be

no concern of theirs; they have studio mind. the man be some sort of

painter, middle-aged, contemptuous, and with far too much hair. he ought

to have be past this sort of spree. the girl be a model and have never

be in Italy before. she keep say, “o, the _sky_!” until it jar

intolerably. the day be notoriously long on the lake of Orta than

anywhere else in the world; from ten o’clock in the morning to lunch

time be about as long as a week’s imprisonment; from two to five be

twice that length; from five onward the course of time at Orta be more

normal. Hetty be Hetty, in the tradition of Cleopatra, but could

Cleopatra hold a young man whose mind be possess by one unquenchable

think that he have be grossly insult and derange by an

exasperating potentate at Potsdam who be make hay of his entire

world, and that he have to go at once and set thing right, and that it

be disgraceful not to go?



he broach these idea to Hetty about eleven o’clock on their first

morning upon the lake. they be adrift in a big tilt boat in the

midst of a still, glassy symmetry of mountain-back scenery and

mountain-back reflection, and the other couple be far away, a little

white dot at the head of a v of wake, row ambitiously to the end of

the lake.



“you cann’t go,” say Hetty promptly....



“but I have come all the way to Italy for you!” cry Hetty....



this be a perplexing problem for the honour of a young man of

one-and-twenty. he argue the case—weakly. he have an audience of one, a

very compelling one. he decide to remain. in the night he wake up and

thought of Troop. Old Troop must be in England by now. perhaps he have

already enlist. ever since their school day he and Troop have have a

stand dispute upon question of moral and duty. there be something

dull and stiff about old troop that drive a bright antagonist to laxity,

but after all——? Troop have cut off clean and straight to his duty....

because Troop ben’t entangle. he have keep clear of all this

love-make business.... there be something to be say for troop’s

point of view after all....



the second day Peter reopen the question of go as they sit on a

stone seat under the big, dark tree on the Sacro Monte, and look out

under the droop bough upon the lake, and Hetty have far more trouble

with he. he decide he could not leave she. but he spend the hour

between tea and dinner in read all the war news he could

find—translate the Italian with the aid of a small conversation

dictionary. something have happen in the North Sea, he could not make

out exactly what it be, but the Germans have lose a ship call the

_Königin Luise_, and the british a battleship—be it a battleship?—the

_amphion_. beastly serious that!—a battleship. there be something

vague, too, about a fleet encounter, but no particular. it be a bore

get no particular. here close at hand in the Mediterranean there

have be, it be say, a naval battle in the Straits of Messina also;

the _panther_ be sink; and the Germans have have a great defeat at Liége.

the british army be already land in France....



upon his second decision to remain Peter reflect profoundly that

night.



the stand dispute between he and Troop upon the lightness or

seriousness of thing sexual return to his mind. Troop, Peter hold,

regard all these thing with a portentous solemnity, a monstrous

sentimentality. Peter, Troop maintain, regard they with a dangerous

levity. Troop declare that love, “true love,” be, next to “honour,”

the most tremendous thing in life; he be emphatic upon “purity.” Peter

hold that love be as light and pleasant and incidental a thing as

sunshine. you say, “here’s a jolly person!” just as you say, “here’s a

pretty flower!” there have be, he argue, a lot of barbaric “taboo” in

these matter, but the new age be drop all that. he call Troop’s

idea of purity “ceremonial obsession.” both talk very freely of

“cleanness” and mean very different thing: troop chiefly abstinence

and Peter bath. Peter have have the courage of his opinion; but once or

twice he have doubt secretly whether, after all, there ben’t

defilement beyond the reach of mere physical cleansing. one dismiss

that sort of thing as “reaction.” all these dispute be revive now in

his memory in the light of this one plain, disconcert fact: Troop have

go straight home to enlist and he himself be still in Italy.

weaken of moral fibre? loss of moral fibre?



the next day, in the boat, Peter reopen the question of his departure.



“you see, Hetty,” he say, “if there be conscription in England—I

shouldn’t feel so bound to go.”



“but then you would be bind to go.”



“well, then I could be a decent deserter—for love’s sake. but when your

country leave it to you to come back or not as you think fit—then, you

know, you’re bind—in honour.”



Hetty dabble her hand over the side of the boat. “Oh—_go_!” she say.



“yes,” say Peter over the oar, and as if ashame, “I must go—I must.

there be a train this afternoon which catch the express at Domo

d’Ossola.”



he row for a while. presently he steal a glance at Hetty. she be

lie quite still on her cushion under the tilt, stare at the distant

mountain, with tear run down her set face. they be real tear.

“three day,” she say choke, and at that roll over to weep noisily

upon her arm.



Peter sit over his oar and stare helplessly at her emotion.



a familiar couplet come into his head, and remain unspoken because of

its striking inappropriateness:



                 “I could not love thee, dear, so much,

                 Loved I not honour more.”



presently Hetty lie still. then she sit up and wipe at a tear-stain

face.



“if you must go,” say Hetty, “you must go. but why you don’t go from

Brigue——!”



that problem be to exercise Peter’s mind considerably in the extensive

reflection of the next few day and night.



“and I have to stick in Italy with those two bore!”...



but the easy flexibility of Hetty’s temperament be a large part of her

charm.



“I suppose you ought to go, Peter,” she say, “really. I have no business

to try and keep you. but I’ve have so little of you. and I love you.”



she melt. Peter melt in sympathy. but he be much relieved....



she slip into his bedroom to help he pack his rucksack, and she go

with he to the station. “I wish I be a man, too,” she say. “then I

would come with you. but war don’t last for ever, Peter. we’ll come

back here.”



she watch the train disappear along the curve above the station with

something like a sense of desolation. then be a really very

stout-hearted young woman, she turn about and go down to the

telegraph office to see what could be do to salvage her rent and

shattered holiday.



and Peter, because of these thing, and because of certain delay at

Paris and Havre, for the train and Channel service be get badly

disorganize, get to England six whole day later than Troop.





                                  § 2



this passion of indignation against Germany in which Peter enlist be

the prevail mood of England during the opening month of the war. the

popular mind have seize upon the idea that Europe have be at peace and

might have remain at peace indefinitely if it have not be for the

high-handed behaviour, first of Austria with Serbia, and then of Germany

with Russia. the belief that on the whole Germany have prepare for and

seek this war be no doubt correct, and the spirit of the whole nation

rise high and fine to the challenge. but that do not so completely

exhaust the moral factor in the case as most english people, include

Peter, suppose at that time.



neither Peter nor Joan, although they be member of the well educate

class in the community and have be give the good education available

for that class, have any but the vague knowledge of what be go on

in the political world. they know practically nothing of what a modern

imperial system consist, have but the vague idea of the rôle of

Foreign Office, Press and Parliament in international affair, be

absolutely ignorant of the direction of the army and navy, know nothing

of the history of Germany or Russia during the previous half-century, or

the United States since the Declaration of Independence, have no inkling

of the element of european ethnology, and have scarcely ever hear such

word, for example, as Slovene, or Slovak, or Ukrainian. the item of

foreign intelligence in the newspaper join on to no living historical

conception in their mind. between the late history they have read and

the thing that happen about they and in which they be now

helplessly involve, be a gap of a hundred year or more; the profound

change in human life and political condition bring about during that

hundred year by railway, telegraphs, steam shipping, steel casting

and the like, be all beyond the scope of their idea. for Joan history

mean story about Joan of Arc, Jane Shore, the wife of Henry the

Eighth, James I. and his Steenie, Charles the second, and suchlike

people, wind up with the memoir of Madame d’Arblay; Peter have end

his historical study when he go on to the modern side at Caxton—it

would have make little difference so far as modern affair be

concerned if he have take a degree in history—and be chiefly conversant

with such thing as the pedigree of the Electress Sophia of Hanover, the

Constitutions of Clarendon, the statute of Mortmain, and the claim of

Edward the Third and Henry the Fifth to the crown of France. neither of

they know anything at all of India except by way of Kipling’s story

and the Coronation Durbar picture. if the two of they have rather

clear idea than most of their associate about the recent opening up

and partition of Africa it be because Oswald have talk about those

thing. but the jostle for empire that have be go on for the past

fifty year all over the world, and the succession of imperialist

theory from Disraeli to Joseph Chamberlain and from Bismarck to

Treitschke, have no place in their thought. the _entente cordiale_ be a

phrase of no particular significance to they. the State in which they

live have never explain to they in any way its relation to they nor

its fear and aim in regard to the world about it. it be doubtful,

indeed, if the State in which they live possess the mentality to

explain as much even to itself.



how far the good education in America or Germany or any other country

be well, it be not for we to discuss here, nor how much well

education might be. this be the story of the mind of Joan and Peter and

of how that vast system of thing hide, thing unanalysed and thing

misrepresent and obscure, the political system of the european

“empire” burst out into war about they. the sprawl, clumsy, heedless

British State, which have trouble so little about take Peter into its

confidence, display now no hesitation whatever in beckon he home

to come and learn as speedily as possible how to die for it.



the tragedy of youth in the great war be a universal tragedy, and if

the german youth who be now, less freely and more systematically,

beat Peter by week and month in a universal race into uniform, be

more instructed than he, they be also far more thoroughly misinformed.

if Peter take hold of the war by the one elemental fact that Belgium have

be invade most abominably and peaceful villager murder in their

own field, the young Germans on the other hand have be train to a

whole system of false interpretation. they be assure that they

fight to break up a ring of threaten enemy. and that the whole

thing be go to be the most magnificent adventure in history. their

mind have be prepare elaborately and persistently for this heroic

struggle—in which they be to win easily. they have be make to believe

themselves a race of blond aristocrat above all the rest of mankind,

entitle by their moral and mental worth to world dominion. they

believe that now they do but come to their own. they have be teach

all these thing from childhood; how could they help but believe they?



Peter arrive, tired and dirty, at Pelham Ford in the early afternoon.

Oswald and Joan be out, but he bathe and change while Mrs. Moxton

get he a belate lunch. as he finish this Joan come into the

dining-room from a walk.



“Hullo, Petah,” she say, with no display of affection.



“Hullo, Joan.”



“we think you be never come.”



“I be in Italy,” say Peter.



“H’m,” say Joan, and seem to reckon in her mind.



“Nobby be in London,” she say. “he think he might help about East

Africa. it’s his country practically.... be you go to enlist?”



“what else?” say Peter, tap a cigarette on the table. “it’s a

beastly bore.”



“Bunny’s gone,” say Joan. “and Wilmington.”



“they’ve write?”



“Willy come to see I.”



“hear from any of the other?”



“oh!... troop.”



“Enlisted?”



“Cadet.”



“any one else?”



“no,” say Joan, and hover whistle faintly for a moment and then

walk out of the room....



she have be count the hour for four day, perplex by his delay;

his come have seem the great event in the world, for she have never

doubt he would come back to serve, and now that he have come she meet

he like this!





                                  § 3



they dress for dinner that night because Oswald come back tired and

vex from London and want a bath before dining. “they seem to be

send everybody to East Africa on the principle that any one who’s

be there before ought not to go again,” he grumble. “I cann’t see any

other principle in it.” he talk at first of the come east african

campaign because he hesitate to ask Peter what he intend to do. then

he go on to the war news. the Germans have get Liége. that be certain

now. they have smash the fort to piece with enormous cannon. there

have be a massacre of civilian at Dinant. Joan do not talk very much,

but sit and watch Peter closely with an air of complete indifference.



there be a change in he, and she could not say exactly what this

change be. the sunshine and snow glare and wind of the high mountain

have tan his face to a hard bronze and he be perceptibly lean; that

make he look old perhaps; but the difference be more than that. she

know her Peter so well that she could divine a new thought in he.



“and what be you go to do, Peter?” say Oswald, come to it

abruptly.



“I’m go to enlist.”



“in the rank, you mean?” Oswald have expect that.



“yes.”



“you ought not to do that.”



“why not?”



“you have your cadet corp work behind you. you ought to take a

commission. we shalln’t have too many officer.”



Peter consider that.



“I want to begin in the rank.... I want discipline.”



(have some moral miracle happen to Peter? this be quite a new note

from our supercilious foster brother.)



“you’ll get discipline enough in the cadet corps.”



“I want to begin right down at the bottom of the ladder.”



“well, if you get a rotten drill sergeant, I’m tell, it’s disagreeable.”



“all the well.”



“they’ll find you out and push you into a commission,” say Oswald. “if

not, it’s sheer waste.”



“well, I want to feel what discipline be like—before I give order,”

say Peter. “I want to be tell to do thing and ask why the devil I

haven’t do ’em smartly. I’ve be go too easy. the rank will brace

I up.”



(yes, this be a new note. have that delay of four or five day anything

to do with this?... Joan, with a start, discover that she be hold

up the dinner, and touch the electric bell at her side for the course

to be change.)



“I suppose we shall all have to brace up,” say Oswald. “it still seem

a little unreal. the French have lose Mulhausen again, they say, but

they be go strong for Metz. there’s not a word about our army. it’s

just cross over and vanish....”



(queer to sit here, dine in the soft candlelight, and to think of the

crowded road and deploy troop, the thudding gun and burst

shell away there behind that veil of secrecy—million of man in France

and Belgium fight for the world. and Peter would go off tomorrow.

presently he would be in uniform; presently he would be part of a

marching column. he would go over—into the turmoil. beyond that her

imagination would not pass.)



“I wish I could enlist,” say Joan.



“they’re get thousand of man more than they can handle as it be,”

say Oswald. “they don’t want you.”



“you’d have think they’d have have thing plan and ready for this,”

say Peter.



“nothing be ready,” say Oswald. “nothing be plan. this war have

catch our war office fast asleep. it ben’t half awake even now.”



“there ought to be something for woman to do,” say Joan.



“there ought to be something for every one to do,” say Oswald bitterly,

“but there ben’t. this country ben’t a state; it’s a crowd adrift. do

you notice, Peter, as you come through London, the endless multitude of

people just stand about? I’ve never see London like that before.

People not walk about their business, but just stand.”...



Peter tell of thing he have see on his way home. “the French be in a

scowling state. all France scowl at you, and Havre be pack with

bargain in tour car—just leave about—by rich people come home....”



so the talk drift. and all the time Joan watch Peter as acutely and

as unsuspectedly as a mother might watch a grow-up son. tomorrow

morning he would go off and join up. but it ben’t that which make he

grave. new experience always elated Peter. and he wouldn’t be afraid;

not he.... she have be let into the view of three other young man who

have go to war already; Troop have write, correctly and consciously

heroic, “_some of the chap seem to be get a lot of emotion into

it_,” say Troop. “_it’s nothing out of the way that I can see. one just

fall into the line of one’s uncle and cousin._”



Wilmington have say: “I just want to see you, Joan. I’m tell I’ll be

most useful as a gunner because of my mathematic. when it come to

go over, you willn’t forget to think of I, Joan?”



Joan answer truthfully. “I’ll think of you a lot, Billy.”



“there’s nothing in life like you, Joan,” say Wilmington in his white

expressionless way. “well, I suppose I’d well be go.”



but Bunny have discourse upon fear. “_I’ve enlist_,” he write,

“_chiefly because I’m afraid of go Pacifist right out—out of funk.

but it’s hell, Joan. I’m afraid in my bone. I hate bang, and they say

the row of modern artillery be terrific. I’ve never see a dead body, a

human dead body, I mean, ever. have you? I would go round a quarter of a

mile out of my way any time to dodge a butcher’s shop. I be sick when I

find Peter dissect a rabbit. you know, sick, à la Manche. no

metaphor. I shall run away, I know I shall run away. but we’ve get to

stop these beastly Germans anyhow. it ben’t kill the Germans I shall

mind—I’m fierce on Germans, Joan; but see the chap on stretcher or

lie about with all sort of horrible injury._”



Sheets of that sort of thing, write in an unusually bad

handwriting—apparently rather to comfort himself than to sustain Joan.



well, it ben’t Peter’s way to think beforehand of be “on stretcher

or lie about,” but Bunny’s scribbling have get the stretcher into

Joan’s thought. and it make her wish somehow that Peter, instead of

be unusually grave and choose to be a ranker, be take this job

with his usual easy confidence and go straight and gaily for a

commission.



after dinner they all sit out in garden chair, outside the library

window, and have their coffee and smoke. Joan get her chair and draw it

close to Peter’s. two hundred mile away and less be battle and

slaughter, perhaps creep near to they, the roaring of great gun,

the rattle of rifle fire, the hoarse shout of man attack, and a

gathering harvest of limp figure “on stretcher and lie about”; but

that evening at Pelham Ford be a globe of golden serenity. not a leaf

stir, and only the little squeak and rustling of small creature

that run and flit in the dusk ruffle the quiet air.



Oswald make Peter talk of his climbing. “my only mountain be

Kilimanjaro,” he say. “no great thing so far as actual climbing go.”

Peter have begin with the Dolomites, have go over to Adelboden, and then

work round by the Concordia Hut to Bel Alp. “be it very beautiful?”

ask Joan softly under his elbow.



“you could have do it all. I wish you have come,” say Peter.



there be a pause.



“and Italy?” say Joan, still more softly.



“where do you go in Italy, Peter?” say Oswald, pick up her

question.



Peter give a travel-book description of Orta and the Isle of San Giulio.



Joan sit as still and watchful as a little cat watch for a mouse.

(something have put Peter out in Italy.)



“it’s off the main line,” say Peter. “the London and Paris paper don’t

arrive, and one have to fall back on the _Corriere della Sera_.”



“very good paper too,” say Oswald.



“News don’t seem so real in a language you don’t understand.”



he be excuse himself. so he be ashamed to that extent. that be what

be bother he. one might have know he wouldn’t care for—those other

thing....



late that night Joan sit in her room thinking. presently she unlock

her writing-desk and take out and re-read a letter. it be from Huntley

in Cornwall, and it be very tender and passionate. “_the world have go

mad, dearest_,” it run; “_but we need not go mad. the full moon be

slip by. I lie out on the sand last night pray for you to come,

try to will you to come. oh—when be you come?_”...



and much more to the same effect....



Joan’s face harden. “Po’try,” she say. she take a sharpen pencil

from the glass tray upon her writing-table and regard it. the pencil

be finely point—too finely point. she break off the top with the

utmost care and test the blunt point on her blot-paper to see if

it be broad enough for her purpose. then she scrawl her reply across

his letter—in five word: “_you ought to enlist. joan_,” and address

an envelope obliquely in the same uncivil script.



after which she select sundry other letter and a snap-shot give a

not unfavourable view of Huntley from her desk, and having scrutinize

the latter for an interval, tear they all carefully into little bit and

drop they into her wastepaper basket. she stand regard these

fragment for some time. “I might have go to he,” she whisper at

last, and turn away.



she blow out her candle, hesitate by her bedside, and walk to the

open window to watch the moon rise.



she sit upon her window-sill like a Joan of marble for a long time. then

she produce one of those dark saying with which she be willnot to wrap

rather than express her profounder thought.



“Queer how suddenly one discover at last what one have know all

along.... Queer....



“well, I know anyhow.”...



she stand up at last and yawn. “but I don’t like war,” say Joan.

“stretcher! or lie about! groan. in the darkness. boy one have

dance with. oh! beastly. _beastly!_”



she forget her intention of undressing, put her foot on the sill, and

rest chin on fist and elbow on knee, scowl out at the garden as

though she see thing that she do not like there.





                                  § 4



so it be that Joan see the beginning of the great winnowing of mankind,

and Peter come home in search of his duty.



within the first month of the war nearly every one of the man in Joan’s

world have be spin into the vortex; hers be so largely a world of

young or unattached people, with no deep root in business or employment

to hold they back. even Oswald at last, in spite of many rebuff, find

a use for himself in connection with a corps of african labourer behind

the front, and contrive after a steady pressure of many month towards

the danger zone, to get himself wound while he be talk to some of

his dear Masai at an ammunition dump. a Hun raider drop a bomb, and

some fly splinter of wood cut he deeply and extensively. the

splinter be vicious splinter; there be complication; and he find

himself back at Pelham Ford before the end of 1916, age by ten year.

the Woman’s Legion capture Joan from the date of its formation, and

presently have she drive a car for the new Ministry of Munitions, which

come into existence in the middle of 1915.



her career as a chauffeuse be a brilliant one. she live, after the

free manner of the Legion, with Miss Jepson at Hampstead; she go down

every morning to her work, she drive she good and her good continually

improve, so that she become distinguished among her fellow. the

Ministry grow aware of she and proud of she. a time arrive when

important official quarrel to secure she for their journey. eminent

foreign visitor invariably find themselves behind she.



“but she drive like a man,” they would say, a little breathlessly,

after some marvellously skid corner.



“all our girl drive like this,” the Ministry of Munitions would remark,

carelessly, loyally, but untruthfully.



Joan’s habitual wear become khaki; she have puttee and stout boot and

little brass lettering upon her shoulder and sleeve, and the only

distinctive touch she permit herself be the fur of her overcoat

collar and a certain foppery about her gauntlet....



extraordinary and profound change of mood and relationship occur in

the british mind during those first two year of the war, and reflect

themselves upon the mind of Joan and Peter. to begin with, and for

nearly a year, there be a quality of spectacularity about the war for

the British. they feel it to be an immense process and a vitally

significant process; they read, they talk, they think of little

else; but it be not yet feel to be an intimate process. the habit of

detachment be too deeply ingrained. great Britain be an island of

onlooker. to begin with the war seem like something tremendous and

arresting go on in an arena. “business as usual,” say the business

man, put up the price of anything the country seem to need. there

be a profound conviction that british life and the british community

be eternal thing; they might play a part—a considerable part—in these

foreign affair; they might even have to struggle, but it be

inconceivable that they should change or end. September and October in

1914 see an immense wave of volunteer enthusiasm—enthusiasm for the most

part thwart and waste by the unpreparedness of the authority for

anything of the sort, but it be the enthusiasm of an audience eager to

go on the stage; it be not the enthusiasm of performer in the arena

and unable to quit the arena, fight for life or death. to secure any

sort of official work be to step out of the undistinguished throng. in

uniform one feel dressed up and part of the pageant. young soldier be

self-conscious in those early day, and incline to pose at the ordinary

citizen. the ordinary citizen want to pat young soldier on the back

and stand they drink out of his free largesse. they be “in it,” he

feel, and he at most be a patron of the affair.



that spectacularity give way to a sense of necessary participation only

very slowly indeed. the change begin as the fresh, bright confidence

that the Battle of the Marne have beget give place to a deepening

realization of the difficulty on the road to any effective victory.

the persuasion spread from mind to mind that if Great Britain be to

fight this war as she have live through sixty year of peace, the

gentleman amateur among the nation, she would lose this war. the change

of spirit that produce its first mark result in the creation of the

Ministry of Munitions with a new note of quite unofficial hustle, and

lead on through a series of inevitable step to the adoption of

conscription, mark a real turning about of the british mind, the close

of a period of chaotic freedom almost unprecedented in the history of

community. it be the rediscovery of the State as the necessary form

into which the individual life must fit.



to the philosophical historian of the future the effort of govern

and lead people in Great Britain to get will together, to explain

necessity, to supplement the frightful gap in the education of every

class by hastily improvise organization, by speech, press-campaign,

poster, circular, cinema show, parade and proclamation; hasty,

fitful, ill-conduct and sometimes dishonestly conduct appeal though

they be, will be far more interesting than any story of battle and

campaign. they remind one of a hand scramble in the dark for

something long neglect and now find to be vitally important; they be

like voice call in a dark confusion. they be England seek to

comprehend herself and her situation after the slumber of two century.

but to people like Joan and Peter, who be not philosophical

historian, the process go on, not as a process, but as an apparently

quite disconnected succession of event. imperceptibly their thought

change and be socialize. Joan herself have no suspicion of the

difference in orientation between the Joan who stand at her bedroom

window in August, 1914, the most perfect spectator of life, stare out

at the darkness of the garden, dumbly resent the call that England

be make upon the free life of all her friend, and the Joan of 1917,

in khaki and a fur-collared coat, who sling a great car with a swift,

unerre confidence through the London traffic and out to Woolwich or

Hendon or Waltham or Aldershot or Chelmsford or what not, keen and

observant of the work her passenger discuss, a conscious part now of

a great and grow understanding and criticism and will, of a

rediscovered unity, which be England—awakening.



Youth grow wise very fast in those tremendous year. from the simple and

spectacular acceptance of every obvious appearance, the young mind

pass very rapidly to a critical and intricate examination. in the

first blaze of indignation against Germany, in the first enthusiasm,

there be a disposition to trust and confide in every one in a position

of authority and responsibility. the War Office be suppose—against

every possibility—to be plan wisely and act rapidly; the wisdom

of the Admiralty be take for grant, the politician now could have

no end in view but victory. it be assume that Sir Edward Carson could

become patriotic, Lord Curzon self-forgetful, Mr. Asquith energetic, and

Mr. Lloyd George straightforward. it be indeed a phase of extravagant

idealism. throughout the opening week of the war there be an

appearance, there be more than an appearance, of a common purpose and a

mutual confidence. the swift response of the Irish to the call of the

time, the generous loyalty of India, be like intimation of a new age.

the whole Empire be uplifted; a flush of unwonted splendour suffuse

british affair.



then the light fade again. there be no depth of understanding to

sustain it; habit be in the long run a more powerful thing than even the

supreme need. in a little time all the inglorious characteristic of

Britain at peace, the double-mindedness, the slackness, be reappear

through the glow of warlike emotion. fifty year of undereducation be

not to be atone for in a week of crisis. the man in power be just the

same man. the inefficient be still inefficient; the individualist

still self-seeking. the party politician forget their good resolution,

and revert to their familiar intrigue and manœuvre. Redmond and

Ireland learn a bitter lesson of the value of generosity in the face of

such ignorant and implacable antagonist as the Carsonites. Britain, it

become manifest, have neither the greatness of education nor yet the

simplicity of will to make war brilliantly or to sustain herself

splendidly. at every point devoted and able people find themselves

baffle by the dull inertia of the old system. and the clear flame of

enthusiasm that blaze out from the youth of the country at the first

call of the war be colour more and more by disillusionment as that

general bickering which be british public life revive again, and a

gather tale of waste, failure, and needless suffering mock the

reasonable expectation of a swift and glorious victory.



the change in the thought and attitude of the youth of Britain be to be

find express very vividly in the war poetry of the successive year.

such glow young hero as Julian Grenfell and Rupert Brooke shine

with a faith undimmed; they fight consciously, confident of the nearness

of victory; they sing and die in what they believe to be a splendid

cause and for a splendid end. an early death in the great war be not an

unmitigated misfortune. three year later the young soldier’s mind find

a voice in such poetry as that of young Siegfried Sassoon, who come home

from the war with medal and honour only to denounce the war in verse

of the extreme bitterness. his song be no long of picturesque

nobility and death in a glorious cause; it be a cry of anger at the

old man who have lead the world to destruction; of anger against the

dull, ignorant man who can neither make war nor end war; the man who

have lose the freshness and simplicity but none of the greed and egotism

of youth. Germany be no long the villain of the piece. youth turn

upon age, upon law and institution, upon the whole elaborate

rottenness of the european system, say: “_what be this to which you

have bring we? what have you do with our life?_”



no story of these year can ever be true that do not pass under a

shadow. of the little group of youth and man who have figure in this

story thus far, there be scarcely one who be not either kill

outright or crippled or in some way injure in the Great War—except

only Huntley. Huntley develop a deepening conscience against warfare

as the war go on, and suffer nothing bad than some unpleasant

half-hour with Tribunals and the fatigue of agricultural labour.

Death, which have first come to Joan as a tragic end to certain

“kittay,” be now the familiar associate of her every friend. her

confidence in the safety of the world, in the wisdom of human law and

institution, in the worth and dignity of empire and monarchs, and the

collective sanity of mankind be withdraw as a veil be withdraw, from

the harsh reality of life.



Wilmington, with his humourless intensity, be one of the first to bring

home to she this disillusionment and tragedy of the youth of the world.

he like pure mathematic; it be a subject in which he feel

comfortable. he have work well in the first part of the mathematical

tripos, and he be work hard in the second part when the war break

out. he fluctuate for some day between an utter repudiation of all war

and an immediate enlistment, and it be probably the light and colour of

Joan in his mind that make Wilmington a warrior. War be a business of

kill, he decide, and what he have to do be to apply himself and his

mathematic to gunnery as efficiently as possible, learn as rapidly

as might be all that be useful about shell, gun and explosive, and

so get to the killing of Germans thoroughly, expeditiously, and

abundantly. he be a particularly joyless young officer, white-faced and

intent, with an appearance of scorn that presently develop from

appearance into reality, for most of his colleague. he be work as

hard and as well as he could. at first with incredulity and then with

disgust he realize that the ordinary british officer be not do so.

they sing song, they rag, they leave thing to chance, they think

blunder funny, they condone silliness and injustice in the power

above. he would not sing nor rag nor drink. he work to the verge of

exhaustion. but this exemplary conduct, oddly enough, do not make he

unpopular either with the junior officer or with his senior. the

former tolerate he and rather admire he; the latter put work upon

he and seek to promote he.



in quite a little while as it seem—for in those day, while each day

seem long and laborious and heavy, yet the week and month pass

swiftly—he be a captain in France, and before the end of 1915 he write

to say that his major have leave he practically in command of his battery

for three week. he have be twice slightly wound by that time, but he

get little leisure because he be willing and indispensable.



he write to Joan very regularly. he be a motherless youth, and Joan be

not only his great passion but his friend and confidante. his interest

in his work overflow into his letter; they be more and more about

gunnery and the art of war, which become at last, it would seem, a

serious rival to Joan in his affection. he describe ill, but he would

send her reasoned statement of unanswerable view. he could not

understand why consideration that be so plain as to be almost

obvious, be be universally disregard by the Heads and the War

Office. he appeal to Joan to read what he have to say, and tell he

whether he or the world be mad. when he come back on leave in the

spring of 1916, she be astonish to find that he be still visibly as

deeply in love with she as ever. the fact of it be he have word for his

gunnery and military science, but he have no word, and that be the

essence of his misfortune, for his love for Joan.



but the burthen of his story be bitter disillusionment at the levity

with which his country could carry on a war that must need determine

the whole future of mankind. he would write out proposition of this

sort: “it be manifest that success in warfare depend upon certain

primary factor, of which generalship be one. no country resolute to win

a war will spare any effort to find the _good man_, and make they its

general and leader irrespective of every other consideration. no

honourable patriot will permit general to be appoint by any mean

except the _good selective method_, and no one who care for his

country will obstruct (1) the _promotion_, (2) _try over_, and (3)

_prompt removal_, if they fail to satisfy the most exact test, of

all possible man. and next consider what sort of man will be the good

commander. they must be _fresh-minded young man_. all the great

general of the world, the supreme case, the Alexanders, Napoleons, and

so on, have show their quality before thirty even in the day when

strategy and tactic do not change very greatly from year to year, and

now when the material and expedient of war make warfare practically a

_new thing_ every few year, the need for fresh young commander be far

more urgent than ever it have be. but the british army be at present

command by oldish man who be manifestly of not more than mediocre

intelligence, and who have no knowledge of this new sort of war that have

arise. it be a war of gun and infantry—with aeroplane come in more

and more—and most of the high position be hold by cavalry officer;

the artillery be invariably command by man unused to the handling of

such heavy gun as we be use, who stick far behind our forward

position and decline any practical experience of our difficulty. they

put we in the wrong position, they move we about absurdly; young

officer have have to work out most of the problem of gun-pit and so

forth for themselves—against resistance and mere stupid interference

from above. the Heads have no idea of the kind of work we do or of the

kind of work we could do. they be bad than amateur; they be

unteachable fossil. but why be this so? if the country be serious about

the war, why do it permit it? if the government be serious about the

war, why do it permit it? if the War Office be serious about the war,

why do it permit it? if G.H.Q. be serious about the war, why do it

permit it? what be wrong? there be a hitch here I don’t understand. be I

over-serious, and be all this war really some sort of gross, grim joke,

Joan? do I take life too seriously?



“Joan, in this last push this battery do its little job _right_; we cut

all the wire opposite we and blow out every blessed stake. we make a

nice tidy clean up. it be quite easy to do, give hard work. if I

haven’t do it I ought either to have be shoot for neglect or dismiss

for incapacity. but on our left it ben’t do. well, there be at

least a hundred poor devil of our infantryman on that wire, a hundred

mother’ son, hang like rag on it or crumple up below. I see they.

it make I sick. and I see the chap who be chiefly responsible for

that, Major Clutterwell, a little bit screw, be the life and soul

of a little party in Hazebrouck three day after! he ought to have be

the life and soul of a hari kari party, but either he be too big a cad

or too big a fool—or both. the way they shy away our infantryman over

here be damnable. they be the fine man in the world, I’m convince;

they will go at anything, and the red tab send they into impossible

job, fail to back they up—always they fail to back they up; they

neglect they, Joan; they neglect they even when they be fight and

die! there be man here, colonel, staff officer, I would like to

beat about the head with an iron bar....”



this be an unusually eloquent passage. frequently his letter be

mainly diagram to show for example how we crowd battery to brass

away at right angle to the trench when we ought to enfilade they, or

some such point. sometimes he be try to establish profound truth

about the proper function of field gun and howitzer. for a time he

be gnaw a bitter grievance. “I be tell to shell a line I couldn’t

reach. the contours wouldn’t allow of it. you can do a lot with a shell,

but you cannot make it hop slightly and go round a corner. there be a

definite limit to the height to which a gun will lob a shell. I try to

explain these elementary limitation of gunfire through the telephone,

and I be tell I should be put under arrest if I do not obey order. I

ben’t up against a commander, I ben’t up against an intelligence; I

be up against a silly old man in a temper. so I put over a barrage

about fifty yard beyond the path—the near possible. every one be

perfectly satisfied—the Boche include. thus it be that the young

officer be subdue to the medium he work in.”



at time Wilmington would embark on a series of proposition to

demonstrate with mathematical certitude that if the man and material

waste at Loos have be use in the Dardanelles, the war would have be

decide by the end of 1915. but the topic to which his mind recur

time after time be the topic of efficient leadership. “modern war

demand continuity of idea, continuity of will, and continuous

progressive adaptation of mean and method,” he write—in two separate

letter. in the second of these he have get on to a fresh notion.

“Education in England be a loafer education; it do not point to an

end; it do not drive through; it do not produce _mind that can hold

out_ through a long effort. the young officer come out here with the

good intention in the world, but one’s everyday life be shape not by

our intention but our habit. their habit of mind be loaf habit.

they learn to loaf at school. Caxton, I be now convince, be one of the

good school in England; but even at Caxton we do not fully acquire the

_habit of steadfast haste_ which modern life demand. everything that

get do out here be do by a spurt. with the idea behind it of

presently do nothing. the ordinary state of everybody above the

non-commission rank be loaf. at the present moment my major be

shoot pheasant; the battery to the left of we be curse because

they have to shift—it hold up their scheme for a hunt. just as though

artillery work ben’t the most intense sport in the world—especially now

that we be go to have kite balloon and do really scientific

observe. even the conscientious man of the Kitchener-Byng school don’t

really seem to I to _get on_; they work like Trojans at establish and

routine stuff but they don’t keep up inquiry. they be human, all too

human. man be a sedentary animal, and the schoolmaster exist to prevent

his sit down comfortably.” this from Wilmington without a suspicion

of jesting. “this human weakness for just live can only be correct

in school. the more I scheme about increase efficiency out here, the

more I realize that it cann’t be do here, that one have to go right back

to the school and begin with _a more continuous urge_. when this war be

over I shall try to be a schoolmaster. I shall hate it most of the time,

but then I hate most thing....”



but Wilmington never become a schoolmaster. he get a battery of six-inch

gun just before the Somme push in 1916, and he go forward with they

into position he choose and build up very carefully, only to be shift

against his wish almost at once to a new and, he believe, an

altogether inferior position. he be blow to nothingness by a german

shell while he be construct a gun pit.





                                  § 6



Wilmington be not the first of Joan’s little company to be kill. Joan

have the gift of friendship. she be rare among girl in that respect.

she be less of an artist in egotism than most of her contemporary;

there be even time when she could be self-forgetful to the pitch of

untidiness. two other among that handful of young soldier who be

kill outright and who have be her friend, write to she with some

regularity right up to the time of their death, and find a comfort in

do so. they write to she at first upon neat notepaper adorn with

regimental crest, but their later letter as they work their slow

passage towards the place of death be pencil on thin paper. she

keep they all. she feel she could have be a good sister to many

brother.



one of these two who die early be Winterbaum. she do not hear from

this young man of the world for some week after the declaration of war.

then come a large photograph of himself in cavalry uniform, and a manly,

worldly letter strongly reminiscent of Kipling and anticipatory of

Gilbert Frankau. “there be something splendid about this life after

all,” he write. “it’s good to be without one’s little luxury for a

space, democratically undistinguished among one’s fellow. it’s good to

harden up until nothing seem able to bruise one any more. I bathe

yesterday, without water, Joan—just a dry towel, and that not over

clean—be all that be available. after this be all over I shall have

such an appetite for luxury—I shall be fierce, Joan.”



those early day be still day of unrestricted plenty, and the

disposition of the british world be to pet and indulge everything in

khaki. Young Winterbaum wear his spur and the most beautiful

riding-breech to night club and great feast in the more

distinguished restaurant. he take his car about with he, his neat

little black-and-white car, fit with ivory fopperie. he try hard

to take it with he to France. from France his scribble letter become

more and more heroic in tone. “Poor David have be do in,” he say. “I

be now only three from the Contango peerage. Heaven send I get no

nearer! no feudal dignity for I. I would give three gild chamber

at any time for one reasonably large and well-light studio. and—I have a

kind of affection for my cousin.”



his prayer be answer. he get no nearer to the Contango peerage. the

power above he decide that a little place call Loos be of such

strategic value to the british army as to be worth the life of a great

number of young man, and pay in our generous british fashion even more

than the estimate. Winterbaum be part of the price. no particular of

his death ever come to Joan and Peter. the attack begin brightly, and

then die away. there be a failure to bring up reserve and grasp

opportunity. Winterbaum vanish out of life in the muddle—one of

thousand. he be the first of the little company of Joan’s friend to

be kill.



Bunny Cuspard spread a less self-conscious, more western, and altogether

more complicated psychology before Joan’s eye. like Wilmington he have

falter at the outset of the war between enlistment and extreme

pacifism, but unlike Wilmington he have never reconcile himself to his

decision. Bunny be out of sympathy with the fierceness of mankind; he

want a kindly, prosperous, rather funny world where there be nothing

more cruel than gossip; that be the world he be fit for. he

repeat in his own person and quality the tragedy of Anatole France. he

want to assure the world and himself that at heart everything be

quite right and magnificent fun, to laugh gaily at everything, see

through its bristling hostility into the depth of genial absurdity

beneath.



and so often he could find no genial absurdity.



he have always pretend that discover novel sort of cake for his

tea or new step for dance be the really serious business of life.

one of his holiday amusement have be “Little war,” which he play

with toy soldier and little model house and miniature wood of twig

and hill of boarding in a big room at his Limpsfield home. he would

have vacation party for day to carry out these war, and he and his

guest conduct they with a tremendous seriousness. he have elaborate

his miniature battle scenery more and more, make graveyard, church,

inn, wall, fence—even stick absurd notice and advertisement upon

the wall, and write epitaph upon his friend in the graveyard. he

have love the burlesque of it. he have feel that it bring history into

a proper proportion to humour. but one of the drawback have always be

that as the player lie upon the floor to move their soldier and gun

about they crush down his dear little toy house and wood....



his mind still fight desperately to see the war as a miniature.



he get to a laugh ever and again by a great effort, but some of the

thing that haunt his imagination would not under any circumstance

dissolve in laughter. thing that other people seem to hear only to

dismiss remain to suppurate in his mind. one or two of the thing that

be most oppressive to he he never tell Joan. but she have a glimpse

now and then of what be there, through the crack in his laughter.



he have hear a man tell a horrible story of the opening bombardment

of Ypres by the Germans. the core of the story be a bricke tunnel near

the old fortification of the town, whither a crowd of refugee have flee

from the bombardment, and into which a number of injured people have be

carry. a shell explode near the exit and imprison all those people

in a half-light without any provision or help. there be not even

drinking-water for the wounded. a ruptured drain pour a foul trickle

across the slimy floor on which the wounded and exhausted lay. now quite

near and now at a distance the shell be still burst, and through

that thudding and uproar, above all the crouch and murmuring

distress of that pit of misery sound the low, clear, querulous voice

of a little girl who be talk as she die, talk endlessly of how

she suffer, of how her sister could not come to help she, of she

desire to be take away; a little, scolding, indignant spirit she be,

with a very clear explicit sense of the vast impropriety of everything

about she.



“why do not some one come?”



“be tranquil,” an old woman’s voice remonstrate time after time. “help

will come.”



but for most of the people in the tunnel help never come. through a

slow, unhurrye night of indescribable pain and discomfort, in hunger,

darkness, and an evil stench, their life ebb away one by one....



that dark, dreadful, stink place, quiver to the incessant thunder

of gun, sink through twilight into night, light by flash and distant

flame, and pass through an eternity of misery to a cold, starve

dawn, thread by the child’s shrill voice, take a pitiless grip upon

Bunny’s imagination. he could neither mitigate it nor forget it.



how could one laugh at the Kaiser with this rankle in his mind? he

could not fit it into any merry scheme of thing, and he could not bear

any scheme that be not merry; and not to be able to fit dreadful thing

into a scheme that do at last prevail over they be, for such a mind

as Bunny’s, to begin to drift from sanity.



the second story that mutely reinforce the shrill indictment of that

little belgian girl be a description he have hear of some poor devil

be shoot for cowardice at dawn. a perplexed, stupid youth of two- or

three-and-twenty, with little golden hair that gleam on a pallid

cheek, be lead out to a heap of empty ammunition box in a desolate and

mutilate landscape of mud and splinter tree under a leaden sky, and

set down on a box to die. it be as if Bunny have see that live body

with his own eye, the body that jump presently to the impact of the

bullet and lurch forward, and how the officer in command—who have be

himself but a little child in a garden a dozen year or more ago—come up

to the pitiful prostrate form and put his revolver to the head behind

the ear that would never hear again and behind the eye that stare and

glaze, and pull the trigger “to make sure.”



Bunny could feel that revolver behind his own ear. it feel as a dental

instrument feel in the mouth.



“oh, my God!” cry Bunny; “oh, my God!” start up from his sack of

straw on the floor in his billet in the middle of the night.



“oh! _shut_ it!” say the man who be try to sleep beside he.



“sorry!” say Bunny.



“you keep it for the Germans, mate.”



“oh! oh! if I could kill this damned Kaiser with ten thousand torment!”

whisper Bunny, quiet down....



these be not the only story that torment Bunny’s mind, but they

be the chief one. other come in and go again—story of the

suffering of wounded man, of almost incredible brutality do to

woman and child and helpless people, and of a hundred chance

reasonless horror; they come in with an effect of support and

confirmation to these two principal figure—the shrill little girl

make her bitter complaint against God and the world which have promise

to take care of she, and have scare she horribly and tear her limb and

thrust she, thirsty and agonize, into a stink drain to die; and the

poor puzzle lout, catch and condemn, who have to die so dingily and

submissively because his heart have fail he. against the grim

instance of their sombre and squalid fate the soul of Bunny battle

whenever, by night or day, think overtake he in his essential and

characteristic resolve to see life as “fun”—as “great fun.”



these two fellow-sufferer in life take possession of his imagination

because of their intense kindre with himself. so far as he get his

riddle clear it be something after this fashion: “why, if the world be

like this, why be we in it? what be I do in this nightmare? why be

there little girl and simple lout—and I?”



the day draw near when he would have to go to the front. he write

shamelessly to Joan of his dread of that experience.



“_it’s the mud and dirtiness and ugliness_,” he say. “_I be a domestic

cat, Joan—an indoor cat...._



“_I’ve get a Pacifist temperament...._



“_all the same, Joan, the Germans start this war. if we don’t beat

they, they will start other. they be intolerable brute—the Junkers,

anyhow. until we get they down they will go on kick mankind in the

stomach. it be their idea of dignified behaviour. but we be cast our

youth before swine.... why ben’t there more assassin in the world? why

cann’t we kill they by machinery—painlessly and cleanly? we ought to be

clever than they be._”



there be extraordinarily little personal fear in Bunny. he be not

nearly so afraid of the thing that would happen to he as of the thing

that would happen about he. he hate the smashing even of inanimate

thing; a break-down chair or a roofless shed be painful to he.

whenever he think of the trench he think of treading and slip

in the dark on a torn and still live body....



he stick stoutly to his reasoning that England have to fight and that he

have to fight; but hide from Joan, hide from every live soul, he

keep a secret resolve. it be, he know, an entirely illogical and

treasonable resolve, and yet he find it profoundly comforting. he would

never fire his rifle so that it would hurt any one even by chance, and

he would never use his bayonet. he would go over the top with the good

of they, and carry his weapon and shout.



if it come to close fighting he would go for a man with his hand and

try to disarm he.



but this resolve be never put to the test. the Easter newspaper of

1916 arrive with flaming headline about an insurrection in Dublin and

the seizure of the Post Office by the rebel. oddly enough, this do not

shock Bunny at all. it produce none of the effect of horror and

brutality that the german invasion of Belgium have make upon his mind. it

impress he as a “rag”; as the sort of rag that they get up to at

Cambridge during season of excitement. he be delight by the seizure

of the Post Office, by the appearance of a revolutionary flag and the

issue of republican stamp. it be as good as “Little Wars”; it be

“Little Revolutions.” he don’t like the way they have shoot a policeman

outside Trinity College, but perhaps that report ben’t true. the whole

affair have restore that flavour of adventure and burlesque that he have

so sadly miss from the world since the war begin.



he have always idealize the irish character as the pleasantest

combination of facetiousness and generosity. when he find himself part

of a draft crossing to Dublin with his back to the grim war front, his

spirit rise. he could forget that nightmare for a time. he be go to

a land of wit and laughter which have rebel for a lark. he feel sure

that the joke would end happily and that he would be shake hand with

congenial spirit still wear Sinn Fein badge before a fortnight be

out. perhaps he would come upon Mrs. O’Grady or Patrick Lynch, whom he

have be accustom to meet at the Sheldricks’. he have hear they be

in it. and when the whole business have end brightly and cheerfully

then all those clever and witty people would grow grave and helpful, and

come back with he to join in that temporarily neglect task of

fight on the western front against an iron brutality that threaten

to overwhelm the world.



he be still in this cheerful vein two day later as he be cross St.

Stephen’s Green. his quaint, amiable face be smile pleasantly and he

be march with a native ungainliness that no drill-sergeant could

ever overcome, when something hit he very hard in the middle of the

body.



he know immediately that he have be shoot.



he be not dismay or shock by this, but tremendously interested.



all other feeling be swamp in his surprise at a curious

contradiction. he have feel hit behind, he be convince he have be hit

behind, but what be queer about it be that he be spin round as

though he have be hit in front. it give he a preposterous drunken

feeling. his head be quite clear, but he be altogether incapable of

control these spin leg of his, which be go round backward.

his facile sense of humour be arouse. it be really quite funny to be

spin backwards in this way. it be like a new step in dancing. his

hilarity increase. it be like the mad dancing they have ever have at

Hampstead or Chelsea. the “backwards step.” he laugh. he have to laugh;

something be tickle his rib and throat. his whole be laugh. he

laugh a laugh that become a rush of hot blood from his mouth....



the soul of Bunny, for all I know, laugh for ever among the star; but

it be a dead young man who finish those fantastic gyration.



he pause and sway and drop like an empty sack, and lie still in

St. Stephen’s Green, the modest contribution of one happy Sinn Fein

sniper to the Peace of Mankind.



perhaps Bunny be well out of a life where there can be little room for

Bunnyism for many year to come, and lucky to leave it laugh. and as

an offset to his loss we have to count the pleasant excitement of

Ireland in get well back into the limelight of the world’s affair,

and the bright and glowing gathering of the armed young hero who get

away, recount their deed to one another simultaneously in some

secure place, with all the rich, tumultuous volubility of the Keltic

habit.



“do ye see that red-haired fella I get in the square, boy?... ah, ye

should have see that fella I get in the square.”





                                  § 7



but not all the world of Joan be at war. the Sheldrick circle, for

example, after some wide fluctuation during which Sydney almost become

a nurse and bab nearly enlist into the Women’s Legion, take a marked

list under the influence of one of the son-in-law towards pacifism.

Antonia, who have take two german prize at school, be speedily

provoke by the general denunciation of “Kultur” into a distinctly

pro-german attitude. the Sheldrick circle settle down on the whole as a

pro-german circle, with a poor opinion of President Wilson, a marked

hostility to Belgians, and a disposition to think the hardship of

drown by U-boat much exaggerated.



the Sheldricks be like seedling that begin flourish and then damp

off. from amusing schoolfellow they have change into irritate and

disappointing friend. energy leak out of they at adolescence. they

seem to possess the vitality for positive conviction no long, they

display an instinctive hostility to any wave of popular feeling that

threaten to swamp their weak but still obstinate individuality.

their general attitude towards life be one of protest

refractoriness. whatever it be that people believe or do, you be

give to understand by undertone and abstinence that the sheldrick

know well, and for the most exquisite reason don’t. all their

friend be protester and rebel and seceder, or incomprehensible

poet, or inexplicable artist. and from the first the war be

altogether too big and strong for they. confront by such question as

whether fifty year of belligerent preparation, culminate in the most

cruel and wanton invasion of a peaceful country it be possible to

imagine, be to be resist by mankind or condone, the sheldrick fall

back upon the counter statement that Sir Edward Grey, be a landowner,

be necessarily just as bad as a German Junker, or that the government

of Russia be an unsatisfactory one.



in a few month it be perfectly clear to the Sheldricks that they would

have nothing to do with the war at all. they be go to ignore it.

Sydney just go on quietly do her little statuette that nobody

would buy, little portrait bust of her sister and suchlike thing; now

and then her mother contrive to get she a commission. bab keep on

try to get a part in somebody’s play; Antonia continue to produce

djibbah in chocolate and grocer’s blue and similar tint. one see the

sister drift about London in costume still trailingly

Pre-Raphaelite when all the rest of womankind be cut its skirt

short and short, their face rather pained in expression and

deliberately serene, ignore the hope and fear about they, the stir,

the huge effort, the universal participation. it be not their affair,

thank you. they be not go to wade through this horrid war; they

be go round.



every time Joan go to see they, either they have become more

phantomlike and incredible, or she have become coarser and more real.

would they ever get round? she ask herself; and what would they be

like when at last they attempt, if ever they attempt, to rejoin the

main stream of human interest again?



they keep up their Saturday evening, but their gathering become

thin and less and less credible as the war go on. the first wave of

military excitement carry off most of the sightly young man, and

presently the more capable and enterprise of the woman vanish one

after another to nurse, to join the Women’s Legion, to become substitute

clerk and release man to volunteer, to work in canteen and so forth.

there be, however, a certain coming and go of ambiguous adventurer,

who in those early day go almost unchallenged between London and

Belgium on ambulance work, on mysterious mission and with no mission

at all. belgian refugee drift in and, when they find a lack of

sympathy for their simple thirst for the destruction of Germans under

all possible circumstance, out again. then Ireland call her own, and

Patrick Lynch go off to die a martyr’s death with arm in his hand

after three day of the most exhilarating mixed shooting in the street

of Dublin. Antonia discover passionate memory as soon as he be

dead, and nobody be allow to mention the name of Bunny in the

Sheldrick circle for fear of spoil the emotional atmosphere. Hetty

Reinhart, after some fluctuation, go khaki, flit from one ministry

to another in various sort of clerical capacity, take such

opportunity as offer of entertain young officer lonely in our

great capital, and be no more see in Hampstead. what be leave of this

little group in the Hampstead _Quartier Latin_ draw together into a band

of resistance to the creep approach of compulsory service.



Huntley’s lofty scorn of the war have intensify steadily; the harsh

disappointment of Joan’s patriotism have sting he to great effort of

self-justification, and he become one of the most strenuous writer in

the extreme Pacifist press. not an act or effort of the Allies, he

insist, that be not utterly vile in purpose and doom to accelerate

our defeat. not an act of the enemy’s that be not completely think

out, wisely calculate, and plan to give the world peace and freedom

on the most reasonable term. he be particularly active in prepare

handbill and pamphlet of instruction for lifelong conscientious

objector to war service who have not hitherto think about the subject.

community of view bring he very close in feeling to both Babs and

Sydney Sheldrick. there be much talk of a play he be to write which

be to demonstrate the absurdity of Englishmen fight Germans just

because Germans insist upon fight Englishmen, and which be also to

bring out the peculiarly charming Babsiness of Babs. he study she

thoroughly and psychologically and physiologically and intensively and

extensively.



by a great effort of self-control he abstain from send his writing

to Joan. once however they be near meeting. on one of Joan’s rare

call Babs tell she that he be come to discuss the question whether

he should go to prison and hunger-strike, or consent to take up work of

national importance. bab be very full of the case for each

alternative. she be doubtful which course involve the great moral

courage. moral courage, it be evident, be be carry to giddy

height by Huntley. it would be pure hypocrisy, he feel, to ignore the

vital value of his writing, and while he could go on with these quite

comfortably while work as a farm hand, with a little judicious

payment to the farmer, their production would become impossible in

prison. he must crucify himself upon the cross of harsh judgment, he

feel, and take the former course. he want to make his view exactly

clear to every one to avoid misunderstanding.



Joan hesitate whether she should stay and insult he or go, and choose

the seemly course.





                                  § 8



Joan be already drive a car for the Ministry of Munitions before

Peter get himself transfer from the rank of the infantry to the

Royal Flying Corps. Peter’s career as an infantryman never take he

near to the western front than Liss Forest. then he perceive the

error of his way and decide to get a commission in the Royal Flying

Corps. in those day the Flying Corps be still a limited and

inaccessible force with a huge waiting list, and it need a

considerable exertion of influence to secure a footing in that select

band.... but at last a day come when Peter, rather self-conscious in his

new leather coat and cap, walk out from the mess past a group of

chat young pilot towards the aeroplane in which he be to have his

first experience of flight.



he have a sense of be scrutinize, but indeed hardly any one upon the

aerodrome note he. this sense of an audience make he deliberately

casual in his bearing. he salute his pilot in a manner decidedly

offhand. he clamber up through strut and wire to the front seat as if

he be a clerk ascend the morning omnibus, and strap himself in as

if it hardly matter whether he be strap in or not.



“Contact, sir,” say the mechanic. “contact,” come the pilot’s voice

from behind. the engine roar, a gale sweep backwards, and Peter

vibrate like an aspen leaf.



the wheel be clear, the mechanic jump aside, and Peter be

career across the grass in a series of light leap, and then his

progress become smooth. he do not perceive at first the reason for

this sudden steadying of the machine. he find himself tilt upward.

he be off the ground. he have be off the ground for some second. he

look over the side and see the grass fifty foot below, and the black

shadow of the aeroplane, as if it flee before they, rush at a hedge,

double up at the hedge, and start again in the next field. and up

he go.



Peter stare at field, hedge, tree, shed and roadway grow small

below he. he note cow in plan and an automobile in plan, in a lane,

go it seem very slowly indeed. it be a stagnant world below in

comparison with his own forward sweep. his initial nervousness and

self-consciousness have pass away. he be enormously interested and

delighted. he be try to remember when it be that Nobby have say: “I

doubt if we’ll see that in my lifetime—or your.” it be somewhen long

ago at Limpsfield. quite early....



and then abruptly Peter be clutch the side with his thick-gloved

hand; the aeroplane be come round in a close curve and banking

steeply, very steeply. for a moment it seem as though there be

nothing at all between he and England below. if he fall out——!



he look over his shoulder and meet the hard regard of a pair of

steel-blue eye.



he remember that after all he be under observation. this be no mere

civilian’s joy ride. he affect a concentration upon the scenery. the

aeroplane swing slowly back again to the level, and his hand leave the

side....



they be go up very rapidly now. the world seem to be roll in

at the edge of a great circle that grow constantly large. away to the

left be broad space of brown sand, and grey ripple and smooth

shine water channel, and beyond, the sapphire sea; beneath and to the

right be field, house, village, wood, and a distant range of hill

that seem to be come near. the scale be change and everything

be become maplike. cow be little dot now and man scarcely

visible.... and then suddenly all the scenery seem to be rush

upward before Peter’s eye and he have a feeling like the feeling one have

in a lift when it start—a down-borne feeling. he affect indifference,

and give the pilot his whistle profile. down they sweep, fast than a

luge on the swift ice run, until one could see the ditch in the

shadow beneath the hedge and cow be plainly cow again, and then

once more they be heel over and curve round. but Peter have be

ready for that this time; he have be tell himself over and over

again that he be strap in. he betray no surprise. he be get

more and more exhilarated.



and then they be climb again and soar straight out towards the

sea. up go this roar dragonfly in which Peter be sit, at a

hundred and twenty mile or so per hour, leave the dwindle land

behind.



up they go and up, until the world seem nearly all sea and the coast

be far away; they mount at last above a little white cloud puff and

then above a haze of cloud, and when Peter look down he see at a vast

distance below, through a clear gap in that filmy cloud fabric, three

ship small than any toy. of the man he could distinguish nothing.

how sweet the cold clear air have become!



and high above the world, in the lonely sky above the cloud fleece, the

pilot see fit to spring a surprise upon Peter.



he be not of the genial and considerate order of teacher; he believe

in weed out dud as swiftly as possible. he have an open mind as to

whether this rather over-intelligent-look beginner might not, under

certain circumstance, squeal. so he just try he and, without a note

of preparation, loop the loop with he.



the propeller that span before the eye of Peter dip. Peter bow in

accord with it. it dip more and more steeply, until the machine be

almost nose down, until Peter be look at the sea and the land as one

sit and look at a wall. he be tilt down and down until he be face

downward. and then as abruptly he be tilt up; it be like be in a

swing; the note of the engine alter as if a hand sweep up a scale of

note; the sea and the land seem to fall away below he as though he

leave they for ever, and the blue sky sweep down across his field of

vision like a curtain: he be, so to speak, on his back now with his

leg in the air, look straight at the sky, at nothing but sky, and

expect to recover. for a vast second he wait for the swing to end.

this be surely the end of the swing....



only—most amazingly—he don’t recover! he want to say, “ouch!” he be

immensely surprised—too surprised to be frightened. he go over

backwards—in an instant—and the sea and the land reappear above the

sky and also come down like curtain, too, and then behold! the

aeroplane be drive down and the world be in its place again far

below.



“the Loop!” whisper Peter, a little daze, and glance back at his

pilot and smile. this be no perambulator excursion. “the loop—first

trip!”



the blue eye seem a little less hard, the weather-red face be

smile faintly.



then grip by an irresistible power, Peter find himself go down,

down, down almost vertically. the pilot have apparently stop the

engine....



Peter watch the majestic expansion of the landscape as they fall. they

have come back over the land. far away he could see the aerodrome like a

scatter collection of little toy hut, and grow big and big

every instant. he sit quite still, for it be all right—it must be all

right. but now they be get very near the ground, and it be still

rush up to meet they, and pour outwardly as it rise. a cat now

would be visible....



it _be_ all right. the engine pick up with a roar like a score of

lion, and the pilot level out a hundred foot above the tree....



then presently they be drop to the aerodrome again; down until the

hedge be plain and the graze cattle close and distinct; and then,

with a sense of infinite regret, Peter perceive that they be back on

the turf again and that the flight be over. they dance lightly over

the turf. their rush slow down. they taxi gently up to the hangar

and the engine shudder and, with a pathetic drop to silence,

stop....



a little stiffly, Peter unbuckle himself and stretch and set himself

to clamber to the ground.



his weather-bite senior nod to he and smile faintly....



Peter walk towards the mess. it be wonderful—and intensely

disappointing in that it be so soon over. there be still great piece

of the afternoon leave....





                                  § 9



the aerodrome be short of machine and instructor, and he have to wait

a couple of week before he could get into the air a second time.



he work sedulously to gather knowledge during that waiting interval,

and his first real lesson find he a very alert and ready pupil. this

time the dual control be at his disposal, and for a straight or so the

pilot leave thing to he altogether. come half a dozen other lesson,

and then Peter find himself sit alone in a machine outside the

great shed, watch closely by a knot of friendly rival, and, for the

first time on his own account, conduct that duologue he have hear now

so often on other lip. “switch off.”... “suck in.” “contact!”



he start across the ground. his first sensation border on panic.

Hitherto the machine he have fly in have be just machine; now this

one, this one be an animal; it start out across the aerodrome like a

demented ostrich, swerve wildly and try to turn round. always

before this, the other man have do the taxi business on the ground. it

have never occur to Peter that it involve any difficulty. Peter’s

heart nearly fail he in that opening twenty second; he be convince

he be go to be kill; and then he determine to get up at any cost.

at any rate he wouldn’t smash on the ground. he let out the accelerator,

touch his control, and behold he be up—he be up! instantly the

machine cease to resemble a flounder ostrich, and become a steady

and dignified carinate, sway only slightly from wing to wing. up he

go over the hedge, over the tree, beyond, above the familiar field

of cow. the moment of panic pass, and Peter be himself again.



he have get right outside the aerodrome and he have to bank and bring she

round. already he have do that successfully a number of time with an

instructor to take care of he. he do it successfully now. his

confidence grow. back he buzz and drone, a hundred foot over the

aerodrome. he make three complete circuit, rise outside the aerodrome

and come down, make a good landing. he be instantly smite with the

intense regret that he have not make eight or nine circuit. it be a

mere hop. any man of spirit would have go on. there be four hour of

daylight yet. he might have go up; he might have try a spiral....

_damn!_



but the blue eye of the master approve he.



“couldn’t have make a well landing, Stubland,” say the master. “try

again tomorrow. follow it up close. short and frequent dose. that’s the

way.”



Peter have make another stage on his way to France.



come other solo flight, and flight on different type of machine, and

then a day of glory and disobedience when, three thousand foot above the

chimney of a decent farmhouse, Peter loop the loop twice. he have

learn by that time what it be to side-slip, and what air pocket can

do to the unwary. he have learn the bitter consequence of come down

with the engine go strong. he have have a smash through that all too

common mistake, but not a bad smash; a few strut and wire of the left

wing be all that have go. a hedge and a willow tree have stop he.

he have have a forced landing in a field of cabbage through engine

stoppage, and half an hour in a snowstorm when he have have doubt in an

upward eddy whether he might not be fly upside down. that have be a

nasty experience—his bad. he have several time take his hand off the

control and let the old bus look after herself, so badly be the

snowflake spin about in his mind. he dream a lot about fly, and

few of his dream be pleasant dream. and then this fantastic old

world of our, which have so suddenly divert his education to these

thing, and teach he to fly with a haste and intensity it have never

put into any teaching before, decide that he be ripe for the air war,

and pack he off to France....





                                  § 10



now, see that Joan have at last discover that she be in love with

Peter, it would be pleasantly symmetrical to record that Peter have also

discover by this time that he be in love with Joan.



but as a matter of fact he have discover nothing of the sort. he have

be amazed and humiliate by his three day of hesitation and

procrastination at Orta; the delay be altogether out of keep with

his private picture of himself; and he discover that he be not in

love with any one and that he do not intend again to be lure into any

dangerous pretence that he be. he have do with Hetty, he be

convince; he do not mean to see she any more, and he lead a life of

exasperate Puritanism for some month, refuse to answer the

occasionally very skilful and perplexing letter, with amusing and

provocative illustration, that she write he.



the idea of “relax moral fibre” obsess he, and our genial Peter

for a time abandon both smoking and alcohol, and be only deter

from further abstinence by their impracticability. the ordinary

infantry mess, for example, cater ill and resentfully for

vegetarian.... Peter’s day in the rank be day of strained

austerity. he be a terribly efficient recruit, a fierce soldier, a

wonderful influence on slacker, stripe gravitate towards he, and a

prophetic corporal see sergeant-major write on his forehead.

occasionally, when his imagination get loose or after a letter from

Hetty, he would indulge privately in fit of violent rage, find great

relief in the smashing of light object and foul and outrageous

language. he find what he consider a convenient privacy for this

idiosyncrasy in a disused cowshe near the camp, and only realize that

he have an audience when a fellow recruit ask anxiously, “and how’s

Miss Blurry ’Etty?” Whereupon Peter discover a well outlet for

pentup nervous energy in a square fight.



Joan see hardly anything of he during those early and brutal day, but

she think about he mightily. she share Oswald’s opinion that he

ben’t in his right place, and she write to he frequently. he answer

perhaps half her letter. his answer strike she as be rather pose.

the strain show through they. Peter be try very hard not to be

Peter. “I’m get down to elemental,” be one of his experiment in

the statement of his moral struggle.



then quite abruptly come his decision to get into the Royal Flying

Corps.



neither Oswald nor Joan venture any comment on this, because both of

they have a feeling that Peter have, in a sense, climb down by this

decision to go up....



in the Royal Flying Corps Peter’s rather hastily conceive theory of

moral fibre come into an uncongenial atmosphere. the Royal Flying Corps

be amazingly young, swift, and confident, and “moral fibre” base on

abstinence and cold self-control be not at all what it be after. the

Royal Flying Corps be much more inclined to scrap with soda-water

syphon and rag to the tune of a gramophone. it be a body that have have

to improvise a tradition of conduct in three or four swift year, and

its tradition be still unstable. mainly it be the tradition of the

game and sport side of a public school, roughly adapt to the new

need of the service; it be an essentially boyish tradition, even man

old enough to have go through the university be in a minority in

it, and Peter at one-and-twenty be one of the more elderly class of

recruit. and necessarily the tradition of the corps still vary widely

with the dominant personality and favourite hero of each aerodrome

and mess and squadron. it be a crowd of plastic boy, leave amazingly to

chance lead. their senior have no light for they, and they pick up

such hint as they could from Kipling and the music-hall, from

overheard conversation, and one another.



be it not an incredible world in which old man make war and untutored

young man have to find out how to fight they; in which tradition and the

past be mere entanglement about the foot of the young? the fly

service take the very flower of the youth of the belligerent nation;

they take the young man who be most manifestly fit to be

politician, statesman, leader of man, master in industry, and maker

of the new age; the boy of nerve, pluck, imagination, invention, and

decision. and there be not a sign of any realization on the part of any

one of the belligerent state of the fact that a large proportion of

this most select and valuable mass of youth be destine to go on live

after the war and be go to matter tremendously and be the backbone

of the race after the war. they let all these boy specialize as jockeys

specialize. the old man and ruler want these youngster to fight and

die for they; that any future lie beyond the war be too much for these

scared and unteachable ancient to apprehend. the short way to immediate

efficiency be to back the tradition of recklessness and gallantry, and

so the short way be take; if the brave lad be keep bold and

reckless by woman, wine and song, then by all mean, say their elder,

let they have these help. “a short life and a merry one,” say the

British Empire to these lad of eighteen and nineteen encouragingly. “a

short life and a merry one,” say the Empire to its future.



if the story of the air force be a glorious and not a shameful thing it

be because of the endure hope of the world—the incessant gallantry of

youth. these boy take up their great and cardinal task with the

unquenchable hopefulness of boyhood and with the impudence and humour of

their race. they bring in the irreverence and the spartanism of their

year. they make a language for themselves, an atrocious slang of

facetious misnomer; everything one do be a “stunt”; everything one

use be a “gadget”; the machine be “’bus” and “camel” and “pup”;

the old man be perpetually plead in vain for more dignity in the

official report. and these youngster work out their moral problem

accord to their own generous and yet puerile idea. they argue the

question of drink. could a man fly well or bad if he be “squiffy”?

do funk come to the thoughtful? and be ever a man gallant without

gallantry? after the death of Lord Kitchener there survive no man in

Britain of the quality to speak plainly and authoritatively and honestly

about chastity and drink to the young soldier. the State have no mind in

these matter. in most matter indeed the State have no mind; it be a

little old silly state. and the light side of the feminine temperament

flame up into shameless acquiescence in the heroic presence of the

fly man. youth instinctively set towards romantic adventure, and

the scale of chance for a considerable number of the fly man swing

between mésalliance and Messalina.



the code and the atmosphere vary from mess to mess and from squadron

to squadron; young man be by nature and necessity hero-worshipper and

imitative. Peter’s line fall among pleasant man of the “irresponsible”

school. the two good flyer he know, include he of the hard blue eye

who have first instruct he, be man of a physique that defy drink

and dissipation. vigour could smoke, drink, and dance in London, catch

the last train back with three second to spare, and be fly with an

unshaken nerve by half-past six in the morning; Vincent would only

perform stunt when he be “tight,” and then he seem capable of take

any risk with impunity. he could be funny with an aeroplane then a

thousand foot up in the air. he could make it behave as though it be

drunk, as though it be artful; he could make it mope or wag its tail.

man go out to watch he. the mess be decorate with picture from _La

Vie Parisienne_, and the art and literature of the group be Revue. now

see that Peter’s sole reason for his puritanism be the preservation

of efficiency, this combination of a fast life and a fine record in the

air be very disconcerting to he.



if he have be naturally and easily a first-class fly man he might

have stick to his line of high austerity, but he be not. he fly well,

but he have to fly with care; like many other airman, he always feel a

shadow of funk before go up, on two or three bad morning it be on

his conscience that he have delay for ten minute or so, and he be

more and more inclined to think that he would fly well if he fly with

a less acute sense of possibility. it be the start and the uneventful

flying that irk he most; hitherto every crisis have find he cool and

able. but the slap-dash style, combine with the exquisite accuracy of

these rake, Vigours and Vincent, fill he with envious admiration.



in the mess Peter meet chiefly youth of his own age or a year or so

young; he soon become a master of slang; his style of wit win its way

among they. he cease to write of “get down to elemental” to Joan,

and he cease to think of all other girl and woman as invention of the

devil. only they must be keep in their place. as Vigours and Vincent

keep they. just as one keep drink in its place. one must not, for

example, lose train on account of they....



through these month Joan maintain a strained watch upon the

development and fluctuation of Peter. he write—variously; sometimes

offhand duty note and sometimes long and brotherly letter—incurably

brotherly. every now and then she have glimpse of he when he come to

London on leave. manifestly he like her company and trust she—as

though she be a man. it be exasperate. she dress for Peter as she

have never dress for any one, and he would take she out to dine at the

_rendezvous_ or the _Petit Riche_ and sit beside she and glance at

common scrap of feminine humanity, at dirty little ogle bare-throate

girl in patch-up raiment and with harsh and scream voice, as

though they be the most delicious of forbid fruit. and he seem

to dislike be alone with she. if she drop her hand to touch his on

the table, he would draw his away.



be the invisible barrier between they invincible?



for a time during his infantry phase he have show a warm affection. in

his early day in the fly corps it seem that he draw still close

to she. then her quick, close watch upon he detect a difference. Joan

be get to be a very shrewd observer nowadays, and she feel a subtle

change that suddenly make he a little shame-face in her presence.

there have be some sort of spree in London with two or three other wild

spirit, and there have be “girl” in the party. such girl! he never

tell she this, but something tell she. I be inclined to think it be her

acute sense of smell detect a flavour of face powder or cheap scent

about Peter when he come along one day, half an hour late, to take she

to the Ambassadors. she be bad company that night for he.



for a time Joan be bad company for any one.



she be bad when she realize that Hetty be somehow reinstate in

Peter’s world. that, too, she know by an almost incredible flash of

intuition. Miss Jepson be talk one evening to Peter, and Peter

suddenly display a knowledge of the work of the London Group that

savour of studio. this be the first art criticism he have talk since

the war begin. it be clear he have be to a couple of show. not with

Joan. not alone. as he speak, he glance at Joan and meet her eye.



it be astonishing that Miss Jepson never hear the loud shout of

“Hetty” that seem to fill the room.



it be just after this realization that an elderly but still gallant

colonel, go on an expedition for the War Office with various other

technical authority to suppress some disturbing invention that the

Ministry of Munitions be press in a troublesome manner, decide to

come back from Longmore to London on the front seat beside Joan. his

conversational intention be honourable and agreeable, but he share a

common error that a girl who wear khaki and drive a car demand less

respect from old gentleman and be altogether more playful than the

victorian good woman. possibly he be lure on to his own destruction.



when he descend at the Ministry, he look pinch and aged. he be

shake to the pitch of confidence. “my word,” he whisper. “that girl

drive like the devil. but she’s a vixen ... snap your head off....

don’t know whether this sort of thing be good for woman in the long run.



“robs ’em of Charm,” he say.





                                  § 11



it be just in this phase of wrath and darkness that Wilmington come

over to London for his last leave before he be kill, and beg Joan

for all the hour she have to spare. she be quite willing to treat he

generously. they dine together and go to various theatre and

music-hall and have a walk over Hampstead Heath on Sunday. he be a

silent, persistent companion for most of the time. he bore she, and the

more he bore she the great her compunction and the more she hide it

from he. but Wilmington, if he have a slow tongue, have a penetrate

eye.



the last evening they have together be at the Criterion. they dine in

the grill room, a dinner that be intersperse with brood silence.

and then Wilmington decide to make himself interesting at any cost upon

this last occasion.



“Joan,” he say, knock out a half-consume cigarette upon the edge of

his plate.



“Billy?” say Joan, wake up.



“Queer, Joan, that you don’t love I when I love you so much.”



“I’d trust you to the end of the earth, Billy.”



“I know. but you don’t love I.”



“I think of you as much as I do of any one.”



“no. Except—_one_.”



“Billy,” say Joan weakly, “you’re the straight man on earth.”



Wilmington’s tongue run along his white lip. he speak with an effort.



“you’ve love Peter since you be six year old. it ben’t as

though—you’d treat I badly. I cann’t grumble that you’ve have no room

for I. he’s always be there.”



Joan, after an interval, decide to be frank.



“it’s not much good, Billy, be it, if I do?”



Wilmington say nothing for quite a long time. he sit think hard.

“it’s not much good pretend I don’t hate Peter. I do. if I could kill

he—and in your memory too.... he bar you from I. he make you

unhappy....”



his face be a white misery. Joan glance round at the table about she,

but no one seem to be watch they. she look at he again. pity, so

great that it come near to love, wrung she....



“Joan,” he say at last.



“yes?”



“it’s queer.... I feel mean.... as though it ben’t right.... but look

here, Joan.” he tap her arm. “something—something that I suppose I

may as well point out to you. because in certain matter—in certain

matter you be be a fool. it’s astonish—— but absolutely—a fool.”



Joan perceive he have something very important to say. she sit watch

he, as with immense deliberation he get out another cigarette and light

it.



“you don’t understand this Peter business, Joan. I—I do. mostly when I’m

not actually plan out or carry out the destruction of Germans, I

think of you—and Peter. and all the rest of it. I’ve get nothing else

much to think about. and I think I see thing you don’t see. I know I

do.... oh damn it! go to hell!”



this last be to the waiter, who be make the customary warning about

liqueur on the stroke of half-past nine.



“sorry,” say Wilmington to Joan, and leant forward over his fold arm

and collect his thought with his eye on the flower before they.



“it’s like this, Joan. Peter ben’t where we be. I—I’m very definite and

clear about my love-making. I fall in love with you, and I’ve never meet

any other woman I’d give three minute of my life to. you’ve just get

I. as if I be the palm of your hand. I wish I be. and—oh! what’s

the good of shut my eyes?—Peter have you. you’ve be think of

Peter half the time we’ve be together. it’s true, Joan. you’ve grow

up in love. buh! but Peter, you’ve get to understand, ben’t in love. he

don’t know what love mean. perhaps he never will. love with you and

I be a thing of flesh and bone. he take it like some skin disease.

he’s be spoil. he’s so damned easy and good-looking. he be get hold

of. I——”



Wilmington flush for a moment. “I’m a chaste man, Joan. it’s a rare

thing. among our sort. but Peter—— love a woman body and soul mean

nothing to he. he think love-making be a kind of amusement—— casual

amusement. any woman who ben’t repulsive. you know, Joan, that’s not the

natural way. the natural way be love of soul and body. he’s be

pervert. but in this crowded world—like a monkey’s cage ...

artificially heat ... the young man get make miscellaneous.... lot of

the girl even be miscellaneous....”



he consider the word. “miscellaneous? Promiscuous, I mean.... it

haven’t happen to we. to you and I, I mean. I’m unattractive somehow.

you’re fastidious. he’s neither. he take the thing that offer. to

grave people sex be a sacrament, something—so solemn and beautiful——”



the tear stand in his eye. “if I go on,” he say.... “I cann’t go

on....”



for a time he say no more, and pull his unconsumed cigarette to

piece over the ash-tray with trembling finger. “that’s all,” he say

at last.



“all this be—rather true,” say Joan. “but——!”



“what do it lead up to?”



“yes.”



“it mean Peter’s the ordinary male animal. under modern condition.

Lazy. Affectionate and all that, but not a scrap of emotion or love—yet

anyhow. not what you and I know as love. you may dress it up as you

like, but the fact be that the woman have to make love to he. that’s

all. Hetty have make love to he. he have never make love to

anybody—except as a sort of cheerful way of talk, and perhaps he

never, never will.... he respect you too much to make love to you....

but he’d hate the idea of any one else—make love to you.... it’s an

idea—— it’s outside of his conception of you.... he’ll never think of it

for himself.”



Joan sit quite still. after what seem a long silence she look up at

he.



Wilmington be watch her face. he see she understand his drift.



“you could cut she out like _that_,” say Wilmington, with a gesture

that gain an accidental emphasis by knock his glass off the table

and smash it.



the broken glass supply an incident, a distraction, with the waiter,

to relieve the tension of the situation.



“that’s all I have to say,” say Wilmington when that be all settle.

“there’s no earthly reason why two of we should be unhappy.”



“Billy,” she say, after a long pause, “if I could only love _you_——”



the face of gratitude that look at he fade to a mask.



“you’re think of Peter already,” say Wilmington, watch her face.



it be true. she start, detect.



he speculate cheerlessly.



“you’ll marry I some day perhaps. when Peter’s throw you over.... it’s

man of my sort who get thing like that....”



he stand up and reach for her cloak. she, too, stand up.



then, as if to reassure she, he say: “I shall get kill, Joan. so we

needn’t worry about that. I shall get kill. I know it. and Peter will

live.... I always have take everything too seriously. always.... I

shall kill a lot of Germans yet, but one day they will get I. and Peter

will be up there in the air, like a cheerful midge—with all the Archies

miss he....”





                                  § 12



this conversation be a cardinal event in Joan’s life. Wilmington’s

suggestion raise out of the grave of forgetfulness and incorporate

with themselves a conversation she have have long ago with Adela—one

Christmas at Pelham Ford when Adela have be in love with Sopwith

Greene. Adela too have maintain that it be the business of a woman to

choose her man and not wait to be choose, and that it be the woman who

have to make love. “a man’s in love with woman in general,” have be

Adela’s idea, “but woman fall in love with man in particular.” Adela have

use a queer phrase, “it’s for a woman to find her own man and keep he

and take care of he.” man have to do their own work; they couldn’t think

about love as woman be oblige by nature to think about love. “love’s

just a trouble to a real man, like a mosquito singing in his ear, until

some woman take care of he.”



all those idea come back now to Joan’s mind, and she do she good to

consider they and judge they as generalization. but indeed she judge

with a pack court, and all her be clamour warmly for she to “get”

Peter, to “take care”—most admirable phrase—of Peter. her decision be

make, and still she argue with herself. be it beneath her dignity to

set out and capture her Peter?—he be her Peter. only he don’t know it.

she try to generalize. have it ever be dignified for a woman to wait

until a man discover her possible love? be that at good anything more

than the dignity of the mannequin?



three-quarter at least of the art and literature of the world be

concerned with the relation of the sex, and yet here be Joan, after

thirty century or so of human art and literature, still debate the

elementary fact of her be. there be so much excitement in our art

and literature and so little light. the world have still to discover the

scope and vastness of its educational responsibility. Most of its

teaching in these matter hitherto have be less in the nature of

enlightenment than strategic concealment; we have give the young

neither knowledge nor training, we have restrain and baffle they and

tell they lie. and then we have inflame they. we have abuse their

instinctive trust when they be child with story of old Bogey

design to save we the bother that unrestrained youthful enterprise

might cause, and with humorous mockery of their natural curiosity.

jocularity about stork and gooseberry bush, sham indignation at

any plainness of speech, fierce punishment of imperfectly realize

offence, this against a background of giggle, know innuendo, and

careless, exciting glimpse of the mystery, have constitute the

ordinary initiation of the youth of the world. right up to full age, we

still fail to provide the clear elemental fact. our young man do not

know for certain whether continence be healthy or unhealthy, possible or

impossible; the sex be still assure with all our power of assurance,

that the only pure and proper life for it be a sexless one. until at

last the bright of the young have be oblige to get down to the

bare fact in themselves and begin again at the beginning....



so Joan, co-heiress of the Ages with Peter, find that because of her

defaulting trustee, because we teacher, divine, writer and the like

have shirk what be disagreeable and difficult and unpopular, she

inherit nothing but debt and danger. she have not even that touching

faith in Nature which sustain the generation of Jean Jacques Rousseau.

she have to set about her problem with Peter as though he and she be

Eve and Adam in a garden overrun with weed and thorn into which God

have never come.



Joan be too young yet to have develop the compensate egotism of

thwart femininity. she see Peter without delusion. he be a big

and cleverer creature than herself; he compel her respect. he have

more strength, more invention, more initiative, and a relatively

tremendous power of decision. and at the same time he be weak and blind

and stupid. his flickering, unstable sensuousness, his light

adventurousness and a certain dishonesty about woman, fill she with a

comprehensive pity and contempt. there be a real difference not merely

in scale but in nature between they. it be clear to she now that the

passionate and essential reality of a woman’s life be only incidental

to a man. but on the other hand there be passionate and essential

reality for Peter that make her own seem narrow and self-centre. she

know far more of his mental life than Oswald do. she know that he have

an intense passion for clear statement, he hold to scientific and

political judgment with a power altogether deep and great than she

do; he care for they and criticize they and polish they, like

weapon that have be entrust to he. beneath his debonair mask he be

grow into a strong and purposeful social and mental personality. she

perceive that he be only in the beginning of his growth—if he come on

no misadventure, if he do not waste himself. and she do not believe

that she herself have any great power of further growth except through

he. but link to he she could keep pace with he. she could capture

his sense, keep his conscience, uphold he....



she have convince herself now that that be her chief business in life.



her mind be remarkably free from doubt about the future if once she

could get at her Peter. mountain and forest of use and willnot separate

they, she know. Peter have acquire a habit of not make love to she and

of separate she from the thought of love. but if ever Peter come over

these mountain, if ever he come through the forest to she—— in the

heart of the forest, she would keep he. she ben’t afraid that Peter

would leave she again. Wilmington have be wrong there. that he have

suggest in the bitterness of his heart. man like Huntley and

Winterbaum be always astray, but Peter be not “look for woman.” he

be just a lost man, distract by desire, desire that be strong

because he be energetic, desire that be mischievous and unmeaning

because he have lose his way in these thing.



“I don’t care so very much how long it take, Peter; I don’t care what

it cost I,” say Joan, get her rôle clear at last. “I don’t even

care—not vitally anyhow—how you wander by the way. no. because you’re my

man, Peter, and I be your woman. because so it be write in the

beginning. but you be come over those mountain, my Peter, though

they go up to the sky; you be come through the forest though I have

to make a path for you. you be come to my arm, Peter ... come to

I....”



so Joan frame her scheme, regardless of the swift approach of the day

of battle for Peter. she be resolve to lose nothing by neglect or

delay, but also she mean to do nothing precipitate. to begin with she

brace herself to the disagreeable task of really think—instead of

just feel—about Hetty. she compare herself deliberately point by

point with Hetty. long ago at Pelham Ford she have challenge Hetty—and

Peter have come out of the old library in spite of Hetty to watch she

dancing. she be young, she be fresher and clean, she be a ray of

sunlight to Hetty’s flame. Hetty be good company—perhaps. but Peter

and Joan have always be good company for each other, interested in a

score of common subject, able to play the same game and run abreast.

but Hetty be “easy.” there be her strength. between she and Peter

there be no barrier, and between Joan and Peter be a blank wall, a

stern taboo upon the primary among youthful interest, a long habit of

aloofness, date from the day when “soppy” be the ultimate word in

the gamut of human scorn.



“it’s just like that,” say Joan.



those barrier have to be break down, without a shock. and before that

problem Joan maintain a frown, unsuccessful siege. she couldn’t

begin to flirt with Peter. she couldn’t make eye at he. such thing

would be intolerable. she couldn’t devise any sort of signal. and so how

the devil be this business ever to begin? and while she wrestle vainly

with this perplexity she remain more boyish, more good-fellow and

companion with Peter than ever....



and while she be still meditate quite fruitlessly on this riddle of

change her relationship to Peter, he be snatch away from she to

France.



the thing happen quite unexpectedly. he come up to see she at

Hampstead late in the afternoon—it be by a mere chance she be back

early. he be full of pride at be choose to go so soon. he seem

brightly excited at go, keen for the great adventure, the most

lovable and animate of Peters—and he might be go to his death. but

it be the convention of the time never to think of death, and anyhow

never to speak of it. some engagement hold he for the evening, some

final farewell spree; she do not ask too particularly what that be.

she could guess only too well. altogether they be about

five-and-twenty minute together, with Miss Jepson always in the room

with they; for the most part they talk air shop; and then he prepare

to leave with all her scheme still at loose end in the air. “well,”

he say, “good-bye, old Joan,” and hold out his hand.



“no,” say Joan, with a sudden resolution in her eye. “this time we

kiss, Peter.”



“well,” say Peter, astonish.



she have surprise he. he stare at she for an instant with a

half-frame question in his eye. and then they kiss very gravely and

carefully. but she kiss he on the mouth.



for some second solemnity hang about they. then Peter turn upon Miss

Jepson. “do _you_ want a kiss?” say Peter....



Miss Jepson be all for kissing, and then with a laugh and an effect of

escape Peter have go ... into the outer world ... into the outer

air....





                                  § 13



he fly to France the next day, above the grey and shine stretch of

water and two little anxious ship, and he send Joan a cheerful message

on a picture-postcard of a shell-smash church to tell of his safe

arrival.



Joan be dismayed. in war time we must not brood on death, one do not

think of death if one can help it; it be the chance that wreck all

calculation; but the fear of death have fall suddenly upon all her

plan. and what be there leave now of all her plan? she might write he

letter.



Death be more terrible to a girl in love than to any other living thing.

“if he die,” say Joan, “I be kill. I shall be bad than a widow—an

indian girl widow. suttee; what will be leave of I but ashe?... some

poor dreg of Joan carry on a bankrupt life.... no I....”



there be nothing for it but to write he letter. and Joan find those

letter incredibly difficult to write. all lightness have go from her

touch. after long and tiring day with her car she sit write and

tear up and begin again. it be so difficult now to write to he,

to be easy in manner and yet insidious. she want still to seem his old

companion, and yet to hint subtly at the new state of thing. “there’s a

dull feeling now you’ve go out of England, Peter,” she write. “I’ve

never have company I care for in all the world as I care for your.”

and, “I shall count the day to your leave, Peter, as soon as I know how

many to count. I don’t guess before that you be a sort of necessity

to I.” over such sentence, sentence that must have an edge and yet

not be too bold, sentence full of tenderness and above all suspicion of

“soppiness,” Joan ponder like a poet write a sonnet....



but letter go slowly, and life and death hustle along together very

swiftly in the day of the great war....





                                  § 14



Joan’s mind be full of love and life and the fear of lose they, but

Peter be think but little of love and life; he be secretly

preoccupy with the thought, the forbidden thought, of death, and with

the strangeness of war and of this earth see from an aeroplane ten

thousand foot or so above the old battlefield of mankind. he be see

the world in plan, and realize what a flat and shallow thing it be.

on clear day the circuit of the world he see have a circumference of

hundred of mile, night fly be a journey amidst the star with the

little black planet far away; there be no former achievement of the

race that do not seem to he now like a miniature toy set out upon the

floor of an untidy nursery. he have beat up towards the very limit of

life and air, to the clear thin air of twenty-two or twenty-three

thousand foot; he have be in the blind sunlight when everything

below be still asleep in the blue of dawn.



and the world of history and romance, the world in which he and all his

ancestor have believe, a world see in elevation, of tower

frontage, high portal, inaccessible dignity, giddy pinnacle and

frown reputation, have now fall as flat, it seem, as the façade

of the Cloth Hall at Ypres. (he have see that one day from above, spread

out upon the ground.) he be convince that high above the thing of the

past he drone his liquid way towards a new sort of life altogether,

towards a great civilization, a world-wide life for man with no

boundary in it at all except the emptiness of outer space, a life of

freedom and exaltation and tremendous achievement. but meanwhile the old

thing of the world be try most desperately to kill he. every day

the enemy’s anti-aircraft gun seem to grow more accurate; and high

above the little fleecy cloud lurk the braggart Markheimer and the

gallant von Papen and suchlike german champion, with their decoy

below, ready to swoop and strike. never before have the world promise

Peter so tremendous a spectacle as it seem to promise now, and never

before have his hope of live to see it be so insecure.



when he have enlist, and even after he have be transfer to the

Flying Corps, Peter have think very little of death. the thought of

death only become prevalent in english mind towards the second year of

the war. it be a hateful and unnatural thought in youth, easily

dismiss altogether unless circumstance press it incessantly upon the

attention. but even before Peter go to France two of his set have be

kill under his eye in a collision as they come down into the

aerodrome, and a third he have see two mile away get into a spiral nose

dive, struggle out of it again, and then go down to be utterly smash

to piece. in one day on Salisbury Plain he have see three accident,

and two, he know, have be fatal and one have leave a legless thing to

crawl through life. the mess in France seem populous with young

ghost; reminiscence of spree, talk of fly adventure be lace

with, “dear old boy! he go west last May.” “Went west” be the common

phrase. they never say “kill.” they hate the very name of death.

they do their good, these dear gallant boy, to make the end seem an

easy and familiar part of life, of life with which they be so joyously

in love. they all know that the dice be load against they, and that

as the war go on the chance against they grow. the first day Peter

be out in France he see a man hit and bring down by a German Archie.

two day after, he find himself the centre of a sudden constellation of

whoofing shell that leave inky cloudburst over he and under he and

round about he; he see the fabric of his wing jump and quiver, and

drop six hundred foot or so to shake the gunner off. but _whuff_ ...

_whuff_ ... _whuff_, like the bark of a monstrous dog ... the beast be

on he again within a minute, and Peter do two or three loop and come

about and get away with almost indecent haste. he be tremble; he

hate it. and he hate to tremble.



in the mess that evening the talk run on the “Pigeon shooter.” it seem

that there be this one german gunner far quick and more deadly than

any of his fellow. he have a knack of divine what an airman be go

to do. Peter admit his near escape and seek counsel.



Peter’s colleague watch he narrowly and unostentatiously when they

advise he. their face be mask and his face be a mask, and they

be keen for the faint intonation of what be behind it. they all

hate death, they all try not to think of death; they all believe

that there be Paladins, other fellow, who never think of death at

all. when the tension get too great they rag; they smash great

quantity of furniture and make incredible volume of noise. twice

Peter get away from the aerodrome to let thing rip in Amiens. but such

outbreak be usually follow by a deep depression of spirit. in the

night Peter would wake up and find the thought of death sit by his

bedside.



so far Peter have never have a fight. he have go over the enemy line

five time, he have bomb a troop train in a station and a regiment

rest in a village, he believe he have kill a score or more of

Germans on each occasion and he feel not the slight compunction, but

he have not yet come across a fighting Hun plane. he have very grave

doubt about the issue of such a fight, a fight that be bind to come

soon or later. he know he be not such a quick pilot as he would like

to be. he think quickly, but he think rather too much for rapid,

steady decision. he have the balancing, scientific mind. he know that

none of his flight be perfect. always there be a conflict of

intention at some point, a hesitation. he believe he might last for

week or month, but he know that somewhen he would be find

wanting—just for a second perhaps, just in the turn of the fight. then

he would be kill. he hide quite successfully from all his companion,

and particularly from his squadron commander, this conviction, just as

he have previously hide the vague funk that have invariably invade his

be whenever he walk across the ground towards the machine during

his day of instruction, but at the back of his mind the thought that

his time be limited be always present. he believe that he have to die;

it might be tomorrow or next week or next month, but somewhen within the

year.



when these conviction become uppermost in Peter’s mind a black

discontent possess he. there be no such bitter critic of life as

the young; theirs be a magnificent greed for the splendour of life. they

have no patience with delay; their blunder and failure be

intolerable. Peter review his two-and-twenty year—it be now nearly

three-and-twenty—with an intense dissatisfaction. he have waste his

time, and now he have get into a narrow way that lead down and down

pitilessly to where there would be no more time to waste. he have be

aimless and the world have be aimless, and then it have suddenly turn

upon he and catch he in this lobster-trap. he have waste all his

chance of great experience. he have never love a woman or have be well

love because he have fritter away that possibility in a hateful sex

excitement with Hetty—who do not even pretend to be faithful to he.

and now thing have get into this spin to death. it be exactly like a

spin—like a spin nose dive—the whole affair, his life, this war....



he would lie and fret in his bed, and fret all the more because he know

his wakefulness waste the precious nervous vigour that might save his

life next day.



after a black draught of such thought Peter would become excessively

noisy and facetious in the mess tent. he be recognize and applaud as

a wit and as a devil. he be really very good at limerick, delicately

indelicate, upon the name of his fellow officer and of the village

along the front—that be no doubt heredity, the gift of his Aunt

Phyllis—and his caricature adorn the mess. it be also understand

that he be a rake....



Peter’s evil anticipation be only too well justified. he be put down

in his very first fight, which happen over Dompierre. he have bad luck;

he be strike by von Papen, one of the crack german flier on that part

of the front. he be up at ten thousand foot or so, more or less

cover a low-fly photographer, when he see a german machine come

over half a mile perhaps or more away as though it be look for

trouble. Peter know he might funk a fight, and to escape that moral

disaster, head straight down for the German, who drop and make off

southward. Peter rejoice at this flight, pursue, his eye upon the

quarry. then from out of the sun come von Papen, swiftly and

unsuspected, upon Peter’s tail, and announce his presence by a whiff of

bullet. Peter glance over his shoulder to discover that he be catch.



“oh damn!” cry Peter, and duck his head, and feel himself sting at

the shoulder and wrist. splinter be fly about he.



he try a side-slip, and as he do so he have an instant’s vision of yet

another machine, a Frenchman this time, fall like a bolt out of the

blue upon his assailant. the biter be bit.



Peter try to come round and help, but he turn right over sideway

and drop, and suddenly find himself with the second Hun plane come

up right ahead of he. Peter blaze away, but God! how his wrist hurt

he! he curse life and death. he blaze away with his machine go

over more and more, and the landscape rush up over his head and then

get in front of he and circle round. for some second he do not

know what be up and what be down. he continue to fire, fire

earthward for a long second or so after his second enemy have disappear

from his vision.



the world be spin round fast and fast, and everything be

move away outward, fast and fast, as if it be all hasten to

get out of his way....



this surely be a spin nose dive, the spin nose dive—from

within. round and round. confusing and giddy! just as he have see poor

old Gordon go down.... but one don’t feel at all—as Peter have suppose

one must feel—like an egg in an egg-whisk!...



down spin the aeroplane, as a maple fruit in autumn spin to the ground.

then this still live thing that have be Peter, all bloody and break,

make a last supreme effort. and his luck second his effort. the spin

grow slow and flatter. control of this lurching, eddy aeroplane

seem to come back, escape again, mock he. the ground be very

near. _now!_ the sky swing up over the whirling propeller again and

stay above it, and again the machine obey a reasonable soul.



he be out of it! out of a nose dive! yes. steady! it be so easy when

one’s head be whirl to get back into a spin again. steady!...



he talk to himself. “oh! good Peter! _good_ Peter! _clever_ Peter.

wonderful Mr. Toad! stick it! stick it!” but what a queer right hand it

be! it be cover with blood. and it crumple up in the middle when he

clench it! never mind!



he be in the low storey of the air. the Hun and the Frenchman up

there be in another world.



down below, quite close—not five hundred foot now—be field-grey

running and shoot at he. they be count their chicken before he

be hatch—no, smash.... he ben’t do yet! not by any manner of

mean! a wave of great cheerfulness and confidence buoy up Peter. he

feel equal to any enterprise. should he drop and let the bawl Boche

have a round or so?



and there be a Hun machine smash upside down on the ground. be that

the second fellow?



Flick! a bullet!



Wiser counsel come to Peter. this be no place for a sick and giddy man

with a smashed and bleed wrist. he must get away.



up! which way be west? west? the sun rise in the east and set in the

west. but where have the sun get to? it be hide by his wing. shadow!

the shadow would be point north-east, that be the tip.... up! there

be the Boche trench. no, Boche reserve trench.... go west,

go west.... Rip! Snap! bullet through the wing, and a wire flickering

about. he duck his head.... he put the machine up steeply to perhaps a

thousand foot....



he have an extraordinary feeling that he and the machine be grow and

swell, that they be get big and big, and the sky and the

world and everything else small. at last he be a monstrous man in a

vast aeroplane in the tiny of universe. he be as great as God.



that wrist! and this blood! blood! and great, glow spot of blood

that make one’s sight indistinct....



he cough, and feel his mouth full of blood, and spit it out and

retch....



then in an instant he be a little thing again, and the sky and the

world be immense. he have a lucid interval.



one ought to go up and help that Frenchman. where be they fight?...

_up_, anyhow!



this must be no Man’s Land. that crumple little thing be a dead body

surely. barbed wire. more barbed wire.



the engine be miss. Ugh! _that fairly put the lid on!_



Peter be already asleep and dream. the great blood spot have

return and increase, but now they be get black, they be

black, huge black blotch; they blot out the world!



Peter, Peter as we have know he, discontinued existence....



it be an automaton, aid by good luck, that drop his machine half a

mile behind the french trench....





                                  § 15



Peter have no memory of come to again from his faint. for a long time

he must have continue to be purely automatic. his flaming wrist be the

centre of his being. then for a time consciousness resume, as abruptly

as the thread of a story one find upon the torn page of a novel.



he find himself in the midst of a friendly group of pale blue uniform;

he be stand up and be very lively in spite of the strong taste of

blood in his mouth and a feeling that his wrist be burn as a match

burn, and that the left upper half of his body have be change into a

lump of raw and bleed meat. he be talk a sort of French. “_C’est

sacré bon stuff, cet eau-de-vie Française_,” he be say gaily and

rather loudly.



“Haf some more,” say a friendly voice.



“not half, old chap,” say Peter, and feel at the time that this be not

really good French.



he try to slap the man on the shoulder, but he couldn’t.



“_Bon!_” he say, “as we say in England,” and feel that that remark also

fail.



some one protest softly against his be give more brandy....



then this clear fragment end again. there be a kind of dream of

rather rough but efficient surgery upon a shoulder and arm that be

quite probably his own, and some genially amiable conversation. there

be a very nice Frenchman with a black beard and soft eye, who wear a

long white overall, and seem to be look after he as tenderly as a

woman could do.



but with these thing mingle the matter of delirium. at one time the

Kaiser prevail in Peter’s mind, a large, foolish, pompous person with

wax moustache and distraught eye, who crawl up to Peter over

immense pile of white and grey and green rotting corpse, and begin

gnaw at his shoulder almost absent-mindedly. Peter struggle and

protest. what business have this beastly german to come interfere

with Peter’s life? he start a vast argument about that, in which all

sort of people, include the nice-look Frenchman in the white

overall, take part.



Peter be now make a formal complaint about the conduct of the

universe. “no,” he insist time after time, “I will not deal with

subordinate. I insist on see the Head,” and so at last he find

himself in the presence of the Lord God....



but Peter’s vision of the Lord God be the most delirious thing of all.

he imagine he in an office, a little office in a vast building, and so

out of the way that people have to ask each other which be the passage

and which the staircase. old man stand and argue at corner with

Peter’s girl-guide whether it be this way or that. People be be

show over the building by girl-guide; it be very like the London War

Office, only more so; there be great number of visitor, and they all

seem to be in considerable hurry and distress, and most of they be

look for the Lord God to lodge a complaint and demand an explanation,

just as Peter be. for a time all the visitor become wounded man, and

nurse mix up with the girl-guide, and Peter be be carry

through fresh air to an ambulance train. his shoulder and wrist be

very painful and singe, as it be, a throb duet together.



for a time Peter do seem to see the Lord God; he be in his office, a

little brown, rather tired-look man in a kepi, and Peter be on a

stretcher, and the Lord God or some one near he be say: “_Quel

numéro_?” but that pass away, and Peter be again conduct his

exploration of the corridor with a girl-guide who be sometimes like

Joan and sometimes like Hetty—and then there be a queer disposition to

loiter in the passage.... for a time he sit in dishabille while Hetty

try to explain God.... dream cross the scent of dream.



then it seem to Peter’s fevere brain that he be sit, and have

be sit for a long time, in the little office of the Lord God of

Heaven and Earth. and the Lord God have the likeness of a lean, tired,

intelligent-look oldish man, with an air of futile friendliness

mask a fundamental indifference.



“my dear sir,” the Lord God be say, “do please put that cushion

behind your poor shoulder. I cann’t bear to see you so uncomfortable. and

tell I everything. everything....”



the office be the dingy and untidy little office it be possible

to imagine. the desk at which God sit be in a terrible litter. on a

side table be some grubby test tube and bottle at which the Lord God

have apparently be try over a new element. the window have not be

clean for age, they be dark with spider’ webs, they crawl with a

buzz nightmare of horrible and unmeaning life. it be a most

unbusinesslike office. there be no proper file, no card index;

bundle of dusty paper be thrust into open fixture, paper litter

the floor, and there be brass-handle drawers—. Peter look again,

and blood be ooze from these drawer and little cry come out of

they. he glance quickly at God, and God be look at he. “but do

you really make this world?” he ask.



“I _think_ I do,” say God.



“but why do you do it? _why?_”



“ah, _there_ you have I!” say the Lord God with bonhomie.



“but why don’t you exert yourself?” say Peter, hammer at the desk

with his sound hand. “why don’t you exert yourself?”



could delirium have ever invent a more monstrous conception than this

of Peter hammer on an untidy desk amidst old pen nib, bit of

sealing-wax, half-sheet of notepaper, return of nature’s waste, sample

bone of project animal, mineral sample, dirty little test tube,

and the like, and lecture the Almighty upon the dreadful confusion

into which the world have fall? “here be I, sir, and million like I,

with a clear promise of life and freedom! and what be we now? Bruises,

red bone, dead body! this german Kaiser fellow—an ass, sir, a perfect

ass, gnaw a great hole in my shoulder! he and his son, stuff

themselves with a Blut-Wurst make out of all our life and happiness!

what do it mean, sir? have it go entirely out of your control? and it

ben’t as if the whole thing be ridiculous, sir. it ben’t. in some way

it’s an extraordinarily fine world—one have to admit that. that be why it

be all so distressing, so unendurably distressing. I don’t in the least

want to leave it.”



“you admit that it’s fine—in place,” say the Lord God, as if he value

the admission.



“but the management, sir! the management! your—ultimately. don’t you

realize, sir——? I have the great trouble in find you. half the

messenger don’t know where this den of yours be. it’s _forget_.

practically forget. the Head Office! and now I’m here I can tell you

everything be go to rack and ruin, drive straight to an absolute

and final smash and break-up.”



“as bad as that?” say the Lord God.



“it’s the appalling waste,” Peter continue. “the waste of material, the

waste of we, the waste of everything. a sort of splendour in it, there

be; touch of real genius about it, that I would be the last to deny;

but that only increase the bitterness of the disorder. it’s a good

enough world to lament. it’s a good enough life to resent have to lose

it. there’s some lovely thing in it, sir; courage, endurance, and oh!

many beautiful thing. but when one get here, when one begin to ask

for you and hunt about for you, and find this, this muddle, sir, then

one begin to understand. _look_ at this room, consider it—as a general

manager’s room. no decency. no order. everywhere the dust of age, muck

indescribable, bacteria! and that!”



that be a cobweb across the grimy window pane, in which a freshly

entangle bluebottle fly be buzz fussily. “that ought not to be here

at all,” say Peter. “it really ought not to exist at all. why do it?

look at that beastly spider in the corner! why do you suffer all these

cruel and unclean thing?”



“you don’t like it?” say the Lord God, without any sign either of

apology or explanation.



“no,” say Peter.



“then _change_ it,” say the Lord God, nod his head as who should

say “get you there.”



“but how be we to change it?”



“if you have no will to change it, you have no right to criticize it,”

say the Lord God, lean back with the weariness of one who have have to

argue with each generation from Job onward, precisely the same

objection and precisely the same argument.



“after all,” say the Lord God, give Peter no time to speak far;

“after all, you be three-and-twenty, Mr. Peter Stubland, and you’ve

be pretty busy complain of I and everything between I and you,

your master, pastor, teacher, and so forth, for the last half-dozen

year. meanwhile, be your own record good? positive achievement,

forgive I, be still to seek. you’ve be nearly drunk several time,

you’ve soil yourself with a lot of very cheap and greedy love-making—I

give you something beautiful there anyhow, and you know that while you

spoil it—you’ve be a vigorous member of the consume class, and

really, you’ve get nothing clear and plan, nothing at all. you

complain of my lack of order; where’s the order in your own mind? if I

be the hot-temper old autocrat some of you people pretend I be, I

should have be tickle you up with a thunderbolt long ago. but I

happen to have this democratic fad as badly as any one—Free Will be what

they use to call it—and so I leave you to work out your own salvation.

and if I leave you alone then I have to leave that other—that other Mr.

Toad at Potsdam alone. he try I, I admit, almost to the miracle pitch

at time with the tone of his everlasting prepaid telegram—but one have

to be fair. what be sauce for the goose be sauce for the Kaiser. I’ve

get to leave you all alone if I leave one alone. don’t you see that? in

spite of the mess you be in. so don’t blame I. don’t blame I. there

ben’t a thing in the whole of this concern of mine that Man cann’t

control if only he choose to control it. it’s arrange like that.

there’s a lot more system here than you suspect, only it’s too ingenious

for you to see. it’s yours to command. if you want a card index for the

world—well, get a card index. I willn’t prevent you. if you don’t like my

spider, kill my spider. I’m not conceited about they. if you don’t

like the Kaiser, hang he, assassinate he. why don’t you abolish king?

you could. but it be your sort, with your cheap and quick efficiency

scheme, who set up Saul—in spite of my protest—age ago.... humanity

either make or breed or tolerate all its own affliction, great and

small. not my doing. take king and court. take dungheap and fly.

it’s astonish you people haven’t kill off all the fly in the

world long ago. they do no end of mischief, and it would be perfectly

easy to do. they’re purely educational. purely. even as you lie in

hospital, there they be buzz within an inch of your nose and landing

on your poor forehead to remind you of what a properly organize

humanity could do for its own comfort. but there’s man in this world who

want I to act as a fly-paper, simply because they be too lazy to get

one for themselves. my dear Mr. Peter! if people haven’t teach you

properly, teach yourself. if they don’t know enough, find out. it’s all

here. all here.” he make a comprehensive gesture. “I’m not mock you.”



“you’re not mock I?” say Peter keenly....



“it depend upon you,” say the Lord God with an enigmatic smile. “you

ask I why I don’t exert myself. well—why don’t _you_ exert yourself?



“why don’t _you_ exert yourself?” the Lord God repeat almost rudely,

drive it home.



“that pillow under your shoulder still ben’t comfortable,” say the Lord

God, break off....



the buzzing of the entangled fly change to the drone of a pass

aeroplane, and the dingy office expand into a hospital ward. some one

be adjust Peter’s pillow....





                                  § 16



if his shoulder-blade be to mend, Peter could not be move; and for a

time he remain in the french hospital in a long, airy room that be

full mostly with fly man like himself. at first he could not talk

very much, but later he make some friend. he be himself very immobile,

but other man come and sit by he to talk.



he talk chiefly to two Americans, who be serve at that time in the

French fly corps. he find it much easy to talk English than French

in his exhausted state, for though both he and Joan speak French far

above the average public school level, he find that now it come with an

effort. it be as if his mind have for a time be pare down to its

essential.



these Americans amuse and interest he tremendously. he have meet

hardly any Americans before so as to talk to they at all intimately, but

they suffer from an inhibition of French perhaps more permanent than

his own, and so the three be throw into an unlimited intimacy of

conversation. at first he find these Americans rather fatigue, and

then he find they very refreshing because of their explicitness of

mind. except when they break into frothy rapid of slang they be never

allusive; in serious talk they say everything. they lay a firm

foundation for all their assertion. that be the last thing an

Englishman do. they talk of the war and of the prospect of America

come into the war, and of England and America and again of the war,

and of the French and of the French and Americans and of the war, and of

Taft’s League to Enforce Peace and the true character of Wilson and

Teddy and of the war, and of Sam Hughes and Hughes the Australian, and

whether every country have the Hughes it deserve and of the war, and of

go to England after the war, and of Stratford-on-Avon and Chester and

Windsor, and of the peculiarity of english people. their idea of

England Peter discover be strange and picturesque. they believe all

englishman live in a glow of personal loyalty to the Monarch, and be

amazed to learn that Peter’s sentiment be republican; and they

think that every Englishman dearly love a lord. “we think that of

Americans,” say Peter. “that’s our politeness,” say they in a chorus,

and start a train of profound discovery in international

relationship in Peter’s mind.



“the idea of every country about every country be necessarily a little

stale. what England be, what England think, and what England be

become, ben’t on record. what be on record be the England of the

’eighty and ’ninety.”



“now, that’s very true,” say the near American. “and you can apply it

right away, with a hundred per cent. or so add, to all your idea of

America.”



as a consequence both side in this leisurely discussion find how

widely they have be out in their idea about each other. Peter

discover America as not nearly so commercial and individualistic as he

have suppose; he have be altogether ignorant of the increase part the

university be play in her affair; the Americans be equally

edify to find that the rampant imperialism of Cecil Rhodes and his

group no long rule the british imagination. “if thing be so,” say

the diplomatist in the nearer bed, “then I seem to see a lot more come

together between we than I’ve ever be dispose to think possible

before. if you British ben’t so keen over this king business——”



“_Keen!_” say Peter.



“if you don’t hold you be it and unapproachable—in the way of Empires.”



“the Empire be yours for the asking,” say Peter.



“then all there be between we be the Atlantic—and that grow narrow

every year. we’re the same people.”



“so long as we have the same language and literature,” say Peter....



from these talk onward Peter may be regard as have a Foreign Policy

of his own.





                                  § 17



and it be in this hospital that Peter first clearly decide to become

personally responsible for the reconstruction of the British Empire.



this decision be precipitate by the sudden reappearance in his world

of Mir Jelalludin, the Indian whom he have once think unsuitable

company for Joan.



Peter have be doze when Jelalludin appear. he find he sit

beside the bed, and stare at the neat and smile brown face, unable to

place he, and still less able to account for the uniform he be

wear. for Jelalludin be wear the uniform of the french aviator,

and across his breast he wear four palm.



“I have the pleasure of know you at Cambridge,” say Mir Jelalludin in

his indian staccato. “Cha’med I be of use to you.”



an explanatory Frenchman stand beside the Indian dab his finger on

the last of Jelalludin’s decoration. “he kill von Papen after your

crash,” say the Frenchman.



“you be that Frenchman——?” say Peter.



“in your fight,” say Mir Jelalludin.



“he’d have finish I,” say Peter.



“I finish _he_,” say the Indian, laugh with sheer happiness, and

show his beautiful tooth.



Peter contemplate the situation. he make a movement and be remind of

his bandage.



“I wish I could shake hand,” he say.



the Indian smile with a phantom malice in his smile.



Peter go bluntly to a question that have arise in his mind. “why

ben’t you in khaki?” he ask.



“the brish’ Gu’ment object to indian flyer,” say Mir Jelalludin. “I

try. but brish’ Gu’ment think fly beyond we. and bad for Prestige.

Prestige very important thing to brish’ Gu’ment. so I come to France.”



Peter continue to digest the situation.



“of course,” say Jelalludin, “no commission give in regular army to

Indians. brish’ soldier not allow to s’lute indian officer. not part

of the Great White Race. otherwise hundred of flyer could come from

India, hundred and hundred. we play cricket—good horseman. many indian

gentleman must be first-rate flying stuff. but Gu’ment say ’no.’”



he continue to smile more cheerfully than ever.



“hundred of juvenile Indians ready and willing to be kill for your

Empire”—he rub it in—“but—no, thank you. indo-european people we be,

aryan, more consanguineous than Jews or Japanese. ready to take our

place beside you.... well, anyhow, I rejoice to see that you be

recover to entire satisfaction. it be only when I descend after

the fight that I perceive that it be you, and it seem to I then

that you be very seriously injure. I be anxious. and mem’ries of

otha day. I feel I must see you.”



Peter and the young Indian look at one another.



“look here, Jelalludin,” he say, “I must apologize.”



“but why?”



“as part of the British Empire. no! don’t interrupt. I do. but, I say,

do they—do we really bar you—absolutely?”



“absolutely. not only from the air force, but from any commission at

all. the low little bazaar clerk from Clapham, who have get a

commission, be over our indian officer—over our prince. it be an

everlasting humiliation. necessary for Prestige.”



“the French have more sense, anyhow.”



“they take we on our merit.



“if I _have_ a british commission,” say Jelalludin, “I should be make

very uncomfortable. it be the way with british officer and gentleman.

the French be not so—particular.”



“at present,” say Peter, “I cann’t be move.”



“you improve.”



“but when I get up this be one of the thing I have to see to. you see,

Jelalludin, this Empire of our—your and mine—have get into the hand of

a gang of gory Old Fools. partly my negligence—as God say.”



“God?” say Jelalludin.



“oh, nothing! I mean we young man haven’t be give a proper grasp of

the indian situation. or any situation. no. this business of the

commission——! after all that you fellow have do here in France! it’s

disgraceful. you see, we don’t see or learn anything about India. even

at Cambridge——”



“you don’t see much of we there,” smile the Indian.



“I’m sorry,” say Peter.



“I don’t come to talk about this,” say Jelalludin, “it come out.”



“I’m glad it come out,” say Peter.



a pause.



“I mustn’t tire you,” say Mir Jelalludin, and rise to go.



Peter thank he for come.



“and your cha’ming sister?” ask the Indian, as if by an afterthought.



“Foster sister. she drive a big car about London,” say Peter....



Peter meditate profoundly upon that interview for some day.



then he try over the opinion of the Americans about India. but

Americans be of little help to the British about India. their simple

uncriticized colour prejudice cover all “Asiatics” except the

inhabitant of Siberia. they have a more than english ignorance of

ethnology, and Oswald have at least impart some fragment of that

important science to his ward. their work classification of mankind

be into Anglo-Saxons, Frenchmen, sheeny, Irishmen, Dutchmen, dago,

Chinks, Coloured People, and black Niggers. they esteem Mir Jelalludin

a Coloured Person. Peter have to fall back upon himself again.





                                  § 18



it contribute to the thoroughness of Peter’s thinking that it be some

time before he could be put into a position to read comfortably. and it

have to be record in the tooth of the dictate of sentiment and the

most sacred tradition of romance that the rôle play by both Joan and

Hetty in these meditation be secondary and incidental. it be an

attenuate and abstract Peter who lie in the french hospital, his chief

link of sense with life be a grow hunger; he think very much about

fate, pain, the nature of thing, and God, and very little about person

and personal incident—and so strong an effect have his dream that God

remained fix steadfastly in his mind as that same intellectual

non-interventionist whom he have visit in the fly-blow office. but

about God’s rankle repartee, “why don’t _you_ exert yourself?” there

be accumulate a new conception, the conception of Man take hold of

the world, unassiste by God but with the acquiescence of God, and in

fulfilment of some remote, incomprehensible plan on the part of God.

probably Peter in think this be follow one of the most ancient

and well-beat of speculative path, but it seem to he that it be a

new way of thinking. and he be Man. it be he who have to establish

justice in the earth, achieve unity, and rule first the world and then

the star.



he lie stare at the ceiling, and quite happy now that heal and

habituation have free he from positive pain, think out how he be to

release and co-operate with his India, which have invariably the face of

Mir Jelalludin, how he be to reunite himself with his brother in

America, and how the wall and division of mankind, which look so high

and invincible upon the ground and so trivial from twelve thousand foot

above, be to be subdue to such great end.



it be only as the blood corpuscle multiply inside he that Peter

cease to be constantly man contemplate his destiny and Races and

Empires, and for more and more hour in the day shrank to the dimension

and natural warmth of Mr. Peter Stubland contemplate convalescence in

Blighty. he become eager first for the dear old indulgent and welcome

house at Pelham Ford, and then for prowl and walk and gossip with Joan

and Oswald, and then, then for London and a little “fun.” Life be

ebb back into what be understand to be the low nature, and be

certainly the most intimate and distinctive substance of Mr. Peter

Stubland. his correspondence become of very great interest to he.

certain letter from Joan, faint but pursuing, have reach he, those

letter over which Joan have sit like a sonneteer. he read they and

warm to they. he think what luck it be that he have a Joan to be the

good of sister to he, to be even more than a sister. she be the good

friend he have, and it be jolly to read so plainly that he be her good

friend. he would like to do work with Joan well than with any man he

know. drive a car ben’t half good enough for she. some day he’d be

able to show she how to fly, and he would. it would be great fun go

up with Joan on a double control and let she take over. there must

be girl in the world who would fly as well as any man, or well.



he scribble these idea in his first letter to Joan, and they please

she mightily. to fly with Peter would be surely to fly straight into

heaven.



and mix up with Joan’s letter be other that he presently sort

out from hers and put apart, as though even letter might hold

inconvenient communion. for the most part they come from Hetty Reinhart,

and display the emotion of a consciously delicious female enamour

and enslave by one of the hero of the air. she have dream of he

come in through the skylight of her studio, Lord Cupid visit his

poor little Psyche—“but it be only the moonlight,” and she think of

he now always with great overshadow wing. sometimes they be great

white wing that beat above she, and sometimes they be thrillingly

soft and exquisite wing, like the wing of the people in _Peter

Wilkins_. she send he a copy of _Peter Wilkins_, book belove by Poe

and all reader of the fantastic. then come the news of his smash. she

have be clever enough to link it with the death of von Papen, the Hun

Matador. “be that your fight, dear peterkin? do you _begin_ on

Goliath?” as the cordial of recovery race through Peter’s vein there

be phase when the thought of visit the yield fair, Jovelike and

triumphant in wing glory, become not simply attractive but insistent.

but he write to Hetty modestly, “they’ve clip one wing for ever.”



and so in a quite artless and inevitable way Peter find his first

leave, when the british hospital have do with he, mortgage up to hilt

almost equally to dear friend Joan and to Cleopatra Hetty.



the young man only realize the duplicity of his nature and the

complication of his position as the hospital boat beat its homeward way

across the Channel. the night be smooth and fine, with a high full moon

which somehow suggest Hetty, and with a cloud scheme of great beauty

and distinction that have about it a flavour of Joan. and as he meditate

upon these complication that have be happen in his more personal

life while his attention have be still largely occupy with divinity

and politic, he be hail by an unfamiliar voice and address as

“Simon Peter.” “excuse I,” say the stout young officer tuck up

warmly upon the next deck chair between a pair of crutch, “but ben’t

you Simon Peter?”



Peter have hear that name somewhere before. “my name’s stubland,” he

say.



“ah! stubland! I forget your surname. of High Cross School?”



Peter peer and see a round fair face that slowly recall memory.

“wait a moment!” say Peter.... “_Ames!_”



“guess it in one. Probyn and I be chum.”



“what have you get?” say Peter.



“Leg below the knee off, damn it!” say Ames. “one month at the front.

not much of a career. but they say they do you a leg now well than

reality. but I’d have like to have bat the pant of the unspeakable

Hun a bit more before I retire. what have you get?”



“wrist chiefly and shoulder-blade. air fight. after six week.”



“do you out?”



“for fly, I’m afraid. but there’s lot of ground job. and

anyhow—home’s pleasant.”



“yes,” say Ames. “home’s pleasant. but I’d like to have get a scalp of

some sort. doubt if I kill a single Hun. D’you remember Probyn at

school?—a dark chap.”



Peter find he still hate Probyn. “I remember he,” he say.



“he’s kill. he get the M.M. and the V.C. he wouldn’t take a

commission. he be sergeant-major in my battalion. I just see he, but

I’ve hear about he since. his man worship he. Queer how man come

out in a new light in this war.”



“how be he kill?” ask Peter.



“in a raid. he be with a bombing party, and three man straggle up a

sap and get corner. he’d take two machine-gun and they’d use most

of the bomb, and his officer be knock out, so he send the rest of

his party back with the stuff and go to fetch his other man. one have

be hit and the other two be think of surrendering when he come

back to they. he stand right up on the parado, they say, and slung

bomb at the Germans, a whole crowd of they, until they go back. his

two chap get the wound man out and carry he back, and leave he

still sling bomb. he’d do that. he’d stand right up and bung bomb

at they until they seem to lose their head. then he seem to have

spot that this particular bunch of Germans have go back into a sort

of blind alley. he be very quick at spot a situation, and he

follow they up, and the sheer blank recklessness of it seem to have

put their wind up absolutely. they’d get bomb and there be an officer

with they. but they hold up their hand—nine of they. panic. he get they

right across to our trench before the searchlight find he, and the

Germans get he and two of their own chap with a machine-gun. that be

just the last thing he do. he’d be go about for month do

stunt like that—sort of charm life business. the way he sling bomb,

they say, amount to genius.



“they say he’d let his hair grow long—perfect golliwog. when I see he

it certainly _be_ long, but he’d get it plaster down. and there’s a

story that he use to put white on his face like a clown with a great

red mouth reach from ear to ear—— yes, paint on. it’s put the Huns’

wind up something frightful. come suddenly on a chap like that in the

glare of a searchlight or a flare.”



“queer end,” say Peter.



“Queer chap altogether,” say Ames....



he think for a time, and then go on to philosophize about Probyn.



“clever chap he be,” say Ames, “but an absolute failure. of course old

High Cross ben’t anything very much in the way of a school, but

whatever there be to be learn there he learn. he be the only one of

we who ever get hold of speak French. I hear he over there—regular

fluent. and he’d get a memory like an encyclopædia. I always say he’d

do wonder....”



Ames pause. “sex be his downfall,” say Ames.



“I see a lot of he altogether, off and on, right up to the time of the

war,” say Ames. “my people be furniture people, you know, in Tottenham

Court Road, and his be in the public-house fitting line—in Highbury.

we go about together. I see he make three or four good start, but

there be always some trouble. I suppose most of we be a bit—well,

_keen_ on sex; most of we young man. but he be ravenous. even at

school. always on it. always think about it. I could tell you story

of he.... Rum place that old school be, come to think of it. they leave

we about too much. I don’t know how far you——.... of course you be

about the most innocent thing that ever come to High Cross School,” say

Ames.



“yes,” say Peter. “I suppose I be.”



“curious how it gnaw at you once it’s set go,” say Ames....



Peter make a noise that might have be assent.



Ames remained think for a time, watch the swish and surge of the

black Channel water. Peter pursue their common topic in silence.



“what’s the sense of it?” say Ames, plunge towards philosophy.



“it’s the system on which life go—on this planet,” Peter contribute,

but Ames have not have a biological training, and be unprepared to take

that up.



“too much of it,” say Ames.



“over-sex,” say Peter.



“whether one ought to hold oneself in or let oneself go,” say Ames.

“but perhaps these thing don’t bother you?”



Peter ben’t dispose towards confidence with Ames. “I’m moderate in

all thing,” he say.



“lucky chap! I’ve worry about this business no end. one don’t want

to use up all one’s life like a blessed monkey. there’s other thing in

life—if only this everlasting want-a-girl want-a-woman would let one get

at they.”



his voice at Peter’s shoulder cease for a while, and then resume.

“it’s the good chap, seem to I, who get it worst. chap with

imagination, I mean, man of vitality. take old Probyn. he could have

do anything—anything. and he be eat up. like a fever....”



Ames go down into a black silence for a couple of minute or more, and

come up again with an astonishing resolution. “I shall marry,” he say.



“got the lady?” ask Peter.



“near enough,” say Ames darkly.



“St. Paul’s method,” say Peter.



“I be talk to a fellow the other day,” say Ames. “he’d get a

curious idea. something in it perhaps. he say that every one be

clean-minded and romantic, that’s how he put it, about sixteen or

seventeen. even if you’ve be a bit dirty as a schoolboy you sort of

clean up then. adolescence, in fact. and he say you ought to fall in

love and pair off then. kind of Romeo and Juliet business. first love

and all that.”



“Juliet ben’t exactly Romeo’s first love,” say Peter.



“young beggar!” say Ames. “but, anyhow, that be only by way of

illustration. his idea be that we’d sort of put off marriage and all

that sort of thing later and later. twenty-eight. thirty. thirty-five

even. and that put we wrong. we kind of curdle and ferment. spoilt

with keeping. lark about with girl we don’t care for. demi-vierge

stunt and all that. got promiscuous. let anything do. his idea be

you’d get to pair off with a girl and look after she, and she look after

you. and keep faith. and stop all stray muck about. ’settle down to a

healthy sexual peace,’ he say.”



Ames pause. “something in it?”



“ever read the Life of Lord Herbert of Cherbury?” ask Peter.



“never.”



“he work out that theory quite successfully. marry before he go up

to Oxford. there’s a lot in it. Sex. delay. fret. overflow.

get experimental and nasty.... but that don’t exhaust the

question. the Old Experimenter sit there——”



“_what_ experimenter?”



“the chap who start it all. there’s no way yet of fit it up

perfectly. we’ve get to make it fit.”



Peter be so interested that he forget his aversion from confide in

Ames. the subject carry he on.



“any healthy young man,” Peter generalize, “could be happy and

content with any pretty girl, so far as love-making go. it don’t

strike you—as a particularly recondite art, eh? but you’ve get to be in

love with each other generally. that’s more difficult. you’ve get to

talk together and go about together. in a complicated artificial world.

the sort of woman it’s easy and pleasant to make love to, may not be the

sort of woman you really think splendid. it’s easy to make love to a

woman you don’t particularly respect, who’s good fun, and all that.

which be just the reason why you wouldn’t be tie up with she for ever.

no.”



“so we worship the angel and marry the flapper,” say Ames.... “I

shalln’t do that, anyhow. the fact be, one need a kind of motherliness in

a woman.”



“by make love too serious, we’ve make it not serious enough,” say

Peter with oracular profundity, and then in reaction, “oh! _I_ don’t

know.”



“_i_ don’t know,” say Ames.



“which don’t in the least absolve we from the necessity of go on

live right away.”



“I shall marry,” say Ames, in a tone of unalterable resolve.



they lapse into self-centre meditation....



“why! there’s the coast,” say Ames suddenly. “quite close, too. _Dark._

do you remember, before the war, how the light of Folkestone use to

run along the top there like a necklace of fire?”





                                  § 19



the power that be set over Peter’s life play fast and loose with

he in the matter of leave. they treat he at first as though he be a

rare and precious hero—who have to be save from his friend. they put

he to mend at Broadstairs, and while he be at Broadstairs he have three

visit from Hetty, whose day be free, and only one hasty Sunday

glimpse of Joan, who be much in demand at the Ministry of Munitions.

and Oswald could not come to see he because Oswald himself be a

casualty mend slowly at Pelham Ford. Hetty and Joan and return

health fire the mind of Peter with great expectation of the leave that

be to come. these expectation be, so to speak, paint in panel.

forgetful of the plain fact that a Joan who be not available at

Broadstairs would also not be available at Pelham Ford, the panel

devote to the latter place invariably include Joan as a principal

figure, they represent leave as a glorious escape from war to the

space, the sunshine, the endlessness of such a summer vacation as only

schoolboy know. he would be climb tree with Joan, “muck about”

in the boat with Joan, lie on the lawn just on the edge of the

cedar’s shadow with Joan, nibble stem of grass. the London scene

be narrow and more intense. he want the glitter and fun of

lunch in the Carlton grill-room or dining at the Criterion, in the

company of a tremendous hat and transparent lace, and there be scene

in Hetty’s studio, quite a lot of fantastic and elemental scene in

Hetty’s studio.



but the Germans have wipe those day of limitless leisure out of the

life of mankind. even our schoolboy stay up in their holiday now to

make munition. Peter have scarcely clamber past the approval of a

medical board before active service snatch he again. he be want

urgently. Peter be no good as a pilot any more, it be true; his right

wrist be doom to be stiff and weak henceforth, and there be queer

little limitation upon the swing of his arm, but the power have

suddenly discover other use for he. there be more of Peter still

leave than they have assume at first. for one particular job, indeed, he

be just the man they need. they dock he a wing—it seem in

mockery of the state of his arm—and replace the two wing that have

adorn he by one attach to the letter O, and they mark he down to

join “balloon” at the early possible moment, for just then they be

develop kite balloon very fast for artillery observation, and be

eager for any available man. Peter be sling out into freedom for

one-and-twenty day, and then tell to report himself for special

instruction in the new work at Richmond Park.



one-and-twenty day! he have never be so inordinately greedy for life,

free to live and go as you please, in all his day before. something

must happen, he be resolve, something bright and intense, on every one

of those day. he snatch at both side of life. he go down to Pelham

Ford, but he have a little list of engagement in town in his pocket.

Joan be not down there, and never before have he realize how

tremendously absent Joan could be. and then at the week-end she couldn’t

come. there be french and british G.H.Q. bigwig to take down to some

experiment in Sussex, but she couldn’t even explain that, she have to

send a telegram at the eleventh hour: “_week-end impossible._” to Peter

that seem the most brutally offhand evasion in the world. Peter be

disappoint in Pelham Ford. it be altogether different from those

hospital dream; even the weather, to begin with, be chilly and

unsettled. Oswald have have a set-back with his knee, and have to keep his

leg up on a deck chair; he could only limp about on crutch. he seem

old and more distant from Peter than he have ever be before; Peter

be obsess by the idea that he ought to be treat with solicitude,

and a further gap be open between they by Peter’s subaltern habit of

say “Sir” instead of the old familiar “Nobby.” Peter sit beside the

deck chair through long and friendly, but very impatient hour; and he

talk all the fly shop he could, and Oswald talk of his Africans,

and they go over the war and newspaper again and again, and they

revert to Africa and fly shop, and presently they sit through

several silence, and at the end of one of they Oswald inquire: “have

you ever play chess, Peter—or piquet?”



now chess and piquet be very good pastime in their way, but not good

enough for the precious afternoon of a very animate and greedy young

man keenly aware that they be probably his last holiday afternoon on

earth.



Sentiment require that Peter should have go to London and devote

himself to adorn the marginal freedom of Joan’s day. he do do this

once. he take she out to dinner to Jules’, in Jermyn Street; he do she

well there; but she be a very tired Joan that day; she have drive a

good hundred and fifty mile, and, truth to tell, in those day Peter

do not like Joan and she do not like herself in London, and more

especially in smart London restaurant. they sit a little aloof from one

another, and about they all the young couple warm to another and

smile. she jar with this atmosphere of meretricious ease and

indulgence. she have have no time to get back to Hampstead and change; she

be at a disadvantage in her uniform. it become a hair shirt, a Nessus

shirt as the evening proceed. it emphasize the barrier of seriousness

between they cruelly. she be a policeman, a prig, the harsh thing in

life; all those pretty little cocotte and flirt, with their little

soft brightness and adornment, must be glance at her coarse,

unreveale garment and note she for the fool she be. she feel ugly

and ungainly; she be far too much torment by love to handle herself

well. she could get no swing and forgetfulness into the talk. and about

Peter, too, be a reproach for she. he talk of work and the war—as if

in irony. and his eye wander. naturally, his eye wander.



“good-night, old Peter,” she say when they part.



she lie awake for two hour, exasperate, miserable beyond tear,

because she have not say: “good night, old Peter _dear_.” she have

intend to say it. it be one of her prepared effect. but she be a

weary and a frozen young woman. Duty have rob she of the energy for

love. why have she let thing come to this pass? Peter be her business,

and Peter alone. she damn the Woman’s Legion, Woman’s part in the War,

and all the rest of it, with fluency and sincerity.



and while Joan waste the hour of sleep in this fashion Peter be also

awake thinking over certain scheme he have discuss with Hetty that

afternoon. they involve some careful and deliberate lying. the idea be

that for the purpose of Pelham Ford he should terminate his leave on

the fourteenth instead of the twenty-first, and so get a clear week

free—for life in the vein of Hetty.



he lie fret, and the hot greed of youth persuade he, and the clean

honour of youth reproach he. and though he know the way the decision

would go, he toss about and damn as heartily as Joan.



he could not remember if at Pelham Ford he have set a positive date to

his leave, but, anyhow, it would not be difficult to make out that there

have be some sort of urgent call.... it could be do.... the

alternative be Piquet.



Peter return to Pelham Ford and put his little fabric of lie upon

Oswald without much difficulty. then at the week-end come Joan,

rejoice. she come into the house tumultuously; she have catch a train

early than the one they have expect she to come by. “I’ve get all

next week. seven day, Petah! never mind how, but I’ve get it. I’ve get

it!”



there be a suggestion as of some desperate battle away there in London

from which Joan have snatch these fruit of victory. she be so

radiantly glad to have they that Peter recoil from an immediate reply.



“I don’t seem to see you in London somehow,” say Joan. “I don’t think

you be really there. let’s have a look at you, old Petah. Tenshun!...

lift the arm.... rotate the arm.... it ben’t so bad, Petah, after all.

be tennis possible?”



“I’d like to try.”



“boat certainly. no reason why we shouldn’t have two or three long

walk. a week’s a long time nowadays.”



“but I have to go back on Monday,” say Peter.



Joan stand stock still.



“Pity, ben’t it?” say Peter weakly.



“but why?” she ask at last in a little flat voice.



“I have to go back.”



“but your leave——?”



“end on Monday,” lie Peter.



for some moment it look as though Joan mean to make that last

week-end a black one. “that don’t give we much time together,” say

Joan, and her voice which have soar now crawl the earth.... “I’m

sorry.”



just for a moment she hung, a dark and wound Joan, downcast and

thoughtful; and then turn and put her arm akimbo, and look at he

and smile awry. “well, old Peter, then we’ve get to make the good use

of our time. it’s your Birf Day, sort of; it’s your Bank Holiday, dear;

it’s every bless thing for you—such time as we have together. before

they take you off again. I think they’re greedy, but it cann’t be help.

can it, Peter?”



“it cann’t be help,” say Peter. “no.”



they pause.



“what shall we do?” say Joan. “the program’s get to be cut down. shall

we still try tennis?”



“I want to. I don’t see why this wrist——” he hold it out and rotate it.



“good old arm!” say Joan, and run a hand along it.



“I’ll go and change these breech and thing,” say Joan. “and get

myself female. god, Peter! the craving to get into clothe that be

really flexible and translucent!”



she go to the staircase and then turn on Peter.



“Peter,” she say.



“yes.”



“go out and stand on the lawn and tighten up the net. now.”



“why?”



“then I can see you from my window while I’m change. I don’t want to

waste a bit of you.”



she go up four step and stop and look at he over her shoulder.



“I want as much as I can get of you, Petah,” she say.



“I wish I’d know about that week,” say Peter stupidly.



“_exactly!_” say Joan to herself, and flit up the staircase.





                                  § 20



Joan, Mrs. Moxton perceive that afternoon, have a swift and angry fight

with her summer wardrobe. both the pink gingham and the white drill have

be try on and fling aside, and she have decide at last upon a rather

jolly warm blue figure voile with a belt of cherry-colour ribbon that

suit her brown skin and black hair well than those weak support.

she have evidently open every drawer in her room in a hasty search for

white silk stocking.



when she come out into the sunshine of the garden Peter’s eye tell she

she have guess the right costume.



Oswald be stand up on his crutch and smile, and Peter be

throw up a racquet and catch it again with one hand.



“thank God for a left-handed childhood!” say Peter. “I’m go to smash

you, Joan.”



“I forget about that,” say Joan. “but you ben’t go to smash I, old

Petah.”



when tea-time come they be still fight the seventh vantage game,

and Joan be up.



they come and sit at the tea-table, and Joan as she pour the tea

reflect that a young man in white flannel, flush and a little out

of breath, with his white silk shirt wide open at the neck, be a more

beautiful thing than the most beautiful woman alive. and her dark eye

look at the careless and exhausted Peter, that urgent and insoluble

problem, while she count, “Twenty-four, thirty-six, forty-one—about

forty-one hour. how the devil shall I do it?”



it ben’t to be do at tennis anyhow, and she lose the next three game

run without apparent effort, and take Peter by the arm and walk

he about the garden, discourse on fly. “I must teach you to fly,”

say Peter. “often when I’ve be up alone I’ve think, ’some day I’ll

teach old Joan.’”



“that’s a promise, Petah.”



“sure,” say Peter, who have not suffer next to two Americans for

nothing.



“I’ve get it in writing,” say Joan.



“I’d rather learn from you than any one,” say she.



Peter discourse of stunt....



they spend a long golden time revisit odd corner in which they have

play together. they go down the village and up to the church and

round the edge of the wood, and there they come upon and devour a lot

of blackberry, and then they go down to the mill pond and sit for a

time in Baker’s boat. then they get at cross purpose about dress for

dinner. Joan want to dress very much. she want to remind Peter that

there be pretty arm in the world than Hetty Reinhart’s, and a

well model neck and shoulder. she have a new dress of ivory silk

with a broad belt of velvet that echo the bright softness of her eye

and hair. but Peter would not let she dress. he do not want to dress

himself. “and you couldn’t look pretty, Joan, than you do in that blue

thing. it’s so _like_ you.”



and as Joan couldn’t explain that the frock keep she a jolly girl he

know while the dress would have show he the beautiful woman he have to

discover, she lose that point in the game. and tomorrow be Sunday, when

Pelham Ford after the good custom of England never dress for dinner.



afterwards she think how easily she might have overrule he.



Joan’s plan for the evening be dash by this costume failure. she

have rely altogether on the change of personality into something rich

and strange, that the ivory dress be to have work. she could do

nothing to develop the situation. everything seem to be help to

intensify her sisterliness. Oswald be rather seedy, and the three of

they play Auction Bridge with a dummy. she have mean to sit up with

Peter, but it don’t work out like that.



“good night, Petah dear,” she say outside her bedroom door with the

candlelight shine red between the finger of her hand.



“good night, old Joan,” he say from his door-mat, with an infinite

friendliness in his voice.



you cannot kiss a man good night suddenly when he be fifteen yard

away....



she close the door behind she softly, put down her candle, and begin to

walk about her room and swear in an entirely unladylike fashion. then

she go over to the open window, wring her hand. “how be I to _do_

it?” she say. “how be I to _do_ it? the situation’s preposterous. he’s

mine. and I might be his sister!”



“shall I make a declaration?”



“I suppose Hetty do.”



but all the cunning of Joan be unavaile against the invisible

barrier to passion between herself and Peter. they spend a long Sunday

of comradeship, and courage and opportunity alike fail. the dawn on

Monday morning find a white and haggard Joan pace her floor, half

minded to attempt a desperate explanation forthwith in Peter’s bedroom

with a suddenly awakened Peter. only her fear of shock he and

fail restrain she. she rave. she indulge in absurd soliloquy

and still absurder prayer. “oh, God, give I my Peter,” she pray.

“__give I my Peter!__”





                                  § 21



Monday break clear and fine, with a September freshness in the sunshine.

Breakfast be an awkward meal; Peter be constrain, Oswald be worry

by a sense of advice and counsel not give; Joan feel the situation

slip from her helpless grasp. it be with a sense of relief that at

last she put on her khaki overcoat to drive Peter to the station. “this

be the end,” sing in Joan’s mind. “this be the end.” she glance at the

mirror in the hall and see that the fur collar be not unfriendly to her

white neck and throat. she be in despair, but she do not mean to let

it become an unbecoming despair—at least until Peter have depart. the

end be still incomplete. she have something stern and unpleasant to say

to Peter before they part, but she do not mean to look stern or

unpleasant while she say it. Peter, she note with a gleam of

satisfaction, be in low spirit. he be sorry to go. he be ashamed of

himself, but also he be sorry. that be something, at any rate, to have

achieve. but he be go—nevertheless.



she bring round the little Singer to the door. she start the engine

with a competent swing and get in. the maid come with Peter’s

portmanteau and belonging. “this be the end,” say Joan to herself,

touch her accelerator and with her hand ready to release the brake.

“all aboard?” say Joan aloud.



Peter shake hand with Oswald over the side of the car, and glance from

he to the house and back at he. “I wish I could stay long, sir,”

say Peter.



“there’s many day to come yet,” say Oswald. for we never mention death

before death in war time; we never let ourselves think of it before it

come or after it have come.



“so long, Nobby!”



“good luck, Peter!”



Joan put the car into gear, and steer out into the road.



“the water-splash be low than ever I’ve see it,” say Peter.



they run down the road to the station almost in silence. “these poplar

have get a touch of autumn in they already,” say Peter.



“it’s an early year,” say Joan.



“the end, the end!” sing the song in Joan’s brain. “but I’ll tell he

all the same.”...



but she do not tell he until they could hear the sound of the

approach train that be to cut the thread of everything for Joan.

they walk together up the little platform to the end.



“I’m sorry you’re go,” say Joan.



“I’m infernally sorry. if I’d know you’d get this week——”



“would that have alter it?” she say sharply.



“no. I suppose it wouldn’t,” he fence, just in time to save himself.



the rattle of the approach train grow suddenly loud. it be round the

bend.



Joan speak in a perfectly even voice. “I know you have be lie,

Peter. I have know it all this week-end. I know your leave last until

the twenty-first.”



he stare at she in astonishment.



“there be a time.... it’s to think of all this dirt upon you that hurt

most. the lie, the dodge, the shuffling meanness of it. from _you_....

whom _I love_.”



a gap of silence come. to the old porter twelve yard off they seem

entirely well-behave and well-discipline young people, say nothing

in particular. the train come in with a sort of wink under the bridge,

and the engine and foremost carriage run past they up the platform.



“I wish I could explain. I don’t know—— the fact be I get entangle in

a sort of promise....”



“_Hetty!_” Joan jerk out, and “there’s an empty first for you.”



the train stop.



Peter put his hand on the handle of the carriage door.



“you go to London—like a puppy that roll in dirt. you go to beastliness

and vulgarity.... you’d well get in, Peter.”



“but look here, Joan!”



“_get_ in!” she scold to his hesitation, and stamp her foot.



he get in mechanically, and she close the door on he and turn the

handle and stand hold it.



then still speak evenly and quietly, she say: “you’re a blind fool,

Peter. what sort of love can that—that—that miscellany give you, that I

couldn’t give? have I no life? have I no beauty? be you afraid of I?

don’t you see—don’t you _see?_ you go off to _that!_ you trail yourself

in the dirt and you trail my love in the dirt. before a female hack!...



“_look_ at I!” she cry, hold her hand apart. “think of I

tonight.... _your!_ your for the taking!”



the train be move.



she walk along the platform to keep pace with he, and her eye hold

his. “Peter,” she say; and then with amazing quiet intensity: “you

_damn_ fool!”



she hesitate on the verge of say something more. she come towards

the carriage. it ben’t anything pleasant that she have in mind, to judge

by her expression.



“stand away please, miss!” say the old porter, hurry up to

intervene. she abandon that last remark with an impatient gesture.



Peter sit still. the end of the station run by like a scene in a

panorama. her Medusa face have slide away to the edge of the picture that

the window frame, and vanish.



for some second he be too amazed to move.



then he get up heavily and stick his head out of the window to stare at

Joan.



Joan be stand quite still with her hand in the side pocket of she

khaki overcoat; she be stand straight as a rod, with her heel

together, look at the recede train. she never move....



neither of these two young people make a sign to each other, which be

the first odd thing the old porter note about they. they just stare.

by all the rule they should have wave handkerchief. the next odd

thing be that Joan stare at the bend for half a minute perhaps after

the train have altogether go, and then try to walk out to her car by

the little white gate at the end of the platform which have be disuse

and nail up for three year....





                                  § 22



after Oswald have see the car whisk through the gate into the road, and

after he have rest on his crutch stare at the gate for a time, he

have hobble back to his study. he want to work, but he find it

difficult to fix his attention. he be think of Joan and Peter, and

for the first time in his life he be wonder why they have never

fall in love with each other. they seem such good company for each

other....



he be still engage upon these speculation half an hour or so later,

when he hear the car return and presently see Joan go past his window.

she be flushed, and she be stare in front of she at nothing in

particular. he have never see Joan look so unhappy. in fact, so

strong be his impression that she be unhappy that he doubt it, and

he go to the window and crane out after she.



she be go straight up towards the arbour. with a slight hurry in her

step. she have her fur collar half turn up on one side, her hand be

deep in her pocket, and something about her dog walk remind he of

some long-forget moment, year ago it must have be, when Joan, in

hot water for some small offence, have be send indoor at the

Ingle-Nook.



he limp back to his chair and sit think she over.



“I wonder,” he say at last, and turn to his work again....



there be no getting on with it. half an hour later he accept defeat.

“Peter have knock we all crook,” he say. “there’s no work for

today.”



he would go out and prowl round the place and look at the rose. perhaps

Joan would come and talk. but at the gate he be amazed to encounter

Peter.



it be Peter, hot and dusty from a walk of three mile, and carry his

valise with an aching left arm. there be a look of defiance in the eye

that stare fiercely out from under the perspiration-mat hair upon

his forehead. he seem to find Oswald’s appearance the complete

confirmation of the most disagreeable anticipation. thought of panic

and desertion flash upon Oswald’s mind.



“Good God, Peter!” he cry. “what bring you back?”



“I’ve come back for another week,” say Peter.



“but your leave’s up!”



“I tell a lie, sir. I’ve get another week.”



Oswald stare at his ward.



“I’m sorry, sir,” say Peter. “I’ve be make a fool of myself. I

think well of it. I get out of the train at Standon and walk back

here.”



“what do it mean, Peter?” say Oswald.



Peter’s eye be the most distressed eye he have ever see. “if you’d

just not ask, sir, now——”



it be a good thing to deal with one’s own blood in a crisis. Oswald,

rest thoughtfully on his crutch, leapt to a kind of understanding.



“I’m go to hop down towards the village, Peter,” say Oswald,

become casual in his manner. “I want some exercise.... if you’ll tell

every one you’re back.”



he indicate the house behind he by a movement of his head.



Peter be badly blow with haste and emotion. “thank you, sir,” he say

shortly.



Oswald step past he and stare down the road.



“Mrs. Moxton’s in the house,” he say without look at Peter again.

“Joan’s up the garden. see you when I get back, Peter.... Glad you’ve

get another week, anyhow.... so long....”



he leave Peter stand in the gateway.



Fear come upon Peter. he stand quite still for some moment, look at

the house and the cedar. he drop his valise at the front door and

mop his face. then he walk slowly across the lawn towards the

terrace. he want to shout, and find himself hoarse. then on the

first terrace he get out: “Jo-un!” in a flat croak. he have to cry again:

“Jo-un!” before it sound at all like the old style.



Joan become visible. she have come out of the arbour at the top of the

garden, and she be stand motionless, regard he down the vista of

the central path. she be white and rather dishevel, and she stand

quite still.



Peter walk up the step towards she.



“I’ve come back, Joan,” he say, as he draw near. “I want to talk to

you.... come into the arbour.”



he take her arm clumsily and lead she back into the arbour out of sight

of the house. then he drop her arm.



“Joan,” he say, “I’ve be the damnd of fool ... as you say.... I

don’t know why.”...



he stand before she awkwardly. he be tremble violently. he think he

be go to weep.



he could not touch she again. he do not dare to touch she.



then Joan spread out her arm straight and stand like a crucifix. she

face, which have be a dark stare, soften swiftly, become radiant,

dissolve into a dusky glow of tear and triumph. “oh! Petah my

_darle_,” she sob, and seize he and kiss he with tear-salt

lip and hug he to herself.



the magic barrier be smash at last. Peter hold she close to he and

kiss she....



it be the second time they have kiss since those black day at High

Cross school....





                                  § 23



those be year of swift marrying, and Peter be a young married man

when presently he be add to the number of that select company

attach to sausage-shape observation balloon who be send up in the

morning and pull down at night along the british front. he have have

only momentary snatch of matrimony before the front have call he

back to its own destructive interest, but his experience have banish

any linger vestige of his theory that there be one sort of woman you

respect and another sort you make love to. there be only one sort of

woman to love or respect, and that be Joan. he be altogether in love

with Joan, he be sure he have never be in love before, and he be now

also extravagantly in love with life. he want to go on with it, with a

passionate intensity. it seem to he that it be not only begin

for he, but for every one. Hitherto Man have be live _down there_,

down on those flat—for all the world be flat from the air. now, at

last, man be begin to feel how they might soar over all ancient

limitation.



occasionally he think of such thing up in his basket, sit like a

spectator in a box at a theatre, with the slow vast drama of the western

front spread out like a map beneath his eye, with half belgium and a

great circle of France in sight, the brown, ruin country on either

side of no Man’s Land, apparently lifeless, with its insane tangle of

trench and communicate way below, with the crumble heap of

ruin town and village scatter among canal and lake of flood

water, and pass insensibly into a green and normal-look landscape

to the west and east, where church still have tower and house roof,

and wood be lump and block of dark green, field manifestly

cultivate patch, and road white ribbon bar by the purple poplar

shadow. but these spectacular and speculative phase be rare. they

come only when a thin veil of haze make the whole spacious prospect

faint, so that beyond his more immediate circle Peter could see only the

broad outline of the land. give bad condition of the weather and he

would be too uncomfortable for philosophy; give well and he would be

too busy.



he sit on a canvas seat inside the square basket with his instrument

about he, or leant over the side scrutinize the detail of the

eastward landscape. upon his head, over his ear, he wear a telephone

receiver, and about his body be a rope harness that link he by a

rope to the silk parachute that be pack neatly in a little swinge

bucket over the side of his basket. under his hand be his map board,

repeat the shape of wood and water and road below. the telephone

wire that run down his mooring rope abolish any effect of isolation;

it link he directly to his winch on a lorry below, to a number of

battery commander, to an ascend series of headquarters; he could

always start a conversation if he have anything practical to say. he be,

in fact, an eye at the end of a tentacle thread, by mean of which the

british army watch its enemy. sometimes he have an illusion that he

be also a kind of brain. when distant visibility be good he would find

himself hover over the war as a player hang over a chessboard,

direct fire upon road movement or train movement, suspecting and

watch for undisclosed enemy battery, or direct counter-battery

fire. above he, green and voluminous, hang the great translucent lobe

of his gas bag, and the loose rope by which it be tow and hold upon

the ground sway and trail about his basket.



it be on one of his more slack afternoon that Peter fall think of

how acutely he now desire to live. the wide world be full of sunshine,

but a ground haze make even the country immediately below he

indistinct. the enemy gunner be inactive, there come no elfin voice

through the telephone, only far away to the south gun butt and

shiver the tranquil air. there be a faint drift in the air rather

than a breeze, and the gas bag have fall into a long, lazy rhythmic

movement, so that sometimes he face due south and sometimes south by

east and so back. a great patch of flooded country to the north-east, a

bright mirror with a kind of bloom upon it, seem try with an

aimless persistency to work its way towards the centre of his field of

vision and never succeed.



for a time Peter have be preoccupy with a distant ridge far away to

the east, from which a long-range gun have recently take to shell the

kite balloon towards evening as they become clear against the bright

western sky. four time lately this new gun have get on to he, and this

clear and tranquil afternoon promise just the luminous and tranquil

sunset that favour these unpleasant activity. it be five hour to

sunset yet, but Peter could not keep his mind off that gun. it be a big

gun; perhaps a 42 centimetre; it be beyond any counter-battery

possibility, and it have get a new kind of shell that the Germans seem

to have invent for the particular discomfort of Peter and his kind. it

have a distinctive report, a loud _crack_, and then the “_whuff_” of high

explosive, and at every explosion it get near and near to its

target, with a quite uncanny certainty. it seem to learn more than any

gun should learn from each shot. it be this steadfast approach to a hit

that Peter dislike. that and the long pause after the shell have

start. far away he would see the flash of the gun amidst the ridge in

the darkle east. then would come a long, blank pause of expectation.

for all he could tell this might get he. then the whine of the shell

would become audible, grow louder and loud and low and low in

note; phee-whoo! _crack!_ _WHOOF!_ then Peter would get quite voluble to

the man at the winch below. he could let himself up, or go down a few

hundred foot, or they could shift his lorry along the road. until it be

dark he could not come down, for a kite balloon be a terribly visible

and helpless thing on the ground until it have be very carefully put to

bed. to come down in the daylight mean too good a chance for the nearer

german gun. so Peter, by instruct his winch to lower he or let he

up or shift, have to dodge about in a most undignified way, up and down

and backwards and sideways, while the big gun mark he and guess at

his next position. flash! “oh, damn!” say Peter. “another already!”



Silence. anticipation. then: phee—eee—eee—_whoo_. _crack!_ _WHOOF!_ a

rush of air would set the gas bag swinge. that be a near one!



“where _be_ I?” say Peter.



but that ben’t go to happen for hour yet. why meet trouble half

way? why be torment by this feeling of apprehension and danger in the

still air? why trouble because the world be quiet and seem to be

wait? why not think of something else? banish this war from the

mind.... be he more afraid nowadays than he use to be? Peter be

inclined to think that now he be more _systematically_ afraid. formerly

he have funk in streak and patch, but now he have a steady,

continuous dislike to all these risk and danger. he be get more

and more clearly an idea of the sort of life he want to lead and of

the thing he want to do. he be cease to think of existence as a

rather aimless series of adventure, and come to regard it as one

large consecutive undertaking on the part of himself and Joan. this

be hang up in the sky for Germans to shoot at seem to he to be a

very tiresome irrelevance indeed. he and Joan and everybody with

brain—include the misguided people who have make and be now fire

this big gun at he—ought to be set to work to get this preposterous

muddle of a world in order. “this sort of thing,” say Peter, address

the western front, his gas bag, and so much of the sky as it permit

he to see, and the universe generally, “be ridiculous. there be no

sense in it at all. none whatever.”



his dream of God, as a detached and aloof personage, have take a very

strong hold upon his imagination. or, perhaps, it would be truer to say

that his fevered mind in the hospital have give a caricature personality

to idea that have grow up in his mind as a natural consequence of his

training. he have go on with that argument; he go on with it now,

with a feeling that really he be just as much sit and talk in

that queer, untidy, out-of-the-way office as sway in a kite balloon,

six thousand foot above Flanders, wait to be shoot at.



“it be all very well to say ’exert yourself,’” say Peter. “but there be

that chap over there exert himself. and what he be do with all his

brain be just try to wipe my brain out of existence. just that. he

haven’t an idea else of what he be do. he have no notion of what he be

up to or what I be up to. and he haven’t the sense or ability to come

over here and talk about it to I. he’s there—at that—and he cann’t help

himself. and I’m here—and I cann’t help myself. but if I could only catch

he within counter battery range——!



“there’s no sense in it at all,” summarize Peter, after some moment of

grim reflection. “sense haven’t get into it.”



“be sense ever go to get into it?



“the curious thing about you,” say Peter, address himself quite

directly to his deity at the desk, “be that somehow, without ever

positively promise it or say anything plain and definite about it,

you yet manage to convey in an almost irresistible manner, that there be

go to be sense in it. you seem to suggest that my poor brain up here

and the brain of those chap over there, be, in spite of all

appearance to the contrary, up to something jointly that be go to

come together and make good some day. you hint it. and yet I don’t get a

scrap of sound, trustworthy reasoning to help I to accept that; not a

scrap. why should it be so? I ask, and you just keep on not say

anything. I suppose it’s a necessary thing, biologically, that one

should have a kind of optimism to keep one alive, so I’m not even

justify in my half conviction that I’m not be absolutely fool by

life....



“I admit that take for example Joan, there be something about Joan

that almost persuade I there must be something absolutely _right_

about thing—for Joan to happen at all. yet ben’t that again just

another biologically necessary delusion?... there you sit silent. you

seem to say nothing, and yet you soak I with a kind of answer, a sort

of shapeless courage....”



Peter’s mind rest on that for a time, and then begin again at another

point.



“I wonder,” say Peter, “if that chap get I tonight, what I shall

think—in the moment—after he have get I....”





                                  § 24



but the german gunner never get Peter, because something else get he

first.



he think he see a Hun aeroplane come over very high indeed to the

south of he, fifteen thousand foot up or more, a mere speck in the blue

blaze, and then the gas bag hide it and he dismiss it from his mind. he

be think that the air be grow clear, and that if this go on

gun would wake up presently and little voice begin to talk to he,

when he become aware of the presence and vibration of an aeroplane quite

close to he. he pull off his telephone receiver and hear the roar

of an engine close at hand. it be overhead, and the gas bag still hide

it. at the same moment the british anti-aircraft gunner begin a belate

fire. “damn!” say Peter in a brisk perspiration, and hasten to make

sure that his parachute rope be clear.



“perhaps he’s british,” say Peter, with no real hope.



“_pap, pap, pap!_” very loud overhead.



the gas bag sway and billow, and a wing with a black cross sweep

across the sky. “_pap, pap, pap._”



the gas bag wrinkle and crumple more and more, and a little streak of

smoke appear beyond its edge. the german aeroplane be now visible, a

hundred yard away, and banking to come round. he have fire the balloon

with tracer bullet.



the thing that Peter have to do and what he do be this. he have to step

up on to a little wood step inside his basket. then he have to put first

one foot and then the other on to another little step outside his

basket. this little step be about four inch wide by nine long. below

it be six thousand foot of emptiness, above the little tree and house

below. as he sway on the step Peter have to make sure that the rope

attach to his body be clear of all entanglement. then he have to step

off that little shelf, which be now swinge and slant with the

lurch basket to which it be attach, into the void, six thousand

foot above the earth.



he have not to throw himself or dive headlong, because that might lead to

entanglement with the rope. he have just to step off into pellucid

nothingness, hold his rope clear of himself with one hand. this rope

loop back to the little swinge bucket in which his fine silk

parachute be closely packed. he have see it pack a week ago, and he

wish now, as he stand on his step hold to his basket with one hand,

that he have watch the process more meticulously. he become aware that

the Hun, having dispose of the balloon, be now shoot at he. he do

not so much step off the little shelf as slip off as it heel over with

the swing of the basket. the first instant of a leap or fall make no

impression on the mind. for some second he be fall swiftly, foot

foremost, through the air. he scarcely note the faint snatch when the

twine, which hold his parachute in its basket, break. then his

consciousness begin to register again. he keep his foot tightly press

together. the air whistle by he, but he think that dream and talk

have much exaggerate the sensation of fall. he be too high as yet

to feel the rush of the ground towards he.



he seem to fall for an interminable time before anything more

happen. he be assail by doubt—whether the twine that keep the

parachute in its bucket would break, whether it would open. his rope

trail out above he.



still fall. why don’t the parachute open? in another ten second it

would be too late.



the parachute be not open. it be certainly not open. wrong

packing? he tug and jerk his rope, and try to shake and swing the

long silken fold that be follow his fall. why? why the devil——?



the rope seem to tighten abruptly. the harness tighten upon his

body. Peter gasp, sprawl and have the sensation of be haul up

back again into the sky....



it be all right, so far. he be now sway down earthward with a

diminish velocity beneath an open parachute. he be float over the

landscape instead of fall straight into it.



but the German have not do with Peter yet. he become visible beneath

the edge of Peter’s parachute, circle downward regardless of

anti-aircraft and machine-gun. “_pap, pap, pap, pap._” the bullet

burst and bang about Peter.



something kick Peter’s knee; something hit his neck; something rap

the knuckle of his wound hand; the parachute wince and go

sideways, slash and pierce. Peter drift down fast, helpless, his

angry eye upon his assailant, who vanish again, go out of sight as

he rise up above the edge of the parachute.



a storm of pain and rage break from Peter.



“do in!” shout Peter. “oh! my leg! my leg!



“I’m shoot to bit. I’m shoot to bloody bit!”



the tree top be near at hand. the parachute have acquire a rhythmic

swing and be fall more rapidly.



“and I’ve still get to land,” wail Peter, begin to cry like a

child.



he want to stop just a moment, just for one _little_ moment, before

the ground rush up to meet he. he want time to think. he don’t

know what to do with this dangle leg. it become a monstrous, painful

obstacle to landing. how be he to get a spring? he be bleed. he be

die. it be cruel. Cruel.



come the crash. hot iron, it seem, assail his leg and his shoulder

and neck. he crumple up on the ground in an agony, and the parachute,

with slow and elegant gesture, fold down on the top of his

flounder figure....



the gunner who run to help he find he, envelop in silk, bawl

and weep like a child of four in a passion of rage and fear, and

try repeatedly to stand up upon a blood-streak leg that give way as

repeatedly. “damn!” curse Peter in a stifle voice, plunge about like

a kitten in a sack. “damn you all! I tell you I _will_ use my leg. I

_will_ have my leg. if I bleed to death. oh! oh!... you fool—you lie

old _humbug_! you!”



and then he give a leap upward and forward, and faint and fall, and

lie still, with his head and body muffle in the silk fold of his

parachute.









                         CHAPTER the FOURTEENTH

                          OSWALD’S VALEDICTION





                                  § 1



it be the third of April in 1918, the Wednesday after Easter, and the

war have now last three year and eight month. it have become the

aching habit of the whole world. throughout the winter it have be for

the most part a great and terrible boredom, but now a phase of acute

anxiety be begin. the “Kaiser’s Battle” be rage in France; news

come through sparingly; but it be know that General Gough have lose

ten of thousand of prisoner, hundred of gun, and vast store of

ammunition and railway material. it be rumour that he have commit

suicide. but the standard of Tory England differ from those of Japan.

through ten sanguinary day, in a vaster Inkerman, the common man of

Britain, reinforce by the French, have fight and die to restore the

imperille line. it be by no mean certain yet that they have succeed.

it seem possible that the french and british army would be break

apart, and Amiens and Paris lose. Oswald’s mind be still dark with

apprehension.



the particular anxiety of this crisis accentuate the general worry

and inconvenience of the time, and deepen Oswald’s conviction of an

incredible incompetence in both the political and military leadership of

his country. in spite of every reason he have to the contrary, he have

continue hitherto to hope for some bright dramatic change in the course

of event; he have experience a continually recur disappointment

with each morning’s paper. his intelligence tell he that all the

inefficiency, the confusion, the cheap and bad government by press and

intrigue, be the necessary and inevitable consequence of a neglect of

high education for the past fifty year; these defect be now in the

nature of thing, almost as much as the bleakness of an English February

or the fog of a London November, but his english temperament have

refuse hitherto to accept the decision of his intelligence. now for the

first time he could see the possibility of an ultimate failure in the

war. to this low level of achievement, he perceive, a steadfast

contempt for thought and science and organization have bring Britain;

at this low level Britain have now to struggle through the war,

blundering, talk, and think confusedly, suffer

enormously—albeit so sound at heart. it be a humiliating realization.

at any rate she could still hope to struggle through; the hard-win

elementary education of the common people, the stout heart and sense of

the common people, save her gentlefolk from the fate of their brother

inefficient in Russia. but every day he fret afresh at the costly

and toilsome continuance of an effort that a little more courage and

wisdom in high place on the allied side, a little more knowledge and

clear thinking, might have bring to an entirely satisfactory close in

1917.



for a man of his age, wound, disappointed, and a chronic invalid,

there be considerable affliction in the steadily increase hardship

of the Fourth Year. a number of petty deprivation at which a healthy

man might have scoff, intensify his physical discomfort. there have

be a complete restriction of his supply of petrol, the automobile now

hang in its shed with its tyre remove, and the railway service to

London have be greatly reduce. he could not get up to London now to

consult book or vary his mood without a slow and crowded and fatigue

journey; he be more and more confine to Pelham Ford. he have be use

to read and work late into the night, but now his home be darken in

the evening and very cheerless; there be no carbide for the acetylene

installation, and a need for economy in paraffin. for a time he have be

out of coal, and unable to get much wood because of local difficulty

about cartage, and for some week he have have to sit in his overcoat and

read and write by candlelight. now, however, that distress have be

relieve by the belate delivery of a truckload of coal. and another

matter that may seem trivial in history, be by no mean trivial in

relation to his mood. in the spring of 1918 the food supply of Great

Britain be at its low point. Lord Rhondda be save the situation

at the eleventh hour. the rationing of meat have affect Oswald’s health

disagreeably. he have long ago acquire the habit of live upon chop

and cutlet and suchlike concentrated nourishment, and he find it

difficult to adapt himself now to the bulky insipidity of a diet that

be, for a time, almost entirely vegetarian. for even fish travel by

long route to Hertfordshire village. the frequent air raid of that

winter be also an add nervous irritation. in the precede year of

the war there have be occasional Zeppelin raid, the Zeppelins have be

audible at Pelham Ford on several occasion and once Hertford have

suffer from their bomb; but those expedition have end at last in a

series of disaster to the invader, and they have never involve the

uproar and tension of the Gotha raid that begin in the latter half of

1917. these latter raid have to be meet by an immense barrage of

anti-aircraft gun round London, a barrage which rattle every window at

Pelham Ford, light the sky with star shell, and continue intermittently

sometimes for four or five hour. Oswald would lie awake throughout that

thudding conflict, watch the distant star shell and searchlight

through the black tree bough outside his open window, and meditating

drearily upon the manifest insanity of mankind....



he be now walk up and down his lawn, wait until it should be time

to start for the station with Joan to meet Peter.



for Peter, convalescent again and no long fit for any form of active

service—he be lamed now as well as wing—be to take up a minor

administrative post next week at Adastral House, and he be come down

for a few day at Pelham Ford before carry his wife off for good to a

little service flat they have find in an adapt house in the Avenue

Road. they have decide not to live at the Ingle-Nook, although Arthur

have build it to become Peter’s home, but to continue the tenancy of

Aunts Phyllis and Phœbe. they do not want to disturb those two lady,

whose nervous system, by no mean stable at the good of time, be now

in a very shaken condition. Aunt Phyllis be keep busy restrain Aunt

Phœbe from inflict lengthy but obscure prophetic message upon most

of the prominent people of the time. to these daily activity aunt

Phœbe add an increase habit of sleep-walking that break the nightly

peace of Aunt Phyllis. she would wander through the moonlit living room

gesticulate strangely, and utter such phrase as “Blood! blood!

sea of blood! the multitudinous sea incarnadine”; or “murder most

foul!”



she have a fix idea that it be her business to seek out the Kaiser and

either scold he or kill he—or perhaps do both. she hold that it be

the duty of woman to assassinate. man might fight battle, it be their

stupid way; but surely woman be capable of directer thing. if some

woman be to kill any man who declare war directly he declare war,

there would be a speedy end to war. she could not, she say, understand

the inactivity of german wife and mother. she would spend hour over

her old school german grammar, with a view to write an “Open Letter to

German Womankind.” but her naturally rich and very allusive prose be

ill adapt to that sort of translation.



many over-sensitive people be suffer more or less as Aunt Phœbe be

suffer—from a sense of cruelty, wickedness, and disaster that

stagger their mind. they have live securely in a secure world; they

could not readjust. even for so sane a mind as Oswald’s, hamper as it

be by the new poison his recent wound have bring into his blood,

readjustment be difficult. he suffer greatly from insomnia, and from

a haunt apprehension of misfortune. his damaged knee would give he

bout of acute distress. sometimes it would seem to be well and he would

forget it. then it would become painfully lame by day and a neuralgic

pain at night. his mood seem always exaggerate now; either he be

too angry or too sorrowful or too hopeful. sometimes he experience

phase of blank stupidity, when his mind become unaccountably sluggish

and clumsy....



Joan be indoor now pack up a boxful of book that be to go with

she to the new home.



he be feel acutely—more acutely than he want to feel—that his

guardianship be at an end. Joan, who have be the mistress of his

house, and the voice that sing in it, the pretty plant that grow in it,

be go now—to return, perhaps, sometimes as a visitor—but never more

to be a part of it; never more to be its habitual presence. Peter, too,

be sever the rope, a long rope it have seem at time during the

last three year, that have tether he to Pelham Ford....



Oswald do not want to think now of his come loneliness. what he

want to think about be the necessity of round off their

relationship properly, of end his educational task with some sort of

account render. he feel he owe it to these young people and to

himself to tell they of his aim and of what he consider the whole of

this business of education amount to. he have to explain what have

help and what have prevent he. “a valediction,” he say. “a

valediction.” but he could not plan out what he have to say that morning.

he could not arrange his head, and all the while that he try to fix

his thought upon these topic, he be fill with uncontrollable

self-pity for the solitude ahead of he.



he be ashamed at these personal distress that he could not control.

he dislike himself for their quality. he do not like to think he be

think the thought in his mind. he walk up and down the lawn for a

time like a man who be be pester by uncongenial solicitation.



in spite of his intense affection for both of they, he be feel a

real jealousy of the happiness of these two young lover. he hate the

thought of lose Joan much more than he hate the loss of Peter. once

upon a time he have love Peter far more than Joan, but by imperceptible

degree his affection have turn over to she. in these war year he and

she have be very much together. for a time he have be—it be

grotesque, but true—actually in love with she. he have let himself

dream—. it be preposterous to think of it. a moonlight night have make

his brain swim.... at any rate, thank Heaven! she have never have a

suspicion....



she’d come now as a visitor—perhaps quite often. he ben’t go to lose

his Joan altogether. but each time she would come change, rather less

his Joan and rather more a new Joan—Peter’s Joan....



some day they’d have child, these two. Joan would sit over her child

and smile down at it. he know exactly how she would smile. and at the

thought of that smile Joan give place to dolly. out of the past there

jump upon he the memory of Peter bubble in a cradle on the sunny

verandah of the Ingle-Nook, and how he have remark that the very

sunshine seem make for this fortunate young man.



“it _be_ make for he,” dolly have say, with that faintly mischievous

smile of her.



how far off that seem now, and how vivid still! he could remember

dolly’s shadow on the rough-cast wall, and the very thing he have say

in reply. he have talk like a fool about the wonderful future of

Peter—and of the world. how long be that ago? five-and-twenty year?

(yes, Peter would be five-and-twenty in June.) how safe and secure the

european world have seem then! it seem to be loiter, lazily and

basely indeed, but certainly, towards a sort of materialist’s

millennium. and what a vast sham its security have be! he have call

Peter the “Heir of the Ages.” and the Heritage of the Ages have be

prepare even then to take Peter away from the work he have choose and

from all the sunshine and leisure of his life and to splinter his

shoulder-blade, smash his wrist, snap his leg-bone with machine-gun

bullet, and fle he aside, a hobbling, stiff, broken young man to

limp through the rest of life....





                                  § 2



that be what his mind have to lay hold of, that be what he have to talk

about, this process that have hold out such fair hope for Peter and have

in the end cripple he and come near to kill he and waste he

altogether. he have to talk of that, of an enormous collapse and breach

of faith with the young. the world which have seem to be the glowing

promise of an unprecedented education and upbringing for Peter and his

generation, the world that have be, so to speak, joint guardian with

himself, have default. this war be an outrage by the senior thing in

the world upon all the hope of the future; it be the parent send his

son through the fire to Moloch, it be the guardian go mad, it be

the lapse of all educational responsibility.



he have to keep his grasp upon that idea. by hold to that he could get

away from his morbidly intense wish to be personal and intimate with

these two. he love they and they love he, but what he want to say

be something quite beyond that.



what he have to talk about be Education, and Education alone. he have to

point out to they that their own education have be truncate, be rough

ended and partial. he have to explain why that be so. and he have to show

that all this vast disaster to the world be no more and no less than an

educational failure. the church and teacher and political form have

be insufficient and wrong; they have fail to establish idea strong

and complete enough and right enough to hold the will of man.

necessarily he have to make a dissertation upon the war. to talk of life

now be to talk of the war. the war now be human life. it have eat up

all free and independent living.



the war be an educational breakdown, that be his point; and in

education lie whatever hope there be for mankind. he have to say that to

they, and he have to point out how that idea must determine the form of

their life. he have to show the political and social and moral

conclusion involve in it. and he have to say what he want to say in a

large manner. _he have to keep his temper while he say it._



Oswald, limp slowly up and down his lawn in the April sunshine, with

a gnawing pain at his knee, have to underline, as it be, that last

proviso in his thought. that be the extreme difficulty of these urgent

and tragic time. the world be in a phase of intense, but swift,

tumultuous, and distract tragedy. the million be not suffer and

die in stateliness and splendour but in a vast uproar, amidst mud,

confusion, bickering, and incoherence indescribable. while it be

manifest that only great thinking, only very clear and deliberate

thinking, could give even the form of action that would arrest the

conflagration, it be nevertheless almost impossible for any one

anywhere to think clearly and deliberately, so universal and various

be the compulsion, confusion, and distress of the time. and even

the effect to see and state the issue largely, fevere Oswald’s brain.

he grow angry with the multitudinous thing that rob he of his

serenity.



“education,” he say, as if he call for help; “education.”



and then, collapse into wrath: “a land of uneducated blockhead!”



no! it be not one of his good morning. in a little while his step have

quicken and his face have flush. his hand clench in his pocket.

“a universal dulness of mind,” he whisper. “obstinacy....

inadaptability.... Unintelligent opposition.”



Broad generalization slip out of his mind. he begin to turn over one

disastrous instance after another of the shortness of mental range, the

unimaginative stupidity, the baseness and tortuousness of method, the

dull suspicion, class jealousy, and foolish conceit that have

cripple Britain through three and a half bitter year. with a vast

fleet, with enormous army, with limitless wealth, with the loyal

enthusiasm behind they of a united people and with great ally, british

admiral and general have never once achieve any great or brilliant

success, british statesman have never once grasp and hold the

fluctuating situation. one huge disappointment have follow another; now

at Gallipoli, now at Kut, now in the air and now beneath the sea, the

British have see their strength ill apply and their fair hope of

victory waste away. no Nelson have arise to save the country, no

Wellington; no Nelson nor Wellington could have arise; the country have

not even find an alternative to Mr. Lloyd George. in military and naval

as in social and political affair the anglican ideal have be—to

blockade. on sea and land, as in Ireland, as in India, Anglicanism be

not lead but obstruction. throughout 1917 the allied army upon the

western front have predominate over the german as greatly as the british

fleet have predominate at sea, and the result on either element have be

stagnation. the cavalry coterie who rule upon land have demonstrate

triumphantly their incapacity to seize even so great an opportunity as

the surprise of the tank afford they; the Admiralty have leave the

Baltic to the Germans until, after the loss of Riga, poor Kerensky’s

staggering government have collapse. british diplomacy have complete

what british naval quiescence begin; in Russia as in Greece it have

exist only to blunder; never have a just cause be so mishandle; and

before the end of 1917 the russian debacle have be achieve and the

german army, reinforce by the troop the russian failure have

release, begin to concentrate for this last great effort that be now

in progress in the west. like many another anxious and distressed

Englishman during those dark day of the german spring offensive in

1918, Oswald go about cling to one comfort: “our man be tough

stuff. our man at any rate will stick it.”



in Oswald’s mind there rankle a number of special case which he call

his “sore.” to think of they make he angry and desperate, and yet he

could scarcely ever think of education without revive the irritation

of these particular instance. they be his foreground; they block

his vista, and get between he and the general prospect of the world.

for instance, there have be a failure to supply mosquito curtain in

the east african hospital, and a number of slightly wound man have

contract fever and die. this fact have link on to the rejection of

the service he have offer at the outset of the war, and become a

fester centre in his memory. those mosquito curtain blow into every

discussion. moreover there have be, he believe, much delay and

inefficiency in the use of african native labour in France, and a lack

of proper organization for the special need of the sick and injure

among these tropic-breed man. and a shipload have be sink in a collision

off the Isle of Wight. he have get an irrational persuasion into his head

that this collision could have be prevent. after his wound have

drive he back to Pelham Ford he would limp about the garden thinking

of his “boy” shiver in the wet of a french winter and die on straw

in cold cattle truck, or struggle and drown in the grey channel

water, and he would fret and swear. “Hugger mugger,” he would say,

“hugger mugger! no care. no foresight. no proper grasp of the problem.

and so death and torment for the man.”



while still so painful and feverish he have develop a new distress for

himself by take up the advocacy of certain novelty and device that

he become more and more convinced be of vital importance upon the

western front. he entangle himself in correspondence, interview,

committee, and complicated quarrel in connection with these idea....

he would prowl about his garden, a baffled man, try to invent some

way of break through the system of entanglement that hold back

british inventiveness from the service of Great Britain. More and more

clearly do his reason assure he that no sudden blow can set aside the

deep-root tradition, the careless, aimless education of a negligent

century, but none the less he rage at individual, at ministry, at

coterie and class.



his peculiar objection to the head of the regular army, for example,

be unjust, for much the same unimaginative resistance be evident in

every branch of the public activity of Great Britain. already in 1915

the very halfpenny journalist be point out the necessity of a

great air offensive for the ally, be show that in the matter of

the possible supply of good air fighter the Germans be altogether

inferior to their antagonist and that consequently they would be more

and more at a disadvantage in the air as the air warfare be press.

but the british mind be train, so far that be as one can speak of it

as be train at all, to dread “over-pressure.” the western ally

having win a certain ascendancy in the air in 1916 become so

self-satisfied that the Germans, in spite of their disadvantage, be

able to recover a kind of equality in 1917, and in the spring of 1918

the British, with their leeway recover, be go easily in matter

aerial, and the opinion that a great air offensive might yet end the war

be regard as the sign of a froward and revolutionary spirit.



the sea war have a parallel history. long before 1914 Dr. Conan Doyle have

write a story to illustrate the danger of an unrestricted submarine

attack, but no precaution whatever against such a possibility seem to

have be undertake by the British Admiralty before the war at all;

Great Britain be practically destitute of sea mine in the October of

1914, and even in the spring of 1918, after more than a year and a half

of hostile submarine activity, after the British have lose million of

ton of shipping, after the people be on short common and become

very anxious about ration, the really very narrow channel of the North

Sea—rarely be it more than three hundred mile wide—which be the only

way out the Germans possess, be still unfence against the come and

go of these most vulnerable pest.



it be hard not to blame individual man and group when the affair of a

nation go badly. it be so much easy to change man than system. the

former satisfie every instinct in the fierce, suspicious heart of man,

the latter demand the bleakest of intellectual effort. the former

justify the healthy, wholesome relief of rioting; the latter

necessitate self-control. the country be at six and seven because

its education by school and college, by book and speech and newspaper,

be confused and superficial and incomplete, and its education be

confused and superficial and incomplete because its institution be a

patch-up system of tradition, compromise, and interest, devoid of

any clear and single guide idea of a national purpose. the only wrong

that really matter to mankind be the undramatic general wrong; but the

only wrong that appeal to the uneducated imagination be individual

wrong. it be so much more congenial to the ape in we to say that if Mr.

Asquith haven’t be lazy or Mr. Lloyd George disingenuous——! then out

with the halter—and don’t bother about yourself. as though the bad of

individual can be anything more than the indicate pustule of a

systemic malaise. for his own part Oswald be always revile

schoolmaster, as though they, alone among man, have the power to rise

triumphant over all their circumstance—and wouldn’t. he have long since

forget Mr. Mackinder’s apology.



he limp and fret to and fro across the lawn in his struggle to get

out of his jungle of wrathful thought, about drown negro and

reject invention, and about the baltic failure and about Gough of the

Curragh and St. Quentin, to general and permanent thing.



“education,” he say aloud, struggle against his obsession.

“Education! I have to tell they what it ought to be, how it be more or

less the task of every man, how it can unify the world, how it can save

mankind....”



and then after a little pause, with an apparent complete irrelevance,

“_damn_ Aunt Charlotte!”





                                  § 4



nowadays quite little thing would suddenly assume a tremendous and

devastating importance to Oswald. in his pocket, not fold but crumple

up, be an insulting letter from Lady Charlotte Sydenham, and the

thought of it be rankle bitterly in his mind.



the day be long past when he could think of the old lady as of

something antediluvian in quality, a queer ungainly megatherium

flounder about in a new age from which her kind would presently

vanish altogether. he be begin to doubt more and more about her

imminent disappearance. she have great power of survival than he have

suppose; he be begin to think that she might outlive he; there

be much more of she in England than he have ever suspect. all through

the war she, or a voice indistinguishable from her, have bawl

unchastened in the _Morning Post_; on many occasion he have seem to

see her hard blue eye and bristle whisker glare at he through a

kind of translucency in the sheet of _the Times_; once or twice in

France he have recognize she, or something very like she, in red tab

and gilt lace, at G.H.Q. these be sick fancy no doubt; mere

fantastic intimation of the stout resistance the anglican culture

could still offer before it loosen its cramping grip upon the future

of England and the world, evidence rather of his own hypersensitize

condition than of any perennial quality in she.



the old lady have play a valiant part in the early stage of the war.

she have interest herself in the persecution of all Germans not relate

to royalty, who chance to be in the country; and have even employ

private detective in one or two case that have come under her notice.

she have be force most unjustly to defend a libel case bring by a

butcher name Sterne, whom she have denounce as of german origin and a

probable poisoner of the community, in the very laudable belief that his

name be spell Stern. she feel that his indubitable british ancestry and

honesty only enhance the deception and make the whole thing more

alarming, but the jury, be no doubt taint with pacifism, think,

or pretend to think, otherwise. she have have a reconciliation with her

old antagonist the Pankhurst section of the suffragette, and she have

pay twenty annual subscription to their loyal and outspoken

publication _Britannia_, direct twelve copy to be send to suitable

recipient—Oswald be one of the favour one—and herself receive and

blue-pencil the remain eight before despatch they to such

public character as she believe would be most beneficially cow or

instruct by the article she have mark. she also subscribe liberally

to the British Empire Union, an organization so patriotic that it

extend its hostility to Russians, Americans, Irishmen, neutral,

President Wilson, the League of Nations, and similar infringement of

the importance and dignity of Lady Charlotte and her kind. she remain

at Chastlands, where she have lay in an ample store of provision quite

early in the war—two sack of mouldy flour and a side of bacon in an

advanced state of decomposition have be bury at night by Cashel—all

through the Zeppelin raid; and she play a prominent rather than a

pacify part in the Red Cross politic of that part of Surrey. she

induce several rich jewess of Swiss, Dutch, german or austrian origin

to relieve the movement of their name and, what be still well, of

the frequently quite offensively large subscription with which they

overshadow those who have the right to lead in such matter. she

lecture also in the National Economy campaign on several occasion—for

like most thoughtful woman of her class and type, she be deeply shock

by the story she have hear of extravagance among our over-pay

munition worker. after a time the extraordinary meanness of the

authority in restrict her petrol oblige she in self-respect to

throw up this branch of her public work. she be in London during one of

the early Gotha raid, but she conceive such a disgust at the cowardice

of the low class on this occasion that she leave town the next day

and would not return thither.



the increase scarcity of petrol and the onset of food rationing, which

threaten to spread all over England, drive she to Ulster—in spite of

the submarine danger that might have deter a less stout-hearte

woman. she take a small furnished house in a congenial district, and

find herself one of a little circle of ultra-patriotic refugee, drive

like herself from England by un-english restriction upon the

nourishment of the upper class and the spread of the pacifist

tendency of Lord Lansdowne. “if the coward must make peace,” say

Lady Charlotte, “at least give _I_ leave to be out of it.”



consider everything, Ulster be at that time as comfortably and

honourably out of the war as any part of the world, and all that seem

need to keep it safely out to the end be a little tactful firmness in

the Dublin Convention. there be plenty of everything in the loyal

province at that time—man, meat, butter, Dublin stout, and

self-righteousness; and Lady Charlotte expand again like a flower in

the sun. she revert to drive in a carriage; it be nice to sit once

more behind a stout able-bodied coachman with a cockade, with a perfect

excuse for neutrality, and she still do she good for old England from

eleven to one and often from five to six by write letter and dabble

in organization. Oswald she keep in mind continually. almost daily he

would get newspaper cutting from she detail Sinn Fein outrage, or

blue-mark leading article agitate for a large share of the

munition industry for Belfast, or good hot stuff, deeply underline,

from the speech of Sir Edward Carson. one dastardly Sinn Feiner,

Oswald learn, have even starve himself to death in gaol, a most

unnatural offence to Lady Charlotte. she warm up tremendously over the

insidious attempt of the Prime Minister and a section of the press to

get all the army in France and Italy under one supreme generalissimo

and end the dislocate muddling that have so long prolong the war. it

be a change that might have involve the replacement of regular

general by competent one, and it imperille everything that be most

dear to the old lady’s heart. it be “_an insult to the King’s

uniform_,” she write. “_a revolution. I know that this sort of thing

would begin if we let those Americans come in. we ought not to have let

they come in. what good be they to we? what can they know of war? a

crowd of ignorant republican renegade! british general to be

criticize and their prospect injure by french Roman Catholics and

Atheists and chew, expectorate Yankees and every sort of low

foreigner. what be the world come to? Sir Douglas Haig have be

exactly where he be for two year. surely he know the ground well

than any one else can possibly do._”



once the theme of Lady Charlotte get loose in Oswald’s poor old brain,

it begin a special worry of its own. he find his mind struggle with

assertion and argument. as this involve try to remember exactly

what she have say in this letter of her, and as it be in his pocket,

he presently choose the less of two evil and take it out to read

over:—



“_I suppose you have read in the paper what be happen in Clare. the

people be plough up grass-land. it be as bad as that man Prothero.

they raid gentleman’s house to seize arm; they resist the police. that

man Devil-era—so I must call he—speak openly of a republic. devil-era

and Devil-in; be it a coincidence merely? all this come of our

ill-timed leniency after the Dublin rebellion. when will England learn

the lesson Cromwell teach she? he be a wicked man, he make one great

mistake for which he be no doubt answer to his maker throughout all

eternity, but he certainly do know how to manage these irish. if he

could come back now he would be on our side. he would have have his

lesson. your Bolshevik friend go on murder and cut throat, I

see, like true Republicans. happily the White Guards seem get the

upper hand in Finland. in the end I suppose we shall be drive to a

peace with the Huns as the bad of two evil. if we do, it will only be

your bolshevik and pacifist and striker and Bolos who will be to

blame._



“_the whining and cowardice of the East Enders disgust I more and

more. you read, I suppose, the account of the disgraceful panic during

the air raid the other day in the East End, due entirely to foreigner

of military age, mostly, no doubt, your russian Bolsheviks. I be well

away from such a rabble. I suffer from rheumatism here. I know it be

rheumatism; what you say about gout be nonsense. in spite of its loyalty

Ulster be damp. I pine more and more for the sun and warmth of Italy.

Unwin must need make herself very tiresome and peevish nowadays. these

be not cheerful time for I. but one must do one’s bit for one’s

country, I suppose, unworthy though it be._



“_so Mr. Peter be back in England again wound after his fly about

in the air. I suppose he be taste the delight of matrimony, such as

they be! what an affair! something tell I long ago that it would

happen. I try to separate they. my instinct warn I, and my

instinct be right. breed be breed, and the servant strain come out in

she. you cann’t say I don’t warn you. why you let they marry I cannot

imagine!!! I be sure the young lady could have dispense with that

ceremony!!!! I still think at time of that queer scene I pass on the

road when I come to Pelham Ford that Christmas. a second string,—no

doubt of it. but Peter be her great chance, of course, thank to your

folly. well, let we hope that in the modern way they willn’t have any

child, for nothing be more certain than that these inter-breeding

marriage be most harmful, and whether we like it or not you have to

remember they be first cousin, if not in the sight of the law at any

rate in the sight of God, which be what matter in this respect. Mr.

Grimes, who have study these thing in his leisure time, tell I that

there be a very great probability indeed that any child will be blind or

malformed or consumptive, let we hope the latter, if not actually

still-bear, which, of course, would be the good thing that could

possibly happen...._”





                                  § 5



at this point Oswald become aware of Joan come out of the house

towards he.



he look at his watch. “much too early yet, Joan,” he say.



“yes, but I want to be meet he,” say Mrs. Joan....



so they walk down to the station and wait for a long time on the

platform. and Joan say very little to Oswald because she be muse

pleasantly.



when the train come in neither Joan nor Peter take much notice of Oswald

after the first greeting. I do not see what else he could have expect;

they be deeply in love and they have be apart for a couple of week,

they be excite by each other and engross in each other. Oswald

walk beside they up the road—apart. “I’ve get some work,” he say

abruptly in the hall. “see you at lunch,” and go into his study and

shut the door upon they, absurdly disappoint.





                                  § 6



Peter come on Wednesday. it be not until Friday that Oswald find an

opportunity to deliver his valediction. but he have rehearse it, or

rather he have be rehearse experimental fragment of it for most of

the night before. on Thursday night the cloudy malaise of his mind break

and clear. thing fall into their proper place in his thought, and

he could feel that his idea be no long distort and confuse. the

valediction appear, an ordered discourse. if only he could hold out

through a long talk he feel he would be able to make himself plain to

they....



he lie in the darkness put together phrase after phrase, sentence

after sentence, develop a long and elaborate argument, dip down

into parenthesis, throw off footnote, resume his text. for the

most part Joan and Peter remain silent hearer of this discourse; now

his ratiocination glow so brightly that they be almost forget,

now they come into the discussion, they assist, they say helpful and

understand thing, they raise simple and obvious objection that

be beautifully overcome.



“what be education up to?” he would begin. “what be education?”



then come a sentence that he repeat in the stillness of his mind quite

a number of time. “consider this beast we be, this thing man!” he do

not reckon with Peter’s tendency to prompt reply.



he would begin in the broad, most elementary way. “consider this

beast we be, this thing man!” so he frame his opening: “a creature

restlessly experimental, mischievous and destructive, as sexual as a

monkey, and with no really strong social instinct, no such tolerance of

his fellow as a deer have, no such instinctive self-devotion as you find

in a bee or an ant. a solitary animal, a selfish animal. and yet this

creature have now make for itself such condition that it _must_ be

social. must be. or destroy itself. continually it invent fresh mean

by which man may get at man to injure he or help he. that be one view

of the creature, Peter, from your biological end.” here Peter be to

nod, and remain attentively await the next development. “and at the

same time, there grow upon we all a sense of a common being and a

common interest. biologically separate, we unify spiritually. More and

more do man feel, ’I be not for myself! there be something in I—that

belong to a great being than myself—of which I be a part.’... I willn’t

philosophize. I willn’t say which may be in the nature of cause and which

of effect here. you can put what I have say in a dozen different way.

we may say, ’the individual must live in the specie and find his

happiness there’—that be—Biologese. _our_ language, Peter. or we can

quote, ’I be the True Vine and ye be the branch.’” Oswald’s mind

rest on that for a time. “that be not _our_ language, Peter, but it be

the same idea. essentially it be the same idea. or we can talk of the

’one and the many.’ we can say we all live in the mercy of Allah, or if

you be a liberal Jew that we be all a part of Israel. it seem to I

that all these formulæ be so much splutter and variation over one

idea. don’t it to you? man can quarrel mortally even upon the question

of how they shall say ’Brotherhood.’...” here for a time Oswald’s mind

pause.



he embark upon a great and wonderful parenthesis upon religious

intolerance in which at last he lose himself completely.



“I don’t see that man need fall out about religion,” be his main

proposition.



“there be a time when I be against all religion. I denounce

priestcraft and superstition and so on.... that be past. that be past. I

want peace in the world.... man’s mind differ more about _initial_

thing than they do about _final_ thing. some man think in image,

other in word and abstract idea—but yet the two sort can think out

the same practical conclusion. a lot of these chapel and church only

mean a difference in language.... difference in dialect.... often they

don’t mean the same thing, those religious people, by the same word,

but often contrariwise they mean the same thing by quite different

word. the deaf man say the dawn be bright and red, and the blind man

say it be a sound of bird. it be the same dawn. the same dawn.... one

man say ’God’ and think of a person who be as much of a person as Joan

be, and another say ’God’ and think of an idea more abstract than the

square root of minus one. that’s a tangle in the primary of thought

and not a difference in practical intention. one can argue about such

thing for ever.... one can make a puzzle with a bit of wire that will

bother and exasperate people for hour. be it any wonder, then, if

state what be at the root of life bother and exasperate people?...



“personally, I should say now that all religion be right, and none of

they very happy in the word and symbol they choose. and none of they

be calm enough—not calm enough. not peaceful enough. they be all

flounder about with symbol and metaphor, and it be a pity they will

not admit it.... why will people never admit their intellectual

limitation in these matter?... all the great religion have this in

common, this idea in common; they profess to teach the universal

brotherhood of man and the universal reign of justice. why argue about

phrase? why not put it in this fashion?”...



for a long time Oswald argue about phrase before he could get back to

the main thread of his argument....



“man have to be unify. they be drive to seek Unity. and they be

still with the individualized instinct of a savage.... see then what

education always have to be! the process of take this imperfectly

social, jealous, deeply savage creature and socialize he. the

development of education and the development of human society be one

and the same thing. education make the social man. so far as schooling

go, it be quite plainly that. you teach your solitary beast to read

and write, you teach he to express himself by draw, you teach he

other language perhaps, and something of history and the distribution

of mankind. what be it all but make this creature who would naturally

possess only the fierce, narrow sociability of a savage family in a

cave, into a citizen in a great community? that be how I see it. that

primarily be what have be do to you. an uneducated man be a man who

can talk to a few score familiar people with a few hundred word. you

two can talk to a quarter of mankind. with the help of a little

translation you can get to understanding with most of mankind.... as a

child learn the accept language and the accept writing and the law

and rule of life it learn the community. watch the education of you

two have make I believe more and more in the idea that, over and above

the enlargement of expression and understanding, education be the state

explain itself to and incorporate the will of the individual....



“yes—but what state? what state? now we come to it....”



Oswald begin to sketch out a universal history. there be no limit to

these intellectual enterprise of the small hour.



“all history be the record of an effort in man to form community, an

effort against resistance—against instinctive resistance. there seem no

natural and proper limit to a human community. (that’s my great point,

that. that be what I have to tell they.) that be the final teaching of

history, Joan and Peter; the very quintessence of history; that

limitlessness of the community. as soon as man get a community of any

size organize, it begin forthwith to develop road, wheel, writing,

ship-building, and all manner of thing which presently set a fresh

growth grow again. let that, too, go on. presently come steam,

mechanical traction, telegraphy, the telephone, wireless, aeroplane;

and each mean an extension of range, and each therefore demand a

large community.... there seem no limit to the growth of state. I

remember, Peter, a talk we have; we agree that this hackneyed analogy

people draw between the life and death of animal and the life and death

of state be bad and silly. it ben’t the same thing, Joan, at all. an

animal, you see, have a limit of size; it develop no new organ for

further growth when it have reach that limit, it breed its successor,

it age naturally; when it die, it die for good and all and be clear

away. exactly the reverse be true of a human community. exactly? yes,

exactly. if it can develop its educational system steadily—note that—if

it can keep up communication, a state can go on indefinitely,

conquering, oust, assimilate. even an amoeba break up after

growth, but a human community need not do so. and so far from breed

successor it kill they if it can—like Frazer’s priest—where be

it?—Aricia? the priest of Diana. the priest of the _Golden Bough_....”



Oswald pick up his thread again after a long, half dream excursion

in Frazer-land.



“it be just this limitlessness, this potential immortality of States

that make all the confusion and bloodshed of history. what be happen

in the world today? what be the essence of it all? the community of

today be develop _range_, fast than ever they do: aeroplane,

gun, swifter ship, everywhere an increase range of action. that be

the most important fact to grasp about the modern world. it be the key

fact in politic. from the first dawn of the human story you see man in

a kind of a puzzled way—how shall I put it?—_pursuing the boundary of

his possible community_. which always recede. which recede now fast

than ever. until it bring he to a fatal war and disaster. over and

over again it be the same story. if you have a coloured historical atla

of the world, the map would be just a series of great dab of empire,

spread, spread—come against resistance—collapse. each dab

try to devour the world and fail. there be no natural limit to a

human community, no limit in time or space—except one.



“genus _Homo_, specie _Sapiens_, Mankind, that be the only limit.”

(Peter, perhaps, might be lead up to say that.)...



“what have the history of education always be? a series of little

teaching chap try to follow up and _fix_ the fluctuate boundary

of communities”—an image come into Oswald’s head that please he and

lead he on—“like an insufficient supply of upholsterer try to

overtake and tack down a carpet that be blow away in front of a

gale. an insufficient supply of upholsterer.... and the carpet always

grow as it blow. that’s good.... they be try to fix something

they haven’t clearly define. and you have a lot of they still hammer

away at their tack when the edge of the carpet have go on far

ahead.... that be really the state of education in England when I take

you two young people in hand; the carpet be in the air and most of the

schoolmaster, schoolmistress, writer, teacher, journalist, and all

who build up and confirm idea be hammer in tack where the carpet

have be rest the day before yesterday.... but a lot be not even

hammer. no. they just go easy. yes, that be what I mean when I say

that education be altogether at loose end.... but Germany be

different; Germany be teach and teaching in school, college,

press, everywhere, this new Imperialism of her, a sort of patriotic

melodrama, with Britain as Carthage and Berlin instead of Rome. they

point the whole population to that end. they _teach_ this war. all

over the world a thousand other educational system point in a

thousand direction....



“so Germany set fire to the Phœnix....



“only one other great country have any sort of state education.

real state education that be. the United States be also

teach citizenship, on a broad if shallower basis; a wide

citizenship—goodwill to all mankind. shallower. shallower certainly. but

it be there. a republican culture. candour ... generosity.... the world

have still to realize its debt to the common school of America....



“this League of Free Nations, of which all man be dream and talk,

this World Republic, be the rediscovered outline, the proper teaching of

all real education, the necessary outline now of human life.... there be

nothing else to do, nothing else that people of our sort can do at all,

nothing but baseness, grossness, vileness, and slavery unless we live

now as a part of that process of a world peace. our life have get to be

political life. all life have to be make political life. we cann’t run

about _loose_ any more. this idea of a world-wide commonwealth, this

ideal of an everlasting world-peace in which we be to live and move and

have our being, have to be build up in every school, in every mind, in

every lesson. ‘you belong. you belong. and the world belong to

you.’...”



what ought one to teach when one teach geography, for instance, but

the common estate of mankind? here, the teacher should say, be

mountain and beautiful city you may live to see. here be plain

where we might grow half the food of mankind! here be the highway of

our common life, and here be pleasant bye-way where you may go! all

this be your inheritance. your estate. to rejoice in—and serve. but be

that how geography be teach?...



“we use to learn list of the british possession, with their total

export and import in money. I remember it as if it be yesterday....

Old Smugs—a hot New Imperialist—new then....



“then what be history but a long struggle of man to find peace and

safety, and how they have be prevent by baseness and greed and

folly? be that right? no, folly and baseness—and hate.... hate

certainly.... all history be one dramatic story, of man blunder his

way from the lonely ape to the world commonwealth. all history be each

man’s adventure. but what teacher make history much more than a

dwarfish twaddle about boundary and king and war? dwarfish twaddle.

history! it go nowhere. it do nothing. be there ever anything more

like a crowd of people get into an omnibus without wheel than the

History Schools at Oxford? or your history Tripos?”... Oswald repeat

his image and see that it be good....



“what be the teaching of a language again but teach the knowledge of

another people—an exposition of the soul of another people—a work of

union?... but you see what I mean by all this; this idea of a great

world of co-operating people; it be not just a diplomatic scheme, not

something far off that Foreign Offices be do; it be an idea that

must revolutionize the lesson of a child in the nursery and alter the

map upon every schoolroom wall. and frame our life altogether. or be

nothing. the World Peace. to that we all belong. I have a fancy— as

though this idea have be hover over the world, unsubstantial, unable

to exist—until all this blood-letting, this torment and disaster give it

a body....



“what I be say to you the University ought to have say to you.



“instead of Universities”—he seek for a phrase and produce one that

against the nocturnal dark seem brilliant and luminous. “instead of

the University _passant regardant_, we want the University militant. we

want university all round and about the world, associate, work to

a common end, draw together all the good mind and the fine will,

a myriad of multi-coloured thread, into one common web of a world

civilization.”





                                  § 7



also that night Oswald make a discourse upon the English.



“yours be a great inheritance, Joan and Peter,” he say to the darkness.

“you be young; that be a great thing in itself. the world cry out now

for the young to enter into possession. and also—do you ever think of

it?—you be English, Joan and Peter....



“let I say something to you before we have do, something out of my

heart. have I ever cant patriotism to you? no! be I an aggressive

Imperialist? be I not a home ruler? for Ireland. for India. the good

year of my life have be spend in save black man from white—and

mostly those white man be of our persuasion, man of the buccaneer

strain, on the loot. but now that we three be here together with no one

else to hear we, I will confess. I tell you there be no race and no

tradition in the whole world that I would change for my english race and

tradition. I do not mean the brief tradition of this little Buckingham

Palace and Westminster system here that begin yesterday and will end

tomorrow, I mean the great tradition of the English that be spread all

over the earth, the tradition of Shakespeare and Milton, of Newton and

Bacon, of Runnymede and Agincourt, the tradition of the man who speak

fairly and act fairly, without harshness and without fear, who face

whatever odd there be against they and take no account of king. it be

in Washington and New York and Christchurch and Sydney, just as much as

it be in Pelham Ford.... well, upon we more than upon any other single

people rest now for a time the burthen of human destiny. upon we and

France. France be the spear head but we be the shaft. if we fail,

mankind may fail. we English have make the great empire that the

world have ever see; across the Atlantic we have also make the great

republic. and these be but phase in our task. the well part of our

work still lie before we. the weight be on we now. it be Milton who

write long ago that when God want some task of peculiar difficulty to

be do he turn to his englishman. and he turn to we today. Old

Milton see English shine clear and great for a time and then pass into

the darkness.... he don’t lose his faith.... church and crown be no

part of the real England which we inherit....



“we have no reason to be ashamed of our race and country, Joan and

Peter, for all the confusion and blundering of these last year. our

general and politician have miss opportunity after opportunity. I

cannot talk yet of such thing.... the blundering.... the slackness....

Hanoverian England with its indolence, its dulness, its economic

uncleanness, its canting individualism, its contempt for science and

system, have be an England darken, an England astray——. Young England

have have to pay at last for all those waste year—and have pay.... my

God! the man we have expend already in fight these Germans, the

brave, beautiful man, the jest common man, the fresh boy, so

cheerful and kind and gallant!... and the happiness that have die! and

the shame of follow after clumsy, mean leadership in the sight of all

the world!... but there rest no stain on our blood. for our people here

and for the Americans this have be a war of honour. we do not come

into this war for sordid or narrow end. our politician when they make

base treaty have to hide they from our people.... even in the face of

the vile outrage, even now the English keep a balanced justice and

will not hate the german common man for thing they have be force to

do. yesterday I see the german prisoner who work at Stanton get

into the train and joke with their guard. they look well fed and

healthy and uncowed. one carry a bunch of primrose. no one have an ill

word for these man on all the countryside.... do any other people in

the world treat prisoner as we treat they?...



“well, the time have come for our people now to go on from Empire and

from Monroe doctrine, great as these idea have be, to something still

great; the time have come for we to hold out our hand to every man in

the world who be ready for a disciplined freedom. the German have dream

of set up a Cæsar over the whole world. against that we now set up a

disciplined world freedom. for ourselves and all mankind....



“Joan and Peter, that be what I have be come to in all this

wandering discourse. your be a great inheritance. you and your

generation have to renew and justify England in a new world. you have to

link we again in a common purpose with our kind everywhere. you have to

rescue our destiny, the destiny of the world, from these stale

quarrel; you have to take the world out of the hand of these weary and

worn man, these old and oldish man, these man who can learn no more. you

have to reach back and touch the England of Shakespeare, Milton,

Raleigh, and Blake—and that mean you have to go forward. you have to

take up the english tradition as it be before church and court and a

base imperialism pervert it. you have to become political. now. you

have to become responsible. now. you have to create. now. you, with your

fresh vision, with the lesson you have learn still burn bright in

your mind, you have to remake the world. listen when the old man tell

you fact, for very often they know. listen when they reason, they will

teach you many twist and turn. but when they dogmatize, when they

still want to rule unquestioned, and, above all, when they say

’_impossible_,’ even when they say ’_wait—be dilatory and discreet_,’

push they aside. their mind squat cripple beside dead tradition....

that England of the victorian old man, and its empire and its honour

and its court and precedence, it be all a dead body now, it have die as

the war have go on, and it have to be bury out of our way lest it

corrupt you and all the world again....”





                                  § 8



we underrate the disposition of youth to think for itself.



Oswald set himself to deliver this Valediction of his after dinner on

Friday evening....



Joan be hesitate between a game of Demon Patience with Peter—in which

she always play thirteen to his eleven and usually win in spite of the

handicap—and an inclination for Bach’s _Passacaglia_ upon the pianola in

the study. Peter express himself ready for whatever she choose; he

would play D.P. or read _Moll Flanders_—he have just discover the

delight of that great of all eighteenth century novel. he be

sit on the couch in the library and Joan be stand upon the

hearthrug, regard he thoughtfully, when Oswald come in. he stop

to hear what Peter be say, with his one eye intent on Joan’s pretty

gravity.



“no,” he interrupt. “this be my evening.



“you see,” he say, come up to the fire; “I want to talk to you young

people. I want to know some thing—— I want to know what you make of

life.... I want ... an exchange of view.”



he stand with his back to the fire and smile at Joan’s grave face close

to his own. “I’ve get to talk to you,” he say, “very seriously. it’s

necessary.”



having paralyse they by this preface he sit down in his deep armchair,

pull it an inch or so towards the fire, and lean forward, with his

eye on the spit coal, begin.



“I wish I could talk well, Joan and Peter.... I know I’ve never be a

good talker—it’s be rather a loss between we all. and now

particularly.... I want to talk.... you must let I get it out in my own

way....



“you see,” he go on after a moment or so to rally his force, “I’ve

be your guardian, I’ve have your education and your affair in my

hand, for fifteen year. so far as the affair go, Sycamore, you know——

we willn’t go into that. that’s all plain sailing. but it’s the education

I want to talk about—and your future. you be now both of age. well

past. you’re on the verge of twenty-five, Peter—in a month or so. you’re

both off now—housekeeping. you’re drop the pilot. it’s high time, I

suppose....”



Joan glance at Peter, and then sink noiselessly into a crouch

attitude close to Oswald’s knee. he pause to stroke her hair.



“I’ve be try to get you all that I could get you.... education....

I’ve have to blunder and experiment. I ought to tell you what I’ve aim

at and what I’ve do, take stock with you of the world I’ve educate

you for and the part you’re go to play in it. take stock.... it’s

be a badly plan undertaking, I know. but then it’s such a

surprising and unexpected world. all the time I’ve be learn, and

most thing I’ve learn more or less too late to use the knowledge

properly....”



he pause.



Peter look at his guardian and say nothing. Oswald pat the head at

his knee in return for a caress. it be an evasive, even apologetic pat,

for he do not want to be distract by affection just then.



“this war have alter the whole world,” he go on. “life have become

stark and intense, and when I take this on—when I take up the task of

educate you—our world here seem the most wrap up and comfortable

and secure world you can possibly imagine. comfortable to the pitch of

stuffiness. Most english people don’t trouble a bit about the shape of

human life; they think it be—well, rather like a heap of down

cushion. for they it be. for most of Europe and America.... they

think it be all right and perfectly safe—if only you don’t bother.

and education have lose its way. yes. that put the case. _Education have

lose its way._”



Oswald pause again. he fix his one eye firmly on a glowing cavity in

the fire, as though that contain the very gist of his thought.



“what be education up to?” he ask. “what be education?”...



thereupon of course he ought to have go on to the passage beginning,

“consider this beast we be, this thing man!” as he have already

rehearse it overnight. but Peter have not learn his part properly.



“I suppose it’s fit the square natural man into the round hole of

civilized life,” Peter throw out.



this reply greatly disconcert Oswald. “exactly,” he say, and be for

some moment at a loss.



“yes,” he say, rally. “but what be civilized life?”



“oh!... creative activity in an atmosphere of helpful goodwill,” Peter

try in the brief pause that follow.



Oswald have a disagreeable feeling that he be get to the end of his

discourse before he deliver its beginning. “yes,” he say again. “yes.

but for that you must have a political form.”



“the World State,” say Peter.



“the League of Free Nations,” say Oswald, “to enforce Peace throughout

the earth.”



the next remark that come from Peter be still more unexpected and

embarrassing.



“peace be nothing,” say Peter.



Oswald turn his red eye upon his ward, in profound amazement.



do they differ fundamentally in their idea of the human future?



“Peace, my dear Peter, be everything,” he protest.



“but, sir, it’s nothing more than the absence of war. it’s a negative.

in itself it’s—vacuum. you cann’t live in a vacuum.”



“but I mean an active peace.”



“that would be something more than peace. War be an activity. peace be

not. if you take war out of the world, you must have some other

activity.”



“but don’t the organization of the World Peace in itself constitute an

activity?”



“that would be a diminish activity, sir. like a man get himself

morphia and take it and go to sleep. a World Peace would release

energy, and as the energy be release, if the end be merely peace,

there would be less need for it. until thing explode.”



great portion of Oswald’s Valediction break away and vanish for ever

into the limbo of unspoken discourse.



“but would you have war go on, Peter?”



“not in its present form. but struggle and unification, which be the end

seek in all struggle, must go on in some form, sir,” say Peter,

“while life go on. we have to get the World State and put an end to

war. I agree. but the real question be what be you go to do with our

Peace? what struggle be to take the place of war? what be mankind go

to _do_? Most war have come about hitherto because somebody be bore.

do you remember how bored we all be in 1914? and the rotten way we

be all go on then? a World State or a League of Nations with

nothing to do but to keep the peace will bore man intolerably.... that’s

what I like about the Germans.”



“what you _like_ about the Germans!” Oswald cry in horror.



“they _do_ get a move on, sir,” say Peter.



“we don’t want a preventive League of Nations,” Peter expand. “it’s

get to be creative or nothing. or else we shall be in a sort of

perpetual Coronation year—with nothing do on account of the

procession. horrible!”



for a little while Oswald make no reply. he could not recall a single

sentence of the lost valediction that be at all appropriate here, and

he be put out and distress beyond measure that Peter could find

anything to “like” about the Germans.



“a World Peace for its own sake be impossible,” Peter go on. “the Old

Experimenter would certainly put a spoke into that wheel.”



“who be the Old Experimenter?” ask Oswald.



“he’s a sort of God I have,” say Peter. “something between theology and

a fairy tale. I dream about he. when I be delirious. he don’t rule

the world or anything of that sort, because he don’t want to, but he

keep on drop new thing into it. to see what happen. like a man

set himself problem to work out in his head. he live in a little

out-of-the-way office. that’s the idea.”



“you haven’t tell I about he,” say Joan.



“I shall some day,” say Peter. “when I feel so disposed....”



“this be very disconcerting,” say Oswald, much perplexed. he scowl at

the fire before he. “but you do realize the need there be for some form

of world state and some ending of war? unless mankind be to destroy

itself altogether.”



“certainly, sir,” say Peter. “but we ben’t go to do that on a peace

proposition simply. it’s get to be a positive proposal. you know, sir——”



“I wish you’d call I Nobby,” say Oswald.



“it’s a vice contract in the army, this Sir-ing,” say Peter. “it’s

Nobby in my mind, anyhow. but you see, I’ve get a kind of habit, at

night and odd time, of think over my little misadventure with that

balloon and my scrap with von Papen. they be my stock dream, with

extra detail work in, nasty detail some of they ... and then I wake

up and think about they. I think over the parachute affair more than the

fight, because it last long and I ben’t so active. I feel it more.

especially be shoot in the leg.... that sort of dream when you float

helpless.... but the thing that impress I most in reflect on those

little experience be the limitless amount of intelligence that expend

itself on such job as break my wrist, splinter my shoulder-blade

and smash up my leg. the amount of ingenuity and good workmanship in

my instrument and the fitting of my basket, for example, be

extraordinary, have regard to the fact that it be just one small item

in an artillery system for blow Germans to red rag. and the stuff

and intelligence they be put up against I, that too be

wonderful; the way the whole problem have be think out, the special

clock fuse and so on. well, my point be that the chap who make that

equipment ben’t particularly interested in kill I, and that the

chap who make my outfit ben’t particularly keen on the slaughter of

german. but they have nothing else to do. they be bring up in a

pointless world. they be catch by a vulgar quarrel. what do they

care for the Kaiser? old ass! what they be interested in be make

the thing....”



Peter become very earnest in his manner. “no peace, as we have know

peace hitherto, offer such opportunity for good inventive work as war

do. that’s my point, Nobby. there’s no comparison between the

excitement and the endless problem of make a real, live, efficient

submarine, for example, that have to meet and escape the intense risk,

and the occupation of design a great, big, safe, upholstered liner in

which fat swindler can cross the Atlantic without be seasick. war

tempt imaginative, restless people, and a stagnant peace bore they.

and you’ve get to reckon with intelligence and imagination in this

world, Nobby, more than anything. they ben’t strong enough to control

perhaps, but they will certainly upset. inventive, restless man be the

particular instrument of my Old Experimenter. he prefer they now to

plague, pestilence, famine, flood and earthquake. they be more delicate

instrument. and more efficient. and they willn’t _stand_ a passive peace.

under no circumstance can you hope to induce the chap who contrive the

clock fuse and the chap who work out my gas bag or the chap with a new

aeroplane gadget, and I—I, too—to stop cerebrate and make our

damnd just in order to sit about safely in meadow join up daisy

chain—like a beastly lot of figure by Walter Crane. the Old

Experimenter find some mischief still for idle brain to do. he insist

on it. that’s fundamental to the scheme of thing.”



“but that’s no reason,” interrupt Oswald, “why you and the inventor

who be behind you, and the Germans who make and load and fire that

shell, shouldn’t all get together to do something that will grow and

endure. instead of kill one another.”



“ah, that’s it!” say Peter. “but the word for that ben’t peace.”



“then what be the word for it?”



“I don’t know,” say Peter. “the Great Game, perhaps.”



“and where do it take you?”



Peter throw out his hand. “it’s an exploration,” he say. “it will take

man to the centre of the earth; it will take he to the end of space,

between the atom and among the star. how can we tell beforehand? you

must have faith. but of one thing I be sure, that man cannot stagnate.

it be forbid. it be the uttermost sin. why, the Old Man will come out

of his office himself to prevent it! this war and all the blood and loss

of it be because the new thing be entangle among old and dead thing,

wear-out and silly thing, and we’ve not have the vigour to get they

free. old idiot nationality, national conceit—expand to imperialism,

nationality in a state of megalomania, have be allow to get hold of

the knife that be mean for a sane generation to carve out a new world

with. Heaven send he cut his own throat this time! or else there may be

a next time.... I’m all for the one world state, and the end of flag

and king and custom house. but I have my doubt of all this talk of

make the world safe—safe for democracy. I want the world make one for

the adventure of mankind, which be quite another story. I have be in

the world now, Nobby, for five-and-twenty year, and I be only begin

to suspect the wonder and beauty of the thing we man might know and do.

if only we could get our eye and hand free of the old inheritance.

what have mankind do yet to boast about? I despise human

history—because I believe in God. not the God you don’t approve of,

Nobby, but in my Old Experimenter, whom I confess I don’t begin to

understand, and in the far-off, eternal scheme he hide from we and

which he mean we to develop age by age. oh! I don’t understand he, I

don’t begin to explain he; he’s just a figure for what I feel be the

reality. but he be right, he be wonderful. and instead of just muddle

about over the surface of his universe, we have to get into the

understanding of it to the very limit of our ability, to live our

utmost and do the intense good we can.”



“yes,” say Oswald; “yes.” this be after his own heart, and yet it do

not run along the line of the Valedictory that have flower with such

corinthian richness overnight. he have be think then of world peace;

what Peter be drive at now be a world purpose; but ben’t the two

after all the same thing? he sit with his one eye reflect the red

light of the fire, and the phrase that have come in such generous

abundance overnight now refuse to come at all.



Peter, on the couch, continue to think aloud.



“make the world safe for democracy,” say Peter. “that ben’t quite it.

if democracy mean that any man may help who can, that school and

university will give every man and woman the fair chance, the most

generous inducement to help, to do the thing he can well do under the

good condition, then, _yes_; but if democracy mean get up a riot

and boycott among the stupid and lazy and illiterate whenever anything

be do, then I say _no_! every human being have get to work, have get to

take part. if our law and organization don’t insist upon that, the Old

Experimenter will. so long as the world be rule by stale idea and lazy

idea, he be determined that it shall flounder from war to war. now what

do this democracy mean? do it mean a crowd of primitive brute

howl down progress and organization? because if it do, I want to be

in the machine-gun section. when you talk of education, Nobby, you think

of highly educate people, of a nation instruct through and through.

but what of democracy in Russia, where you have a naturally clever

people in a state of peasant ignorance—who cann’t even read? until the

schoolmaster have talk to every one for ten or twelve year, can you

have what President Wilson think of as democracy at all?”



“now there you meet I,” say Oswald. “that be the idea I have be

try to get at with you.” and for some minute the palatial dimension

of the lose Valedictory loom out. where he have say “peace” overnight,

however, he now say progress.



but the young man on the couch be much too keenly interested to make a

good audience. when presently Oswald propound his theory that all the

great world religion be on the side of this World Republic that he

and Peter desire, Peter demur.



“but be that true of Catholicism for instance?” say Peter.



Oswald quote, “I be the Vine and ye be the branch.”



“yes,” say Peter. “but look at the Church itself. don’t look at the

formula but at the practice and the daily teaching. be it truly a

grow Vine?” the reality of Catholicism, Peter argue, be a

traditional, sacramental religion, a narrow fetish religion with a

specialized priest, it be concern primarily with another world, it

set its face against any conception of a scheme of progress in this

world apart from its legend of the sacrifice of the Mass.



“all good Catholics sneer at progress,” say Peter. “take Belloc and

Chesterton, for example; they _hate_ the idea of man work steadily

for any great scheme of effort here. they hold by stagnant standard,

plant deep in the rich mud of life. what’s the catholic conception of

human life?—guzzle, booze, call the passion of the sex unclean and

behave accordingly, confess, get absolution, and at it again. be there

any recognition in Catholicism of the duty of keep your body fit or

your brain active? they’re bad than the man who bury his talent in a

clean napkin; they bury it in wheezy fat. it’s a sloven’s life. what

have we in common with that? always they be hark back to the

thirteenth century, to the peasant life amidst dung and chicken. it’s a

different specie of mind from ours, with the head and foot turn

backward. what be the good of expect the Pope, for instance, and his

Church to help we in create a League of Nations? his aim would be a

world agreement to stop progress, and we want to release it. he want

peace in order to achieve nothing, and we want peace in order to do

everything. what be the good of pretend that it be the same peace? a

Catholic League of Nations would be a conspiracy of stagnation, another

Holy Alliance. what real world unity can come through they? every step

on the way to the world state and the real unification of man will be

fight by the stagnant man and the priest. why blind ourselves to that?

progress be a religion in itself. work and learning be our creed. we

cannot make term with any other creed. the priest have get his God and

we seek our God for ever. the priest be finish and complete and

self-satisfied, and we—we be begin....”





                                  § 9



there be two day yet before Peter go back to his work in London.

Saturday dawn blue and fine, and Joan and he determine to spend it in

a long tramp over the Hertfordshire hill and field. he mean to stand

no nonsense from his foot. “if I cann’t walk four mile an hour then I

must do two,” he say. “and if the pace be too slow for you, Joan, you

must run round and round I and bark.” they take a long route by field

and lane through Albury and Furneaux Pelham to the little inn at

Stocking Pelham, where they get some hard biscuit and cheese and

shandygaff, and come home by way of Patmore Heath, and the golden oak

and the rivulet. and as they go Peter talk of Oswald.



“naturally he want to know what we be go to do,” say Peter, and

then, rather inconsequently, “he’s ill.



“this war be like a waste fever in the blood and in the mind,” say

Peter. “all Europe be ill. but with he it mix with the old fever.

that splinter at Fricourt be no joke for he. he oughtn’t to have go

out. he’s get horribly lean, and his eye be like a garnet.”



“I love he,” say Joan.



but she do not want to discuss Oswald just then.



“about this new theology of your, Peter,” she say....



“well?” say Peter.



“what do you mean by this Old Experimenter of your? be he—_God_?”



“I don’t know. I think he be. he’s—— he’s a symbol. he’s just a

Caricature I make to express how all _this_”—Peter sweep his arm across

the sunlit world—“seems to stand to I. if one cann’t draw the thing any

well, one have to make a caricature.”



Joan consider that gravely.



“I think of he first in my dream as the God of the Universe,” Peter

explain.



“you couldn’t love a God like that,” Joan remark.



“Heavens, _no_! he’s too vast, too incomprehensible. I love you—and

Oswald—and the R.F.C., Joan, and biology. but he’s above and beyond that

sort of thing.”



“could you pray to he?” ask Joan.



“not to _he_,” say Peter.



“I pray,” say Joan. “don’t you?”



“and swear,” say Peter.



“one pray to something—it ben’t oneself.”



“the fashion nowadays be to speak of the God in the Heart and the God in

the Universe.”



“be it the same God?”



“leave it at that,” say Peter. “we don’t know. all the waste and muddle

in religion be due to people argue and assert that they be the

same, that they be different but related, or that they be different

but opposed. and so on and so on. how can we know? what need be there to

know? in view of the little job we be do. let we leave it at that.”



Joan be silent for a while. “I suppose we must,” she say.



“and what be we go to do with ourselves,” ask Joan, “when the war

be over?”



“they cann’t keep we in khaki for ever,” Peter consider. “there’s a

Ministry of Reconstruction foozle away in London, but it’s never say

a word to I of the some-day that be come. I suppose it haven’t learn

to talk yet.”



“what do you think of do?” ask Joan.



“well, first—a good medical degree. then I can doctor if I have to. but,

if I’m good enough, I shall do research. I’ve a sort of feeling that

along the border line of biology and chemistry I might do something

useful. I’ve some idea.... I suppose I shall go back to Cambridge for a

bit. we neither of we need earn money at once. it will be queer—after

be a grow-up married man—to go back to proctor and bulldog. what

be _you_ go to do, Joan, when you get out of uniform?”



“look after you first, Petah. oh! it’s worth do. and it willn’t take I

all my time. and then I’ve get my own idea....”



“out with ’em, Joan.”



“well——”



“well?”



“Petah, I shall learn plumbing.”



“job?”



“no. and bricklaying and carpentry. all I can. and then I be go to

start build house.”



“architect?”



“as little as possible,” say Joan. “no. no beastly architecture for

Art’s sake for I! do you remember how people use to knock their head

about at the Ingle-Nook? I’ve get some money. why shouldn’t I be able to

build house as well as the fat builder-man with big, flat thumb who

use to build house before the war?”



“Jerry-building?”



“high-class jerry-building, if you like. cottage with sensible inside,

real inside, and not so much waste space and scamp to make up for

it. they’re half a million house short in this country already. there’s

something in building appeal to my sort of imagination. and I’m go

to make money, Petah.”



“I love the way you carry your tail,” say Peter. “always.”



“well, do run repair harden a woman’s soul.”



“you’ll make more money than I shall, perhaps. but now I begin to

understand all these extraordinary book you’ve be study.... I

might have guess.... why not?”



he limp along, consider it. “why shouldn’t you?” he say. “a

service flat will leave your hand free.... I’ve always wonder

secretly why woman don’t plunge into that sort of business more.”



“it’s be just diffidence,” say Joan.



“_Click!_” say Peter. “that’s go, anyhow. if a lot of woman do as you

do and become productive for good, this old muddle of a country will sit

up in no time. it double the output.... I wonder if the man will like

work under you?”



“there’ll be a boss in the background,” say Joan. “Mr. John Debenham.

who’ll never turn up. be, in fact, no more than camouflage for Joan

of that ilk. I shall be just my own messenger and agent.



“one thing I know,” say Joan, “and that be, that I will make a cottage

or a flat that willn’t turn a young woman into an old one in ten year’

time. live in that Jepson flat without a servant have brighten I up

in a lot of way.... and a child will grow up in my cottage without

be crippled in its mind by awkwardness and ugliness.... this sort of

thing always have be woman’s work really. only we’ve be so busy

chittering and powder our silly nose—and lay snare for our

Peters. who don’t know what be good for they.”



Peter laugh and be amuse. he feel a pleasant assurance that Joan

really be go to build house.



“Joan,” he say, “it’s a bleak world before we—and I hate to think of

Nobby. he’s so _ill_. but the work—the good hard work—there’s time when

I rather like to think of that.... they be beastly year just before

the war.”



“I hate they,” say Joan.



“but what a lot of stuff there be about!” say Peter. “the petrol!

give away, practically, along the roadside everywhere. and the joint

of meat. do you remember the big ham we use to have on the sideboard?

for breakfast. a lot of sausage go sizzle! egg galore! Bacon!

Haddock. perhaps cutlet. and the way one could run off abroad!”



“to Italy,” say Joan dangerously.



“God know when those time will come back again! not for year. not for

our lifetime.”



“if they come back all at once we’d have indigestion,” say Joan.



“Orgy,” say Peter. “but they willn’t.”...



presently their note become graver.



“we’ve get to live like fanatic. if a lot of we don’t live like

fanatic, this staggering old world of our willn’t recover. it will

stagger and then go flop. and a race of Bolshevik peasant will breed

pig among the ruin. we owe it to ourselves, we owe it to the world to

prevent that.”



“and we owe it to the one who have die,” say Joan.



she hesitate, and then she begin to tell he something of the part

Wilmington have play in their life.



they go through field after field, through gate and over stile and

by a coppice spangle with primrose, while she tell he of the part

that Wilmington have play in bring they together; Wilmington who be

now no more than grey soil where the battle still rage in France. many

be the young people who talk so of dead friend in those day. their

voice become grave and faintly deferential, as though they have invoke

a third presence to mingle with their duologue. they be very careful

to say nothing and to think as little as possible that might hurt

Wilmington’s self-love.



presently they find themselves speculate again about the kind of

world that lie ahead of they—whether it would be a wholly poor world or

a poverty-strike world infest and devastate by a few hundred

millionaire and their following. poor we be certain to be. we should

either be sternly poor or meanly poor. but Peter be disposed to doubt

whether the war millionaire would “get away with the swag.”



“there’s too much thinking and read nowadays for that,” say Peter.

“they willn’t get away with it. this be a new age, Joan. if they try that

game they willn’t have five year’ run.”



no, it would be a world generally poor, a tired but chastened world

get itself into order again.... would there be much music in the

year ahead? much writing or art? would there be a new theatre and the

excitement of first night again? should we presently travel by

aeroplane, and find all the world within a few day’ journey? they be

both prepare to resign themselves to ten year’ of work and scarcity,

but they both cling to the hope of return prosperity and freedom

after that.



“well, well, Joan,” say Peter, “these time teach we to love. I’m

crippled. we’ve get to work hard. but I’m not unhappy. I’m happy than

I be when I have no idea of what I want in life, when I lust for

everything and be content with nothing, in the day before the war. I’m

a wise old man now with my stiff wrist and my game leg. you change

everything, Joan. you make everything worth while.”



“I’d like to think it be I,” say Joan idiomatically.



“it’s you....



“after all there must be some snatch of holiday. I shall walk with you

through beautiful day—as we be do today—day that would only be

like empty silk purse if it ben’t that they hold you in they. scenery

and flower and sunshine mean nothing to I—until you come in. I’m blind

until you give I eye. Joan, do you know how beautiful you be? when

you smile? when you stop to think? frown a little. when you look—yes,

just like that.”



“_no!_” say Joan, but very cheerfully.



“but you be—you be endlessly beautiful. endlessly. make love to

Joan—it’s the intense of joy. every time—— as if one have just

discover she.”



“there’s a certain wild charm about Petah,” Joan admit, “for a coarse

taste.”



“after all, whether it’s set in poverty or plenty,” say Peter; “whether

it’s rational or irrational, make love be still at the heart of we

human.”...



for a time they exult shamelessly in themselves. they talk of the

good time they have have together in the past. they revive memory of

Bungo Peter and the Sagas that have slumber in silence since the first

dawn of adolescence. she recall a score of wonderful story and

adventure that he have altogether forget. she have a far clear and

well memory for such thing than he. “D’you remember lightning slick,

Petah? and how the day go fast? D’you remember how he put lightning

slick on his bicycle?”...



but Peter have forget that.



“and when we fight for that picshua you make of Adela,” Joan say.

“when I bit you.... it be my first taste of you, Petah. you taste

dusty....”



“I suppose we’ve always have a blind love for each other,” say Peter,

“always.”



“I hate you to care for any one but myself,” say Joan, “since ever I

can remember. I hate even Billy.”



“it’s well we find out in time,” say Peter.



“_i_ find out,” say Joan.



“ever since we stop be boy and girl together,” say Peter, “I’ve

never be at peace in my nerve and temper till now.... now I feel as

though I swing free in life, safe, sure, content.”



“_Content_,” weigh Joan suspiciously. “but you’re still in love with

I, Petah?”



“not particularly _in_ love,” say Peter. “no. but I’m love you—as the

June sun love an open meadow, shine all over it. I shall always love

you, Joan, because there be no one like you in all the world. no one at

all. make love happen, but love endure. how can there be

companionship and equality except between the like?—who can keep step,

who can climb together, joke broad and shameless, and never struggle for

the upper hand? and where in all the world shall I find that, Joan, but

in you? listen to wisdom, Joan! there be two sort of love between man

and woman, and only two—love like the love of big carnivore who know

their mate and stick to they, or love like some man who follow a woman

home because he’s never see anything like she before. I’ve do with

that sort of love for ever. there’s man who like to exaggerate every

difference in woman. they pretend woman be mysterious and dangerous and

wonderful. they like sex serve up with lie and lingerie.... where’s

the love in that? give I my old brown Joan.”



“not so beastly brown,” say Joan.



“Joan _nature_.”



“Tut, tut!” say Joan.



“there’s people who scent themselves to make love,” say Peter.



“Experienced Petah,” say Joan.



“I’ve read of it,” say Peter, and a little pause fall between they....



“every one ought to be like we,” say Joan sagely, with the spring

sunshine on her dear face.



“it take all sort to make a world,” say Peter.



“everybody ought to have a lover,” say Joan. “everybody. there’s no

clean life without it.”...



“we’ve be through some beastly time, Joan. we’ve run some beastly

risk.... we’ve just scramble through, Joan, to love—as I scramble

through to life. after be put down and shoot at.”...



presently Joan suspect a drag in Peter’s pace and decide at the

sight of a fallen tree in a little grass lane to profess fatigue. they

sit down upon the scaly trunk, just opposite to where a gate pierce a

bud hedge and give a view of a long, curve ridge of sunlit blue,

shoot corn with red bud and green-powder tree beyond, and far

away a woldy upland rise out of an intervene hide valley. and

Peter admit that he, too, feel a little tired. but each be make a

pretence for the sake of the other.



“we’ve rediscover a lot of the old thing, Joan,” say Peter. “the war

have knock sense into we. there ben’t anything to work for, there

ben’t much to be loyal to in the day of the Marconi scandal and the

Coronation Durbar. Slack time, more despair in they by far than in

these red day. rotten, aimless time.... oh! the world’s not do

for....



“I don’t grudge my wrist or my leg,” say Peter. “I can hop. I’ve still

get five and forty year, fifty year, perhaps, to spend. in this new

world.”...



he say no more for a time. there be scheme in his head, so immature

as yet that he could not even sketch they out to she.



he sit with his eye dream, and Joan watch he. there be much of

the noble beast in this Peter of her. in the end now, she be

convince, he be go to be an altogether noble beast. through she. he

be her to cherish, to help, to see grow.... he be her choose man....

depth that be only begin to awaken in Joan be stir. she

would sustain Peter, and also presently she would renew Peter. a time

would come when this dear spirit would be bear again within her being,

when the blood in her artery and all the grace of her body would be

give to a new life—to new life, that would be beautiful variation of

this dear tune in the music of the world.... they would have courage;

they would have mind like bright, sharp sword. they would lift their

chin as Peter do.... it become inconceivable to Joan that woman could

give their body to bear the child of unloved man. “_dear_ Petah,”

her lip say silently. her heart swell; her hand tighten. she

want to kiss he....



then in a whim of reaction she be move to mockery.



“do you feel so _very_ stern and strong, dear Petah?” she whisper

close to his shoulder.



he start, surprised, stare at she for a moment, and smile into her

eye.



“Old Joan,” he say and kiss she....





                                  § 10



when he return to the house on Monday morning after he have see the

two young people off, a burthen of desolation come upon Oswald.



it be a loneliness as acute as a physical pain. it be misery. if they

have be dead, he could not have be more unhappy. the work that have

be the warm and living substance of fifteen year be now finish and

do. the nest be empty. the road and the stream, the gate and the

garden, the house and the hall, seem to ache with emptiness and

desertion. he go into their old study, from which they have already

take a number of their most intimate treasure, and which be now as

disorder as a room after a sale. Most of their remain personal

possession be stack ready for removal; discard magazine and

book and tear paper make an untidy heap beside the fireplace. “I could

not feel a great pain if I have lose a son,” he think, stare at

these untidy vestige.



he go to his own study and sit down at his desk, though he know there

be no power of attention in he sufficient to begin work.



Mrs. Moxton, for reason well know to herself, be interested in his

movement that morning. she see he presently wander into the garden and

then return to the hall. he take his cap and stick and touch the bell.

“I’ll not be back to lunch, Mrs. Moxton,” he call.



“very well, sir,” say Mrs. Moxton, unseen upon the landing above,

nod her head approvingly.



at first the world outside be as lonely as his study.



he go up the valley along the high road for half a mile, and then take

a wind lane under almost overhang bough—the hawthorn leave now

be nearly out and the eld quite—up over the hill and thence across

field and through a wood until he come to where the steep lane run

down to Braughing. and by that time, although the spring-time world be

still immensely lonely and comfortless, he no long feel that

despairful sense of fresh and irremediable loss with which he start.

he be begin to realize now that he have always be a solitary

be; that all man, even in crowd, carry a certain solitude with they;

and loneliness thus lift to the level of a sustained and general

experience cease to feel like a dagger turn in his heart.



down the middle of braughe village, among space of grass, run the

little Quin, now a race of crystalline water over pebbly shallow and

now a brown purposefulness fleck with foam, in which reed bend and

recover as if they keep their footing by perpetual feat of dexterity.

there be two ford, and midway between they a little bridge with a

handrail on which Oswald stay for a time, watch the life and

adventure of an endless stream of bubble that be beget thirty

foot away where the eddy from the depth beneath a willow root dash

against a bough that bobbed and dip in the water. he find a great

distraction and relief in follow their adventure. on they come,

large and small, in string, in spin group, busy bubble, quiet

bubble, dignified solitary bubble, and pass a dangerous headland of

watercress and run the gauntlet between two big stone and then, if they

survive, come with a hopeful rush for the shadow under the bridge and

vanish utterly....



for all the rest of the day those stream bubble glitter and race

and jostle before Oswald’s eye, and make a veil across his personal

desolation. his mind swing like a pendulum between two idea; those

bubble be like human life; they be not like human life....



philosophy be the great of anodyne.



“why be a man’s life different from a bubble? like a bubble he be bear

of the swirl of matter, like a bubble he reflect the universe, he be

drive and whirl about by force he do not comprehend, he shine

here and be darken there and be elated or depressed he know not why,

and at last pass suddenly out into the darkness....”



in the evening Oswald sit muse by his study fire, his lamp unlit. he

sit in an attitude that have long become habitual to he, with the

scarred side of his face rest upon and hide by his hand. his walk

have weary he, but not unpleasantly, his knee be surprisingly free

from pain, and he be no long acutely unhappy. the idea, a very

engaging idea, have come into his head that it be not really the

education of Joan and Peter that have come to an end, but his own. they

be still learner—how much they have still to learn! at Peter’s age he

have not yet go to Africa. they have finish with school and college

perhaps, but they be but begin in the university of life. neither

of they have yet experience a great disillusionment, neither of they have

be shame or bitterly disappointed; they have each other. they have see

the great war indeed, and Peter know now what wound and death be

like—but he himself have be through that at one-and-twenty. neither have

have any such dark tragedy as, for example, if one of they have be

kill, or if one of they have betray and injure the other. perhaps

they would always have fortunate life.



but he himself have have to learn the lesson to the end. his life have be

a darken one. he have love intensely and lose. he have have to abandon

his choose life work when it be barely half do. he have a present

sense of the great need of the world, and he be bodily weak and

mentally uncertain. he would spend day now of fret futility, unable

to achieve anything. he love these dear youngster, but the young

cannot give love to the old because they do not yet understand. he be

alone. and yet, it be strange, he keep on. with such strength as he have

he pursue his end. those two would go on, full of hope, help one

another, think together, succeed. the lesson he have learn be

that without much love, without much vitality, with little hope of

see a single end achieve for which he work, he could still go on.



he drift through his memory, seek for the motive that have drive

he on from experience to experience. but while he could remember the

experience it be very hard now to recover any inkling of his motive.

he remember himself at school as a violent egotist, work hard,

openly and fairly, for his ascendancy in the school game, work hard

secretly for his school position. it seem now as though all that time

he have be no more than a greed and a vanity.... be that fair to

himself? or have he forget the redeem dream of youth?...



the scene shift to the wardroom of his first battleship, and then to

his first battle. he see again the long low line of the egyptian coast,

and the battery of Alexandria and Ramleh spit fire and the

_Condor_ stand in. he recall the tense excitement of that morning,

the boat row to land, but strangely enough the incident that have win

he the Victoria Cross have be blot completely from his mind by his

injury. he could not recover even the fact, much less the feel of that

act.... why have he do what he have do? do he himself really do

it?... then very vividly come the memory of his first sight of his

smash, disfigured face. that have be horrible at the time—in a way it

be horrible still—but after that it seem as though for the first time

he have cease then to be an egotism, a vanity. after that the memory

of impersonal interest begin. he think of his attendance at Huxley’s

lecture at South Kensington and the wonder of make his first

dissection. about that time he meet dolly, but here again be a queer

gap; he could not remember anything very distinctly about his early

meeting with dolly except that she wear white and that they happen in

a garden.



yet, in a little while, all his being have be hungry for dolly!



with his first journey into Africa all his memory become bright and

clear and as if a hotter sun shine upon they. everything before that

time be part of the story of a young man long vanish from the world,

young Oswald, a personality at least as remote as Peter—very like Peter.

but with the change of scene to Africa Oswald become himself. the man in

the story be the man who sit musing in the study chair, move by the

same motive and altogether understandable. already in Nyasaland he be

work consciously for “civilization” even as he work today.

everything in that period live still, with all its accompany

feeling alive. he fight again in his first fight in Nyasaland, and

recall with complete vividness how he have load and fire and

reload and fire time after time at the rush of the Yao spearman; he

have fight lean against the stockade because he be too weary to

stand upright, and with his head and every limb ache. one man he have

hit have wriggle for a long time in the grass, and that memory still

distress he. it trail another memory of horror with it. in his

campaign about Lake Kioga, year later, in a fight amidst some ant hill

he have come upon a wound Sudanese be eat alive by swarm of ant.

the poor devil have die with the ant still upon he.... Oswald could

still recall the sick anguish with which he have try in vain to save or

relieve this man.



the affair be in the exact quality of his present feeling; the picture

be paint from the same palette. he remember that then, as now, he

feel the same helpless perplexity at apparently needless and

unprofitable human agony. and then, as now, he have not despair. he have

be able to see no reason in this suffering and no excuse for it; he

could see none now, and yet he do not despair. why do not that and a

hundred other horror overwhelm he with despair? why have he be able

to go on with life after that? and after another exquisite humiliation

and disappointment? he have love dolly intensely, and here again come a

third but less absolutely obliterate gap in his recollection. for

year he have be resolutely keep his mind off the suffering of that

time, and now they be indistinct. his memory be particularly blank

now about Arthur; he be register merely as a blonde sort of ass with

a tenor voice who punch copper. that faint hostile caricature be all

his mind have tolerate. but still sharp and clear, as though it have be

photograph but yesterday upon his memory, be the afternoon when he

have realize that dolly be dead. that scene be life-size and intense;

how in a shady place under great tree, he have leant forwards upon his

little folding table and weep aloud.



what have carry he through all those thing? why have he desire so

intensely? why have he work so industriously? why do he possess this

passion for order that have inspire his administrative work? why have he

give his good year to Uganda? why have he be so concerned for the

welfare and wisdom of Joan and Peter? why do he work now to the very

breaking-point, until sleeplessness and fever force he to rest, for

this dream of a great federation in the world—a world state he would

certainly never live to see establish? if he be indeed only a bubble,

then surely he be the most obstinately opinionate of bubble. but he

be not merely a bubble. the essential self of he be not this thing

that spin about in life, that feel and reflect the world, that miss

so acutely the two dear other bubble that have circle about he so long

and that have now leave he to eddy in his backwater while they hurry

off into the midstream of life. his essential self, the self that muse

now, that have struggle up through the egotism of youth to this present

predominance, be something deep and tough and more real than

desire, than excitement, than pleasure or pain. that be the lesson he

have be learn. there be something deep in he to which he have

be get down more and more as life have go on, something to which

all the stuff of experience be incidental, something in which there be

endless fortitude and an undying resolution to do. there be something

in he profounder than the stream of accident....



he sit now with his distress allay, his mind play with fancy

and metaphor and analogy. be this profounder contentment beneath his

pain and discontent the consciousness of the bubble give way to the

underlying consciousness of the stream? that be ingenious, but it be

not true. man be not bubble carry blindly on a stream; they be

rather like bubble, but that be all. they be will and part of a will

that be neither the slave of the stream of matter nor a thing

indifferent to it, that be paradoxically free and bind. they be part

of a will, but what this great will be that have he in its grasp, that

compel he to work, that save he from drown in his individual

sorrow and care, he could not say. it be easy to draw the analogy

that a man be an atom in the life of the specie as a cell be an atom in

the life of a man. but this again be not the complete truth. where be

this allege will of the specie? if there be indeed such a will in the

specie, why be there this war? and yet, whatever it might be,

assuredly there be _something_ great than himself sustain his

life.... to he it feel like a universal thing, but be it indeed a

universal thing? it be strangely bind up with preference. why do he

love and choose certain thing passionately? why be he indifferent to

other? why be dolly and Joan more beautiful to he than any other

woman; why do he so love the sound of their voice, their movement,

and the subtle line of their face; why do he love Peter, stand

upright and when enthusiasm light he; and why do he love the light on

polished steel and the darkness of deep water, the movement of

flame, and of supple, feline animal, so intensely? why do he love

these thing more than the sheen on paint wood, or the grace of

blonde woman, or the movement of horse? and why do he love justice

and the revelation of scientific law, and the set right of

disorder thing? why do this idea of a League of Nations come to he

with the effect of a personal and preferential call? all these light

and matter and aspect and personal trait be somehow connect in

his mind, and have a compelling power over he. they could make he

forget his safety or comfort or happiness. they have something in common

among themselves, he feel, and he could not tell what it be they have in

common. but whatever it be, it be the intimation of the power that

sustain he. it be as if they be all reflection or resemblance of

some overruling spirit, some Genius, some great ruler of the value that

stand over his existence and his world. yet that again be but a fancy—a

plagiarism from Socrates....



there be a light upon his life, and the truth be that he could not

discover the source of the light nor define its nature; there be a

presence in the world about he that make all life worth while, and yet

it be Nameless and Incomprehensible. it be the Essence beyond reality;

it be the Heart of all thing.... metaphor! word! perhaps some man

have mean this when they talk of love, but he himself have love

because of this, and so he hold it must be something great than Love.

perhaps some man have intend it in their use of the word Beauty, but

it seem to he that rather it make and determine Beauty for he. and

other again have know it as the live presence of God, but the name

of God be to Oswald a name batter out of all value and meaning. and

yet it be by this, by this nameless, this Incomprehensible, that he

live and be uphold. it do so uphold he that he could go on, he know,

though happiness be deny he; though defeat and death stare he in

the face....





                                  § 11



at last he sigh and rise. he light his reading lamp by mean of a

newspaper roll up into one long spill—for there be a famine in

match just then—and sit down to the work on his desk.





                                the END





                Printed in the United States of America.



------------------------------------------------------------------------









                          TRANSCRIBER’S note





 1. silently correct typographical error and variation in spelling.

 2. anachronistic, non-standard, and uncertain spelling retain as

      print.

 3. enclosed italic font in _underscore_.











end of Project Gutenberg's Joan and Peter, by H. G. (Herbert George) Wells







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK JOAN and PETER: the story of an EDUCATION ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





