The project Gutenberg eBook of Christina Alberta's father

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Christina Alberta's father



author: H. G. Wells



Release date: November 23, 2022 [ebook #69410]

                most recently update: October 19, 2024



language: English



original publication: United States: the Macmillan Company, 1925



credit: Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRISTINA ALBERTA'S FATHER ***



CHRISTINA ALBERTA’S FATHER









Mr. Wells have also write the follow novel:





  the wheel of CHANCE.

  LOVE and MR. LEWISHAM.

  KIPPS.

  TONO-BUNGAY.

  ANN VERONICA.

  MR. POLLY.

  the new MACHIAVELLI.

  marriage.

  the passionate friend.

  the wife of SIR ISAAC HARMAN.

  BEALBY.

  the RESEARCH MAGNIFICENT.

  MR. BRITLING see it THROUGH.

  the SOUL of a BISHOP.

  JOAN and PETER.

  the UNDYING FIRE.

  the secret place of the heart.



the follow Fantastic and Imaginative Romances:



  the TIME machine.

  the WONDERFUL visit.

  the island of DR. MOREAU.

  the INVISIBLE MAN.

  the WAR of the worlds.

  the sleeper awakes.

  the first MEN in the MOON.

  the SEA LADY.

  the food of the GODS.

  in the day of the COMET.

  the WAR in the AIR.

  the WORLD SET FREE.

  MEN like GODS.

  the dream.



numerous Short Stories collect under the following Titles:



  the STOLEN BACILLUS.

  the PLATTNER STORY.

  TALES of SPACE and TIME.

  TWELVE story and a dream.



the same Short Stories will also be find in three volume:



  TALES of the UNEXPECTED.

  TALES of WONDER.

  TALES of life and adventure.



a Series of Books on Social, religious, and Political Questions:



  anticipation (1900).

  a MODERN UTOPIA.

  the future in AMERICA.

  new WORLDS for OLD.

  first and last thing.

  GOD the invisible king.

  the OUTLINE of history.

  RUSSIA in the SHADOWS.

  the salvaging of CIVILIZATION.

  WASHINGTON and the riddle of PEACE.

  a short history of the world.

  the story of a great schoolmaster.

  a year of PROPHESYING.



and two little Books about child’s play, call:



  FLOOR GAMES and little war.





_a uniform Atlantic Edition of Mr. Wells’ work be in course of

publication._









  CHRISTINA ALBERTA’S

  FATHER



  BY

  H. G. WELLS



  New York

  the MACMILLAN COMPANY

  1925

  _all right reserve_









  COPYRIGHT, 1925,

  by H. G. WELLS.



  Set up and electrotype.

  publish September, 1925.

  Reprinted September 22, 1925.

  Reprinted November, 1925.





  print in the UNITED STATES of AMERICA BY

  THE CORNWALL PRESS









_content_





            BOOK the first



  _the coming of Sargon, King of king_



                                                    PAGE



            CHAPTER the FIRST



    the early life of MR. PREEMBY                     11





            CHAPTER the SECOND



    CHRISTINA ALBERTA                                 28





            CHAPTER the THIRD



    in LONSDALE MEWS                                  50





            chapter the fourth



    the PETUNIA BOARDING HOUSE                        85





            CHAPTER the FIFTH



    the scales fall from MR. PREEMBY’S eyes          114





            CHAPTER the SIXTH



    CHRISTINA ALBERTA consult a wise MAN            132





            BOOK the second



  _the World Rejects Sargon, King of king_





            chapter the FIRST



    INCOGNITO                                        163





            chapter the second



    the calling of the DISCIPLES                     195





            CHAPTER the THIRD



    the JOURNEY of SARGON UNDERNEATH the WORLD       218





            BOOK the THIRD



  _the Resurrection of Sargon, King of king_





            chapter the FIRST



    CHRISTINA ALBERTA in SEARCH of a FATHER          245





            chapter the second



    how BOBBY steal a LUNATIC                        300





            CHAPTER the THIRD



    the last PHASE                                   343





            chapter the fourth



    MAY AT UDIMORE                                   369











CHRISTINA ALBERTA’S FATHER









  _BOOK the FIRST_



  the coming of SARGON, king

  of king









CHAPTER the first



_the early Life of Mr. Preemby_





§ 1



this be the story of a certain Mr. Preemby, a retired laundryman

and widower, who abandon his active interest in the Limpid Stream

Laundry, in the parish of Saint Simon Unawares, near Woodford

Wells, upon the death of his wife in the year of grace 1920. some

very remarkable experience come to he. the story be essentially a

contemporary story: it be a story of London in the age of Sir Arthur

Conan Doyle, broadcasting, and the first Labour peer. the historical

element in it be insignificant and partly erroneous, and the future,

though implicitly present, be substantially ignore.



since wash in London, like the milk trade and baking and the linen

drapery and various other branch of commerce, be something rather

specialized and hereditary and a little difficult towards outsider,

it be necessary to explain that Mr. Preemby be not a laundryman bear.

he have little of the spirit and go of a true London laundryman. he

marry into laundrying. he meet a Miss Hossett at Sheringham in 1899,

an heiress and a young lady of great decision of character; he woo

and win she and marry she, as you will be tell, almost without

realize what he be do. the Hossetts be big people in the laundry

world, and the Limpid Stream concern, which presently fall into the

capable hand of Mrs. Preemby, be only one of a series of related

and sympathetic business in the north, north-east and south-west

district of London.



Mr. Preemby, as Miss Hossett’s family come to recognize quite frankly

and explicitly at a very early stage, derive from a less practical

strain than his wife. his father have be an artist of considerable

charm and unpunctuality, a photographic artist, who reside at

Sheringham and make what be call in the eighteen-eighty,

“gem” photograph of the summer visitor to that place. in the

eighteen-eighty he be a well-know Sheringham figure, dark and

handsome and sometimes a little unkempt, wear a brown velvet jacket

and a large grey soft feel hat. he would fall into conversation with

the visitor upon the beach, and a certain air of distinction about

he would bring a sufficient proportion to his studio to maintain he.

his wife, our Mr. Preemby’s mother, be a patient, underdeveloped

personality, the daughter of a farmer near Diss. when presently Mr.

Preemby senior pass out of his son’s life--he become romantically

entangle with a small variety entertainment in the summer of 1887 and

vanish away with it in the autumn with as little fuss as possible,

never to return to Sheringham--Mrs. Preemby senior become the working

partner in a small lodging-house and die in a year or so’s time,

leave her furniture, her interest in the lodging-house and her only

son to her cousin and partner, Mrs. Witcherly.



Young Albert Edward Preemby be then a good-look, slender youth of

sixteen, with his father’s curliness and his mother’s fair hair and

eye of horizon blue, dreamy and indispose for regular employment.

even as a child he have be give to reverie; at school he would

sit with sum or book neglect before he, look beyond they at

unknown thing; his early experience in business be disappointing

by reason of this abstraction. after a number of unsuccessful attempt

to exploit his gift at some favourable point in the complex machinery

of our civilization, he come to rest for several year in the office

of a house-agent and coal-merchant in Norwich to whom his mother be

distantly related.



some ancient, remembered, sentimental tie help Albert Edward to this

appointment and shield any imperfection in his performance from too

urgent a criticism. he do much well at it than anyone could have

expect. the calling of a house-agent differ from most other calling

in the fact that the necessary drive energy be supply entirely

by the clientele, and there be something about the letting of the

large house that touch the dormant imagination of young Preemby.

he reveal a natural gift for attractive description and be duly

entrust with the work of collect particular from prospective

lessor. he have a quite useful hopefulness. and even the coal prove

unexpectedly interesting so soon as he find that none of it have to be

carry about by he. he could never believe that all the golden scale

one find in it be pyrite. he cherish a secret dream of a great

commercial enterprise to work cinder heap for residual gold. he tell

no one of this project, he take no step to realize it, but it warm

his daily routine with its promise of release and wealth. and when

thing be slack in the office in the early afternoon and he be leave

in charge, he would go and sit on the coal counter and pick out the

coal sample for the little tray and turn they over and over and view

they from various angle and weigh they in his hand and lapse into the

most splendid vision.



and if inquirer after house come in, he would receive they with a

manner almost regal.



in Norwich he become a member of the Y.M.C.A., but he be interested

in its literary rather than its religious side, and he attend any

political debate available. he never speak in these debate, but he

sit at the back reflect that politician be, after all, no more

than puppet in the hand of the silent rich man who sit behind the

scene. it be in Norwich, too, that he be able to buy his first

tailor-make suit, of a most become grey. when he go to stay with

Mrs. Witcherly at Sheringham for his summer holiday of a fortnight, she

be delight by the improvement in his appearance and much impress

by the active hopefulness that have replace his former lethargy. upon

the sea front in the afternoon in his grey suit, to anyone who do not

know about he, he might have be almost any sort of prosperous summer

visitor.



it seem a yesterday, and yet it seem age ago, that our plump and

short Mr. Preemby be that small blonde young man twirl his stick

and glance furtively but desirously at the lady bather in their vast

petticoate bathing-dress and oilskin cap, as he stroll along

the Sheringham front. that be in the day when motor car be still

rather a joke, a smell, and a noise and wayside repair, and flying be

understand to be impossible. Queen Victoria have have her Diamond Jubilee

and nobody think Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, would ever survive

to be King. the War in South Africa be be arrange for that summer,

to last six month and employ forty thousand man. and it be on the

third day of his grey suit holiday at Sheringham that Mr. Preemby be

run into by his future wife, Miss Hossett, ride on a bicycle, and

throw against and almost run over by her friend Miss Meeta Pinkey.



because, incredible as it may seem to the modern reader, people do

succeed in those distant ninety, before the coming of the more

suitable automobile, in knock down and run over other people

with the sluggish apparatus, bicycle, horse-draw vehicle and so

forth, then available.





§ 2



Miss Meeta Pinkey be an emotional blonde girl, and she fall off her

machine gracefully and naturally into Mr. Preemby’s arm as he be

hurl against she. it would seem to have be the original intention

of Destiny to have make this the beginning of a permanent relationship,

but in this matter Destiny have reckon without Miss Hossett. Miss

Meeta Pinkey be as ripe for love just then as dry gunpowder be for

a bang, and she be already deeply in love with Mr. Preemby before

she have be replace securely on her foot. she stand flushed and

round-eyed and breathless, and Mr. Preemby look quite manly and

handsome after pick up her bicycle with an air of rescue.



Miss Hossett, after butt against Mr. Preemby, have swerve,

dismount and stand now prepared for a dispute. the collision

have far loosen the already loose handlebar of the entirely

untrustworthy hire machine she have be ride. it be this looseness

have cause the accident. her attention seem divide equally between

this and the possible grievance of Mr. Preemby. “I ring my bell,” she

say.



she be flushed and erect. she be a round-face girl with a long, thin

neck, a good bright complexion, glass on her thin nose and a resolute

thin-lipped mouth.



“I do all I could to avoid you,” she say.



“Awkward of I,” say Mr. Preemby disarmingly. “I be lose in a

day-dream.”



“you ben’t hurt--?” ask Meeta.



“startle,” say Mr. Preemby, “especially where the wheel get I. this

place be full of corner.”



“I’d’ve be over,” say Meeta, “if you haven’t catch I.”



Miss Hossett be reassure about any possible conflict with Mr.

Preemby. evidently he be go to be quite nice about the accident.

“this handlebar be as loose as could be,” she say. “look at it! you

can twist it about like on a swivel. they ought to be punish for

let out such machine. some of these day one of ’em’ll get let in

for damage. then they’ll be a bit more careful. scandalous I call it.”



“you cann’t ride it at all now,” say Mr. Preemby.



“no,” she agree. “have to take it back to they.”



it seem only right and proper for Mr. Preemby to wheel the machine

for she back through the town to the hire place, where Miss Hossett

reprove the hirer, refuse to pay anything, and secure the return

of her deposit in a few well-choose word. Miss Pinkey pay the hire

of her bicycle for a First Hour. it seem natural after that for

the little party of three to keep together. they keep together with

a faint sense of adventure, and Mr. Preemby behave as nothing less

than a normal lodger at Miss Witcherly’s establishment and summer

visitor to the seaside. his new-find friend be Londoners, and he

refer himself to Norwich and the management of house property. he

be quite amusing about Sheringham. he say it be “a dear little

backward-forward place,” that it be a real treat to come to for a

breath of sea air.



“I don’t like regular smart place,” say Mr. Preemby. “I’m too

absent-minded.”





§ 3



in after year Mr. Preemby would often try to recall the various stage

that lead to his marry Miss Hossett, but there be always a vague

sense that he miss out something, though he know not what it be nor

where it ought to have come in.



at first thing do not look in the least like his marry Miss

Hossett. indeed they do not look like his marry anyone, and if

the word marriage have be whisper in his ear as the possible

consequence of this encounter he would have be terrify. he

perceive that he be acceptable company to these girl, but it seem

to he that it be Meeta who form the link between they and himself.

a fourth person presently join their company who answer to the

name of Wilfred, and it seem to Mr. Preemby that the air of mutual

proprietorship between Wilfred and Miss Hossett be unchallengeable.



the young people wander in a little party along the sea front until

the sea front come to an end, and there they find a sheltered and

comparatively seclude niche in the brow of the low cliff and give

themselves up to the delight of Spooning; and it be Meeta who spoon

with Mr. Preemby that afternoon and Wilfred who spoon with Miss

Hossett. across the gulf of a quarter of a century the memory of Mr.

Preemby be still certain that this be so.



the fashion of life change from age to age. Knowledge have spread

and refinement increase; and a generation of young people, more

restrain, more sophisticated, or more decisive than their

predecessor have take possession of the world. this Spooning be an

artless, clumsy dalliance in great favour in those vanish day, a

dalliance that be keep within the bound of strict decorum--if ever

that become necessary--by cry of “starp it” or “Starpit, I tell you,”

on the part of the lady. they embrace, they kiss, and put their

silly young head together and so while away the long waiting-time

before love have its way with they. the summer resort of England be

litter with young people indulge in these poor, silly, undignified

anticipation of love. Mr. Preemby, it become manifest, be a natural

bear Spooner.



“it’s lovely,” say Miss Meeta, “the way you squeeze I.”



Mr. Preemby squeeze some more and venture to kiss a hot ear.



“go on with you!” say Miss Meeta, in a voice thick with delight. “that

little moustache of your--it _tickle_.”



flush with encouragement and preoccupy with idea for further

enterprise, Mr. Preemby do not remark that the affair of Miss

Hossett and her Wilfred follow a more troubled and less satisfactory

course. Wilfred be not a type that appeal to Mr. Preemby. in

spite of the fact that he be much less neat in his dress than Mr.

Preemby--he have grey flannel trouser, an old fancy vest, a tweed

Norfolk jacket, and low brown shoe with light-colour sock--he

impress Mr. Preemby as be consciously a social superior. he be

young--the young of the party--and yet dominant. he have large red

hand and big foot, much untidy hair, ill-regulate feature that

might later be handsome, and a hoarse guffaw. he view Mr. Preemby as

though he know all about he and think the bad of he for it, but

do not intend to make any positive trouble for the present about his

existence. he be, Meeta whisper, a medical student at Cambridge, and

his father be a Harley Street physician who have be knight. he do

not spoon with any abandonment; he seem weary of Spooning, he have

perhaps be spoon for some day, and his conversation with Miss

Hossett go on in subdued contentious tone. he sit a little apart

from she amidst the sand and coarse bluish grass, and her face be

flushed. what they say be inaudible to our intertwine couple.



“Chris and Wilfred don’t get on together as we do,” Meeta say in a low

voice. “they’re silly.”



“he’s like all the man,” say Meeta, “’sept one perhaps. want

everything they do and give nothing.



“he willn’t even say they’re engage,” she say. “Dodged see she

father.”



there be a pause for reflection and then a renewal of endearment.



“I’m gorne on you,” say Meeta. “I _be_ fair gorne on you. you’ve get

the blue eye I’ve ever see. China blue they be.”





§ 4



so detachedly it be that Mr. Preemby and his future wife pass their

first afternoon together. he remember it, as he remember most

actual thing, indistinctly, in a setting of hot sand and sunshine,

blue-grey grass and a line of poppy nod against an intense blue

sky. and then across these opening memory Chris Hossett seem to

leap at he with flushed cheek and glow eye, magnify by her

glass.



two or three day intervene before that passionate pounce. Mr.

Preemby, in his character of an incidental visitor to Sheringham, be

under no obligation to produce a social background, but Miss Pinkey

introduce he to two large, kindly aunt of a sedentary sort, as a

young man relate to Miss Hossett who have save she from a nasty fall

off a bicycle, and he and she both go to tea with Chris Hossett’s

“people.” Old Mr. Hossett be a very ailing man, excessively fat and

irritable; he have never be the same, whatever the same be, after his

only son have die; and Mrs. Hossett, an energetic lean threat of what

her daughter might become, have to wait on Mr. Hossett hand and foot.

she have spectacle instead of Chris’s glass, her eye be careworn

and her complexion be leaden and her neck lean. there be also a

married cousin and his wife, a Mr. and Mrs. Widgery, who seem to be

under the impression that Mr. Preemby be a relation of Miss Pinkey’s.

Mr. Widgery have a long pock-mark face and the dull brown eye

Mr. Preemby have ever see. there be nothing difficult to eat at tea

and Mr. Preemby get on very well listen to an explanation of the

precariousness of Mr. Hossett’s existence, due to heart trouble, from

Mrs. Hossett and of just how unsatisfactory and distressing it be to

come away and leave the laundry in the hand of a manager. Wilfred do

not come to the tea. he have be ask but he do not come.



the next day Mr. Preemby meet Wilfred on the sea front watch the

girl bathe from a bathing machine. afterwards all four go for a

walk in search of privacy, and it become evident that Miss Hossett

decline to spoon far with Wilfred. it be evident that there be

profound trouble between Chris and Wilfred. they scarcely speak as they

return towards the town; and before the sea front be reach Wilfred

say “so long” quite suddenly, and turn away and vanish up a road

run inland. Thereupon Wilfred pass out of Mr. Preemby’s world;

Mr. Preemby never know what become of he and never want to know;

and the next day he become aware for the first time of Miss Hossett’s

magnify eye, regard he with an interest and a challenge that

make he feel almost uncomfortable.



Miss Hossett become a serious obstacle to the Spooning of Meeta. the

quartette be now reduce to a trio; and Mr. Preemby find himself

the apex, so to speak, of a triangle, the eternal triangle in an

exceptionally acute form. whenever Meeta be on the one hand, Chris be

on the other. she call he “Our Teddy”; she press upon he; she

go so far as to stroke his hair. Meeta’s endearment fade to some

extent in the presence of this competition, but she make no explicit

objection.



Deep in the nature of the human male be a fount of polygamous pride.

Mr. Preemby in these novel circumstance be proud and disingenuous.

he believe himself “carry on” with two girl at once, and it

seem to he to be a very splendid situation. but indeed it be not

so much a case of carry on as of be carry off. in the american

world of emotional imagination there be an ideal call the Cave Man,

much cherish by quiet, unaggressive woman because its realization

would involve so little trouble on their own part. the Cave Man be

suppose to seize and grip and carry off and adore. in this simple

love story of Mr. Preemby’s Miss Hossett play the Cave Man’s rôle,

up to the carry-off point at any rate. on the first occasion of

their be alone together she draw he to she and kiss he on the

mouth with a warmth and an intensity and thoroughness that astonish

and overwhelm Mr. Preemby. it be quite different from Meeta’s coy

achievement, or anything he have ever meet around Norwich. he have not

know that there be such kissing.



and in the warm summer twilight Mr. Preemby find himself be carry

off to a lonely piece of beach to spoon with Chris Hossett. the light

of a rise full moon mingle with the afterglow; pebble shine

out like gem and star. he carry himself bravely but he be all

atremble. he know that this time the enterprise would not come from

he. and the Spooning of Chris Hossett be no more like the Spooning of

Meeta than a furnace glow be like the light of the moon.



“I love you,” say Chris as though that justify anything, and as they

stumble homeward at an hour that Mr. Preemby call “feefully late,”

she say: “you’re go to marry I ben’t you? you’ve _get_ to marry

I now. and then we can _really_ make love. ’soften as we like.”



“I cann’t rightly say that I’m exactly in a position to keep a wife just

at present,” say Mr. Preemby.



“I don’t see that there’s any necessity for I to ask a man to keep

I,” say Miss Hossett. “you’re a wonder, Teddy, anyhow, and I’m go

to marry you. it’s get to be, and there you be.”



“but _’ow_ can I marry you?” ask Mr. Preemby almost peevishly--for he

be really very tired.



“one would think to hear you that no one have ever marry before,” say

Chris Hossett. “and besides--after this--you _must_.”



“mind you I’ve get to go back to Norwich next Tuesday,” say Mr.

Preemby.



“you ought to have think of that before,” she say.



“but I’ll lose my situation.”



“naturally father will find you something well. we ben’t poor

people, Teddy. there’s no need to be scared about it....”



in such term be Chris Hossett woo and win by Mr. Preemby. he be

scared, dreadfully scared, but also he be tremendously rouse. it

impress he as be a wildly romantic affair and very terrifying and

a little hard on Meeta Pinkey. but he be bustle along too fast to

think very much about Meeta Pinkey. he be introduce over again to the

Hossett parent next day as their daughter’s affiance husband, and in

secret she give he three golden sovereign to buy she an engagement

ring as a surprise. Mrs. Hossett behave at first as though she

approve of Mr. Preemby and disapprove of the marriage, and then after

what be clearly a stormy scene upstairs with her daughter, she behave

as though she approve highly of the marriage and think Mr. Preemby a

very objectionable person. Mr. Hossett would not speak to Mr. Preemby

directly, but he speak of he to his wife and to imaginary auditor in

Mr. Preemby’s presence as a “scoundrel” who have “get hold” of his girl.

yet he, too, seem to regard the marriage as desirable, and no one

make any reply to his _obiter dicta_.



it be all very puzzling and exalt to Mr. Preemby. he do little

except what he be tell to do. he be carry over his marriage as

a man might be carry over a weir. he leave any explanation to Mrs.

Witcherly of what be happen for some more favourable occasion. he

go off on Tuesday with his little valise as though he be go back

to Norwich. he write a simple letter of regret to the house-agent and

coal-merchant. private affair, he say, of an urgent nature prevent

his return to his duty. Mrs. and Miss Hossett go up to London with

he. they all take room at a temperance hotel in Bloomsbury, and Mr.

Preemby be marry by special licence at St. Martin’s by Trafalgar

Square.



then he go down to the Limpid Stream Laundry to live with his

parent-in-law and master the duty of assistant manager, canvasser

and publicity agent. Mr. Hossett never speak to he and sometimes

talk rather unpleasantly about he when he be in the room, make

accusation that be well ignore, but Mrs. Hossett gradually become

cordial again. and presently Mr. Hossett have a heart seizure and die,

and in the course of a few month Mr. Preemby find himself a father.

when he be first confront with his daughter and, as it prove, his

only child, he think she an extremely ugly little red object. he have

never see a baby at so early a stage before. she have a lot of very

fine moist dark hair which subsequently give place to a later crop; she

have large indeterminate feature and remarkably large foot and hand.

Mr. Preemby have an absurd impression that he have see she somewhere

before and haven’t like she. then in a day or so she become a quite

ordinary pink baby and wonder give place to affection.



she be christen Christina Alberta after her mother and Mr. Preemby.





§ 5



in time all these experience mellow in Mr. Preemby’s memory into a

vague, glorious, romantic, adventurous past. he continue to be rather

dreamy and distraught, but on the whole he make a dutiful, faithful

husband, and he get on very well with his masterful and capable wife.



she be, he have discover on his marriage, three year his senior,

and she continue to be in every respect his senior to the day of her

death. but she treat he with proprietary affection; she choose all

his clothe for he, she cultivate his manner and bear and uphold

he against all other people. she dress he rather more like a golf

champion than he would have do himself if he have have any say in the

matter. she would not let he have a bicycle for many year, she be

a little exact about his way of keep the laundry account, she

fix his pocket-money at ten shilling a week, and she be dispose

to restrict his opportunity for conversation with feminine member

of the laundry staff. but he make no marked protest against these

slight deviation from the customary obedience of a wife. a tendency

to plumpness manifest itself, and he grow considerable quantity of

blonde moustache without apparent effort.



their home be an agreeable one, the more so after Mrs. Hossett have

follow her husband to his resting-place, under a marble crucifix

with a dove and olive branch in relievo at the intersection of the

arm, at Woodford Wells. Mr. Preemby become a great reader, read

not only romantic novel--he have a great distaste for “realism” in any

form--but ancient history, astronomy, astrology and mystical work.

he become deeply interested in the problem of the pyramid and in the

probable history of the lost continent of Atlantis. mental science

also attract he, and the possibility of increase will-power

very greatly. he would sometimes practise will-power before the

look-glass in his bedroom when Mrs. Preemby be not about. at

night he would sometimes will himself to sleep instead of go to

sleep in the usual fashion. he give a considerable amount of attention

to prophecy and eschatology. he develop view of his own about the

Day of Judgment that might have lead to a breach with the Established

church if Mrs. Preemby have not think that such a breach would react

unfavourably upon the Laundry. as time go on he accumulate a library

of upwards of a thousand volume and a very considerable vocabulary.



his wife view these intellectual preoccupation with friendly

sympathy, at time even with pride, but she take little part in they

herself. the Laundry be good enough for she. she love the Laundry

more and more; love its pile clean and starched shirt and collar

and its folded and stack sheet, love the creak of its machinery and

the suddy bustle of the washing room. she love to have it all go

on, orderly and right; to feel everything go through the tub and

washer and wringer, sure and safe; nothing astray, nothing miss

at the end. when she walk about the place voice be hush and

scrub become respectfully assiduous. and she like make thing

pay.



on Sunday afternoon and on day when the laundry have no need of his

service, Mr. Preemby take long walk. in fine weather he would walk

into Epping Forest or to Ongar or even into the rustic peace of the

Roothings, but in dull weather he would go Londonward. after a while

the tram be extend as far as the present terminus at Woodford and

it become possible to ride very pleasantly right into the heart of

London by way of Seven Sisters Road and Camden Town or, with a little

bit of extra walking, by the Lea Bridge Road and the Angel and Holborn.



the greatness and multitudinous activity of London stir slumber

strand of Mr. Preemby’s imagination. he would go in and lunch at an

Aërated Bread Shop on a scone and butter, with a cup of cocoa and

perhaps a jam-puff, and he would spend hour look into shop window

and sometimes even make small purchase. he love Charing Cross Road

with its book-shop, Tottenham Court Road, Holborn, Clerkenwell, and

the Whitechapel Road, but Piccadilly and Bond Street and Regent Street

seem costly and lacking in true intellectual interest, and he feel

his baggy tweed knickerbocker and cap a little out of tune in these

smart place. sometimes he would go to the British Museum and look

very hard at object connect with the pyramid. great public event

always draw he to London. if there be a great murder or a great fire

or a Royal Wedding or a Royal Funeral, Mr. Preemby would be sure to be

look at it where the crowd be thick, often with a neat packet

of provision, a sandwich, an orange, or so forth, that Mrs. Preemby

have provide. but he never see illumination and firework because Mrs.

Preemby like to have he at home when the day’s work be over. he

enjoy the Great War of 1914-18 gravely and profoundly. once he pass

a man who he think afterwards be almost certainly a german spy. the

thought thrill he for day. he have give he a good look anyhow. he

attend air raid in plenty, and he see the Potters Bar Zeppelin shoot

down. he be a good four year too old for compulsory military service

when the time come, and Mrs. Preemby would not let he be a special

constable because she think he might catch cold.



Mr. Preemby’s work in the counting house be not very onerous, but

he also give thought and attention to the extension of the business

outside. he invent several attractive circular. his experience

as a house-agent have train he to note the existence of large

comfortable-look house that might otherwise have escape his

observation and to ascertain whether they be occupy; he would then

find out whether the Limpid Stream Laundry get the washing from such

establishment, and if not he would send a circular and even follow

it up with a personal letter. he be vaguely observant about the

premise. he would go sometimes and look for quite a long time at the

furnace or the delivery van or any new piece of machinery like the

new calendering machine until he get use to it. but if he stand about

where there be girl work, Mrs. Preemby would make some excuse to

get he back into the office because, as she explain, she think

a man stand about affect the girl’ work unfavourably. he take

in and sometimes read the _British Laundryman_ and the _Dyers’ and

cleaner’ Gazette_.



occasionally he have happy idea. it be his idea to paint the delivery

van bright blue and decorate they with a swastika, and to paint

exactly the same colour and design on the front of the laundry and

put it on the bill. but when he want to put the van driver into

swastika cap and blue the clothe basket, Mrs. Preemby say she

think the thing have go far enough. it be also Mr. Preemby who

suggest Ford car instead of horse van as early as 1913. this change

be make in 1915.



and at home with her peaceful interested father and her busy,

occasionally, rather astringent, mother, Christina Alberta grow to

girlhood and womanhood.









CHAPTER the second



_Christina Alberta_





§ 1



this story, it be clearly explain in the first paragraph of the

first section of the first chapter, be a story about Mr. Preemby in the

later year, the widower year, of his life. that statement have all the

value of an ordinary commercial guarantee, and on no account shall we

ever wander far from Mr. Preemby. but the life of his daughter be so

closely interweave with his own during that time that it be necessary

to tell many thing about she distinctly and explicitly before we get

our real story properly begin. and even after it have begin, and while

it go on, and right up to the end, Christina Alberta will continue to

intrude.



Intrusion be in her nature. she be never what be call an engaging

child. but she always have a great liking for her daddy and he have the

great affection and respect for she.



she have little or no tact, and there be always something remote

and detach, something of the fairy changele about she. even her

personal appearance be tactless. she have a prominent nose which tend

to grow large, whereas Mrs. Preemby’s nose be small and bright and

pinch between her glass, and her father’s delicately chisel and

like some brave little boat shoot a great cascade of moustache; she

be dark and both her parent be fair. as she grow up the magic

force of adolescence assemble her feature into a handsome effect,

but she be never really pretty. her eye be brown and bright and

hard. she have her mother’s thin-lipped, resolute mouth and modestly

determined chin. and she have her mother’s clear firm skin and bright

colour. she be a hum, shout, throw, punch child with a

tendency not to hear admonition and an almost instinctive dexterity

in avoid sudden slap. she flit about. she might be up the

dry-ground or she might be under your bed. the only thing to do be

to down and look.



she dance. neither Mr. Preemby nor Mrs. Preemby dance, and this

continual jiggeting about perplexed and worry they. a piano or a

distant band would set her dancing or she would dance to her own

humming; she dance to hymn-tune and on a Sunday. there be a standing

offer from Mr. Preemby of sixpence if ever she sit quiet for five

minute, but it be never take up.



at her first school, a mixed day-school in Buckhurst Hill, she be

first of all extremely unpopular and then extremely popular and then

she be expel. afterwards she do fairly well at the Taverners’

girl’ School at Woodford, where she be recognize from the first as

a humorist. there be always a difficulty in call she any other

name than Christina Alberta. People try all sort of name but none

of they stick but “Christina Alberta.” “Babs” and “Baby” and “Bertie”

and “Buss” she be call at home and “Ally” and “Tina,” and at school

they try “nosey” and “Suds” and “foot” and “Preemy” and “Prim.” also

“Golliwog” because of her hair at hockey. these all come off again, and

leave the original name expose.



she be quick at her lesson and particularly at history, geography and

drawing, but disrespectful to her teacher; at school hockey she play

forward right with marked success. she could run like the wind, and she

never seem blow. her pinch be simply frightful. she could make

sudden grimace with her nose that give the weak sort hysteric. she

be particularly disposed to do this at school prayer.



between her mother and herself there be a streak of animosity. it

be not a very broad streak, but it be there. her mother seem to

cherish some incommunicable grievance against she. it don’t prevent

Mrs. Preemby from do her duty by the child, but it restrain any

real warmth of affection between they. from an early age it be daddy

get the kiss and get climb over and pull about. he return this

affection. he call she “my own little girl” and would even say at

time that she be a wonder. he take she for walk with he and tell

her many secret thing that be in his mind, about the Lost Atlantis

and the Lamas of Tibet and the fundamental of Astrology preserve

indecipherably in the proportion of the pyramid. he’d often wish,

he say, to have a good look at the pyramid. sometimes one man see

thing that other don’t. she would listen intently, although not

always in quite the right spirit.



he would tell she of the virtue and science of Atlantis. “they walk

about in long white robe,” he say. “more like Bible Characters than

human being.”



“good for the laundry, Daddy,” say Christina Alberta.



“all we know of astrology be just fragment of what they know. they

know the past and future.”



“pity they be all drown,” she remark without apparent irony.



“maybe they ben’t all drown,” he say darkly.



“you don’t mean there’s Atlantics about nowadays.”



“some may have escape. descendant may be near than you suppose. why

you and I, Christina, we may have Atlantic blood!”



his manner convey his conviction.



“it don’t seem to help much,” she say.



“help more than you think. hide gift. insight. thing like that.

_we_ ben’t common person, Christina Alberta.”



for some moment the two of they pursue independent reverie.



“still we don’t _know_ we’re Atlantics,” say Christina Alberta.





§ 2



after she have fight her way to the sixth form in the Taverners’

School the educational outlook of Christina Alberta be trouble by

dissension both within the school and without. the staff be divide

about she, her discipline be bad, her class-work rank or vile, but

she pass examination, and particularly external examination by

independent examiner, with conspicuous success. there be a general

desire to get she out of the school; but whether that be to be do by

a university scholarship or a simple request to her parent to take she

away, be a question under dispute. the game-mistress be inclined to

regard murder as a third possible course because of the girl’s utter

disregard for style in game, her unsportsmanlike trick of win

they in irregular and unexpected way, and her tendency to make drill

and gymnastic an occasion for a low facetiousness far more suitable

for the ordinary class-room. the English and literature mistress

concur--although Christina Alberta would spend hour over her essay

work in sentence and paragraph from Pater and Ruskin and Hazlitt

so that they might pass as her own original construction. it be not

Christina Alberta’s fault if ever and again these thread of literary

gold be mark in red ink, “clumsy” or “might be well express”

or “too flowery.” only the head-mistress have a really good word for

Christina Alberta. but then the head-mistress, as become her position,

make a specialty of understand difficult case.



and Christina Alberta be always quietly respectful to the

head-mistress, and could produce a well side to her nature with the

most disconcerting alacrity whenever the head-mistress be call in.



Christina Alberta, as soon as the issue become clear to she, decide

for the scholarship. she reform almost obtrusively, she become

tidy, she cease to be humorous, she lose set of tennis to the

game-mistress like a little sport-woman, and she stop argue

and become the sedulous ape of Stevenson for the estranged English

mistress. but it be up-hill work even in the school. there be a

little too much elegant surrender in her reform tennis and a little

too much parody about her English in velveteen. the possibility that

she would ever join that happy class of girl who go in from the

suburb to class in London and lead the high life beyond parental

inspection and sometimes until quite late in the evening in studio,

laboratory and college lecture-room, seem a very insecure one,

even without reckon with the quiet but determined opposition of her

mother.



for Mrs. Preemby be not the woman to like a daughter educate above

her parentage and station. she come to lament her weakness in not

bring Christina Alberta into the laundry as she herself have be

bring in at the age of fourteen. then she would have learn the

business from the ground up, and have qualify herself to help and at

last succeed her mother, even as Mrs. Preemby have help and succeed

Mrs. Hossett. but the school with its tennis and music and French and

so forth have turn the girl against this clean and cleanse life. she

be rise seventeen now, and the soon she abandon these thing

which lead straight to school-teaching, spinsterhood, italian holiday,

“art” clothe and stuck-up incapacity, the well for she and every one.



she make a campaign against Christina Alberta’s habit of sit

about in unladylike attitude and reading; and when Mr. Preemby take

the unusual and daring course of say that it be a bit hard on

the girl, and that he don’t see any harm in a book or so now and

then, Mrs. Preemby take he up to Christina Alberta’s own little room

to see what come of it, and more particularly to see the sort of

picture she’d stick up there. even when he be confront with a large

photographic reproduction of Michael Angelo’s creation of Adam as the

master have paint that event on the roof of the Sistine Chapel in

Rome, he still make a feeble show of resistance, and say that it be

“art.”



“you’d stand anything she do, I believe,” say Mrs. Preemby. “look at

it. art! look at these book! Darwin’s _Origin of Species_! that’s a

nice book for a girl to be pry into.”



“very likely she don’t see the harm of it,” say Mr. Preemby.



“_she!_” say Mrs. Preemby compactly. “and look at this!”



“this” be Howe’s _Atlas of Biology_. she open it to display its

large page crowd with picture of the detailed dissection of a frog.



“reely, my dear!” say Mr. Preemby. “it’s one of her schoolbook.

there reely ben’t nothing what I should call _improper_ in that. it’s

Science. and, after all, it’s only a frog.”



“pretty thing they teach at school nowadays. what with your art and

your science. don’t leave much to the imagination. why, when I be a

girl if I’d ask Ma what be inside _any_ animal, she’d have slap

I and slap I hard. and rightly. there’s thing rightly hide from

we--and hide they ought to be. God show we as much as be good for we.

More. no need to _open_ animal. and here--here’s a book _in French_!”



“H’m,” say Mr. Preemby, yield a little. he take up the lemon-yellow

volume and turn it over in his hand.



“all this reading!” say Mrs. Preemby and indicate three shelf of

book.



Mr. Preemby assemble his courage. “you mustn’t expect I to go against

reading, Chris,” he say. “it’s a pleasure and a light. there’s thing

in book.... reely, Chris, I believe you’d be happy if you read a

bit. Christina Alberta be a bear reader, whether you like it or not.

she get it from I, I suppose.”



Mrs. Preemby start and regard his flushed opposition; the anger

in her eye be magnify through her glass. “it’s wonderful,” she

say after a little pause; “it’s truly wonderful how Christina Alberta

manage to get everything she want.”





§ 3



Miss Maltby-Neverson, the head-mistress of the Taverners’ school,

call upon Mrs. Preemby and shake her resolution a good deal. she be

obviously a lady, and the school washing run in term-time to twenty

pound a week. she be take to see the scandalous picture and she

say: “very beautiful, I’m sure. one of the really Great painting in

the world. pro-foundly religious. it’s the very word of the Bible make

into a picture. what do you find in it to object to, Mrs. Preemby?”



Whereupon, as if by a trick, the picture cease to be scandalous and

Mrs. Preemby be ashamed of herself. she see now there never have be

anything wrong about that picture.



Miss Maltby-Neverson say that Christina Alberta be a difficult type

but a thoroughly interesting personality, a _real_ personality. she have

a great capacity for affection.



“I haven’t find that,” say Mrs. Preemby.



“it be a type I have study,” say Miss Maltby-Neverson, simply but

conclusively.



she explain that Christina Alberta be an _active_ type. leave to

herself without employment to _stretch_ her faculty she might

easily get into almost any sort of mischief. almost any sort. not

that there be anything wrong in she essentially. it be just energy.

give good hard work and a scope for ambition, she might become a very

satisfactory woman indeed--possibly even a distinguished woman.



“I’ve no use for distinguished woman,” say Mrs. Preemby shortly.



“the world have,” say Miss Maltby-Neverson gently.



“I’m afraid I’m one of the old-fashioned sort,” say Mrs. Preemby.



“Christina Alberta ben’t.”



“let the man be distinguish abroad and the woman distinguish

at home,” say Mrs. Preemby. “I’m sorry to differ from you, Miss

Maltby-Neverson, but one cannot help one’s opinion.”



“it depend upon ourselves,” say Miss Maltby-Neverson.



“I’m afraid I like man to rule,” say Mrs. Preemby. “woman have she

place in the world, and it ben’t man’s.”



“but I think Mr. Preemby rather favour the scholarship idea.”



Mrs. Preemby be baffle. “he _do_,” she say as though she do not

see clearly what that have to do with the matter. “give the thing a

trial,” say Miss Maltby-Neverson. “after all, she may not win this

scholarship.”



but Christina Alberta win it with mark to spare. she take no risk. it

be a biennial scholarship which have be establish by a benefactor

of advanced view. it be tenable at the London School of Economics.

as soon as Christina Alberta know she have secure it she go, without

consult her mother or anyone, to a hairdresser’s and have she

hair bob. to Mrs. Preemby this be almost a bad blow than the

scholarship. she survey her shock-head, handsome-nosed daughter in

her short gymnastic skirt with a qualm of sincere hatred.



she wish she could make her daughter feel about herself as she

feel about she. “I wish you could only see yourself,” she say with

concentrated bitterness.



“oh, _i_ know,” say Christina Alberta.



“I suppose you’re a judgment on I,” say Mrs. Preemby.





§ 4



but Christina Alberta have only study in the London School of

Economics for a year, she be begin her second year when her mother

oblige she to resign her scholarship. Christina Alberta have stay

late in London one evening without tell her mother she be go to

do so, she have go to a discussion of the Population Question at the

New Hope Club in Fitzgerald Street, and she have come home smell so

strongly of tobacco that her mother have repent of and revoke all her

concession to modernity there and then.



she have be wait for that moment for many month. “this end it,”

she say as she let her daughter in.



Christina Alberta find there be no immediate way round or through

that decision. she work her father and Miss Maltby-Neverson in vain.

but instead of resign her scholarship right out as she have be

tell to do, she play for time and explain her absence by a vague

reference to family trouble.



Mrs. Preemby in those day be already in very bad health, but this

fact be completely overshadow in the mind of both her daughter and

her husband by the far more urgent fact that she be now constantly in

a very bad temper. everything be conspire to worry she--except Mr.

Preemby, who know well than to do anything of the sort.



the closing year of the Great War, and still more so the opening year

of the Disappointing Peace, be year of very great difficulty for

the laundry business. the munition business put laundry girl above

themselves and there be no do anything with they. coal, soap,

everything be at unheard-of price, and it be impossible to get back

on the customer by raise the charge. People, even the good sort

of people, be give up cleanliness. gentleman of position would

wear their dress-shirt three or four time and make their undervest

and under-pant last a fortnight. household linen be correspondingly

eke out. People move about; the new army officer’ wife come and

go, here to-day and go to-morrow, leave unpaid bill. never

have Mrs. Preemby know so many bad debt. van man come back from the

army so shell-shocked and militarize that they embezzle out of pure

nervousness and habit. income tax become a nightmare. outside as

within, Mrs. Preemby’s life be a conflict. she keep the Limpid Stream

Laundry pay all through that awful time because she be a wonder at

management, but she do it at a terrible loss of vitality.



she become bitterly critical of the unhelpfulness of Mr. Preemby and

her daughter. when they try to be helpful she criticize their

incapacity. they do more harm than good.



Meal-time be awful. she would sit flushed and glower through her

glass, obviously afflict by a passionate realization of the world’s

injustice and eat very little. Mr. Preemby’s attempt to start a

cheerful conversation be rarely successful. even Christina Alberta

be overawe.



“thing go a little well this morning?” Mr. Preemby would try.



“cann’t I get rest from business even at my meal?” the poor lady would

complain.



or, “look like pleasant weather for the Derby.”



“pity you cann’t go there for all the help you be in the place. I

suppose you haven’t hear what’s happen to van number two.”



“no!” say Mr. Preemby.



“you wouldn’t. Hind mudguard smash. be do for week. and nobody

know who do it. one would think that that be a man’s business

anyhow. but it’s leave for I to find out. and pay for. like everything

else in the place.”



“I’d well make inquiry.”



“I know those inquiry of your. well leave the whole thing alone

now. Grin and bear it....”



the silence of the meal would be restore.



she seem to set a high value upon these awful silence. she even

complain that he eat his cheese biscuit audibly. but how else can

one eat cheese biscuit? Christina Alberta be make of sterner stuff

and become controversial. then her mother would flare out at her

insolence and declare that “one or the other of we” leave the table.

“I’ll read upstairs,” say Christina Albert. “it ben’t _my_ wish to be

lunch here.”



before the abrupt ending of Christina Alberta’s university career she

be present only at breakfast and supper; supper ben’t nearly as

awful in quality as breakfast, and breakfast could easily be bolt

and get away from; but after the New Hope Club catastrophe, she be

present at all the meal, a sort of lightning-conductor for her father

and something of a restraint upon, and an add exasperation to, her

mother. she take the line of agree that if her university career

be to end, then she must go into the laundry business; but she argue

very stoutly that to do that with any hope of success under modern

condition mean a “proper business training.” if she could not go to

the London School of Economics then she ought to go to Tomlinson’s

Commercial Training School in Chancery Lane and learn book-keeping,

shorthand, typing, business correspondence, précis, commercial French,

and so forth. and after three week of painful midday meal this

proposal be adopt under stringent condition and her season-ticket

to London be renew. she work her way very passably through

another winter with Tomlinson’s as her school and most of London as

her playground. she learn all sort of thing. she add a new set of

friend and acquaintance, some with bobbed hair and some without, of

the most various social origin and association, to the circle she have

already acquire at the London School of Economics.



when presently Mrs. Preemby begin to speak of a gnawing pain that

oppress she, both her husband and daughter take it at first as a

new development of her general grievance against they and feel no

particular apprehension about it. Mr. Preemby say he think she ought

to take advice or see some one about it, but for some day she treat

the suggestion with scorn. if once she get in a doctor, she say,

they’d have to find some one else to look after the laundry. doctor

put you to bed and give you thing to keep you there. otherwise how

could they get a living?



then suddenly she change. one morning she confess she feel

“dreadful.” she go back to bed and Mr. Preemby, with strange

premonition that the world be come to an end, trot off for a

doctor. the clinical thermometer show a temperature mount above

one hundred and one. “it hurt. my side hurt,” say Mrs. Preemby.

“I’ve have it once before, but not like this.”



Christina Alberta come home that evening to discover herself capable of

fear, remorse, and tenderness.



she have some strange moment with her mother in between phase of weak

delirium and insensibility. Mrs. Preemby’s face seem to have become

small and pretty; the feverish flush in her cheek simulate youth.

she be no long hard or angry, but rather pathetically friendly. and

Christina Alberta haven’t see she in bed for year.



“take care of your daddy,” say Mrs. Preemby. “you owe more to he--and

less to he--than you think. I have to do all I’ve do. take care of

he. he’s gentle and good and easily persuade and not to be trust

alone in the world....



“I’ve never be quite all a mother should be to you. but you’ve be

_difficult_, Christina.... I’ve have a great respect for you....



“I’m glad you haven’t my eye. glass be a curse....”



Anxiety about the laundry occupy a large part of her thought.



“that woman Smithers in the washing room be a thief, and I’d get rid

of the new man Baxandale. I don’t know why I’ve keep Mrs. Smithers on

so long.... weakness.... I’m not sure about _he_, there’s nothing

positive yet, but I feel he’s not straight.... I’m very much afraid

we’ve let Lady Badger’s account run too long. nowadays title--want

watch. I’ve be mislead by she. she promise a cheque.... but I

doubt about you two in the laundry altogether. he cann’t and you willn’t.

_you_ might have do it.... never mind that now.



“sell it as a go concern? the Widgerys might come in. he’s hard, but

he’s straight. straight enough. they might like to come in....



“it’s never enter my head I ben’t good for twenty year yet.... I

wish the doctor wouldn’t think of operate. it willn’t do any good.”



she repeat many of her phrase.



“I hate the thought of be open,” she say. “I suppose--. like

those frog in your book....



“pack like a bag.... never get it back again. loose bit....



“washing-basket or something to keep it together.”



then her mind go off at a tangent to thing beyond Christina

Alberta’s understanding.



“sneak off and leave I to it.... I wonder what he’s do now....

suppose.... Fancy, if it should be he that have to operate....

operate....



“child we be.”



she seem to recollect herself and regard her daughter with a

hard inquire eye. some instinct in Christina Alberta tell she to

assume an incurious expression. but these word strike upon her mind

and stay there and germinate like a seed. child they be, and

he have sneak off? Queer and yet accord with all sort of other

imponderable.





§ 5



Mr. Preemby look unusually small but unusually dignified in his

full mourning. Christina Alberta be also extremely black and shiny.

her skirt reach for the first time in her life to her ankle; a

sacrifice that she feel would be particularly acceptable to the spirit

of the depart.



a new thing have come into Christina Alberta’s life--responsibility. she

perceive that for unfathomable reason she be responsible for Mr.

Preemby.



it be clear that the sudden death of his wife under the surgeon’s

knife have be a very great blow to he. he do not break down or weep

or give way to paroxysm of grief, but he be enormously still and sad.

his round china-blue eye and his moustache look at the world with

a mournful solemnity. the undertaker have rarely meet so satisfactory

a widower. “everything of the good,” say Mr. Preemby. “whatever she

can have, she must have.” under the circumstance, the undertaker, who

be a friend of the family, having meet both Mr. and Mrs. Preemby at

whist-drive quite frequently, show commendable moderation.



“you cann’t imagine what all this mean to I,” say Mr. Preemby to

Christina Alberta, quite a number of time. “it be a pure love match,”

he say; “pure romance. she have nothing to gain by marry I. but

neither of we think of sordid thing.” he be silent for a little

while, struggle with intractable memory. he subdue they. “we just

meet,” he say, smile faintly; “and it seem that it _have_ to be.”



“sneak off and leave I”; come a faint whisper in Christina Alberta’s

memory.





§ 6



there be much to see to in those day of mourning. Christina Alberta

do she good to help, watch and guide Mr. Preemby even as her mother

have desire, but she be surprised to find in he certain entirely

unexpected decision that have apparently leapt into existence within a

few hour of her mother’s death. one be a clear resolve that he and

she must part company with the laundry either by sell it or let

it, or, if no mean of dispose of it offer, by burn it down or

blow it up as speedily as possible. he do not discuss this; he

treat it as an unavoidable necessity. he express no animosity for

the laundry, he make no hostile criticism of the life he have lead there,

but every thought betray his fundamental aversion. and also they be

to go away--right away--from Woodford Wells and never return thither.

she have come to much the same decision on her own account, but she have

not expect to find they in such quiet strength in he.



he become explicit about the future as they sit at supper on the

evening of the funeral.



“your mother’s cousin, Sam Widgery,” he say, “be talk to I.”



he munch for a moment; his moustache go up and down and his eye

of china-blue stare out of the window at the sunset sky. “he want to

take it over.”



“the laundry?”



“as a go concern. and he be our near relation, so to speak,

I’d as soon he have it as anybody else. other thing be equal....

Wish I know what to ask he for it. I don’t want to ask he too

little. so I say I don’t care to discuss thing at a funeral. say

he’d well come along to-morrow. their place ben’t do well. it’s

get sort of embed in Walthamstow. it would pay he to get out and

let the land go for building. he haven’t get very much money.... but he

want this place. he reely want this place.”



his blue eye be the eye of one who see vision.



“I don’t know if they teach you about make company at the

School of Economics. I’m a child at all that sort of thing. he talk

about partnership or a mortgage or something like that, but what we

want--what we want be a limited company. and what we want be something

like debenture only rather more like preference share. we want it so

that whatever he draw out of the business we’ve get to draw out more.

otherwise the company can cut away the security for your debenture

by pay too much dividend on the ordinary share. _He_’ll have the

ordinary share. he and his wife. I don’t say he’d do such a thing

deliberately, but he might very easily be lead into do it. he’s get

to be look after. we want to fix it so that if he pay more on his

share than we get on our share we’d get our interest level up.

it’s all very difficult and complicated, Christina Alberta.”



Christina Alberta regard Mr. Preemby with a new and deepen

respect. she have never hear he make such a speech before at meal,

but then he have never before be free from interruption and correction.



“we’ll have to have it fix up properly by our solicitor,” say Mr.

Preemby.



“we shalln’t be badly off,” he continue, help himself to cheese.



“there’s a mortgage or so we’ve get and some house at Buckhurst Hill.

it’s a curious thing, but your poor dear mother have a sort of faith in

my eye for house property. she often let I guide she. and I always

have a feeling for make some sort of reserve _out_ of the business....

very likely Sam Widgery will take over most of the furniture of this

house. it’s a big house than his....”



“where do you think of go to live, daddy?” ask Christina Alberta.



“I don’t rightly know,” say Mr. Preemby after a moment or so of

introspection. “I keep think of different place.”



“London,” she say. “if I could go back to study--before it be too

late.”



“London,” he say, “it might be.”



he hesitate over his next suggestion with the hesitation that have

become a habit, so accustomed be he to see his suggestion crumple

up and fling aside. “have you ever hear of Boarding Houses, Christina

Alberta?” he ask with an unreal carelessness. “have you ever think

it might be possible for we to go and live in Boarding Houses?”



“in London?”



“all over the world--almost, there be Boarding Houses. you see,

Christina Alberta, we might get rid of our furniture here, except for

my book and a few little thing, and we might put most of that away

for a time--Taylor’s Repository would take care of that for we--and we

might go and live sometimes in a Boarding House here, and sometimes in

a Boarding House there. then you could study and needn’t keep house,

and I could read and look at thing and make memorandum about some

Theories I’ve think of, and talk to people and hear people talk.

all sort of people go to Boarding Houses--all sort of interesting

people. these last night I’ve be think no end about live in

Boarding Houses. I keep on thinking of it, turn it over in my mind.

it would be a new life for I--like begin again. life’s be so

regular here. all very well while your poor dear mother be alive, but

now I feel I want distraction. I want to move about and see all sort

of thing and different kind of people. I want to forget. why, in

some of these Boarding Houses there’s chinese and Indians and russian

princess, and professor and actor and all sort of people. just to

hear they!”



“there’s Boarding Houses full of student in Bloomsbury.”



“every sort,” say Mr. Preemby.



“one place that attract I,” say Mr. Preemby, pour out what

remain of the beer, “be Tumbridge Wells.”



“ben’t that sometimes call Tunbridge, Daddy?”



“formerly. but now it be always speak of as Tumbridge Wells. at this

Tumbridge Wells, Christina Alberta, there be hill with name that

point directly to some connection with the ancient Israelites, Mount

Ephraim and Mount Gilboa and so on, and there be a number of curiously

shape rock, shape in the likeness of great toad and prehistoric

monster and mystical form and nobody know whether they be the work

of God’s hand or man’s. I be very anxious to see these thing for

myself. they may have a deep and close significance for we than be

commonly suppose. there be plenty of Boarding Houses at Tumbridge

Wells--I be tell only the other day by a man I meet in the assyrian

room in the British Museum--and some of they be say to be very

comfortable and reasonable indeed.”



“we might go there for the holiday,” say Christina Alberta, “before

the London session begin.”



Outside be the summer afterglow, and a dusky peace fill the room.

Father and daughter follow divergent train of thought. Mr. Preemby

be the first to break the silence.



“now that I shall be in mourning, or half mourning, for some time I

have decide to give away all those Harris tweed knickerbocker suit

and stocking of mine. some poor man might feel the comfort of they--in

winter. I have never really like those _very_ baggy knickerbocker,

but of course while your poor dear mother be alive her taste be law

to I. and those cap; they get over your eye when you’re hot. that

tweed stuff.... it be overrate. when you ride a bicycle or anything it

ravel out with the friction of the seat. make you look ridiculous....

and I think that quite soon I shall get myself one of those soft grey

feel hat--with a black band.”



“I have always want to see you wear one, daddy,” say Christina

Alberta.



“it would count as mourning?”



“oh! yes, daddy.”



Mr. Preemby meditate pleasantly. the girl have common sense. her advice

be worth have. “as for put the swastika on your poor dear

mother’s tombstone, perhaps you be right in think it be not what

she herself would have choose. it may be well after all to do as you

suggest and erect a simple cross. after all--it be _she_ tombstone.”



Whereupon Christina Alberta get up from her chair and go round the

table--almost at a prance, until she remember thing--and kiss he.

for some obscure reason she hate the swastika almost as much as she

love her daddy. for she it have become the symbol of silliness, and she

do not like to think of he as silly. particularly now when for some

obscure reason she be begin to think of he as ill-use.





§ 7



there be much to see to before the Preembys could go to Tunbridge

Wells. there have to be quite a number of interview with Mr. Sam

Widgery at Woodford Wells and afterwards in the dingy office of

Messrs. Payne and Punter in Lincoln’s Inn. it be clear from the first

to these man of affair that Mr. Preemby be a child at business, but

as they go on with he they realize that he be an extremely greedy

and intractable child. it be six week before Mr. and Mrs. Sam Widgery

could move in, sullenly and resentfully, to the Limpid Stream premise,

and Mr. Preemby and his daughter could go on after a day or so in

London to select a Boarding House at Tunbridge Wells.



Christina Alberta spend her early day as an orphan struggle against

an unreasonable cheerfulness and a profound sense of release. she find

her father ready to accept almost any explanation of her need to run

up to London for a day and even disposed to be tolerant when she come

home late. she have quite a little world of miscellaneous acquaintance

in London; fellow-student and their friend, fellow-student from the

London School of Economics and fellow-student at Tomlinson’s School

and art student they know and medical student they know and girl

from the province who have chuck their family and get type job,

and so on to model and chorus girl and vaguely employ rather old

young man of the intellectual class. she meet they in and about the

class-room and in A.B.C.’s and suchlike place and in the New Hope

Club, where there be even labour politician and man who claim to

be Bolsheviks, and she go to party and duologue in studio in

high, remote, extraordinary flat. it be tremendous fun, although a

lot of it have to be snatch from the insistent claim and inquiry

of Woodford Wells. and people like she, they like Christina Alberta,

laugh at her joke they do and admire she thunder cheek and

never say anything about her nose. it be much more her natural world

than the Taverners’ school people have ever be. nobody seem to mind

that she come out of a laundry; for all they seem to care about

that sort of thing, she might have come out of a gaol. in between the

excitement of student life she even do some reading.



in her first grief for her mother she try not to feel a sense of new

unstinted freedom in regard to all these adventure and experience.

her daddy in his grief, bless he! be smoke much more than he

have ever do before; he be even try cigar; he have no nose for

tobacco reek in his daughter--or for anything of that sort. he ask

few question and they be easily answer. long year of exercise

have make he almost constitutionally acquiescent. Christina Alberta

realize that within very wide limit indeed now she might do anything

she please whenever she like. she realize also that there be no

particular hurry to do anything at all. all the other seem to be

run about in pair like knife and fork. it suit her humour to

stay detached.



and the world have alter. this break-up of the old home, the death of

her mother, the disappearance of every control, except her credulous,

inattentive Daddy, have jerk she forward from childhood to maturity.

Hitherto home have seem an eternal, indestructible thing, from which

you start out for adventure, to which, whatever happen, you

return like a sea-rover to rest and where you go to bed and sleep

as you have be willnot to sleep, secure, unthreatened. now here the two

of they, Daddy and herself, be in the open; no bolting place at all

for they; anything might happen to they and might insist upon go on

happen. she could now do just anything she please, it be true, but

also she realize that now she have to take the unlimited consequence.



so that in spite of her sense of novel, unbounded freedom, Christina

Alberta find she do not go up to London any more than she would have

do during her mother’s lifetime. many of her most attractive friend,

it be true, be away upon their holiday. and she find her father’s

company unusually interesting. every time she come back to he he

seem to be slightly enlarge and of a firm colour and consistency.

he remind she of Practical Biology (Botanical Section) in the

Taverners’ school, when you take a dry-up bean out of its package

and put it in a jar with water and observe it under the influence of

warmth and moisture. it germinate. and he be germinating.



Mother have keep he dry up for nearly twenty year, but now he be

germinating and nobody could tell what sort of thing he might become.









CHAPTER the THIRD



_in Lonsdale Mews_





§ 1



after a month of deep mourning, Christina Alberta put aside her long

skirt and return to the more kilt-like garment to which she be

accustom. she have not be inactive while her father have conduct

his business settlement with Mr. Sam Widgery, and she have work out

a scheme of living that seem to promise quite a happy life for her

father and herself. she fall in with the Boarding House idea and with

the project of beginning at Tunbridge Wells. she cease to struggle

with the fact that he continue to call it quietly but insistently

_Tum_bridge Wells; it seem to she upon reflection that _Tum_bridge

be really the place he, at any rate, be go to live at. that gentle

departure from exactitude be quite of a piece with his general habit

of live a little askew from actual thing.



but she impress upon he the view that since their life be to be

migratory henceforth, and since there be a certain number of book,

unsaleable article of furniture that Mrs. Widgery would not take over

at a valuation, a number of curiosity--for example, a piece of shell

which he believe to be a fragment of a Great Auk’s Egg, a rosicrucian

regalia, and a mummify hawk from Egypt which have prophetic quality,

to consider--there must be a sort of permanent headquarters in

London, at which these object could be store and to which he and

she could return from the various Boarding Houses round and about

the earth. and, pursuant to this suggestion, she make inquiry

and work out an admirable project for share some accommodation

with two little friend of hers who practise art, literature, and

picturesque economy in a converted mew in Chelsea. in fact, she

make arrangement with they. she tell Mr. Preemby she have make these

arrangement accord to his instruction, and after a time it do

come to seem to he that he have give she the instruction upon which

she act.



Lonsdale Mews open out of Lonsdale Road, Chelsea; and there be quite

a noble entrance with large stucco pillar on either side and an arch

over, on which be a design in relievo of Neptune and sea-horse and

the word “Lonsdale Mews.” inside there have once be stable and

coach-house, and over each a bedroom and a sit-room, which be

also, in the more prolific past, generally use as a bedroom, and a

cupboard and a landing and so forth, the little home of the coachman

(and his wife and family) attach to the genteel carriage and horse

below. but the advancement of science and the progress of invention

have abolish gentility, and so reduce the number of coachman and

carriage in the world that Lonsdale Mews have have to accept other

tenant; and be too narrow down the centre for the come and

go of automobile without a great deal of bash of mudguard and

radiator, have have to paint itself up attractively and fall back upon

art and the intelligenzia.



Christina Alberta’s two young friend be in possession of one of

these perverted coachman’s home, and as they be very inadequately

prepared to pay the rent--it be a quite aristocratic rent--they be

extremely glad to welcome Mr. Preemby and particularly Christina

Alberta as co-tenant. Mr. Preemby be to have the big room downstairs

and there he be to arrange his book and his surplus furnishing and

ornament and curious object, and have a sofa that could be make into

an apparent bed when he want to sleep in London. and Christina

Alberta be to have a little bedroom for herself behind this wherein a

breezy decorative scheme of orange and bright blue more than make up

for a certain absence of daylight and fresh air. but when the two young

friend have a party or when Mr. Preemby be away they be to have the

use of the big downstair room, and in the case of a party Christina

Alberta’s room be to be a lady’ cloak-room.



the lessor be to retain the use of the upstairs room and in the

matter of the kitchen all thing therein be to be hold in common.

none of this agreement be put into writing and many issue be leave

over frankly for future controversy. “we be to be the pig that pay

the rent,” say Christina Alberta; that be the general idea. “much

we’ll work out,” say Mr. Harold Crumb. “much will work itself out.

it’s no good be too definite.” what be definite be that Mr.

Preemby be to pay the rent.



Mr. Harold Crumb be a red-haired young man, a shock-head young man

with a rampant profile, dress in a blue overall, frayed grey trouser

and slipper. he have large freckle hand and he do Black and White,

which Mr. Preemby have suppose to be a whisky but discover be an

art. Harold live by attempt to sell drawing for advertisement and

picture joke for the weekly paper. his expression be lofty and his

voice constrain and it seem to Mr. Preemby that he be suffer

rather than meet by Mr. Crumb. with Christina Alberta Mr. Crumb seem

to be on term of tacit friendship and no word pass between they.

he lift his hand and twiddle his finger at she--with a kind of

melancholy.



Mrs. Crumb be more effusive. she embrace Christina Alberta warmly

and answer to the name of “Fay.” then she turn to Mr. Preemby and

shake hand with he quite normally. she be a slender young lady

with carelessly bobbed corn-colour hair, pale-grey eye and an

absent-minded face. she also be dress in a blue overall, she wear

oyster-colour stocking and slipper and possibly other thing, and

her business in life, Mr. Preemby learn, be to review book for

various newspaper and write romantic fiction for bookstall magazine.

her right forefinger have that indelible inkiness which only the

habitual use of an incontinent fountain-pen can give. there be a big

screen in the downstairs room Mr. Preemby be to have that Mr. Crumb

have make and Mrs. Crumb have cover with the bright mendacious wrapper

of the book she have review. this exercise Mr. Preemby the more

because several of the wrapper be manifestly upside down, and he

could not understand whether this be due to art, carelessness or some

serious mental lapse.



“we’ll have something to eat,” she tell Mr. Preemby, and then they

could settle up thing. but she have a surprisingly rapid articulation

and it sound like, “we’ll ’f sum t’eat ’n’ then we’ll set lup

thin.” it take ten or twelve second to come through to Mr. Preemby’s

understanding. meanwhile she have turn to Christina Alberta. “’dabit

’f work to do,” she explain. “bre no’ clear’ d’way. late las’ ni’.

you be’r loo’ roun’ he’ while nolly gessomeat an’ ikn do ’p stair fore

you see’t.”



“right-o,” say Christina Alberta, understand perfectly. Mr. Preemby

be leave stun, with his lip move slowly. “so long,” say Harold,

and take some money out of a black Wedgwood tea-pot and go and fall

over thing in the passage, and presently go out into the wide world

while Fay vanish upstairs.



“she’s go upstairs,” say Mr. Preemby, interpret slowly, “to do

their room. and _he’s_ go to get some meat. it’s a nice large room,

Christina Alberta--and quite well light. quite.



“I don’t think I’ve ever be in a Mew before,” say Mr. Preemby,

approach a group of attractive drawing on the wall.



“in a _what_, daddy?”



“in a Mew. or in a _studjo_.... I suppose these be original.”



Christina Alberta await his reaction to the drawing with a slight

anxiety.



“look like a lot of fruit and human leg and thing,” say Mr.

Preemby. “wonder what they mean? _Summer Night_ it say, and that’s

_passion in Solitude_. don’t quite see it, but I suppose it’s

symbolical or something.” he turn his round blue eye to the room

generally. “I could get a mahogany cabinet for my curiosity and have

it against the wall _there_--I’d like the sort with glass door so that

people could see the thing--and if there be some shelf put across

that place, it would hold most of my book. there’ll have to be a bed

somewhere, Christina Alberta.”



“they’ve get a sofa upstairs,” say Christina Alberta, “with an end

that pull down.”



“might go there.”



“or under the window.”



“of course there’s my clothe,” say Mr. Preemby. “I almost wish

I haven’t practically promise Sam Widgery your mother’s wardrobe.

Rosewood it be. it have a lot of room in it and it might have go

against that bit of wall there. the trunk will make a sort of seat if

we get the corner mend. wonder how that screen would look the other

way up. book might go behind it. these easel and thing I suppose

they’ll take upstairs.... we’ll get thing settle all right.”



Christina Alberta turn about with arm akimbo to follow his

proposal. she perceive that they threaten a considerable

disturbance of the æsthetic balance of the studio. she’d just think

of a little bed-sofa affair with a bright rug over it. silly of she

to forget the baggage. but in the end perhaps it might be possible to

arrest a lot of his gear in the passage. the passage be so choke

already that a little more in it hardly seem to matter. he could

go out and get what thing he want when he want they. she have a

momentary anticipation of he in his shirt and brace, route in

trunk.



“of course,” say Mr. Preemby, “when you say you’d get two little

friend in a _studjo_, I think they be two girl. I don’t think

they be a married couple.”



“they ben’t so _fearfully_ married,” say Christina Alberta.



“no,” say Mr. Preemby, and be restrain by modesty from further

speech for some second. “of course,” he say, “if presently a Family

come along--well, we’d have to move out, Christina Alberta.”



“never meet family half-way,” say Christina Alberta. “it ben’t very

likely anyhow. you trust Fay.”



“you never know,” say Mr. Preemby rather weakly, and show a tendency

to drift back to those ambiguous drawing.



“about time we have a look at the upstairs room, daddy,” say Christina

Alberta, and go out into the passage to call “Fay!”



the answer come remotely. “Lo?”



“Read-_dee_?”



“not yet.”



Christina Alberta find her daddy back in the illustrate corner with

his head on one side like an inquire sparrow. for some time nothing

be say. “of course,” he remark at last; “it’s art.” he turn away

with his face purse up beneath the moustache, hum faintly. she

perceive it be just as much art as he could stand.



he run his hand over the wall and turn intelligent eye to Christina

Alberta. “it’s just canvas,” he say; “what you pack thing in. with

sort of dab of gold paint. I don’t think I’ve ever see wall that

ben’t either do with paper or distemper before. I suppose really one

might put all sort of thing on wall, cloth, bed-tick, tarpaulin.

Odd how one don’t think of thing.”





§ 2



presently “upstairs” be “read-ee;” Mrs. Harold Crumb be free to

answer question and make explanation and Mr. Preemby could learn

more of Christina Alberta’s plan for his comfort. Upstairs be more

various but less spacious than downstair, the bed be dress-up

rather than disguise as divan and there be more vaguely improper but

highly decorative art. like Christina Alberta Mrs. Crumb have not fully

consider Mr. Preemby’s possibility in the way of luggage, but she

rise to the occasion very well. when Mr. Preemby speak of the mahogany

cabinet and the wardrobe, she say that it would be quite easy for

Harold to “camouflage” they with very, very bright-coloured paint, and

she think a lot might be do for Mr. Preemby’s trunk and clothe

by make a curtain alcove in a corner. “trouble with clothe,” say

Mrs. Crumb, “be when somebody start charade or dress up. nothing

be sacred. last week, somebody tear my only pyjamas limb from limb.”



“we’d have to arrange,” say Mr. Preemby, a little uneasily.



“we’ll have to arrange somehow,” say Mrs. Crumb.



but before anything could be arrange definitely Harold return from

his shopping with a large piece of purple beefsteak in a mere loin

cloth of newspaper, and a lettuce and a bundle of small onion in his

hand and two large bottle of beer under his arm, and everybody’s

attention be direct to the preparation of the midday meal.



“generally,” say Harold, “we go out for a meal. there’s quite a decent

aufschnittery and a little italian place and so forth not five minute

away in the King’s Road. it’s more fun feed out. but we think

you’d like to see the studio put through its pace.”



Mr. Preemby in the course of his life have rarely see meal prepare;

somebody else have always lay a table and say “Dinner’s ready,

daddy,” or “supper’s ready, daddy,” as the case might be, and he

have just sit down, and it be with real interest that he obey Mr.

Crumb’s invitation to “come and see how we do it,” and assist under

direction in the operation. Mr. Crumb, in a few well-choose word,

introduce the cooking apparatus that cluster around the gas-stove;

the gas-stove be light explosively, Mr. Preemby hand thing and hold

thing under direction and get in the way a good deal. Christina

Alberta, who seem use to the job, chop the onion and dress a

salad at a small kitchen table close at hand, and the steak get itself

grill fiercely and flaringly.



meanwhile Mrs. Crumb lay a blue-paint table in what be to be

Mr. Preemby’s room with an orange-coloured cloth and a selection of

plate and part of plate, yellow-glaze mug with rudely paint

inscription in some rustic dialect, “here’s t’ absent fren” and

the like, several knife and fork, a pewter mug full of cigarette

and a bunch of sunflower in a brown-glaze bowl. and at this table

Mr. Preemby presently find himself seat very hot in the face and

liberally splash with fat from the grill steak. nobody say grace,

and the meal begin.



there be a general assumption that Mr. Preemby’s tenancy be settle,

though there be many point upon which he would have like a clear

definition. he be particularly anxious to exclude as tactfully as

possible his garment and his specimen from promiscuous use as

property when these charade occur, but he do not know quite how

to reopen the subject. and he be preoccupy by a doubt whether his

long nightgown of Saxony flannel, if they be publicly expose, might

not be consider old-fashioned by these artistic young people. but

their talk jump about so that it be difficult to lead up to what he

have to say. he be accustom, especially when company be present,

to clear his throat “h’rrmp” and waggle his moustache up and down a

little before he speak, and by the time he be ready to deliver what

he have to say one of the other be away with something else. so that

he hardly say anything but an occasional “h’rrmp” all through the meal.



the two young lady do most of the talking. Harold seem moody,

make an occasional correction or comment upon his wife’s remark and

eat most of the steak with the pained expression of one who have

tender tooth and be use to well food. once he ask Mr. Preemby

if he really care for Good Music, and once if he have be to see

the iberian dancer last year, but neither of these inquiry lead to

a sustained conversation. “H’rrmp. no-oh,” say Mr. Preemby. “not

exactly. not particularly,” and in the second case, “no-oh, I don’t.”



Mrs. Crumb talk brightly of various newspaper job she have get and

how she have be ask to do a child’s corner in the _Patriotic

News_ and whether she would accept the offer--Mr. Preemby think the

editor and newspaper proprietor she mention seem a depraved

lot--but mainly the talk concern the movement and readjustment of a

large circle of friend. after the meal there be coffee, and Harold,

with an air of resignation, go and wash up.



there be many little thing await attention at the laundry, and

after two or three cigarette Mr. Preemby decide, “it’s time for we

to be go, Christina Alberta.” “we’ll work it out all right,” say

Harold on their departure.



there be interval of meditation as Mr. Preemby and Christina Alberta

return in the train from Liverpool Street to Woodford Wells. “it’s

not what I’ve be accustom to,” say Mr. Preemby. “it’s all very

different from the way your mother use to manage thing.... less

orderly.... of course I could keep my clothe lock up in my trunk.”



“you’ll do all right. they’re perfect dear. _she_ love you

tremendously already,” say Christina Alberta.





§ 3



but before she go to sleep that night Christina Alberta experience

compunction. she feel compunction about these arrangement she be

make for her daddy. she doubt whether he would be truly comfortable

and happy in that studio in Lonsdale Mews, and able to lead the life of

steadfast curiosity he anticipate with so much quiet pleasure--ever

hum to himself about it and work his moustache and say

“h’rrmp,” when he be not otherwise engage.



this story, it cannot be too often reiterate, be the story of Mr.

Preemby who become, as we shall tell in due course, Sargon, King of

king. but Christina Alberta have get herself hatch into this story

very much like a young cuckoo in a wagtail’s nest and it be impossible

to ignore she. she be virtually in control of he and she have the

egotism of her sex and age.



she have also a pitiless conscience. it be almost the only thing

she could not manage in her life. it manage she. it be a large,

crystalline conscience with no foundation and no relationship; it

just flood by itself in her be; it be her gravitational centre

and the rest of she could not get away from it.



when Christina Alberta go up for examination and judgment before

Christina Alberta there be no nonsense in the proceeding, a fearful

frankness; it be card on the table, everything in evidence, no

etiquette, not a stitch on, X-ray if necessary. these examination

be all the more terrible because they be do in what be

practically an empty room, without screen, curtain, standard or

general belief of any sort. it be appal to think of the drapery

and function that be absent from Christina Alberta’s court of

conscience. in the first place Christina Alberta be completely and

explicitly irreligious. in the next she be theoretically anti-social

and amoral. she do not believe in respectability, christian morality,

the institution of the family, the capitalist system, or the British

Empire. she would say so with extreme plainness and considerable detail

except when her parent be about. prevalent wind of sentiment do not

stir she. she do not find the Prince of Wales ravish nor _punch_

funny. she think modern dancing tiresome, though she do it very

well, and Wimbledon tennis and tennis-talk an intolerable bore. she

favour bolshevism because everybody she dislike abuse it and she

hope for a world-wide social revolution of an entirely destructive and

cleansing type. what be to follow this revolution Christina Alberta,

with the happy confidence of youth, do not seem to mind.



it be not for we to speculate here why a young woman bear and breed

between Woodford Wells and central London in the opening year of the

twentieth century should confront the world with a mind so entirely

sweep and void of positive and restrain conviction; we put the

fact on record. and if she have be sustain by all the belief in

Christendom and a sure and certain respect for every detail of the

social code, whatever that code may be, she could not have confront

the world with a more cheerful confidence, nor with a strong

persuasion that Christina Alberta have to behave, in some undefined

fashion, well. Christina Alberta have to be Christina Alberta, clear and

sound, or the court of conscience make thing plain and hard for she.



“Christina Alberta,” the court would say, “you be the dirty,

filthy little thing that ever streak the dust of life. how do you

propose to get clean again?”



or, “Christina Alberta, you have be lie again. you’ll lie to _I_

next. first it be laziness make you lie and now it be cowardice. what

be you go to make of yourself, Christina Alberta?”



there come a time when the court have to address Christina Alberta

in this fashion: “your nose, Christina Alberta, be large beyond

comparison. it will probably go on grow all your life--as nose

often do. yet you be set yourself out to charm and fascinate Teddy

Winterton. you go to place where you think you will meet he. you fuss

and preen yourself like any female idiot. you dream all sort of thing

about he, disgraceful thing. you be soppy on this young man in spite

of the fact that you know he be--no sort of good. you like he to touch

you. you sit and look at he foolishly and you gloat. do he gloat

on you? ben’t it time you consider where you be go, Christina

Alberta?”



       *       *       *       *       *



and now the court be in full session and the charge, the charge for

which there be no defence, be that she be go to take she absurd,

unprotected daddy and entrust he and his foolishness and his silly

book and his ridiculous treasure and all his dream and desire to

the insecure and unsympathetic studio of the Crumbs, not because of any

vague and general hunger for London, though that be in the background,

but because that studio be frequent by the all too seductive Teddy,

because there she have meet he and dance wildly with he and be

suddenly and astonishingly kiss by he and kiss he. and then he

have beguile she to learn a dance with he and have get she to come to

tea with he at his studio to meet his sister--who haven’t turn up.

and there have be other meeting. he be impudent and provocative

and evasive. all her be be in a state of high excitement about

he. coldly and exactly now the court unfold the operation of her

mind to she; show how the thought of Teddy, always present and never

admit, have guide her decision to harbour with the Crumbs. only

now do she come to confession and clear vision. “you have lie to

yourself, Christina Alberta,” say the court; “and that be the bad

sort of lie. what be you go to do about it?”



“I cann’t let the Crumbs down now. they count upon we.”



“you be in a mess, Christina Alberta. you be in a bad mess than

we think you be. _Soppy_ you be about Teddy Winterton. why not

call thing by their right name? you be in love. perhaps something

frightful have happen to you. little rabbit run about the hedge and

every day be like every other day for they; they waggle their little

nose and wiggle their little tail and do what they like with their

paw. until one day there be a ping and the snare snap on the little

furry foot and everything you try to do after that be different. the

snare hold your movement and you must just dance round it and squeal

if you like, till the man come along. be that what have happen to

you? and for Teddy! Teddy, with that open, lie face!”



“no,” say Christina Alberta, “I don’t love he. I don’t love he.

I’ve be silly and soppy and adrift. I be no more worthy to be call

Christina Alberta. but it haven’t get I yet and it shalln’t get I. I’ll

pull daddy out of it and myself out of it; I vow and swear....”



“H’m,” say the court.





§ 4



it seem to Mr. Preemby that the first evening he spend in his new

quarter in Lonsdale Mews be the most eventful evening in his life.

impression crowd upon each other. Insomnia be not among his habit,

but when at last he lie upon his shake-up bed he be keep awake for

most of what be leave of the night (it be the fray piece with the

bleak dawn in the middle of it) try to get these same impression

sort out, impression about his new surrounding, impression about

Christina Alberta, impression of new and unprecedented personality,

a marmalade of impression.



Mr. Preemby and Christina Alberta arrive at the studio accord to

plan about half-past three, but the Picton van which have start that

morning with Mr. Preemby’s bag and trunk and the crate of book

and curiosity and the late Mrs. Preemby’s roomy wardrobe, which have

after all be rescue from the clutch of Sam Widgery, do not arrive

until it be nearly six. unfortunately the furniture dealer in Brompton

Road from whom Mr. Preemby have purchase a specimen-cabinet and a long

low walnut bookcase have deliver these article the day before, and

all the animosity of the modern artist towards self-assertive wood

have be arouse in Harold. he and Fay and a friend or so who have

drop in, have sit up quite late paint these new piece a deep

ultramarine blue with star and splash of gold like the paper they

put around the neck of Ayala, Tsarist and suchlike champagne. when

Mr. Preemby see their handiwork he could scarcely believe it be the

same speciman-cabinet and bookcase.



“I suppose one could get it off again,” say Mr. Preemby.



“but see how they be assimilate by the room,” say Harold in high

expostulation.



“I mean if we move at any time,” say Mr. Preemby. “I know it’s

art, and it go with the thing here very nicely, but there’s

neighbourhood I wouldn’t like to move into--not with these thing as

they be. you don’t know what people’s imagination be like.”



Matters go a little tediously until the arrival of the Picton van.

the sofa-bed be arrange and rearrange. the bed thing, blanket,

sheet and pillow-case, be to be put in a bundle on the top of Mr.

Preemby’s flat trunk behind the book-wrapper screen. “we shall have to

find some other place for the bottled beer,” say Harold. “it’s too

hot in the kitchen and too dangerous in the passage. but I’ve an idea

we might have it in the scullery under the sink, with a cloth over it

and water dripping on the cloth. evaporation. I’ll see about it.”



Mr. Preemby be surprise by a yawn. “I suppose you’d like to have some

tea,” say Fay suddenly, and she and Christina Alberta prepare some.



Harold be obviously in a strained and nervous state. Mr. Preemby’s

patient little figure, sit about hand on knee, wait for

Picton’s van, look at thing with innocent eye and say “h’rrmp”

have much the same effect of nervous dislocation upon Harold that the

mild and patient camel have on a horse. Harold chafe and prance. he

walk about and go upstairs and out and return; he smoke endless

cigarette and press endless cigarette upon Mr. Preemby; he make

recondite remark in a strained voice. “all this be like something out

of Dostoievsky,” he say to Mr. Preemby. “in a different scheme of

colour of course. different, but the same. don’t you think so, Mr.

Preemby?”



Mr. Preemby nod his head in a sympathetic, humorous, not too

explicit manner. “H’rrmp,” he say. “it _be_ a bit like that.”



“thing will work themselves out,” say Harold. “thing will work

themselves out. you know that poem of Ruby Parham’s.” he clear his

throat. “it be call ‘wait,’” he say. “it go like this--”



his eye became fix and glaze; his voice gather volume, so that

the word seem more than life-sized.



  “after every minute

  “come another minute

  “and then, rest assure,

  “Another.

  “like drop from a ledge in the rain.

  “you may not want to go on;

  “but _they_ will,

  “oh! endlessly

  “take your life away, death, not final and complete,

  “but death in the midst of life,

  “particle of death,

  “death by attrition.

  “Drip on Old Death--in life!

  “slow, dull, implacable, unendurable!

  “Drip on.”



“that ‘drip on’ be great. but perhaps you don’t like modern poetry?”



“I don’t _mind_ it,” say Mr. Preemby genially.



“of course, nothing of a really destructive nature _can_ have happen

to that van,” say Mr. Crumb in a pessimistic tone.



when Picton’s van arrive and the roomy wardrobe begin its destructive

march through the passage, Mr. Crumb call suddenly upon his maker in

a loud distressful voice and vanish for the well part of an hour.



Christina Alberta be tear between a sympathetic understanding of

Harold’s state of mind and the fear that her daddy might perceive the

unfavourable reaction he produce in Harold and be hurt by it. she and

Fay become brightly helpful with the unpacking. “if I might have one of

those blue pinafore of Mr. Crumb’s to put on,” say Mr. Preemby, “I’d

be glad. these black thing of mine show every mark.”



Mr. Crumb’s overall reach far below Mr. Preemby’s knee and somehow

justify his call it a pinafore. it bring out something

endearingly infantile in his appearance that appeal to the maternal

instinct lurking in Mrs. Crumb. she struggle with a persuasion that he

be really a little boy of nine who have be naughty and grow a big

moustache and that she have to take care of he and restrain he and

generally tell he not to. the book be put in the bookshelf as Mr.

Preemby say, “just anyhow”; they could be sort up later, but the

curiosity and specimen take long and have to be “put out” more or

less in the cabinet. there be not only real curiosity and specimen

but many little thing that Mr. Preemby have accumulate because they

look like curiosity and specimen. there be, for instance, a piece

of one of the laundry delivery van mudguard so bent by a collision as

to resemble a human torso in the most striking fashion; there be the

almost complete skull of an unknown mammal, probably a fallow deer,

pick up in Epping Forest, there be a potato, now rather shrivel,

in which it be possible to detect thirty-seven distinct human face

and--speciman of an entirely different quality--a large flint in which

there be no less than fifty-five. age ago some primordial Preemby

have discover and love that very same flint and have bring out the

likeness by chip an eye here or a nostril there; but Mr. Preemby

do not suspect the help of that remote and perhaps ancestral hand.

even in wake life Mr. Preemby see face in everything. what he would

have be like with a high temperature it be impossible to imagine.



Christina Alberta’s anxiety about her father’s reception by the Crumbs

diminish as she see his virtual conquest of Fay. fay treat he

firmly but indulgently, and they lose a good deal of time while she

try to see all the fifty-five face of the wonderful flint. they have

to start and start again, but always they lose count about “twen-tee”

or “twen-tee-one.” the question would arise whether they be count

one of the face over again.



Harold return in a moody state and could be hear, all too

distinctly, kick Mr. Preemby’s pack case in the hall, but Fay

go out to he with a lofty sleep-walk expression in her pale eye,

and the concussion cease, and presently Harold come downstairs again

look almost handsome in nankeen trouser, a blue jacket with big

silver button and a voluminous black tie, and be quite nice to Mr.

Preemby.



“you willn’t mind my touch that wardrobe of yours up a bit?” he say.

“it damp we off, as it be. kind of reproach we. one of we have to be

alter, you see, it or I, and either I paint it or else I get a silk

hat with a deep mourning band and a gold-handle umbrella--which would

cost no end of money. whereas I _have_ the paint.”



“if you can get the paint off again,” say Mr. Preemby. “you see if I

be to move--_back_.... it’s all right to have all this paint in a Mew.

but out of a Mew....”



“exactly,” say Harold. “my idea be to make a little pink house of it

with window and so on. something very simple. rather like the scenery

of a Russian Sketch. _Chauve Souris_ sort of stuff. conventional to the

_n_^{th}. and we might put up placard at the corner of it accord to

what be go on. make a bit of an institution of it.”



“so long as it make thing agreeable,” say Mr. Preemby.



he find his hair be ruffle affectionately. “dear little daddy!”

say Christina Alberta.





§ 5



but now appear a new-comer and life be make uncomfortable and

complicated for Christina Alberta again by the presence of Mr. Teddy

Winterton’s candid insincerity. his graceful body, his movement, his

voice, stir her sense as she hate they to be stir; his quiet

impudence invade her sense of humour; he wound her pride and she

long to be even with he. she have no power over he and he behave

as if he own she. she be always let he go just a little too

far. when he be about her nose cast a shadow that reach to her

horizon. he stand now in the doorway--trouser of one pattern of tweed,

waistcoat of another, Norfolk jacket of a third extensively unbuttoned

in the accept student style, and he watch Mr. Preemby carry his

collection of roc’s bone, find near Staines, across the studio on a

tea-tray. his eye be round with surprise and amusement; his mouth

say noiselessly, “what be it?”



Christina Alberta be not go to have her daddy laugh at by any

Teddy Winterton. “Mr. Winterton,” she say. “this be my father.”



“I’ll just get rid of my bone,” say Mr. Preemby, “and then I’ll shake

hand.”



“we’ll just finish up Mr. Preemby’s thing and then we’ll all go round

to Poppinetti’s to get some dinner,” say Fay. “there’s hardly anything

leave to unpack now.”



“just one or two antediluvium bone,” say Mr. Preemby.



Teddy seize upon one. “this,” he say, inspect it, “be a fossil

rhinoceros thigh-bone from the Crag.”



“it’s an antediluvium horse,” say Mr. Preemby.



“forgive I! it’s a rhinoceros bone!”



“horse have rhinoceros bone in those day,” say Mr. Preemby. “and the

rhinoceroses--! they be incredible. if I have one I shouldn’t have

anywhere to put it.”



Mr. Preemby be extract from his overall and restore to the black

coat and the grey feel hat with the black band. he become one of a

straggle party that go out of Lonsdale Mews to a little italian

restaurant in the King’s Road. three neighbour of the Crumbs mix

themselves up with the party, a very quiet man with silver hair and a

young man and a dusky girl.



Mr. Preemby be much impressed by the novelty of thus go out for

dinner, and expatiate on its advantage to the silver-haired man who

seem to be the quiet sort of listen man that Mr. Preemby like to

meet. “you see you don’t have to _cook_ the meal and you don’t have to

lay the table and afterwards naturally there ben’t any washing up. but

I expect it come more expensive.”



the silver-haired man nod intelligently. “exactly,” he say.



Harold Crumb overhear this. “expensive,” he say, “it ben’t. no.

every other crime Poppinetti can commit, but that be bar by the

circumstance of his clientele. he feed we on steal pigeon, his

_dinde_ be guinea-pig, his beef, _a l’omnibus_: what he mince God

know; what he put into his ravioli make even the Lord God repent

of his extreme creativeness. but you see, you don’t _think_ about his

ravioli, you eat ’em, and they’re damn good. there be always flower

on the table and an effect of inexpensive refinement. you will see. you

will see.”



Mr. Preemby see. Poppinetti be a small man but carefully model

on Caruso, and he receive his large party with the deference of a

diplomatist and the effusion of a geyser. he be particularly gracious

to Mr. Preemby, bow profoundly to he, and salute he with great

richness subsequently whenever he catch his eye. he seem to Mr.

Preemby to spend the rest of their time together go to remoter and

remoter part of the restaurant in order to catch Mr. Preemby’s eye and

bow and smile to he from great and great distance. Mr. Preemby

have curious doubt whether he ben’t be mistaken for somebody else.



Signor Poppinetti, with an air of peculiar favour, guide the party

to a long, unattractive table near the centre of the restaurant and

take their conflict order with the gesture of a conductor guide

an orchestra through a difficult passage. Mr. Preemby be passive but

observant; he presently find himself eat macaroni and drink a

rough red wine with a name that sound to his London tune ear like a

challenge. Chianti.



Harold Crumb show great earnestness in the matter of macaroni. “in

order to taste macaroni,” he assure Mr. Preemby, “it be necessary to

fill the mouth absolutely full, good measure, press in and run

over. to cut up macaroni with your fork as you be do, be as awful

as to cut an oyster. it--it devitalize it.”



“I like it cut up,” say Mr. Preemby with unexpected firmness. and he

cut up some more.



“otherwise,” he say in a confidential aside to the silver-haired man,

“I cann’t help think it’s earthworm.”



“exactly. exactly,” say the silver-haired man.



Harold exemplify generously. his rampant face ride over a

squirm mouthful of macaroni be like St. George and the Dragon on

an english sovereign. he whistle as he eat. long snake of macaroni

hang thoughtful for a moment and then, draw by some incomprehensible

fascination, flee into he. Teddy Winterton and one of the new-comer

from the studio next door emulate he. Christina Alberta and Fay

show the furtive dexterity of the female. but Mr. Preemby be glad

when macaroni be over, even though it raise the problem of eat an

egg on spinach with a fork.



but he be not really troubled in his mind as a young man might have

be. he have the _savoir-faire_ of middle-age. this restaurant dinner

be on the whole a bright and agreeable experience for he. he like

even the corrosive taste of the Chianti. this Chianti you drink out

of quite largish tumbler because it be almost as cheap and light as

beer. it do not intoxicate, but it warm the mind, and it cast a

pleasant and convincing indistinctness over the universe so that the

tunbridge all become Tumbridges without any question, and the secret

dream and conviction of the heart become certain knowledge. presently

Mr. Preemby find himself able and willing to tell thing and hint much

more important thing about his collection to the white-haired man and

also to the dark, untidy girl who be sit on his other side, and

who come from the other studio and about whose name he have no idea, and

presently to other; and when the bird come--it be a bird new to Mr.

Preemby, and call, he gather, _rabbkey_ or _turkit_--most of the

party be talk in the loud, confused, explosive way these young

people affect about the lost _Atlantis_.



he have never speak so freely before upon this topic. at home he have

always be restrain by the late Mrs. Preemby’s genuine lack of

interest. and even now he be not prepared for positive statement

or for an encounter with sceptical argument about that great lost

continent of the Golden Age. Atlantis have be the scene and substance

of his secret reverie for many year; he know his knowledge of it be

of a different order from common knowledge, more intuitive, mystical,

profound. from the outset his manner be defensive, discreet and

obscure, as of one willing but not permit to speak.



how do he know that there have be this lost continent?



“H’rrmp,” he say with the faint smile of peculiar knowledge; “study

it for year.”



“what be the evidence?” ask the untidy young lady.



“so abundant. impossible to retail it. Convincing. of various sort.

Plato have much about it. unfinished fragment. many book have be

write. many inscription in Egypt.”



“what sort of people be they?” ask the untidy girl.



“very wonderful people, young lady,” say Mr. Preemby. “H’rrmp. very

wonderful people.”



“Philosophy, no end I suppose?” ask the young man from the next

studio with his mouth full.



“what we know--a mere remnant,” say Mr. Preemby. “mere remnant.”



“how do they dress?”



“H’rrmp. Robes. white robe--extremely dignified. blue--azure--when

justice be administer. Plato tell we that much.”



“could they fly?”



“they understand it. it be not make a practice of.”



“motor car? all that sort of thing?”



“if they want to. there be less motoring--more meditation. we

live--age of transition. H’rrmp.”



“and then it all go phut?” say the young man from the next studio.

“submerge and all that. what a lesson!”



“that need not have happen,” say Mr. Preemby darkly.



Mr. Preemby become dimly aware of scepticism. “there’s not an atom of

evidence that there ever be a continent in the Atlantic,” Mr. Teddy

Winterton be say to Christina Alberta; “within thirty million year

of anything human. the ocean trough go right back to the Mesozoic age.”



Mr. Preemby would have notice this remark but the untidy girl ask

he suddenly if he do not think that the swastika be a symbol derive

from Atlantis. he say he be quite certain it be. she ask what it

mean exactly; she have always be curious about its significance:

and he became guard and mysterious. she want moreover to know

thing about the costume of that lost world, about its social custom,

about its religion. be woman citizen? she be certainly the most

intelligent about it of all the company. the silver-haired man seem

to be faintly amused.



the rest of the company wander off into a discussion of the

possibility of go to the Chelsea Arts Ball in the character of

a party from the Lost Atlantis. many of their idea Mr. Preemby

think trivial and undignified. “leave we unlimited scope,” say

Harold Crumb. “we could invent weapon--have wing if we like. magic

carbuncle on our shield--illuminate. mysterious book and tablet.

and a sort of peculiar wailing, drum music; Mya, mya, mya.”



he purse up his face and make a curious mooing noise with it to convey

his intention, twiddle his finger to assist the effect.



it be no good protest against such imaginative ignorance. but to

the dark, untidy girl and to the acquiescent man with silvery hair Mr.

Preemby continue to be quietly oracular and communicative from behind

his moustache.



“but how be these thing know?” the dark girl persist. “there be

nothing in the British Museum.”



“you forget,” say Mr. Preemby. “H’rrmp, the Freemasons. there be

inner Groups--tradition. thank you. just half a glass more. oh! you’ve

fill it! thank you.”



as he talk he be aware of something go on between Christina

Alberta and Winterton. at first it seem not to matter in the

slight degree, but to be just part of the general unusualness of the

gathering, and then it seem to matter a great deal. he see Christina

Alberta’s little fist rest on the table, and suddenly Winterton’s

hand envelop it. she snatch her hand away. then something be

whisper and her hand come back. in another moment the hand be five

inch apart and it be as if nothing have ever happen between they.



he would probably have forget the momentary invasion of his

attention by Christina Alberta if something else have not occur

at the phase of dessert. Poppinetti’s idea of dessert be a sort

of lottery of walnut--if you find a sound one you win--masse of

compress and damage date and a few defiant apple. there be a

great crackling. the company be litter the table with walnut

shell, and the green, black and yellow corruption they have contain,

when this second incident catch Mr. Preemby’s eye. he see Teddy

Winterton run his hand very softly along Christina Alberta’s forearm.

and her arm be not withdraw.



every one be talk just then and for a moment it seem

to Mr. Preemby that he alone have see, and then he catch an

observant expression on the face of the silver-haired man. it be

all very confusing, and this Chianti--though it be really not

intoxicate--make everything swimmy, but Mr. Preemby know somehow

that the silver-haired man have also see that furtive familiarity, and

that he too don’t quite approve of it.



ought one to take notice? ought one to say anything? perhaps

afterwards. perhaps when they be alone together, he might ask she

quietly, “be you and that young man Winterton engage?”



“a bit too much,” say Mr. Preemby quietly, meet the eye of the

silver-haired man. “I don’t like that sort of thing.”



“quite,” say the silver-haired man.



“I shall speak to she.”



“you’re right there,” say the silver-haired man warmly. a very

sensible fellow.



a great rustle and a scraping of chair. Poppinetti, figure upon an

account-pad, come to collect the money. “I’ll pay for we, Daddy,” say

Christina Alberta, “and we’ll settle up afterwards.”



Poppinetti bow. Poppinetti on Mr. Preemby’s right and on Mr.

Preemby’s leave; several Poppinettis bowing. a great activity of

Poppinettis handing hat and so forth. Poppinettis whichever way

you turn. the restaurant rotate slightly. be this Chianti

perhaps strong than Mr. Preemby have be lead to believe? a number

of Poppinettis open a number of door and say polite thing.

difficult to choose a door. right the first time. out into the street.

People go by. Taxis. no more Poppinettis. but a girl ought not to

let a young man stroke her arm at dinner, when anyone might see it

happen. it ben’t correct. something have to be say. something tactful.



Mr. Preemby become aware that he be walk next to Mrs. Crumb. “it

be lovely to hear you talk about the New Atlantis,” she say. “I

wish I have be sit nearer.”



“H’rrmp,” say Mr. Preemby.



something very nice about Mrs. Crumb. what be it? not so _fearfully_

marry, but marry quite enough.





§ 6



Mr. Preemby think they be go back for coffee and a little talk

and then bed; he have no idea of the immense amount of evening still

before he. he know nothing as yet of the capacity for sit up late

and get lively in the small hour possess by this new world of

young people into which Christina Alberta have lead he.



and in a sort of hectic discontinuous way they be lively for hour.

it become vaguely evident to Mr. Preemby that there be a periodic

“day” set apart by Mrs. Crumb for evening gathering in the studio,

and that this evening he have choose for his settle down be such

an evening. fresh people drop in. one it seem be a portentous

arrival, he come in quite soon after the return from Poppinetti’s; he

be very fat and broad, a white-faced man of forty or so, rather short

of breath, with exceedingly intelligent eye under a broad forehead and

a rather loose, peevish mouth. he carry himself with the involuntary

self-consciousness of a man who think he be point out. his name

it seem be Paul Lambone, and he have write all sort of thing.

everybody treat he with a faint deference. he greet Christina

Alberta with great warmth.



“how’s the new van?” he say, shake her hand as though he like

it, and speak with a singularly small voice for so ample a person.

“how’s the last step in Advance?”



“you’ve get to meet my father,” say Christina Alberta.



“have it get a father? I think it just grow like Topsy--out of

Nietzsche and Bernard Shaw and all the rest of they.”



“H’rrmp,” say Mr. Preemby.



Mr. Lambone turn to he. “what a Handful a daughter be!” he say, and

bow slightly towards Christina Alberta, “even the good of they.”



Mr. Preemby reply after the manner of the parent in Woodford Wells.

“she’s a good daughter to I, sir.”



“yes, but they ben’t like son.”



“you have son, sir, I presume.”



“only dream child. I’ve not have your courage to realize thing. I’ve

marry a hundred time in theory and here I be just a sort of bachelor

uncle to everybody. poke in among the young people and observe

their behaviour with”--his intelligent eye look quietly over his

garrulous mouth at Christina Alberta--“terror and admiration.”



two other visitor appear in the doorway and Mr. Lambone turn

from Mr. Preemby to greet they as soon as Fay have do she welcome,

a fierce-look young man with an immense head of black hair and a

little lady like a china doll dress to remind one of Watteau.



Conversation become general and Mr. Preemby recede into the background

of event.



he find himself side by side with his friend with the silver hair,

against his bookcase. “I don’t expect a party,” he say.



“I think so too.”



“I only get here this afternoon. the van come late and lot of my

thing be still to be unpacked.”



the silver-haired man nod sympathetically. “often the case,” he

murmur.



every one be talk loudly. it be difficult to hear. it be confuse

sort of talk, and whenever two or three seem to be interested in

what they be say, Fay Crumb go and interrupt they as a good

hostess should. other people, only vaguely apprehend by Mr. Preemby,

get into the studio somehow. there be a red-haired young lady with a

tremendous decolletage; behind you could see almost to her waist. he

h’rrmp’d at it and think of say something about it, something cold

and quiet, to the silver-haired man. but he don’t. he couldn’t think

of anything sufficiently cold and quiet to say.



Fay Crumb come and ask whether he would like some whisky or beer.

“not on the top of that nice Chianti, thank you,” say Mr. Preemby.



the conversation seem to get noisy and noisy. in one corner

Harold Crumb could be hear quote the poem of Vachel Lindsay. then

Mr. Lambone come up and seem to want to talk about the Lost Atlantis,

but Mr. Preemby be shy of talk about the Lost Atlantis with Mr.

Lambone. “get on all right, daddy?” say Christina Alberta,

drift by and not wait for any answer but an “h’rrmp.”



there appear three young people with a gramophone they explain they

have just buy, and Fay discover that the beer have be forget

and send Harold out to borrow some from a neighbour. these new-comer

make no very profound impression on Mr. Preemby’s now jade mind,

except that one of they, the owner of the gramophone, a very fair young

man with a long, intelligent nose, be wear the big horn of the

gramophone as a headdress, and that he mean to have that gramophone

go whatever else might occur.



the music be dance-music, jazz for the most part and a few waltz,

and it revive Mr. Preemby considerably. he sit up and beat time with

the leg-bone of a roc, and presently two or three couple be dance

on the studio floor. curious dancing, Mr. Preemby think; almost

like walk--jiggety walk with sudden terrific back-swipe of the

leg. there be an interruption when Harold return with the borrow

beer--bring its lender with it. then there be a general clamour

for Christina Alberta and Teddy to “do” their dance. Teddy be quite

willing but Christina Alberta seem reluctant, and when Mr. Preemby

see the dance he be not surprised.



“H’rrmp,” he say, and stroke his moustache and look at the

silver-haired man.



it really be too familiar altogether; for some moment the principal

vanish upstairs, and come back altered. for some reason Teddy have

adopt a cloth cap and a red neck-wrap; he be, in fact, be an

Apache, and the bearing of Christina Alberta have become very proud and

spirited with her arm akimbo.



every one back against the wall to clear a dancing floor. at the

begin it ben’t so bad. but presently this Mr. Teddy be pitch

Christina Alberta about, throw she over his shoulder, take hold

of she, bend she backward, hold she almost upside down, both

leg in the air and her hand drag on the ground. and she be red

and excited and seem to like these violent familiarity. there be

a kind of undesirable suitability between they for such purpose. she

and Teddy look into each other’s eye with a sort of intimacy and yet

with a sort of fierce defiance. at one point in the extraordinary dance

she have to smack his face, a good hard smack, nicely time. she do it

with a spirit that make every one applaud. whereupon he smile and take

her nice little neck in his hand and strangle she with great realism.



then the gramophone have its death rattle and the dance be over.



Mr. Preemby’s throat have not trouble he much since dinner, but now he

say “h’rrmp” repeatedly.



they want Christina Alberta, bright and panting and shock-head, to

repeat the performance, but she wouldn’t. she have have a glimpse of the

solemn dismay and perplexity upon her daddy’s face.



the people from the studio next door be the next to give a display:

they oblige with an imitation of a russian imitation of a peasant

dance from Saratoff. there be a gramophone record that be not quite

the proper music, but it would do. that dance really amuse Mr.

Preemby. the young man go down quite close to the floor and kick

out his foot with the great agility and the girl be as wooden as

a doll. every one clap hand in time to the music, and so do Mr.

Preemby.



and then come a further irruption. five people in fancy dress demand

beer. they impress Mr. Preemby as strange and bright-colour, but

totally uninteresting. one wear a red coxcomb and be dress as a

jester in cap and bell. the other just wear tight and bright thing

that signify nothing at all. they have be at some party give by

somebody or other for the “young people.” they announce with shout,

“they shut down at midnight. yes, they shut down at midnight. when the

young people go to bed.”



it be only too manifest that no. 8 Lonsdale Mews mean to do nothing

of the sort.



Beer. Mr. Preemby decline. the last of the beer. cigarette. much

smoke. the last of the whisky. More gramophone, more dancing and Harold

Crumb’s voice loose again in recitation. Beer or whisky have thicken

it. but there be countervail noise. movement. a circle be

clear. not more dancing! no. feat of strength and dexterity with

chair, perform chiefly by Teddy Winterton, the gramophone owner, and

Harold. this stunting stop presently and the company flow back

towards the middle of the room. talk Mr. Preemby could not follow;

phrase he could not understand. nobody take the slight notice of

he.



a sense of weariness and futility and desolation come upon he. how

differently be the evening of the past spend by the good wise people

of the lose Atlantis! philosophical discourse they have, the lute, the

lyre. elevated thought.



he catch sight of Mrs. Crumb yawn furtively. suddenly, stupendously

he yawn. and yawn again.



“Yaaw,” he say to Paul Lambone who be at his side.



“Proyawaw--prolly thiswe sit on my beawawd.”



“you live here?” say Mr. Lambone.



“come to-day. Christina Albyawawawter arrange it.”



“the devil she do!” say Mr. Lambone, and look across the studio at

she. for some moment he seem lose in thought.



“very remarkable young woman that daughter of your,” he say. “make

I feel old-fashioned.”



he look at the wrist-watch he wear, “half-past one,” he say. “I’ll

start the Go....”





§ 7



Mr. Preemby hear a few sentence of the parting between Teddy

Winterton and Christina Alberta. “yes or no?” say Teddy.



“_no_,” say Christina Alberta with emphasis.



“not a bit of it,” say Teddy.



“I don’t want to,” she say.



“but you _do_.”



“oh, go to the devil!”



“not as if there be risk.”



“I shalln’t come. it’s preposterous.”



“I shall wait all the same.”



“you may wait.”



“Little Chrissy Hesitation. anything to please you.”





§ 8



it take until past two o’clock for the Go Paul Lambone have start to

remove the last of the company.



“all hand to the bedmaking,” cry Fay. “it ben’t always like this,

Mr. Preemby.”



“Confess I feel tired,” say Mr. Preemby. “have a long day of it.”



Christina Alberta regard he with belate compunction. “it just

happen like this,” she say.



“not use to such late hour,” say Mr. Preemby, sit on his bed

when at last it be make, and he do a yawn that almost dislocate his

jaw.



“Night,” say Fay, yawn also.



“we’ll turn in,” say Harold. “so long, Mr. Preemby.” the yawning

seize upon Harold also. what a face he have!



“Goo-i.”



“Gawooi-i.”



the door close upon they.



there be much to say to Christina Alberta, but it be too late and Mr.

Preemby be too weary to say it now and also he have no idea what it be

he ought to say.



a casual remark fall out, “I like that man with the white hair,” he

say.



“do you?” say Christina Alberta absently.



“he be intelligent. he take a great interest in the Lost Atlantis.”



“he’s stone deaf,” say Christina Alberta, “and he’s ashamed of

it--poor dear.”



“oh!” say Mr. Preemby.



“all this be go to be rather noisy for you, daddy,” she say, come

to what she have in mind.



“it _be_ a bit ramshackle,” say Mr. Preemby.



“we ought to go to Tunbridge Wells quite soon and look round there.”



“to-morrow,” say Mr. Preemby.



“not to-morrow.”



“why not?”



“the next day,” say Christina Alberta. “I’m not quite sure about

to-morrow. I’d sort of half promise to go somewhere else--. but it

don’t matter very much really.”



“I’d like to go to Tumbridge Wells to-morrow,” say Mr. Preemby.



“why not?” say Christina Alberta as if to herself, and hesitate.



Se walk to the door and come back. “good night, little daddy,” she

say.



“be we go then? to-morrow?”



“no.... yes.... I don’t know. I _have_ plan to do something

to-morrow. important in a kind of way.... we’ll go to-morrow, Daddy.”



she walk away from he with her arm akimbo and stare at those queer

picture.



she spin round on her foot. “I cann’t go to-morrow,” she say.



“yes, I will,” she contradict.



“oh, hell!” she cry, in a most unaccountable and unladylike way. “I

don’t know what to _do_!”



Mr. Preemby look at she with grave and weary eye. this be a new

Christina Alberta to he. she ought not to swear. she do _not_ ought

to swear. she’d catch it up from these people. she don’t know what it

mean. he must talk to she--to-morrow. about that and one or two other

thing. but heaven! how tired he be!



“You--” he yawn. “you must take care of yourself, Christina Alberta,”

he say.



“I’ll do that all right, daddy. trust I.”



she come and sit down beside he on his little half-fictitious bed. “we

cann’t decide to-night, daddy. we’re too tired. we’ll settle to-morrow.

have to see what the weather’s like for one thing. wouldn’t do to

walk about Tunbridge if it be wet. we’ll decide about everything

to-morrow--when our head be cool. why! you dear little daddy! it’s

just upon half-past two.”



she put her arm round his shoulder and kiss he on the top of his

head and the lobe of his ear. he love she to touch he and kiss he.

he do not understand in the least how much he love she to kiss he.



“dear _tired_ little daddy,” she say in her soft voice: “you be

ever so kind to I. good night.”



she have go.



for some time Mr. Preemby sit quite motionless in a state of almost

immobile thought.



the floor of the studio be litter with burn match and cigarette

end and the air smell of stale smoke and beer. on the blue-paint

table stand an empty beer-bottle and two or three glass contain

dreg of beer and cigarette ash.



it be all very different from Woodford Wells,--very different indeed.



but it be experience.



Mr. Preemby bestir himself to undress.



that night-shirt of Saxony flannel have still to be unpacked.





§ 9



in the morning Christina Alberta be still restless and quite undecided

about go to Tunbridge Wells, though the weather be perfectly fine.

about half-past eleven she disappear, and after a light lunch with

Fay--Harold be out also--it become evident to Mr. Preemby that the

visit to Tunbridge Wells be postpone for the day. so he go to

South Kensington to look at the Museums there. he do not go into they

actually, he just look at they and at the college and building

generally. it be a preliminary reconnaissance.



the Museums be quite good to look at. large, more extensive, than

the British Museum. probably they contain--all sort of thing.



Christina Alberta reappear in the studio about half-past six

look very bright and exalted. there be something about her subtly

triumphant.



she offer no explanation of her disappearance. she be full of the

visit to Tunbridge on the morrow. they must catch a train soon after

nine and have a good long day. she be unusually affectionate to her

daddy.



Harold be out for the evening and Fay have some reviewing to do, so

they have quite a quiet and domestic evening. Mr. Preemby read with a

vary attention a nice deep confusing book he have find in the room

upstairs call _Fantasia of the Unconscious_ about the Lost Atlantis

and similar thing.









CHAPTER the fourth



_the Petunia Boarding House_





§ 1



Most place in the world have sister city and twin and parallel,

but Tunbridge Wells be Tunbridge Wells, and there be nothing really

like it upon our planet. not that it be in any way strange or

fantastic, but because of its brightly delicate distinction. it be

clean and open, and just pleasantly absurd. it be not more than

thirty mile from London, as the crow fly, but the North Downs six

mile away dismiss with a serene and gracious gesture all thought of

London from the mind. it be away from the main line out of London,

inconvenient for season-ticket holder; there be no direct route for

the hurrying motorist over those save down; to Dover and Kent

generally he go to the east of it, and to Brighton he go to the

west--if he survive the hill of Westerham and Sevenoaks. rich man’s

estate encircle it with accessible park. Eridge, Bayham, Penshurst

Park, Knole and the like protect it from overmuch breeding of little

villa residence. there it lie, on a rare piece of rocky soil, dry

underfoot, airy and wholesome, with its friendly Common in the midst of

it; its Spa of evil-taste beneficent water as the Stuart princess

drink they, its Pantiles and its Pump Room, much as Dr. Johnson know

the place. Mount Sion and Mount Ephraim, Beulah Road and something

evangelical in the air, remind the light-minded visitor that London in

the past be a puritan city. many a serious liver have be touch

and find grace at Tunbridge Wells. many a light liver have find fresh

strength there. and thither come Mr. Preemby and Christina Alberta

seek a boarding house--and they could have seek it in no more

favourable locality.



they set about the search in a systematic way as become a couple, one

of whom have be partially train for sociological research at the

London School of Economics and partially train for business at the

Tomlinson School. Mr. Preemby have be for begin with a general

look-round, just walk round and look quietly at thing for a bit,

but Christina Alberta consult all the agent in order, and buy

a map and guide to the town and sit down on a seat on the Common and

plan the operation that lead quite readily and easily to the Petunia

Boarding House.



in the guide Mr. Preemby read with approval some very promising word.

“listen to this, my dear,” he say. “H’rrmp. ‘General Characteristics.

Emphasis might very well be lay on the character enjoy by Tunbridge

Wells as a magnet for high-class resident and visitor. the town be

never overrun with tripper, nor be its street ever defile by the

vulgar or the inane. its inhabitant be compose, for the most part,

of well-to-do people who naturally create a social atmosphere tinge by

culture and refinement.’”



“_tinge_ be a jolly good word for it, I expect,” say Christina

Alberta.



“I think my instinct have guide I aright to this place,” say Mr.

Preemby.



the Petunia Boarding House look obliquely upon the Common from where

Petunia Road run into the quaint and pleasant High Street. it have

not the tower magnificence of the Wellington, the Royal Mount

Ephraim, the Marlborough, or their fellow, which face the sun so

bravely from the hill-crest above the Common, but it be a house of

dignified comfort. the step, the portico, the ample hall, the name in

letter of gold on black, make Mr. Preemby say h’rrmp several time.

an excessively chubby maid in a very, very tight black dress and a cap

and apron, come and look at Mr. and Miss Preemby with a distraught

evasive expression, answer some preliminary question incoherently,

and say she would call Miss Emily Rewster--Miss Margaret be out.

Thereupon Miss Emily Rewster, who have be hover attentively behind

a bead curtain, thrust it aside and come ingratiatingly into the

foreground. she be a little high-colour old lady, with an air of

genteel _savoir-faire_; she have a lace cap and wear a great deal of

lace and several flounce, and she have the most frankly dye chestnut

hair that Christina Alberta have ever see. “be it just for a week or

so Mr. Preemby want to come, or something--perhep--more permanent?”



explanation be exchange. Mr. Preemby be to be “more permanent”;

Christina Alberta intermittent--and rather a difficulty. the existence

of headquarters in Chelsea be reveal discreetly, but not the fact

that they be in a Mews.



Miss Emily Rewster think Christina Alberta could be fit in if she

ben’t too particular about have the same room, or exactly the same

sort of room every time she come. “we have to menage,” say Miss Emily

Rewster.



“so long as the window open,” say Christina Alberta.



the room exhibit be very satisfactory, (h’rrmp) very satisfactory.

a glimpse of a bathroom be give. “you say when you want one,” say

Miss Emily Rewster. there be a dining-room with separate table, and

there be flower on every table, very refined and pleasant, and there

be a large drawing-room with a piano and a great number of arm-chair

and sofa wear flounce so like the flounce of Miss Emily Rewster,

and antimacassar so like her cap, and with so entirely her air of

accommodate receptiveness that it seem as though they must be

at least her cousin who have join she in the enterprise. the piano

wear a sort of lace bed-spread, and there be polished table bear

majolica pot of aspidistra on mat and little less serious table for

use, and there be a low bookcase with book in it and a great heap

of illustrate paper on the top. the hall expand at the back into

a rather modernish lounge where two lady be have tea; and there

be also a smoking-room, where, say Miss Emily Rewster to Christina

Alberta rather coyly, “the gentleman smoke.”



“we’ve be very full this season,” say Miss Emily Rewster, “very

full. we’ve have nearly thirty sitting at dinner. but of course the

season be draw in now. just at present we’re down to nine at

breakfast and seven at dinner; two gentleman in business here. but

people come and people go. I’ve have two inquiry by post to-day. one

an invalid lady and her sister. they think of drink the water. and

there be Birds of Passage as well as Regulars. just for a night or

so. motor family. they take we _en route_. that’s where we have an

advantage in be so close to the shop.”



she beam intimately at Mr. Preemby. “often my sister or I pop out at

the last moment and get in thing ourselves. when every one else be

busy. we don’t mind any little trouble if it make people comfortable.”



“we’ve be on the separate table system ever since the war,” say Miss

Emily Rewster. “so much more pleasant. you can keep yourself Quate to

yourself if you wish, or you can be friendly. People often speak in the

Drawing-room or in the smoking-room. and they bow. sometimes people get

quate friendly. Play Games. get up excursion together. Quate Pleasant.”



Christina Alberta ask an obvious question.



“very pleasant people indeed,” say Miss Emily. “very pleasant people.

a retired gentleman and his wife and her stepdaughter and two retire

maiden lady and a gentleman and his lady who have be in a forest in

Burmah and so on.”



Christina Alberta restrain a ribald impulse to ask what a “retire

gentleman” or a “retire maiden lady” really mean.



“I’ve always be attract to Tumbridge Wells,” say Mr. Preemby.



“_royal_ Tunbridge Wells _if_ you please,” say Miss Emily radiantly.

“the ‘Royal’ be add in nineteen nine, you know, by gracious command

of his Majesty.”



“I don’t know,” say Mr. Preemby with profound respect, and try it

over; “_royal_ Tumbridge Wells.”



“make it rather a mouthful,” say Christina Alberta.



“a very pleasant mouthful for Us, I can assure you,” say Miss Emily

loyally.



the Petunia Boarding House seem so satisfactory to Mr. Preemby that

it be arrange that he should return the next day but one, bring

with he some clothe and other luggage, and that Christina Alberta

be to come and stay with he for a few day--there be a little room

upstairs she could have--and then she would go back to London and her

study and take her chance of come again when there be a room for

she.





§ 2



in the train back to London Mr. Preemby rehearse these arrangement

and make his plan.



“I shall come down here the day after to-morrow, after I have put my

collection in order at the Mew. I shall put the good thing so that

they can be see through the glass of the cabinet, but I think I shall

lock they up, and I shall bring down a few necessary book, and then

when I have quite settle in I shall go and have a good look at these

celebrate Rocks here.”



“we could come down in the morning,” say Christina Alberta, “and go

and look at they in the afternoon.”



“not the same afternoon,” say Mr. Preemby. “no. I want my mind to

be quite fresh and open when I look at the Rocks. I think it will be

good to see they quite early--after a night’s sleep. when there be no

other visitor. I think--I think, Christina Alberta, that for the first

time I’d well go to they quite alone. without you. sometimes you say

thing, Christina Alberta--you don’t mean to say they of course--but

they put I out....”



Christina Alberta reflect. “what do you expect to find at these

Rocks, daddy?”



Mr. Preemby wave his moustache and the rest of his face slowly from

side to side. “I go with an open mind,” he say. “perhaps all of

Atlantis be not lose. some of it may be hide. there be legend

preserve by the philosopher Plato. partly in cipher. who know? it may

be here. it may be in Africa. a plan. a sign. the toad rock must be

most singular. in the British Museum there be a toad rock from Central

America....”



he muse pleasantly for a time.



“I shall take a note-book,” he say, “and several coloured pencil.”



he continue to meditate. his next remark come after an interval of

three or four minute, and be a surprise for Christina Alberta.



“I hope, my dear,” say Mr. Preemby, “that among all these artist and

people you be not get Ram Shackle.



“I should be sorry to think you be get Ram Shackle,” say Mr.

Preemby.



“but daddy, what make you think I may be get--Ram Shackle?” ask

Christina Alberta.



“one or two little thing I see at the Mew,” say Mr. Preemby. “just

one or two little thing. you’ve get to be careful, Christina Alberta.

a girl have to take care of herself. and your friend--decidedly ram

Shackle. don’t mind my make a remark about they, Christina Alberta.

just a word in season.”



Christina Alberta’s answer come after a little interval, and without

her usual confident ring. “don’t you worry about I, Daddy,” she say.

“I’m all right.”



Mr. Preemby seem about to change the subject. then he remark, “I

don’t like that feller, Teddy Winterton. he’s too familiar.”



“I don’t like he either,” say Christina Alberta. “he _be_ too

familiar.”



“that’s all right,” say Mr. Preemby. “I think you don’t notice,”

and relapse into meditation.



but this sudden and unprecedented intervention in her personal affair

make Christian Alberta thoughtful for all the rest of the way to

London. ever and again she glance furtively at her Daddy.



he seem to have forget she.



but it be dreadfully true. Teddy Winterton have become--altogether--too

familiar.





§ 3



in all age competent observer have note the erratic unexpectedness

of destiny, and now Christina Alberta be to add her own small

experience to this ever accumulate testimony. it seem to she that

in plant he out in the wholesome quiet of Royal Tunbridge Wells

she be secure for her daddy the very good possible condition for

a happy and harmless life. there have, indeed, be a notable change

in the little man since her mother’s death, a release of will, a new

freedom of expression, a disposition to comment and even form judgment

upon thing about he. she have herself liken it to the germination

of a seed bring out of a suppress aridity into moisture and the

light, but she have not follow up that comparison so far as to

speculate what efflorescence might arise out of this belated unfolding

of his initiative. that here, of all place, he would meet just the

stimulus that be need for the most fantastic expansion of his

imaginative life, that for he Tunbridge Wells should prove the way

out of this everyday world of our into what be to be for he an

altogether more wonderful and satisfactory existence, never enter she

head.



for three day, until a fret urgency for event carry she back

to London, she stay in the Petunia Boarding House, and for all those

three day there be no intimation of the great change in his mind

that impend. on the whole he seem unusually dull and quiet during

those three day. he like Tunbridge Wells very much, he say, but he

be greatly disappoint by the High Rocks and by the Toad Rock when

he come to examine they. he even doubt whether they be not “simply

natural.” this be a terrible concession. he try hard to believe that

the Toad Rock be like one of the big Maya carving of a toad from

Yucatan, a cast of which he have see in the British Museum, but it be

evident that with all the will possible he could not manage so great

an act of faith. all the decoration, he declare, all the inscription

have be obliterate, and then, make the great blonde moustache

bristle like a clothe-brush: “there never be any decoration or

inscription. never.”



it be clear to Christina Alberta that he must have evolve very

extraordinary expectation, indeed, to be so much cast down. she find

herself very interested in the riddle of what be ferment in his

mind. it seem to she as if he have regard Tunbridge Wells as a

sort of Poste Restante at which some letter of supreme importance have

await he. and there be no letter.



“but what do you expect, little daddy?” say Christina Alberta, when

on the afternoon of the first day he take she to the Toad Rock to see

for herself how ordinary and insignificant a rock it be. “do you

expect some wonderful carving?”



“I expect--something for I. something significant.”



“for you?”



“yes, for I. and every one. about Life and the Mysteries. I have grow

a sort of feeling there would be something there. _Now_--I don’t know

where to turn.”



“but what sort of thing, what significance do you expect?”



“ben’t Life a Riddle, Christina Alberta? haven’t you notice that? do

you think it be just nothing but studio and dance and excursion and

char-à-banc and meal-time and harvest?” he say. “obviously there be

something more in it than that. obviously. all that be just a Veil.

Outward Showing. H’rrmp. and I don’t know what be behind it, and I be

just a plain boarder--in a boarding house--and my life be pass away.

very difficult. H’rrmp. almost impossible. it worry I exceedingly.

somewhere there must be a clue.”



“but that’s how we _all_ feel, daddy,” cry Christina Alberta.



“thing cann’t be what they seem,” say Mr. Preemby, wave his hand

with a gesture of contemptuous dismissal towards Rusthall Village,

public house, lamp-post, a policeman, a dog, a grocer’s delivery van

and three pass automobile. “that at any rate be obvious. it would

be too absurd. infinite space; star and so forth. just for run

about in--between meal....”



now who would have think, Christina Alberta reflect, that this sort

of thing be go on in his head? who would have think it?



“either I be a reincarnation,” say Mr. Preemby, “or I be not. and if

I be not, then I want to know what all this business of the world be

about. symbolical it _must_ be, Christina Alberta. but of what?



“all those year at the Laundry I know that that life ben’t

real. a period of rest and preparation. your dear mother think

differently--we never discuss it, h’rrmp, but it be so.”



Christina Alberta could find no adequate comment and they go on in

silence for some time. when they speak again it be to discuss how they

could get round to the High Rocks Hotel for tea.





§ 4



Mr. Preemby be evidently depressed and more than a little aggrieved,

but he have none of the comprehensive despondency of your melancholic

type. concurrently he be quite actively interested in the boarding

house, and the fellow boarder he encounter there. it be a novel

experience for he to be in a boarding house. during his married

life he have always spend his holiday with Mrs. Preemby in seaside

apartment, so that she could supervise the provisioning properly, and

detect, expose and rectify error and extortion. they have take drive

inland during these vacation, or camp on the beach while Mr. Preemby

and Christina Alberta have make sandcastle or potter among rock, and

Mrs. Preemby have sit in a folding-chair and pine for the Laundry. if

the weather be bad they keep in their apartment, where Mr. Preemby

and Christina Alberta could read book while Mrs. Preemby could pine

for the Laundry almost as well as she could on the beach. but deep

in Mr. Preemby’s heart there have always be a craving for such a

collective, promiscuous life as a boarding house afford.



they have make the acquaintance of the second Miss Rewster, Miss

Margaret Rewster, on their arrival with the luggage. she be a tall,

more anxious and less richly belace variation of her sister. they

both, Mr. Preemby discover, have a peculiar hover quality. they

seem always hover behind bead curtain or down passage, or

look over from staircase landing or peep round door; poor

dear! they be dreadfully anxious not to interfere with their guest,

but they be equally anxious that everything should be all right. at

meal-time they operate with the joint and dish behind a screen,

and the chubby maid carry round the plate and vegetable. and

whenever Mr. Preemby look at the screen he find either Miss Margaret

Rewster peep over the top of it at he or Miss Emily Rewster peep

round the end. it make he quite nervous with his fork and spoon.

when he drop his serviette he hope that would pass unobserved, but

Miss Emily note it at once and send the chubby maid to pick it up for

he.



Mr. Preemby and Christina Alberta come down to dinner as soon as Miss

Margaret have sound the second gong, and so they be the first to be

seat and could survey their fellow-guest at an advantage. Christina

Alberta be quietly observant, but Mr. Preemby say “h’rrmp” at each

fresh arrival. the next to appear be two Birds of Passage, a young

man in hudibrastic golfing knickerbocker, and a lady, presumably his

wife, in a bright yellow sporting jumper, who be motor about Kent;

they make strenuous attempt to seize a table in the window which be

already reserve for Petunia Regulars and be subdue with difficulty,

but perfect dignity, by Miss Emily. they then consult loudly about

wine--the young man call the lady “Old Thing,” and “Old Top,” form

of expression new and interesting to Mr. Preemby, and she call he

“Badger”--and the chubby maid produce a card of wine that could be

send out for. the young man read out the name and price of wine and

make his selection almost as though he be a curate officiate in a

very large cathedral. his wife, to follow out that comparison, make the

response. “Chablis such as we should get here might be too sweet,” he

proclaim.



“it might be too sweet?”



“what of a Pommard, Old Top?”



“why _not_ a Pommard, Badger?”



“the Beaune be a shilling cheap and just as likely to be good--or

bad.”



“just as likely.”



the chubby maid fly out of the room, list in hand, with her thumb on

the wine he have choose.



meanwhile under cover of this hubbub the two lady Mr. Preemby

have see at tea in the lounge on the occasion of his first visit,

percolate unobtrusively to a table near the window. they be

obviously sister, both rather slender and tall with small, round,

bright-colour face on stalk-like neck; they have sharp little nose,

and one of they wear tortoiseshell spectacle. a gentleman with a white

moustache, large and nobler even than Mr. Preemby’s, accompany by a

small alert-look wife, be the next to appear. possibly this be the

gentleman who have be in a forest in Burmah. the small alert-look

wife bow to the slender lady, who become agitated like reed in a

wind. the gentleman take no notice of they, grunt as he sit down,

produce glass and read the menu.



“tomato soup _again_!” he say.



“it’s usually very nice tomato soup,” say his wife.



“but three Times run!” he say. “it favour acidity. I don’t _like_

tomato soup.”



the table in the bow window be occupy by three people who drift

in separately. first come a little, thin, dark lady in grey, carry

a bead work-bag, then a little dark, bald man with large side-whisker

whom she address as father, and then a plump, healthy-look wife

with a radiant manner who sweep in and distribute greeting.



“do you get your walk, Major Bone?” she say to the gentleman from the

burmese forest.



“just to Rusthall Common and back,” say Major Bone, speak thickly

through his moustache and soup. “just to Rusthall Common.”



“and you get a char-à-banc to Crohamhurst, Miss Solbé?” the two sister

answer in unison. “oh! we have a _lovely_ ride.”



“so picturesque,” say the one with spectacle.



“so open and pleasant,” say the one without spectacle.



“do you see the sea?”



“oh, plainly!” say the one with spectacle.



“ever so far away,” say the one without.



“just as if the sky have a steel edge,” say the one with spectacle.



“exactly like a leetle silver line,” say the one without.



“H’rrmp,” say Mr. Preemby.



small portion of fish follow the tomato soup, and be consume

in comparative silence. there be a little burst of scarcely audible

conversation at the window table.



“now be _this_ the same fish as we have yesterday?” ask the wife.



“it be a very similar fish,” say the gentleman with whisker.



“the menu simply say, ‘fish,’” say the stepdaughter.



“H’rrmp,” say Mr. Preemby.



“I think our back tyre be too tight to-day, Old Top,” say the

man in plus four, in a very loud, clear voice. “I feel the road

dreadfully.”



“I feel the road dreadfully,” say the lady in the yellow jumper.



“I must let they down a little to-morrow morning.”



“it would be well.”



“to-morrow morning will do. I willn’t trouble to-night.”



“much well to-morrow morning, Badger. you’re tired to-night after all

that bumping. you’d make your hand dirty.”



Silence and active business with knife and fork.



“Porruck haven’t write about that,” say the Major from the forest.



“very likely he’s busy,” say his wife.



Silence.



“H’rrmp,” say Mr. Preemby.



Christina Alberta search her mind for some conversational opening

that would give her father a reasonable opportunity to make an

acceptable reply, but she could think of nothing that be neither

too disconcerting nor too dangerous. she meet his eye and he have the

expression of one who hold out against a strain.



Fish give place to lamb.



“I think that road from Sittingbourne be just awful,” say the

motoring gentleman.



“it be _just_ awful,” respond his wife.



Christina Alberta see her father’s face work. he be go to say

something. “H’rrmp. to-morrow, if it be fine, I think we will go for a

walk in the morning.”



the knife and fork be hush. everybody be listen.



“I’d love a walk to-morrow, daddy,” say Christina Alberta. “I should

think there be some jolly walk about this place.”



“exactly,” say Mr. Preemby. “very probably. the Guide Book be very

reassure. H’rrmp.”



he have the dignified expression of a man who have carry off a

difficult duty.



resumption of activity with knife and fork.



“hard to tell this lamb from mutton,” say Major Bone, “if it ben’t

for the mint sauce.”



“pea be never so nice as they be from your own garden,” say the

wife of the whisker gentleman to her stepdaughter.



“it’s late for pea,” say the stepdaughter.



the two Miss Solbés and the motoring gentleman begin talk at the

same time. Mrs. Bone express the idea that it be hard to get good

lamb nowadays. take courage from this sudden swirl of conversation

Mr. Preemby be embolden to remark to Christina Alberta that he have

always be attract to Tumbridge Wells. he feel the air be a strong

air. it give he an appetite.



“you must be careful not to get fat,” say Christina Alberta.



the outburst of active human exchange come to an end. baked apple and

custard be consume in comparative silence. the chubby maid come to

ask Mr. Preemby whether he would like his coffee in the lounge or the

smoking-room. “the lounge I think,” say Mr. Preemby. “H’rrmp. the

lounge.”



the Misses Solbé, bear glass contain sugar and lemon juice,

flit from the room. the people from the window table follow.

the function of dinner be complete. they find themselves alone

in the lounge. Most of the people seem to have drift into the

sitting-room. the gentleman from the forest of Burmah go by towards

the smoking-room, carry a large cigar which have an air of also

come from the forest of Burmah. it do not look like a cigar that

have be roll or fill; it look like a cigar of old gnarl wood

that have be hew from a branching tree. a straw come out of the end

of it....



Christina Alberta stand and contemplate a vast void of time, two hour

it might be, before she could decently go to bed. “oh! this be the

life!” she say.



“extremely comfortable,” say Mr. Preemby, sit down with much

creaking in a basket arm-chair.



Christina Alberta sit on a glass-top table and light a cigarette. she

see those two hour stretch before she, and she want to scream.



the chubby maid bring coffee and seem gently surprised at Christina

Alberta’s cigarette. whispering off stage. then Miss Emily become

dimly visible through the bead curtain at the end of the passage,

hover. she vanish again and Christina Alberta finish she

cigarette in peace. Mr. Preemby drink up his coffee. pause. Christina

Alberta swing her leg rhythmically. then she slide off the table to her

foot.



“daddy,” she say, “let’s go into the sitting-room and see if anything

be happen there.”





§ 5



in the Boarding Houses of the past the common dining-table be the

social centre where people meet and mind clash upon and polished mind.

but the spirit of aloofness, the separate table system, have change

all that, and now it be in the smoking-room or the sit-room that

the vestige of social intercourse, advance, retreat, coquetting,

exchange, game and jest be to be find. but the company of the

Petunia Boarding House be not in a state of social fusion. the only

coalescence be a conversation. the wife of the gentleman from the

burmese forest have secure an arm-chair by the side of the fire-place,

and she be describe in a low whisper the numerous servant she

have have in Burmah, to the cheerful wife and the young Miss Solbé

who be knit. the Miss Solbé with the spectacle have fortify

herself behind a table on the other side of the fire and be engage

meticulously with a very elaborate patience. the gentleman with the

side-whisker sit rigidly on one of the sofas, behind a copy of the

_Times_, while his daughter sit at a table close at hand and also

thread her way through a Patience. the Birds of Passage, after

inquiry about movie and music-hall, have go out.



nobody take the slight notice of Mr. Preemby and Christina Alberta.

the two stand for some moment in the middle of the room, and then

panic come upon Mr. Preemby. a dishonourable panic so that he throw his

daughter to these silent, motionless wolf.



“H’rrmp,” he say. “I think my dear, I will go to the smoking-room.

I think I will go and smoke. there be some illustrate paper over

there on the bookcase for you if you care to look at they.”



Christina Alberta walk over to the low bookcase and Mr. Preemby

depart, h’rrmping.



she stand pretend an interest in the illustrate joke and in

the portrait of actress and society people in the _sketch_ and

_Tatler_. out of the tail of her eye she survey those fellow-guest

of her, and with a negligent ear she collect the gist of Mrs. Bone’s

dissertation upon the servant question in Burmah. “they will plant the

whole family upon you if they can--uncle and cousin even. before you

know where you be....



“of course a white woman be a little queen out there....



“the chief fault of the cooking from my point of view, be the way it

upset Major Bone. his stomach ... far more delicate than a woman’s.”



“he look so stout and strong,” say Miss Solbé.



“in everything but that. in everything. but the curry they use to

make----”



she sink her voice, and the head of the young Miss Solbé and the

pleasant mannered lady close in upon she for the rich particular.



what a lot they be! Christina Alberta reflect. and they be

live being! the astonishing thing to Christina Alberta be that

they be alive. and be alive and having presumably be a cause

of considerable trouble, distress, emotion and hope to various people

before they be get alive, they be now all in the most resolute way

avoid anything that with the extreme stretch of civility could

be speak of as live. their hour, their day be pass; a few

thousand day more perhaps for each of they, a few score thousand

hour. then there would be no more chance of live for ever. and

instead of fill up this scanty allowance of hour and day with

every possible sensation and every possible effort and accomplishment,

here they be, gather into a sort of magic box of atmosphere in

which nothing could possibly be do. by anyone....



Christina Alberta feel like a moth catch under a glass. well, for a

day or so, she have an excuse, little daddy must be settle. but then?

nothing could be do here. neither joy nor sorrow nor sin nor creative

effort--because even Miss Solbé’s knitting be be knit to a

prescription on a dirty cutting of print paper. everything they be

employ upon be an evasion, everything. even the whisper delicate

hint of the diuretic, dyspeptic, infuriate and wildly aphrodisiac

effect of Burmah Curry upon Major Bone in his young day that be

be hand out by his good lady to her intent hearer, be just a

substitution of second-hand knowledge for reality.



and this Patience! would she, Christina Alberta ask herself, would

she ever come to play Patiences in Boarding Houses? be it credible

that some day she also would come to sit voluntarily in such an

atmosphere?



“rather sell match in a gutter,” whisper Christina Alberta.



what a marvellous thing be Man! what ingenuity he have! what power

and capability! he invent paper and perfect print! he develop

the most beautiful method of colour printing. he make cardboard like

silk and ivory out of rag and vegetable pulp. and all it would seem,

that human being, hang for a little while in life between the

nothingness before death and the nothingness after death, should fiddle

away long hour in a feeble, fuddle conflict with the permutation

of duplicate set of four differently coloured thirteen! card!

the marvel of card! all over the world million of people draw

near to death and nothingness be pursue the chance of the four

thirteen: bridge, whist, nap, skat, a hundred form of it. directly

they could get in out of the wet and dark, they sit down to that

sort of thing, to the card shine under the still lamp, to be

endlessly surprised, delighted, indignant and despondent by chance

that anyone who choose to sit down to it could work out and tabulate in

a week!



“get it out, dear?” say the young Miss Solbé.



“the spade be _wicked_ to-night,” say the Miss Solbé with the

glass.



“mine be go rather well,” say the daughter of the gentleman with

the whisker.



“do your daughter play _Miss Milligan_?” ask the young Solbé

sister.



“_eight-eight_,” say the comfortable wife. “_Miss Milligan_ be too

much for she.”



“well, it _be_ a Beast you know,” say the stepdaughter. “you never

know where you be with it.”



“patience be Patience,” say the eld Miss Solbé. “nowadays I often

get it out. but not when the spade come as they’ve do to-night, both

two in the top row, and no ace till the last round but one.”



Christina Alberta think it be time to change from the _sketch_ to

the _Tatler_. she try to do this with careless ease and flop a

dozen paper on the floor. “oh, _damn_!” say Christina Alberta to a

great stillness. she struggle to pick up and replace the disorder

sheet. for a time every one seem to be regard she. then Mrs. Bone

take up her discourse again.



“and you cann’t imagine their obstinacy,” she say. “they be _wilfully_

ignorant. when you show they, _then_ they willn’t do it. I take my

cook-boy in hand for a time--boy I call he, but he be quite a

middle-aged man--and I say to he, ‘just let I show you some plain

english cookery, a boil fowl with nice white sauce, a few plain

potato and vegetable--quite plain with the natural flavour leave

in--the sort of food that build up these brave young englishman you

see.’ of course I’m not a good cook myself, but anyhow I know more

of English cooking than he do. but we never get far than the

plain boil fowl. he express the most violent disapproval--really

violent I mean--of the whole proceeding. as I take hold of the thing

and get to work he begin to behave in the most extraordinary way. he

try _not_ to follow what I be do. try not to. he say that if

he cook a fowl like that he would lose caste, lose his position in

the local guild of cook, be perpetually defile and outcast. _why_,

he would not say. when I persist he rush up and down pull at

his black hair--a black madman, his eye roll frightfully. I could

never make out what there be in a plain boil fowl to cause such

excitement. ‘this in my kitchen,’ he say. ‘this in _my_ kitchen!’



“there I stood quietly boil my fowl while all this pother go on.

he hover about I. he talk--fortunately in his own language. I

even catch he pretend to be sick behind my back. then he come and

implore I to desist--with tear in his great brown eye. he try

to say thing in English. the Major always say that he be simply

swearing, but I believe the wretched man really do believe that if he

be to boil a fowl in the plain, wholesome, simple way nice people in

England do it daily, he would be hang in the air, and the great jay of

Burmah would come and peck--ahem!”



she cast a side glance at Christina Alberta, apparently lose in the

_sketch_, and lower her voice.



“peck at his _entrail_, just his inside you know, for a Thousand,

Thousand Years.”



Sensation.



“you never know what Ideas Easterners will get into their head,” say

the young Miss Solbé. “East be East, and West be West.”



but now Christina Alberta’s attention be distract by another set

of phenomena. she have discover that the thin, bald gentleman with

side-whisker, rigid behind his _Times_, be not really read that

interesting vestige of the british constitution at all. his gaze be

not direct to the edge of his paper, but beyond it. he be stare

from behind that ambush and round the corner of his glass in a

strange, hard-eyed way, without passion or admiration, at the upper

part of Christina Alberta’s black-stockinge leg as they deliver

their last challenge to human censure before disappear beneath she

all too exiguous but extremely comfortable skirt. and also she be

realize that a furtive but intense scrutiny of her bobbed hair be

disorganize the Patience of the whisker gentleman’s daughter very

seriously, and that it be also interfere with the proper laying out

of a second and different sort of Patience by the eld Miss Solbé. and

suddenly, to her extreme annoyance, Christina Alberta find a flush

of indignation mantle her cheek, and a combative tingle pass

down the backbone of her straight little body. “why the devil,” Miss

Preemby ask herself, “why the devil shouldn’t a girl cut her hair

to save trouble and bother, and wear clothe in which she can walk

about?” anyhow, a mop of well-wash hair be ten time well than

those feeble, aimless interweaving of pigtail and fringe and scrap

and end. and as for show one’s leg and body; why shouldn’t one

show one’s leg and body? it be just a part of the universal evasion

of life by these people that have get most of their body hide

away, tie up in a sort of bundle. do they ever venture to look at

themselves? those Solbé girl, once upon a time, they must have be

jolly little girl with an amuse interest in their stalky little leg,

before they say Shush! and put they away.



Christina Alberta’s speculative vein take charge for a time. what

become of leg that be put away and never look at and encourage?

do they get etiolate and queer, dead-white and funny-shaped and

afraid of the light? and after you’ve really pack your body away

and forget it, nothing be leave of you but a head stick out and

hand that wave about and foot with hidden and distorted toe; and you

go about between meal-time and take trip in char-à-banc to see

what every one see and feel what every one feel, and you play game

by rule and example accord to your age and energy, and become more

and more addicted to Patience until you be ready to cover yourself up

in bed for the last time of all and die. evasion! and the fuss they

have cause getting bear! the fuss, the morality and marriage and

everything that be necessary before these vacuous life be beget!



but it be all evasion, and the life show in these _Tatlers_

and _Sketches_ be evasion just as much. just as much. all these

photograph of the pushful pretty, the actress for sale and the

daughter who have to be sell, look at you with just your own

question in their eye: “be this the life?” the unending photograph

of Lady Diana This, and Lady Marjorie that, and Mr. so-and-so and a

Friend of the Duke of York or the Duchess of Shonts, at dog-show, at

horse-show, at race meeting, at royal inauguration and the like,

be inevitably suggestive of obstinate doubt that be in need of a

perennial reassurance. the photograph of people play tennis and

suchlike game be lively, but there, too, if you care to look at

it, be evasion. evasion. evasion.



Christina Alberta turn over the back number of the _sketch_ without

look at the picture before her eye.



what be this life she and these people and every one by game and

joke and meeting and ceremony and elaborate disregard and

concealment be all evade? what be this great thing outside,

this something like a huge, terrible, attractive and compelling black

monster, beyond the light, beyond the movement and appearance, that

call to she and challenge she to come?



one might evade the call of it by play Patience and game perhaps.

one might evade it by live by rule or custom. People seem to do

so. a time might come when that call to Christina Alberta to be

Christina Alberta to the uttermost and fulfil her mysterious mission

to that immense be beyond the light might no long distress her

life. she have think that in a certain recklessness and violence with

herself she might fight her way out to the call. she have make love now.

anyhow, she haven’t evade _that_. but--be it go to matter as much

as she have think it would matter? she and her little friend be

play desperate game with the material of love in a world where Dr.

Marie Stopes and Mr. D. H. Lawrence be twin star, and it be just

something you go through--and come out much as you have be before.

more restless, perhaps, but no far on. it leave you just where you

have be, face to face with the unsolved darkness and that mysterious,

distressing, unanswerable call to come out of it all and really live

and die.



she have make love.... queer it have be....



these furtive people be watch and watch she, read her

thought, perhaps, penetrate she....



Christina Alberta shut her copy of the _sketch_ with something of a

snap, and walk out of the drawing-room with a serene expression. she

shut the door behind she and go downstairs to find what have happen

to her father in the smoking-room.



“I’m leave the good part of the talk behind I,” reflect Christina

Alberta.





§ 6



she find that her father and the gentleman from the forest of Burmah,

after a very prolonged and brilliant “h’rrmping” match, have settle

down to conversation. but unhappily the conversation be unsuitable for

she.



“Siam, Cambodia, Tonquin, the country be full of such temple. they

take you there and show you they.”



“wonderful,” say Mr. Preemby. “wonderful. and you do not think the

carving you speak of--? some high symbolism?”



both gentleman become aware of Christina Alberta, attentive and

hover.



“Symbolism,” say the arboreal gentleman, “Symbolism,” and have

complicate pharyngeal difficulty. “heathenish indecency. difficult

to discuss.... presence of young lady.... H’rrmp.”



“H’rrmp,” say Mr. Preemby. “have you come down to say good night, my

dear? we be have a rather--rather technical talk.”



“sound like it, daddy,” say Christina Alberta, and go round and sit

on the arm of his chair for a moment.



“good night, little daddy,” she say.



reflective moment.



“I think this Tumbridge be go to suit I,” say Mr. Preemby.



“I hope it will, little daddy. good night.”





§ 7



Christina Alberta’s first evening at the Petunia Boarding House have

be describe with some particularity because it be a sample of all

the still and uneventful evening that seem to lie before Mr. Preemby

there. it impress she as an unfathomable enormity of uneventfulness

in which nothing harmful or disturbing could conceivably occur to he.

the last remote possibility of imaginative disturbance seem to remove

itself next day when Mrs. Bone announce to the whisker gentleman’s

wife that she and her husband be off to Bath on the morrow: they

be in luck it seem; they have get the exact room for the winter in

the exact boarding house they have always have their eye on. “Tunbridge

seem so bleak,” she say. “After Burmah.”



the dinner be like the previous dinner; the Birds of Passage have go

and Mr. Preemby astonish himself, Christina Alberta, the chubby maid

and the assemble company by demand whether it be possible to send

out (h’rrmp) for a bottle or flask of Chianti. “it’s an italian wine,”

say Mr. Preemby to inform and help the chubby maid in her inquiry.

but there be no Chianti on the wine-list supply, and after a

conversation markedly reminiscent of that of the Birds of Passage

overnight, the Preemby table be stock with a bottle of australian

Burgundy and, at Christina Alberta’s request, a bottle of mineral water.



after this display of initiative, self-assertion and social derring-do,

Mr. Preemby do little but h’rrmp throughout the rest of the meal.



the subsequent life of the drawing-room be also vacantly similar

to the previous evening. Christina Alberta get she possibly illegal

cigarette in the lounge, indeed she smoke two, and Miss Margaret

Rewster look at she through the bead curtain near the office and

Miss Emily have a sniff from the landing upstairs, though nothing be

say. and then Mr. Preemby follow Major Bone into the smoking-room

to gather whatever further information he could about the temple

decoration and religious custom of the people of further India.

he be inclined to think Major Bone rather bias by evangelical

prejudice. but Major Bone be not even indignant about eastern

religion that night. he want to talk about Bath, and he talk about

Bath. he tell Mr. Preemby in very great detail about a remarkable

occurrence at Bath. he have meet a gentleman name Bone, a gentleman

much of his own age and appearance, a Captain Bone who have also once

be in Burmah. he detail various extremely dramatic conversation

between himself and the other Bone, occasionally go back and

correct himself. they have make the most elaborate comparison of

their genealogy, and it do not appear that they be even remotely

related. “most curious coincidence that have ever occur to I,” say

Major Bone. “in Bath. in nineteen-eh-nine.”



in the drawing-room Patience prevail and Mrs. Bone be talk about

Bath. the cheerful wife of the whisker gentleman say “deavning” to

Christina Alberta quite suddenly.



“oh! good evening,” say Christina Alberta.



“you have a walk to-day?”



“we’ve be to see the Toad Rock and the High Rock and Eridge Park.”



“quite a nice walk,” say the cheerful lady, and restore her attention

to Mrs. Bone. Christina Alberta gather she be to be notice, but not

make a pet of.



there be nothing for it but to go through the _Tatlers_ and _sketch_

again. this time the picture be exhaust, but there be review of

book and one or two short story. Christina Alberta read they all.



when she go to say good night to her daddy she have come to a

decision. “daddy,” she say, “on Thursday, that’s the day after

to-morrow, I must go back to London. there be some lecture begin.”



Mr. Preemby make no effective opposition.



the third evening be in countenance like the second except that the

Bones have go and that Christina Alberta be sustain by the thought

that next day she would pass from the vacuity of Tunbridge to the

tangle riddle of London. and there be a Bird of Passage present, an

untidy young man of the student type with a lot of hair imperfectly

control by unguent whose motor bicycle have break down just outside

Tunbridge Wells. he live somewhere away in the north, it seem, in

Northumberland; he would have to wait in Tunbridge for two or three

day while some broken part of his machine be replace from Coventry;

he have take refuge in the Petunia Boarding House and it be jolly hard

luck on he. he couldn’t budget for a trip to London; he would just

have to sit down in Tunbridge. he be a Cambridge undergraduate and a

geologist; he have a bag of specimen on his machine. these fact he

convey across the width of the room to Mr. Preemby in the course of a

rather one-sided conversation.



from the first Christina Alberta do not like this young gentleman from

Cambridge. he be like a young, cruder Teddy Winterton, with impudent

bad manner instead of impudent good manner, and with neither bodily

grace nor good look. and while he speak to Mr. Preemby he glance at

she. but she have no inkling of the part he might play in the life of

her daddy and herself.



when she and her daddy go into the lounge for coffee and her

cigarette, the young man come and place himself at an adjacent table

and initiate some more conversation. be Tunbridge Wells an amusing

place? be there any chance of his get any golf or tennis?



“there be a number of delightful walk,” say Mr. Preemby.



“not much fun alone,” say the young man.



“there be the pleasure of observation,” say Mr. Preemby.



“all this country have be pretty well work over,” say the young man

of science. “be there a Museum here?”



Mr. Preemby do not know.



“there ought to be a Museum in every town.”



presently the coffee and the cigarette be finish. this evening Mr.

Preemby be for the drawing-room. Major Bone have go, the smoking-room

have no attraction, and Mr. Preemby have exchange a few amiable word

with the gentleman with whisker and hope to follow they up. Christina

Alberta go with he. at the sight of the old _tatler_ and _sketch_

she remember she have buy a book in the High Street that day, a

second-hand copy of Rousseau’s _Confessions_. she go off to get

it. she find the young gentleman from Cambridge still sit in the

lounge smoking cigarette.



“pretty gloomy here,” he say.



“oh! _I_ don’t know,” say Christina Alberta with an open mind, pause

before he.



“nothing much do--what?”



“it’s not a Gala Night.”



“I’m strand.”



“you must bear up.”



“S’pose you wouldn’t be dispose to come out for a bit and forage

around for some fun?” say the young man from Cambridge, take his

courage in both hand.



“sorry,” say Christina Alberta conclusively, and turn to go on.



“no offence?” say the young man from Cambridge.



“nice of you to think of I,” say Christina Alberta who would rather

have be think utterly shameless than the least bit prudish. “good

hunting.”



and the young man from Cambridge perceive that he be dismiss.



Christina Alberta go into the drawing-room for another tremendous

bout of nothingness. but anyhow she have get Rousseau to read, and

to-morrow she would be in London.



about the Rousseau--? she have always want to know how she stand

towards Rousseau.



he carry she on to ten o’clock. but she don’t think much of

Rousseau. he ought to have know a few of the New Hope Club girl.

they’d have show he.





§ 8



for three week Christina Alberta do not return to Tunbridge Wells,

and when she return she have pass through a variety of experience

that will have their due effect upon the course of this story. this

story be the story of Mr. Preemby, and we have little sympathy with

that modern sort of novel which will not let a girl alone but must

follow she up into the most private and intimate affair. Christina

Alberta be perplexed and worried and would have hate the pursuit

of such a searchlight. suffice it that event have crowd so closely

upon she that for whole day together she think scarcely at all of

she possibly quite lonely little daddy at Tunbridge Wells. then come a

letter that bring she bustle down.



“I think it only right to tell you,” say the letter, “that very

Important Communications indeed have be make to I _of the Utmost

Importance_, and that I ought to tell you about they. they seem to

alter all our life. I know you be immearce in your study, but

these Communications be so important that I want to talk they over

with you soon. I would come up to the Studio to tell you about it all,

but very likely Mr. Crumb might be in and I would much prefer to tell

you here on the Common amid more congenial surrounding. some of it you

will find almost unbeleavable.”



“Communications?” say Christina Alberta, re-read the letter.

“Communications?”



she go down to Tunbridge Wells that afternoon.









CHAPTER the FIFTH



_the Scales Fall from Mr. Preemby’s eye_





§ 1



“the scale,” say Mr. Preemby, “have fall from my eye.”



he have choose a seat upon the Common which command an extensive view

of the town, the town crown by the green cupola of the Opera House

and lie as though the house have be shoot out of a cart down the

long incline to the Pantiles. beyond be the wide distance of the

Kentish hill country, blue and remote.



Christina Alberta wait for more.



“this experience,” say Mr. Preemby, speak with an occasional

h’rrmp; “all these experience--difficult to relate. naturally I think

you be of a sceptical disposition--take after your dear mother. she

be very sceptical. of psychic phenomenon in particular. she say it be

Nonsense. and when your dear mother say a thing be Nonsense, then it

be Nonsense. it only make thing disagreeable if you argue it be

anything else. as for myself--always the open mind. no dogma either

way. I just refrain.”



“but, Daddy, have you be have psychic experience? how could you

have psychic experience down here?”



“let I tell you the story in due order. I want you to see it as I see

it--in due order.”



“how do it begin?”



Mr. Preemby hold up a propitiatory hand. “please! in my own way,” he

say.



Christina Alberta bite her lip and scrutinize the tranquil resolution

of his profile. there be no hurrying he; he have to tell his tale as

he have prepare it.



“I do not think,” say Mr. Preemby, “that mine be a very credulous sort

of mind. it be true I be not give to argument. I do not _say_ very

much. but I think and observe. I think and observe and I have a kind of

gift for judge people. I do not think I be a very easy man to deceive.



“and it be to be note that I start the whole affair. it begin at my

suggestion. I do not know what put it into my head, but I do know that

it be I start the whole thing go.



“you know, after your departure our little band at the Petunia Boarding

House be reduce to just six person, not count the young gentleman

from Cambridge who be, as Miss Rewster say, a Bird of Passage.

naturally the six of we felt rather draw together. there be the two

Miss Solbés, both very intelligent young lady, and there be Mr.

Hockleby and Mrs. Hockleby, and Miss Hockleby, and there be I. we

be draw together at lunch after you have go off--it be a little

showery and we have a fire in the drawing-room and Miss Solbé, the

one with the glass, try to show I one of her Patiences. we get

into quite an interesting argument about whether it be possible to

_will_ which card would turn up next. I have always incline to the

view that for certain people, people with the necessary gift, it be

possible to do so, but Mr. Hockleby show himself extremely sceptical

in the matter. he say that if there be a card on the top of the

pack ready to turn up, and if one will that a different card should

turn up, then that mean that one have really by sheer will force to

re-manufacture two of the card in the pack, make they over again, each

into the other, make they blank, reprint they and everything. but I

try to explain to he that this be not philosophically sound because

of predestination. if you be predestine to will that such a card

should be on the top of the pack, then that card be also predestine

to be there. he argued----”



“but be it necessary to tell I all this, Daddy, before we get to your

psychic experience?”



“it be just to illustrate the fact that Mr. Hockleby be an extremely

sceptical person.”



“be that young man from Cambridge present at the discussion?”



“no-oh. no. he be not. he have probably go down to the Garage to see

if his Spare Part have come. he be always go down to the Garage to

see about his Spare Part.”





§ 2



Mr. Preemby h’rrmped and begin a new section of his narrative.



“it be in the evening after dinner,” he say, “that thing really

begin. I go into the smoking-room--to smoke--and afterwards I go

into the drawing-room, and when I go into the drawing-room I have no

more thought of occult phenomena, Christina Alberta, than I have of

fly over the moon. but as I come into the drawing-room I see Miss

Solbé look at her Patience card which she have just put out, and

the way she be hold her hand on the table remind I of the way

I have read that people put their hand together on the table when they

be try experiment in table-turning. and almost without think I

say: ‘why, Miss Solbé, the way you be hold your hand be just the

way they do when they be go to do table-turn!’ I say it just

like that.



“Mr. Hockleby be read his paper at the time--the _Times_, I think,

but it may have be the _Morning Post_--but he put it down when he

hear I say that and he look over his glass at I and say, ‘you

don’t believe in that sort of thing, Mr. Preemby, surely?’



“his wife be sit with she back to I and from the way she speak

I think she must have be eat some sort of sweet or lozenge at the

time. ‘_i_ do,’ she say. ‘we do it at home dozen of time before I

be marry.’



“and I don’t know what put it into my head, Christina Alberta; it

seem almost as though it be something behind myself that do it, or

it may have be a sort of antagonism I have always feel about that

man Hockleby; but anyhow, I say, ‘I’d really like to try some of this

table-turn.’



“the young Miss Solbé, she’s really quite a charming young lady when

you get to know she, and it seem she have be read a little occult

literature lately----”



“how old be she, daddy?” ask Christina Alberta, regard he with a

look of novel suspicion.



“I don’t think she can be very much more than thirty-two or three.

thirty-four at the outside. and really quite well-read, quite

well-read. well, anyhow, she say she would like to try it. and Miss

Hockleby, evidently she have be bring up on strictly sceptical line

by her father, she be curious too. so to cut a long story short,

we try it. only Mr. Hockleby object and Mrs. Hockleby overrule

that. she be the only one among we who have ever see anything of the

sort before, and so it be she who arrange thing and tell we what

to do. we choose a very solid table, the one that usually have the big

aspidistra on it, and while we be turn out the light----”



“but why do you do that, daddy?”



“one always do that,” say Mr. Preemby. “it make the atmosphere more

favourable. we light a candle which Miss Margaret Rewster get for we and

turn out all the electric light; and while we be do this, in

come young Mr. Charles Fenton and said--_what_ do he say? a peculiar

expression. ah, yes! ‘Gollys,’ he say, ‘what’s up?’”



“be that the young man with the motor bicycle?”



“yes. the young man from Cambridge. we explain what we be do

and ask he to join we. he declare he know nothing of psychic

phenomenon, have never experiment with it at all and seem very

doubtful about take part in the trial. ‘I don’t think there’s

anything in it,’ he say. ‘we shall just waste our time.’ indeed I

remember now that he do go out intend to visit a music-hall, and

then he come back and say it be rain. it’s very important to

note that he be not at all eager to join we and that he be quite

uninformed about occult thing because, you see, as I will tell you, we

find out presently that he be a person of exceptional psychic gift,

much great psychic gift than anyone else among we.



“well, we arrange ourselves about the table in the usual manner,

thumb and little finger touch, and for a time nothing seem to

happen at all. we find Miss Emily Rewster be peep in through the

slightly open door, and perhaps that may have have an unfavourable

influence. I suppose she wonder what we be do and why we have

ask her sister for a candle. then Mr. Fenton get very restive and

grumble to himself and say it be the silly way of pass an

evening he have ever try. it be a little difficult to persuade he

to keep silence and persevere. ‘_all_ right,’ say he, with a kind of

resentment. ‘have it your own way.’ and then suddenly come two violent

rap, rap like little pistol shot, not immediately under the table it

be, but as if it be in the air a foot or so under the table. and then

the table begin to move. slowly at first, shift along the floor, and

then quite strongly twist and push up against our hand. it be

very weird and impressive, Christina Alberta, very weird and impressive

indeed. it rise nearly two foot I should think and then Mr. Hockleby

break the circle and it fall rather heavily, I fancy, and the leg hit

his shin. he utter an exclamation and stoop to rub his leg, and

in the indistinct light he hit his head on the edge of the table. it

seem almost a judgment on his scepticism I think. we turn up one

or two of the light to attend to he. ‘I don’t like this,’ say Mr.

Fenton. ‘this be a bit too rum for I.’



“I ask he to try just once more.



“‘I don’t like this table ride up like this,’ he say. ‘it’s such a

bad example for the chair. suppose some of they start play cup and

ball with we! you might get a nasty toss from a buck-jump chair. and

besides, it’s a lot too like a Channel crossing for my taste.’



“I think we be all a good deal excite by what have happen, and all

the other, even Mr. Hockleby, be eager to continue.



“‘next time I shall _press_ down,’ he say. I think he be a little

suspicious that either his wife or I have something to do with the

phenomenon. evidently spiritualism be a long-stand dispute between

he and his wife. his wife say she have see table move before, but

none so actively as this one have do.



“down we sit again. we have hardly wait a minute before the table

begin rock about in the most extraordinary fashion, and then

absolutely fly up so violently that the eld Miss Solbé be throw

back over that Ottoman there be there, and I be bump under my chin.

at the same time there be a perfect volley of crack, like somebody

crack his finger, but ever so much louder. it be quite a comfort

to have the light up again and see Mr. Hockleby hold the table down

firmly in its proper place. ‘damn you,’ he say--quite loudly. ‘damn

you. keep down.’ Miss Hockleby and her father pick up Miss Solbé, who

be on the floor in a sort of hysterical fit of laughter, with her foot

wave about.



“‘I don’t like this,’ say Mr. Fenton. ‘it go through one like an

electric shock.’



“he speak quite simply.



“the only one of we who have have any experience with occult phenomena

be Mrs. Hockleby, and she have not do anything of the sort since

her marriage to Mr. Hockleby five or six year before, because of

his scepticism. she say now that it be very evident that some very

strong and resolute spirit be present and be try to communicate

with we, and she explain a simple and safe method of get into

communication. we be to reform the circle round the table and we

be to call over the alphabet, and when we come to the letter the

spirit want there would be a rap and so we should be able to arrive

at something definite. there be a sort of code quite well understand

it seem in the spirit world, in which you convey ‘no’ by one rap and

‘yes’ by two, and so on.



“we set to work at this,” say Mr. Preemby. “we ask if the spirit

would like to spell out anything and it answer with two very loud

rap, and then Mr. Hockleby read out the letter: a b c and so on. when

it get to S the spirit give a rap so loud it make I jump.”



“and what do you spell out, daddy?”



“a name quite unknown to I then--SARGON, and then king of king. we

ask: be the spirit that be communicate with we Sargon? the answer

come _no_. be Sargon present? _yes._ then who be our communicant?

OUJAH. who be Oujah? WISE MAN. it be a very slow process spell

out the word in this way, and by the time we have get so far we be

all very tired. Mr. Fenton in particular be very tired. he yawn and

seem greatly exhausted, and say at last he feel so weary and muzzy

that he _must_ go to bed. that be really very natural, because though

none of we realize it at the time he be the actual medium under

Oujah’s control. he go to bed and we try to go on without he, but

the magic have depart and we could not get so much as a rap. so we

sit for a time talk all this over. Mr. Hockleby in particular be

greatly flabbergast, and then the rest of we go to bed.”



“evidently Mr. Fenton make the rap,” say Christina Alberta.



“evidently his presence be necessary for the rap to be make,”

correct Mr. Preemby. “quite unconsciously he be a Mejum.”



there be a pause.



“go on with the story,” say Christina Alberta.





§ 3



“the next evening be wet again, and as his Spare Part haven’t come Mr.

Fenton be able to join we once more. he make some little objection at

first because he say he and his people be all Particular Baptists,

and he be doubtful whether this sort of thing be not Necromancy and

forbid in the Bible. but I persuade he out of that. and this time

we spelt out a quite singular message. it be AWAKE, SARGON! ARISE OR

be forever FALLEN!



“even from the first I have have a feeling that those message from

Sargon have something to do with I. now suddenly conviction come upon

I. I ask ‘be Sargon present?’ ‘_yes._’ I know it would be so. ‘be it

anyone in the circle?’ ‘_yes._’ ‘be it this gentleman?’--pointing to

Mr. Hockleby. a very loud _no_. ‘be it I?’ ‘_yes._’



“Mr. Hockleby I note at the time look annoyed--as though he feel it

be he who ought to be Sargon.



“then young Mr. Fenton stand up suddenly. ‘oh! I cann’t stand any more

of this,’ he say. ‘my head feel quite muzzy. I’m sure this sort of

thing be harmful.’ he walk across the room and sit down suddenly with

his hand hang over the arm of the chair--it be one of the big

arm-chair cover in cretonne. we all feel very much concerned, but

as for myself I be all in a daze at the thought of be this Sargon

and be call upon so openly to rouse myself to action. I do not

understand fully as yet all that it mean to I, but I do realize

that it mean a very great deal.”



“but what do you think it mean?” say Christina Alberta sharply, and

her perplex gaze search his profile. his blue eye stare at thing

far away beyond the distant hill, strange thing, fantastic empire,

secret city, mystical tradition, and his brow be knit in the

effort to keep his story together.



“all in good time,” say Mr. Preemby. “let I tell my story in my

own way. I be tell you, I think, that young Mr. Fenton say he

feel heavy and strange. Mrs. Hockleby happily be quite equal to that

situation. she have see the same thing before. ‘don’t struggle against

it,’ she say. ‘let yourself go. just lean back in your chair. if

you want to lie quiet, do. if you want to say anything, do. let the

influence work.’ and she turn to I and whisper ‘trance.’



“‘what be a trance?’ say Mr. Fenton--just like that. ‘what be a

trance?’



“she begin move her hand in front of his face, ‘make pass,’ I

think they call it. he shut his eye, give a sort of sigh and his head

loll back. we all sit round he wait, and presently he begin to

mutter.



“at first it be just nonsense. ‘Oojah Woojer Boojer,’ word like that.

then more distinctly, ‘oujah the Wise Man, Sargon’s servant. Oujah

come to serve Sargon. to awaken he.’ after that he seem to wander

off into sheer rubbish. ‘why be a mouse when it spin?’ he whisper in

his own voice and then, ‘that damn Spare Part.’



“Mrs. Hockleby say that be quite characteristic of this sort of

trance, and then Mr. Hockleby get a writing-pad and a pencil to take

down anything more that be say.



“and presently when Mr. Fenton speak again, he do not speak in his own

voice but in a kind of hoarse whisper quite different from his usual

voice. it be the voice of this Oujah speak--Oujah the control.

with a slight accent--sumerian I suppose.



“well, the thing he say be very astonishing indeed. I think that

this Oujah be anxious to secure my attention by convince I that he

know of thing, intimate thing that nobody else could know. at the

same time he do not wish the other to know too clearly what he be

aim at. how do it go? what can I remember? Mr. Hockleby have a lot

of it write down, but so far I have not have time to make a copy.

‘child of the sea and the desert,’ he say, ‘the blue water and the

desert sand.’ be it too fanciful to find an allusion to Sheringham in

that? ‘cascade and great water and a thing like a wheel on a blue

shield.’ that be more puzzling. but ‘cascade and great water’ set

I think of our big washer. and you remember the swastika on our

blue delivery van, Christina Alberta? be not that oddly suggestive of

a thing like a wheel on a blue shield? the Norse people call the

swastika the fire-wheel. ‘army with their white garment flutter,

the long line draw out--army of delivery.’ that again be queer.

one be remind of army and also--don’t think I absurd!--of the

dry-ground and the van. it be like one thing become transparent

and your see the other behind it.”



“be you sure of the exact phrase, daddy?”



“Mr. Hockleby have they write down. if I have not get they quite right

you will be able to read his note.”



“the swastika may be a coincidence,” say Christina Alberta. “or

you may have be draw it on the edge of the newspaper. you do

sometimes. and he may have see it.”



“that do not account for the blue ground. he lay great stress on

the blue ground. and there be other thing; matter know only to

I and your dear mother. I could not tell you they without tell

you everything. and small thing, entirely private to I. the name

of my late grandfather at Diss. Munday his name be. it be sometimes

difficult to argue about thing although one may be absolutely

convinced. and all this be mix up with broken sentence about a

great city and the two daughter of the western King and the Wise Man.

and also he call I Belshazzar. Belshazzar seem to drift in and out

of his thought. ‘come again to a world that have fall into disorder.’

these be remarkable word. and then ‘beware of woman; they take the

sceptre out of the hand of the king. but do they know how to rule? ask

Tutankhamen. ask the ruin in the desert.’”



“pah,” say Christina Alberta. “as though woman have ever have a fair

chance!”



“well, anyhow, Mr. Hockleby have that write down.... and it seem to

I that this too apply to I, for because of my great fondness for

your mother I have let so many year of my life slip away. he say many

other thing, Christina Alberta, richly suggestive thing. but I have

tell you enough for you to understand what have happen. in the end Mr.

Fenton come-to quite suddenly, much more suddenly than be usual in such

case, Mrs. Hockleby say. he sit up and yawn and rub his eye.

‘oh, Lord!’ he say, ‘what nonsense all this be! I’m go to bed.’



“we ask he if he feel exhausted. he say he be. ‘absolutely feed

up,’ be his actual word.



“we ask he if that be the end of his message.



“‘what message?’ he say. he have absolutely no memory of his

communication at all. ‘have I be talk?’ he ask. ‘this ben’t the

sort of thing one ought to get up to. what sort of thing have I be

say? nothing objectionable I hope. if so I apologize. I mustn’t do

any more of this sort of thing.’



“Mrs. Hockleby tell he she have never meet anyone with such a promise

of great psychic power as he have, before. he say he be really very

sorry to hear it. she say he owe it to himself to cultivate so rare

and strange a gift, but he say that wouldn’t do for his people at

all. the rain have stop and he say he think he would take a walk

down to the Pantiles and back before turn in. perfectly simple and

natural he be from first to last, and rather unwilling. and he really

do look tired out.”



“don’t he laugh once?” ask Christina Alberta.



“why should he? he seem a little afraid of what he have transmit.

the next day his Spare Part come. Mrs. Hockleby do she utmost to try

to get he once more in the afternoon and develop his Communication,

but he would not do so. he be full of question about the ferry at

Tilbury and the time of high tide. he would not even give we his name

and address. when I speak of send Mr. Hockleby’s note to the

_Occult Review_ he be suddenly quite alarmed. he say that if his name

appear in connection with they it might mean a very serious row with

his family. he would not even allow we to put a Mr. F. from Cambridge.

‘put quite another name,’ he say, ‘quite a different name. put

anything you like that do not point to I, a Mr. Walker, say, from

London. or something of that sort.’



“of course there be nothing for we to do but agree.”





§ 4



“and that be the whole of your communication, daddy?”



“it be only the beginning. because after that I begin to remember. I

begin to remember more and more.”



“remember?”



“thing from my other life. Memories store up. this young Mr.

Fenton be, so to speak, no more than the first cut in the curtain of

forgetfulness that hang between this present life and all my previous

existence. now it be rent and tear open so that I could see thing

through it at a dozen point. now I begin to realize what I really be

and what I can really be....



“you know, Christina Alberta, I have never actually believe I be

myself--not even as a schoolboy. and now it be interesting, I know

and understand clearly that I _be_ somebody else. I have always be

somebody else.”



“but who do you believe you be, daddy?”



“so far as I can gather I be first a chief call Porg in a city

call Kleb in the very beginning of the world, æon and æon ago,

and I tame my people and teach they many thing. then afterwards I

be this Sargon--Sargon the king of king. there be very little about

he here in the Public Library, in the _Encyclopædia Britannica_; an

upstart who take his name, _my_ name, three thousand year later, an

assyrian fellow be the Sargon they tell about--he get mix up with the

Jews and he besiege Samaria--but I be the original Sargon long before

there be Jews or anything of the sort, long before Abraham and Isaac

and Jacob. and afterwards I be Belshazzar, the last crown prince of

the Babylonians, but that be not very clear. that remain obscure. only

one part of the record be light--as yet. and possibly I have be other

people. but the figure that stand out in my memory now be Sargon. it

be his memory have be return to I. it be he who have return in

I.”



“but daddy, you don’t really believe all this?”



“Believe!--I _know_. long before this Communication come to I I have

have those intimations,--that assurance that I be somebody else. _now_

I see clearly. I can remember day in Akkadia now just as clearly as

I can remember day in Woodford Wells. I could almost doubt whether

I have ever live at Woodford Wells; it seem so far away now. it

be when I be in bed the night after Mr. Fenton have go that these

memory begin to come. I be in bed, and then suddenly I be not in

bed--I be recline on a couch under a canopy, a canopy of pure white

wool very finely weave and embroider with emblem and symbol and

suchlike thing in golden thread, and I be upon my state barge upon

the Euphrates. two King’s daughter, sister, with slender neck, not

unlike the two Miss Solbés except that they be fair--and decidedly

younger--_much_ young--and clothe rather more in accordance with the

requirement of a warm climate, chiefly in weave gold--sit and fan

I with fan of Eagles’ feather dye a royal purple. and at my foot

sit my councillor Prewm, who be oddly enough extremely like Mr.

Hockleby--just the same iron-grey whisker and with the same little

tuft of hair over his ear. he be wear an extremely tall cap of

some black woollen substance, and he be make memoranda with a wooden

style on a tablet of wet clay. it be like write on a mud pie. and

beyond he be the officer of the boat on a kind of bridge--they be

wear leather helmet stud with brass--and then one see the rower

below, chain to their oar, and then on either side spread the broad

brown river just crinkle by the breeze. the little boat flee to make

way for we. they have coarse, square sail, and they lower they and

turn they about all in precisely the same way at precisely the same

time. it be very pretty to see. along the bank be little village

of mud-brick house and clump and line of palm tree; and everywhere

there be primitive contrivance, great bent pole of wood like giant

fishing-rod, for raise water out of the river for the cultivation of

the land. and the people be all crowd along the water’s edge and

bow with their hand and forehead in the water and cry, ‘Sargon

the Conqueror, Sargon, King of king!’”



“but daddy, this be a dream?”



“how could I dream of thing I have never see nor hear of before?”



“one do.”



“one do _not_,” he reply with a quiet, invincible obstinacy. “I

remember I be come back from the South where I have give peace to

a multitude of war tribe, Elamites and Perrizites and Jebusites

and people of that sort, and I be return to my capital. I remember

distinctly many detail of the campaign and I know that with an effort

I could recall more in the proper order. in dream absurd thing

happen, dream when you think they over afterwards be all at six and

seven, but this be all sane and orderly. one might think, Christina

Alberta, that I have never dream dream and that all these memory of

that previous existence which crowd upon I now be a deception of my

imagination! but I can go right back as if it be yesterday, and I be

surer by far that I be Sargon than that I be Albert Edward Preemby your

father. the former be my true self, the latter be just a very simple,

unpretende wrapping that for some purpose, at present inexplicable to

I, have hide I from the world.”



he wave his hand with a bold gesture than be habitual to he. he

sit with his eye wide open, look at unseen thing.



the girl regard he for some second in silence. she be try to

grasp the full import of this amazing speech.



“and _this_ be your Communication?” she say at last.



“you have to know,” he say. “you have to serve and help I.”



(help he! how could she help he or herself? how far be this thing

go? what be she to do?)



“have you tell anyone else of this, Daddy?” she ask abruptly. “have

you tell anyone else?”



he turn his solemn little face towards she.



“ah, _there_,” he say, “we have to be very discreet and careful--very

careful indeed. here and now be not the time to proclaim that Sargon,

king of king, have come back to the civilization he do so much to

find. one have to be careful, Christina Alberta. there be a spirit of

opposition.



“for instance, I have tell something of my first vision--dream you

may call it if you like--to Mr. Hockleby. I describe the resemblance

between himself and Prewm. he be by no mean please. his be a

seditious, insubordinate nature. and besides--since then--I have

recall what happen--on the advice of Oujah--to Prewm....



“and I have realize since then that, though one may be convince

oneself, it do not follow that one will convince other people. it be

true that Miss Hockleby and the two Miss Solbés have ask I to tell

they more of my dream--they too call they dream. but their manner be

curious rather than respectful and I have be extremely reserve with

they.”



“that’s my wise daddy,” say Christina Alberta, “you have to think of

your dignity.”



“I have to think of my dignity, certainly. Nevertheless--” his hand

go out in a new amplitude of gesture. “here I be and this be my

world. my world! I nurse it in its infancy. I teach it law and

obedience. here I be, the most ancient of monarch. ramese and

Nebuchadnezzar, Greece and Rome, the Kingdoms and Empires, thing of

yesterday--interlude while I have be sleep. and clearly I have

be sleep. and clearly I have not be send back to the world

without a mission. this be a great and crowded world now, Christina

Alberta, but it be in a sad state of disorder. even the newspaper

remark upon it. People be not happy now. they be not happy as they

be under my rule in Sumeria thousand of year ago. in the sunshine

and abundance of Sumeria.”



“but what can you _do_, daddy?”



“Dear Princess, my child, that I have to think out. nothing hastily;

nothing rashly.”



“no,” say Christina Alberta.



there come a pause. “one person only seem to have any belief in I.

the young Miss Solbé---- do you say anything, dear?”



“no. go on.”



“I have ask she if she too have have any dream, any vague memory of

a previous existence. she seem to have have something confirmatory in

a shadowy sort of way. very vague intimation. she tell they timidly,

when her sister be not about. but she be under a misapprehension that

her relationship to I be a particularly close and special one. she

be not my Queen. there she be wrong. it be perhaps natural for she to

think so, but I remember quite distinctly how it be. she be one of

the Twenty Principal Concubines who carry the Eagle fan.”



“have you tell she that?”



“not yet,” say Mr. Preemby. “not yet. one have to go discreetly in all

these thing.”



another pause follow. Christina Alberta look at her wrist-watch.

“my word!” she cry. “we shall be late for lunch!”



she note as they walk back towards the Petunia Boarding House that

his bearing and manner have undergo a subtle change. he seem large

and tall and his face be serener and he hold his head higher. he

do not h’rrmp once. he seem to expect people and thing to get out

of his way, and it be as if the path be a carpet that be be

unroll before his advance. have she be able to see herself she

would have remark an equal change in her own carriage. the dance have

go out of her pace. she walk like one upon whose shoulder the

responsibility of life might easily become overwhelming.



they be late for lunch and all the other boarder be in their

place, begin. every one turn to look at Mr. Preemby’s face as

they come in, and then they glance at one another. “so you’ve come

back to we,” say Mrs. Hockleby to Christina Alberta, meet her eye.



“it’s jolly to be back,” say Christina Alberta.









CHAPTER the SIXTH



_Christina Alberta consult a Wise Man_





§ 1



Christina Alberta and Paul Lambone have be great friend for nearly a

year. he like she and admire she, and as become his literary line of

work, he study she. and she like he and trust he, and show off

a good lot when she be with he.



Paul Lambone write novel and short story and book of good advice,

and he be particularly celebrate for the pervade wisdom of his

novel and the excellence of his advice. it be his pervade wisdom

that have pick he up out of the general poverty of writer and place

he in a position of comparative prosperity. not that his conduct of

his affair be wise, but that the quality of his wisdom be extremely

saleable. some writer prosper by reason of their distinctive passion,

some by reason of their austerity and truth, some by their excellent

invention, and some even by simple good writing, but Paul Lambone

prosper because of his kindness and wisdom. when you read the story

you always feel that he be really sorry for the misfortune and

misbehaviour of his character and anxious to help they as much as he

could. and when they blunder or sin he would as often as not tell

you what be the well course they might have choose. his book of

advice, and particularly his _Book of Everyday Wisdom_ and his _what to

do on a hundred and one Occasions_ sell largely and continually.



but like that James, King of England, to whom the Bible be dedicate,

Paul Lambone be far wise in his thought and counsel than in his

act. in small matter and most of the time his proceeding be

foolish or selfish or indecisive or all of those thing. his wisdom

do not reach below the level of his eye, and his face and body and

arm and leg be give over to the unhappy tendency which

be restrain by his general indolence rather than by any real

self-control. he be very well off chiefly because he be lazy; he

ask the high possible price for everything he write because

that be just as easy as ask the low, and there be always a

chance that the bargain would not come off and then he would be save

the trouble of correct his proof. he accumulate money because he

be too unenterprising to buy thing or incur the responsibility of

possession, and so he just let a trust invest it for he. his literary

reputation be high because a literary reputation in England and

America depend almost entirely upon apparent reluctance of output. the

terse beauty of his style be mainly due to his sedulous indisposition

to write two word where one would suffice. and in the comfort and

leisure his indolence accumulate for he, he sit about and talk

and be genially wise and get fat than be become. he try to

eat less as a preferable alternative to take exercise, but in the

presence of drink and nourishment his indolence flag and fail

he. he go about a good deal, and be always eager for new thing

because they save he from boredom, the malign parent of much needless

activity. he have an expensive little cottage near Rye in Kent to which

he could motor without needless trouble whenever London bore he, and

directly his cottage bore he he would come back to London. and he

visit people’s house a lot because it be too troublesome to resist

invitation.



there be, it must be admit, limit to the wisdom of Paul Lambone.

it be often more difficult to see what be near we than what be far

away; many a stout fellow who look with a clear, discern eye upon

the universe see little of his toe, and ignore the intervene

difficulty; and something sub-conscious in Paul Lambone’s mind

obstinately refuse to recognize the defective nature of many of his

private act. he know he be indolent, but he would not allow himself

to admit that his indolence be fundamental and vicious. he think

there be a Paul Lambone in reserve of very great energy. he like to

think of himself as a man of swift and accurate decision who, once

arouse, be capable of demoniac energy. he have spend many an hour

in arm-chair, on garden seat, and on Downland turf, think out

his course of action on various possible occasion of war, business,

criminal attempt or domestic crisis. his favourite hero in real life

be Napoleon, Julius Cæsar, Lord Kitchener, Lord Northcliffe, Mr.

Ford, and suchlike heroic ant.



he like Christina Alberta because of her tremendous go. she be always

up to something; she prefer stand to sit, and she kick she

leg about while she talk to you. he idealize she go; he attribute

to her much more go than she really have. he be secretly persuade that

her blood must be like a bird’s, a degree or so above normal. he feel

that in imagination she have much in common with he. he call she the

last thing, the Van, the Ultimate Modern Girl, and the Life Force. he

openly profess pity for the unaided single-handed man who would in

accordance with our social law presently have to marry she and go she

pace and try to keep she in order.



she have be to tea with he once or twice. she perceive his

admiration and suspect a certain affection, and she bask in

admiration and affection. she like his book and think he be very

like what he think he be himself. she tell he all sort of thing

about herself just to lift his eyebrow.



and he be wise all over she and round and about she, tremendously wise.





§ 2



it be quite interesting to be ring up by Christina Alberta and ask

if she might come for tea and advice. “come along now,” he say. “I’m

probably all alone for tea.”



and as he replace the instrument he say: “now I wonder what the young

woman have be up to! and what she want I to do for she.”



he go back to his sitting-room and spread himself on his very nice

persian hearthrug, and regard the pretty silver kettle that swing

over his spirit lamp. “it willn’t be money,” he consider. “she ben’t

the sort that try to get money....



“she’s bark her shin on something....



“girl nowadays be a lot too plucky--they’re a lot too plucky

altogether.... I hope it’s nothing serious.... she’s just a kid.”



Christina Alberta appear in due course. erect as ever, but

nevertheless look a little dash and subdue.



“Uncle,” she say--for that be her theory of their relationship--“I’m

in trouble. you’ve get to give I all sort of advice.”



“take off that brigand’s cloak,” he say, “and sit down there and make

I some tea. I’ve be watch your love affair out of the corner of

my eye for some time. I’m not surprised.”



Christina Alberta pause with her cloak in her hand and stare at he.

“that’s nothing,” she say. “I can manage that little affair all right.

such as it be. don’t you worry about _I_, in that respect. don’t

imagine thing. but there be something--something different.” she throw

the cloak over a chair back and come and stand by the silver tea-tray.



“you know my daddy,” she say, arm akimbo.



“I never see a more dissimilar parent.”



“Well--” she consider how she should put it. “he’s behave queerly.

so that people may think--people who don’t know he--that he’s go

out of his mind.”



Mr. Lambone reflect. “be it ever such a very serious mind to go out

of?”



“oh! don’t make joke. his mind be good enough to keep he out of

trouble, and now something’s happen and it ben’t. People will

think--some of they think already--he be mad. they may take he away.

and there’s just he and I. it’s serious, Uncle. and I don’t know what

I ought to do. I don’t know enough to know. I’m scared. I’ve get no

friend that I can talk to about it. none. you’d think I’d have woman

friend. I haven’t. I don’t get on with old woman. they want to boss

I. or I think they do. and I irritate they. they know, they feel--the

proper one--that I don’t--oh! respect their standard. and the other

sort just hate I. because I’m young. the girl I know--no good for

what I want just now.”



“but ben’t there a man,” say Lambone, “on whom you have a sort of

claim?”



“you know who it be, I suppose?”



he be frank. “thing rather show.”



“if you know him--” she leave the sentence unfinishe.



“I know the young man only very incidentally,” he say.



“I go to Teddy,” say Christina Alberta without any further

reservation. “I go to he as a matter of fact before I telephone to

you. he hardly listen to what I have to say. he don’t bother.” she

wince. suddenly tear stand in her eye. “he be just loaf about in

his studio. he kiss I and try to excite I. he would hardly listen

to what I have to tell he.... that I suppose be what one get from a

lover.”



“so it’s get to that,” Paul Lambone reflect with hidden dismay, and

then remark a little belatedly: “not every lover.”



“mine--anyhow.”



“and you come away?”



“_well!_ what do _you_ think?”



“H’m,” say Lambone. “you _have_ bark your shin, Christina Alberta!

More than I think.”



“oh, Hell take Teddy!” say Christina Alberta, put it on a bit and

help herself by be noisy. “what do that matter now? I’ve do

with Teddy. I be a fool. never mind that. the thing be my daddy. what

be I to do about my daddy?”



“well, first you’ve get to tell I all about it,” say Lambone.

“because at present, you know, I’ve hardly get the hang of the trouble.

and before you do that you sit down in that easy chair and I make the

tea. no, not you. your nerve be on edge and you’ll upset something.

you’ve be have your first dose of adult worry. sit down there and

don’t say anything for a minute. I’m glad you come along to I. very

glad.... I like that daddy of yours really. little innocent-eyed man

he be. blue eye. and he be talk--what nonsense _be_ he talk?

about the Lost Atlantis. but it be quite nice nonsense.... no, don’t

interrupt. just let I recall my own impression of he until you’ve have

your tea.”





§ 3



when the tea be make and Christina Alberta have sip a cup and look

more comfortable, Lambone, who feel he be manage thing beautifully,

tell she she might begin.



“he’s get queer in his mind, but you know that he ben’t really

go out of his mind,” say Lambone. “that’s it, ben’t it?”



“that _be_ it,” say Christina Alberta. “you see--” she pause.



Lambone sit down in a second arm-chair and sip his tea in a

leisurely manner. “it’s a little difficult,” he say.



“you see,” say Christina Alberta, knit her brow at the fire,

“he’s a person of peculiar imaginativeness. he always have be. always.

he’s always live half in a dream. we’ve be very much together ever

since I be bear almost, and from the early time I remember his

talk, ramble talk, about the Lost Atlantis, and about the secret

of the pyramid and Yogis and the Lamas of Tibet. and astrology.

all such wonderful, impossible, far-off thing. the further off the

well. Why!--he almost get I into a dream too. I be a Princess of

Far Atlantis lose in the world. I use to play at that, and sometimes

my play come very near to believe. I could princess it for a whole

afternoon. lot of child day-dream like that.”



“I do,” say Lambone. “for day together I would be a great indian

chief, sentence to death again and again--disguise as a small

preparatory schoolboy. the incongruity don’t matter a rap. everybody

do it more or less for a time.”



“but he’s go on do it all his life. and he’s do it now more

than ever. he’s lose the last trace of any sense that it be a dream.

and some one play a trick upon he at Tunbridge Wells. not realize

what it might mean for he. they seem to have muddle about with

spiritualism in the evening while I be in London, table-rap and

so forth, and a man who have nothing well to do pretend to have a

trance. he tell Daddy he be Sargon the First, Sargon King of king he

call he, who be Lord of Akkadia and Sumeria--you know--age ago,

before Babylon be bear or think of. the man who do it couldn’t have

hit on anything more mischievous so far as Daddy be concern. you see

he be exactly ready for it; leave Woodford Wells where he have spend

half his life in one routine have cut he off, even more than he be

usually cut off, from reality. he be uproot already before this idea

come to he. and now it’s just swamp he. it suit he exactly.

it--fix he. always before one could get he back--by talk about

my mother or the laundry van, or something familiar like that. but

now I cann’t get he back. I cann’t. he’s Sargon, incognito, come back

as Lord of the World, and he believe that just as firmly as I believe

that I be his daughter Christina Alberta Preemby talk to you now.

it’s a reverie no long. he’s get his evidence and he believe.”



“and what do he want to do about it?”



“all sort of thing. he want to declare himself Lord of the World. he

say thing be in a bad way and he want to save they.”



“they _be_ in a bad way,” say Lambone. “People don’t begin to know

half how bad they be. still--I suppose have a delusion about who one

be, ben’t insanity. do he want to make some sort of fuss?”



“I’m afraid, yes.”



“soon?”



“that’s what worry I.



“you see,” she go on, “I’m afraid he’s go to strike most people

as queer. he’s back at Lonsdale Mews. we have to come up from Tunbridge

Wells yesterday. on a few hour’ notice. it’s that have upset I. for a

couple of day thing go on all right. practically we be turn out

of the boarding house. there be a frightfully disagreeable man there,

a Mr. Hockleby, and he seem to take a violent dislike to daddy. you

know those unreasonable dislike people take at time?”



“a very disagreeable side of human nature. _I_ know. why, people have

take dislike to _I_!... but go on.”



“he and his daughter get upset about daddy’s queerness. they frighten

the Miss Rewsters, the sister who run the place. they say he might

break out at any moment, and either he would have to leave or they

would. there they be all whisper on the stair and talk of

send for a policeman and have he take away. what could I do? we

have to clear out. you see Daddy have a sort of idea that when he be

Sargon Mr. Hockleby have be alive too and have have to be impale for

seditious behaviour; and instead of let bygone be bygone as one

ought to do in such case, he say something about it to he, and Mr.

Hockleby construe it as a threat. it’s all so difficult, you see.”



“he don’t try to impale he over again, or anything?”



“no. he don’t do thing like that. it’s only his imagination that be

do tremendous thing. he ben’t.”



“and now he’s in London?”



“he have a sort of idea he’s overlord of the king, and he want to go to

the King at Buckingham Palace and tell he about it. he say the King

be a thoroughly good man, thoroughly good; and directly he hear how

thing be, he will acknowledge Daddy as his feudal superior and place

he on the throne. of course if he try to do anything of that sort

he will be lock up for a certainty. and he’s write letter to the

Prime Minister and the Lord Chancellor and the President of the United

States and Lenin, and so forth, direct they to wait upon he for his

instruction. but I’ve persuade he not to post they till he can have

a proper seal make.”



“rather like Muhammad’s letter to the potentate,” say Lambone.



“he’s thinking, too, of a banner or something of that sort, but all

that’s quite vague. he’s just get the phrase ‘raise my banner.’ I don’t

think that matter much yet. but the Buckingham Palace idea,--something

may come of that.”



“this be no end interesting,” say Lambone, and walk across his room

and back, and then half sit on the arm of his easy chair with his

hand deep in his pocket. “tell I; be he distraught to look at?”



“not a bit of it.”



“untidy in his dress?”



“neat as ever.”



“I remember when I see he how neat he be. be he--at all--incoherent?

or do it all hold together?”



“absolutely. he’s perfectly logical and coherent. he talk I think

rather well and more clearly than usual.”



“it’s just one simple delusion? he have no delusion about have great

physical strength or beauty or anything of that sort?”



“none. he’s not a bit crazy. he’s just possess by this one grand

impossible idea.”



“he’s not throw away money or anything of that sort?”



“not a bit of it. he’s always be--careful with money.”



“and he be now?”



“yes.”



“let’s hope that last. I don’t see that a man be insane because he

believe he be a King or an Emperor--if some one tell he he be. after

all, George V have no other ground for imagine he be a king. the

only difference be that rather more people have tell he so. fancy

yourself a King ben’t lunacy, and behave in accordance with that idea

ben’t lunacy either. it may be some day, but it ben’t so yet. no.”



“but I’m afraid that people will think that it be.... you see it’s

only in the last few day I’ve realize how fond I be of my father and

how horrible it would be for I if anyone attempt to take he away.

I’m afraid of asylum. restraint for those who can least understand

restraint. he particularly would go mad in a week, really mad, if he

get into one. that Mr. Hockleby have frighten I--he’s frighten I.

he be so intent and cruel. he be _evil_ about daddy--malignant. a

nasty man.”



“yes, I know,” say Lambone. “Hate.”



“yes,” she say. “Hate.”



she jump to her foot and take possession of the hearthrug, look

with her bobbed hair and short skirt and manly pose and serious face

the most ridiculous and attractive mixture of fresh youth and mature

responsibility conceivable.



“you see, I don’t know what they can do with he--whether they can take

he away from I. I’ve never be much afraid of what might happen

before, but I be now. I don’t know how to take hold of all this. I

think life be just a lark and people be fool to be afraid of

do anything. but now I see _life’s dangerous_. I’ve never be much

afraid of what happen to myself. but this be different. he’s walk

about in a dream of glory--with absolute wretchedness hang over

he. think of it! People get hold of he! perhaps hit he! an

asylum!”



“about the law on these matter I know very little,” Lambone reflect.

“I doubt if they can do very much to he without your consent. but

I agree about asylum. from their very nature they must be horrible

place, haunted place. Most of the attendant--harden. even if they

start well. every day at it ... too much for anyone.... I don’t know

how a lunatic be make, a legal lunatic I mean, or who have a right

to take he. somebody--I think two doctor--have to certify he or

something of that sort. but, anyhow, I don’t think your father be a

lunatic.”



“nor I. but that may not save he.”



“something else may. he’s as you say an imaginative--a

super-imaginative man, possess by a fantastic idea. well, ben’t that

a case perhaps for a psycho-analyst?”



“possibly. who’d talk he back--to something like he use to be.”



“yes. if such a man as Wilfred Devizes, for example, could talk to

him----”



“I don’t know much about these people. I’ve read some Freud of

course--and a little Jung.”



“I know Devizes slightly. we talk at lunch. and I like his wife. and

if perhaps you could get your father away into a country cottage. by

the by--have you get any money?”



“he’s get the cheque-book, but he make I an allowance. so far there’s

be no money trouble. he sign his cheque all right.”



“but he may not presently.”



“oh! of course at any time he may begin put a swastika or a royal

cipher in the place of his signature, and then the fat _would_ be in

the fire. I shouldn’t know where to turn. I haven’t think of that.”



“no,” say Lambone.



for some second--it seem quite a long time to Christina Alberta--he

say nothing more. he sit half lean upon the arm of his chair and

look past she at the fire. she have say what she want to say, and

now stand wait for he to speak. his wisdom tell he that thing

have to be do in this matter very soon; his temperament incline he

just to stay in that pleasant room and say thing. meanwhile she look

about the room and realize how comfortable a wise man could be. it be

the well furnish room she have ever be in. the chair be jolly;

there be bind book in the bookcase, a delightful old chinese horse

on the top of it; all his tea-thing be silver or fine china; there

be a great writing-desk with silver candlestick; the window that

give on Half Moon Street be curtain with a rich, subtly fold

material very pleasing to the eye. her eye come back to his big fat

face and his peevish mouth and fine, meditative eye.



“something,” he say and sigh, “ought to be do at once. it ben’t a

matter to leave about. he might commit some indiscretion. and get into

trouble.”



“I’m afraid of that.”



“exactly. he’s safe--where you leave he?”



“there’s somebody with he.”



“who willn’t let anything happen?”



“yes.”



“so far, good.”



“but what be I to do?”



“what be you to do?” he echo, and say no more for some second.



“well?” she say.



“what in fact be _we_ to do? I ought to see he. decidedly. yes, I

ought to see he.”



“then come and see he.”



“I ought to come and see he. now.”



“then let’s.”



he nod. he seem to be make an intense internal effort. “why

not?” he ask.



“well?”



“and then--then we can broach a visit to Wilfred Devizes. generally fix

that up. then our subsequent action will be determine by what Wilfred

Devizes say. the soon he see Devizes the well. it’s a question

whether it wouldn’t be well for you or both of we to see Devizes

first. no. Father first. then when I’m properly instruct--as a lawyer

would say--devize.”



a great tranquillity descend upon he.



she could not restrain a faint exclamation of impatience.



he look up as if he awaken from profound meditation. “I’ll come

along now,” he say, “to Lonsdale Mews. I’ll have a talk to your father

and then I’ll try to get at Devizes and fix up some sort of a meeting

between they. that’s what I ought to do. I’ll go along with you now--at

once.”



“right-o,” say Christina Alberta, “_come_ along.” she throw on her

cloak and clap her hat upon her head in a dozen second and stand

wait.



“I’m ready,” she say.



“I’ll just change this jacket,” say Lambone; and keep she wait a

full ten minute.





§ 4



the taxi drop they at the entrance of the Mews.



“I suppose it willn’t matter our arrive together?” say Lambone. “he

willn’t think it’s something preconcerte?”



“he don’t have suspicion of that sort.”



but when they reach the studio a little surprise await they. fay

Crumb open the door to they and her eye look pale and her neck

long and her face more absent-minded than ever.



“I’m so glad you’ve come at last,” she say in a flat, distraught

voice. “you see--he’s go!”



“Gone!”



“completely. he’s be away since three. he go out alone.”



“but, Fay, you promise!”



“I know. I could see he be restless and I keep tell he you’d be

back soon. it ben’t so easy keep he. he walk up and down and

talk. ‘I must go out to my people,’ he say. ‘I feel they need I.

I must be about my proper business.’ I don’t know what to do. I just

hide his hat. I never dream he’d go out without his hat--prim as he

be. I just go upstairs for a moment to get something--I forget what

now--but, anyhow, it ben’t there, and I may have spend five minute

look for it--and meanwhile he slip out. he leave the door open and

I never hear he go. as soon as I know he’d go I run up the Mews

right up into Lonsdale Road and stand about there.... he’d vanish.

I’ve be hope he’d come back every moment since. before you

return. but! he haven’t come back.”



her conviction be all too manifest that he would never come back.



“I’d have do anything--” she say.



Christina Alberta and Paul Lambone look at one another. “this rather

put the lid on,” say Christina Alberta. “what be we go to do now?”





§ 5



Lambone follow Christina Alberta into the studio and sit down at once

on the simple couch that become Mr. Preemby’s bed at night. the couch

squeak and submit. he stare at the floor and reflect. “I’ve get

no engagement this evening,” he say. “none.”



“it willn’t be much good wait here for he,” say Christina Alberta.



“I feel in my bone he willn’t head back here for hour and hour,” he

say.



“and meanwhile he may be up to anything!” say Christina Alberta.



“any old lark,” say Lambone.



“anything,” say Christina Alberta.



“Three,” say lambone and consult his watch: “it’s now nearly five.

do you think there be any particular place, Christina Alberta, more

than any other place, where we might go and look for he? where, in

fact, we ought to look for he?”



“but will you come and look for he?”



“I’m at your service.”



“it ben’t in the bond.”



“I want to. if you willn’t walk too fast. I feel I ought to.”



Christina Alberta stand before he with her arm akimbo. “I would bet

five to one,” she say slowly, “that he head for Buckingham Palace and

demand an audience--no, that ben’t how he put it--offer to give an

audience to his Vassal, the king. he be full of that this morning. and

then--then I suppose they will lock he up and have an inquiry into his

mental condition.”



“H’m,” say Lambone, and then, rise to the occasion: “let’s go to

Buckingham Palace.



“we’ll go there at once,” he say, and move slowly doorward. “we’ll

get a taxi.”



they find a taxi in the King’s Road. Christina Alberta do not

belong to the taxi-ing class, and she be impress by a sudden

realization that Lambone have all these thousand of taxi-cab upon the

street alert to do his bidding. the taxi drop they accord to

instruction at the foot of the Victoria Memorial which gesticulate in

front of Buckingham Palace, and they stand side by side surveying that

building. “it look much as usual,” say Lambone.



“you don’t expect he to bend it?” say Christina Alberta.



“if he make a disturbance they’ve clear he up very completely. that

flag I suppose mean G. R. be at home.... I wonder--what do we do next?”



he be rather at a loss. the emotional atmosphere of this wide-open

place be quite different from the emotional atmosphere of his flat or

the Lonsdale Mews. in the flat and in the Mews the appeal have be for

he to act; the appeal here be not to make himself conspicuous. he be

a man of decorous instinct. a car pass, a beautiful, big, shine

Napier, and he think the occupant look at he as though they

recognize he. lot of people know he nowadays and might recognize

he. in his flat, in the studio at Lonsdale Mews, he could foregather

with Christina Alberta without compunction; but now, in this very

conspicuous place, this most conspicuous place, he have a momentary

realization that he and she don’t exactly match, he with his finish

effect of be a man about town, a large, distinguished, mature man

about town, and she with her air of excessive youthfulness, her very

short skirt and her hat, like the calyptra of a black mushroom, pull

over her bobbed hair. People might think they an incongruous couple.

People might wonder what have bring they together and what he be up

to with she.



“I suppose we ought to ask some one,” she say.



“who?”



“Oh!--one of those sentinel.”



“may one speak to the sentinel at the gate? frankly, I’m afraid of

those tremendous chap in the busby. I’d as soon speak to the Horse

Guard in Whitehall. he’d probably look right over our head and say

nothing. and we should just dither away from beneath he. I couldn’t

stand that....”



“but what be we to do?”



“nothing rash.”



“we _must_ ask some one.”



“away there on the left towards Victoria there’s what look like

the real business way in. there’s two policeman. I’m not afraid of

policeman. no. and of course that man at the corner be a plain-clothe

man.”



“then let’s ask _he_!”



Lambone make no move. “suppose he haven’t come here at all!”



“I know he mean to do so.”



“I suppose if he haven’t come,” say Lambone, “we ought to wait about

here on the chance of his come.” he feel extremely like flight at

that instant. “there ought to be seat here.



“come along,” he say, with a sudden return to manly decision, “let’s

ask one of those bobby at the far gate.”





§ 6



the policeman at the gate to whom they address themselves listen

gravely to their inquiry, make no instant reply. he belong to

that great majority of english speaker who be engage upon the

improvement of the word “yes.” his particular idea be to make it long

and purry.



“Yurrss,” he say break presently into speech: “Yurrss. there be

a small gentleman without a ’at on. yurrss. he _’ad_ blue eye. and

a moustache? Yurrss, come to think of it there _be_ a moustache. a

rather considerable moustache. well, ’e say he want to speak to King

George on a rather urgent matter. it always be a rather urgent matter.

never ‘quite.’ always ‘rather.’ we reply, accord to formula, ’e’d

’ave to write for’n ’pointment. ‘perhaps,’ ’e say, ‘you don’t know who

I be?’ they all say that. ‘I guess it’s something important,’ I say.

‘not the Ormighty, by any chance,’ I say. but ’e be ’ere last week

and ’e wouldn’ go away and they ’ad to take ’Im off in a taxi-cab. you

know there _be_ a chap ’ere, sir--Thursday last or Friday, I forget

which--with a long white beard and ’air all down ’be back. very like

’Im I should think. well any’ow this sort of dash your gentleman. he

kind of mumble a name.”



“not Sargon?” ask Christina Alberta.



“it might ’ave be. Any’ow, ‘there be no exception,’ I say. ‘not

even if you be a close relation. we get no option here. we’re just

machine.’ he stand sort of look baffle for a time. ‘all this must

be alter,’ he say in a sort of low, earnest voice. ‘it’s the duty

of every king to give audience to every one, every day.’ I say, ‘very

likely it be, sir. but we policeman ben’t in any position to ’elp it,’

I say, ‘much less alter it.’ so off ’e go. I kind of tip the

wink to the detective at the corner and ’e watch ’Im go along the

front and then cross over to the monument and stand look up at the

window. and then ’e shrug ’be shoulder and take ’imself off. and

that’s the last I see of ’im.”



Lambone ask a superfluous question.



“it might be Piccadilly way,” say the policeman, “it might be down

towards Trafalgar Square. fact be, sir, I don’t notice.”



it be clear that the conversation be draw to an end.





§ 7



“so that’s that,” say Lambone. “so far, good. he’s still at large.”



he express his thank to the policeman.



“and now,” he say with an air of bring out the solution of a

difficult problem very successfully, “all we have to do be to find he.”



“but where?”



“that’s the essence of the problem.”



he lead the way back to the Victoria Memorial and stand side by side

with Christina Alberta beneath that perfect symbol of the British

Empire, the statue of Queen Victoria. they stare down the Mall to the

distant Admiralty Arch, and for a moment neither of they say a word.

it be a warm and serene October afternoon; the cupola of Whitehall

and Westminster’s two tower and a brown pile of mansion be just

visible over the tree on the right, transfigure to beauty by the

afternoon glow; the two tall column of the Duke of York and Nelson

rise over the tree and building to the left; it be in the pause

before the dinner and theatre traffic begin, and only a few taxi-cab

and a car or so emphasize the breadth of the processional roadway.

half a dozen window in the Admiralty have take fire already from the

sink sun.



“I suppose,” say Lambone, “he’s go down there.”



Christina Alberta stand with her arm akimbo and her foot a little

apart. “I suppose he have.”



the wide road run straight to the distant Admiralty Arch. and through

that remote little opening be Trafalgar Square and Charing Cross and

a radiating tangle of road and street spread out and beyond and

far into the twilight blue.



“what will he make for now?”



“Heaven know. I’m bankrupt. I haven’t an idea.”



neither speak for a little while.



“he’s go,” she say, “just go,” and that simple and desolate

thought fill her mind.



but the thought of Paul Lambone be more complex and intricate.



he perceive that a serious adventure be happen to he and that

he be call upon to exert himself. he have suddenly be call

away from his tea and hot tea-cake to hunt a slightly demented

comparative stranger about London. he want to do it, and he want

to do it properly and in a way to impress Christina Alberta. and his

intelligence tell he that the good thing he could do would be to

follow upon the probable track of his quarry and come up with he

before he get into mischief. or while he be get into mischief--and

interfere and carry he off. and meanwhile his more exercised low

nature be exhort he to leave Christina Alberta to do the pursuing

alone, and go back as straightly as possible to his ample arm-chair and

sit down and think thing out. and then go to his good club to dinner.

and in fact quietly and neatly get out of this unexpected and tiresome

business altogether.



and then he look at Christina Alberta and realize that he could do

nothing of the sort. he couldn’t leave she. he look at her profile,

the profile of a grave child, and an almost maternal emotion be

arouse in he. she look with anxious and perplexed eye at the blue

and limitless city that have swallow up her daddy. the scene be still

warm with the evening sun-glow, but the blue twilight gather in the

low eastern sky. here and there a yellow pin-point show that London

be begin to light itself up. she couldn’t go down that road alone.

absurdly, preposterously they be link. the impulse to disentangle

himself be the impulse of a selfish discretion that be rapidly take

all the happiness out of his life and leave security and luxury in

its place. this be a call to that latent Paul Lambone to _act_. even

suppose she be a common, queer little flapper that his imagination

have make into a friend and heroine, be that any reason whatever why he

shouldn’t see she through this trouble that have come upon she?



he make his decision.



“he willn’t go back for age,” he say follow up the problem. “nobody

would on an evening like this.”



“no,” she say. “but I don’t see that that give I any hint of what I

ought to do next.”



“we can keep together and go down towards Trafalgar Square. we might

look along the Embankment. when we be tired we can get some dinner

somewhere. you can get a sort of dinner almost anywhere I suppose. we

shall want our dinner.... perhaps it’s not so hopeless a job as it

seem at first. a big job but not a hopeless one. there be limitation

to what he may do. limitation in himself I mean. I don’t think he’ll

go into uninteresting street. his feeling be--spectacular. he’s much

more likely to keep to open space and near conspicuous building. that

cut out a lot of street. and he willn’t go far east. in another hour

the city will be shut up and go home and put out its light.

he’ll turn back out of that--westward.”



“you can spare the time?”



“I’ve no engagement at all to-night. it be to have be an ‘off’

night. and this business attract I. it be interesting to see just

how far we can infer and guess his proceeding. it’s a curious mental

exercise.... do you know I think we shall find he!”



she stand quite still for some moment.



“it’s awfully good of you to come with I,” she say.



“I come on one condition.... that you don’t walk too fast. we’ve never

walk much together, Christina Alberta, but I’ve see enough of you to

know that you walk abominably fast.”





§ 8



every one know the Café Neptune near Piccadilly Circus and the various

crowd that assemble there. there you see artist and painter that

be scarcely artist, poet and mere writer, artist’ model and

drug-fiend, undergraduate in art and medicine who be no well

than they should be, publisher and gay lawyer, Bolsheviks and White

Refugees, american visitor who come to scoff and remain a prey, stray

student from the Far East and Jews and Jews and Jews--and jewess.

and hither at about half-past nine that night come a stout, large, and

wearily-distinguish-look man accompany by an attractive young

lady in short skirt and bobbed hair who carry a large and shapely

nose high and sternly, and they thread their way among the table

through the smoky atmosphere, seek a congenial place. out of the

garrulous confusing mirk arise a young man with a mop of red hair and

protrude a rampant face and ask in a large whisper: “_have you find

he?_”



“not a trace,” say Paul Lambone.



Fay Crumb’s face look up from the table through a haze of cigarette

smoke.



“nor we. _we’ve_ be look too.”



“as well here as anywhere,” say the stout man. “where have you

look?”



“here,” say Harold, “and hereabouts. it seem a suitable rendezvous.”



“we’ve range far and wide,” say Lambone. “we’ve do mile--oh!

endless mile. and Christina Alberta have refuse all nourishment--for

I as well as for herself. at last I say, either I sit down and eat

or I drop down and die. may we take these chair? you have that one,

Christina Alberta. Waiter! it be a case of extreme fatigue. no--neither

Munchner nor Pilsener. I must have champagne. Bollinger 1914 will do

and it must be ice--rather over-ice, and with it, sandwich--a very

considerable number of sandwich of smoke salmon. yes--a dozen. ah!”



he drop his wrist on the table. “when I have have some drink I will

talk,” he wheeze and become silent.



“when do you leave the Mews?” Christina Alberta ask Fay.



“half-past eight.... not a sign of he.”



“have you be far?” Harold ask Lambone.



“_far!_” say Lambone and for a time be incapable of more.



his voice seem to recede in perspective. “ask policeman for a

small, hatless man. over great area of London. on and on--from one

policeman to another.... she’s a most determined young woman. God help

the man who win her love! not a soul have see he. but I cann’t talk

_yet_....”



Harold claw his chin softly with long artistic finger. “it be just

possible,” he say slowly, “that he go in somewhere and buy a hat.”



“of course he must have get a hat,” say Fay.



“it never occur to either of we that he would do anything so sane.”



“we never think of ask in the hatter’ shop,” say Christina

Alberta.



“happily,” say Lambone, and turn to welcome his refreshment. “that

would have be the last straw.”



“for a long time we be on the trail of another hatless man,” say

Christina Alberta. “we run he down in the Essex Road after track

he all up Pentonville. but he be just a vegetarian in sandal and

a beard. and there be a report of a hatless man near the Britannia,

but that come to nothing. he seem just to have come out of his house

somewhere to buy fried fish off a barrow in the Camden Town High

Street.”



“extraordinary how a crowd collect when you ask the simple

question,” say Lambone with his mouth full of sandwich. “and how

urgently helpful it can be. they almost force we up a staircase

after that fry-fish man, who strike I as an extremely pugnacious,

suspicious-look fellow. the crowd would have it we want he, and

he don’t seem to want in the very least to be want. if I haven’t have

an inspiration something very disagreeable might have happen. I just

say ‘no, it’s not this gentleman, it’s another of the same name.’”



“but what do he say?”



“‘you _well_,’ he say. but anyhow it satisfy the crowd, and

afterwards we get away quite easily on an omnibus that take we down to

Portland Road Station.”



the champagne arrive in its ice pail. “hardly cold, sir, yet,” say

the waiter, feel the bottle.



“it’s not a time for fastidiousness,” say Lambone and take a third

sandwich. “you’re not eat, Christina Alberta. and I insist upon your

have at least one glass of this.”



Christina Alberta drink a little and eat mechanically.



“I wonder if we shall ever see he again,” say Harold. “London be

so vast. so _vast_! but I always feel that, when I see anyone go

out anywhere. there be a tremendous courage in go out. London

must be full of lost people. I use to be afraid of London until I

discover the Tubes and the Underground. I feel I might be suck

up side-street to God know where. and keep on go round corner

into long and long street for ever. I use to dream of the last

street of all--_endless_. but whenever I get nervous I just ask for the

near tube station and there I be.”



“he _may_ be back at the studio now,” say Fay.



Paul Lambone reach his fourth sandwich and his third glass of

champagne with great rapidity. he become more leisurely in his

refreshment.



“I be disappointed,” he say, “that I don’t think of the possibility

of his buy a hat. it have disorganize all my induction. you see I

be so concentrated on what be go on inside his head that I never

trouble about what might be go on outside it. but a man of his neat

and proper habit--acquire through a lifetime of orderly living--would

get himself a hat almost mechanically.... we may have pass quite

close to he in that.”



“I should have know he,” say Christina Alberta.



“but, until that Pentonville man draw a red herring across the trail, I

be convince we be close on his footstep. you see Christina Alberta

insist upon my ask every policeman we see--even man, overwork,

irritable, snappy, _rude_ man control the traffic--but at any rate

I choose the route--I infer the route. you see, my dear Watson”--he

smile faintly in weary self-approval at Crumb--“the essential thing

in a case like this be to put yourself in your man’s place, to think

his thought instead of your own. that be what I try--so far as be

out of breath would allow it--to impress on Christina Alberta. it’s

fairly straightforward. here you have a man convince, beautifully and

enviably convince, that he be the supreme lord of the world, unknown,

unrecognized as yet, but on the eve of his proclamation. will such a

man go along any street just as easily as any other? not at all! he

will be elated, expansive, ascendant. very well; he will go up hill

and not down. he will choose wide highway and not narrow one and tend

towards the middle of the street----”



“he haven’t be run over!” cry Christina Alberta sharply.



“no. no. he would avoid traffic because that would hustle he and

impair his dignity. open space would attract he. high building,

bright light, the intimation of any assembly would draw he

powerfully. so he certainly cross Trafalgar Square from the Admiralty

Arch in a diagonal direction, towards the conspicuous invitation of the

Coliseum.... you see my method?”



he do not wait for Crumb to answer. “but the more I think over our

missing friend,” he go on, “the more I admire and envy he. what

crawl thing we are!--content to be subject, unit, item, pawn,

drop of water and grain of sand, in the multitudinous, unmeane

muddle of human affair. he soar above it. he soar above it now. he

reject his commonness and inferiority in one magnificent gesture.

_his_ world. the grandeur of it! wherever he be to-night and whatever

fate overtake he, he be a happy man. and we sit here, we sit here

and drink--I be order another bottle of that wine, Harold, and I

expect you and Mrs. Crumb to abandon that warm and sticky beer and

join I--Waiter! yes--another, please--we sit here in this crowd,

smoky gathering (_look_ at ’em!) while he plan the salvation of the

world that we let slide, and lift his kingly will to God. glorious

exaltation! suppose that all of we could be touched----”



Christina Alberta interrupt. “I think we ought to telephone to the

hospital. I don’t think before of the possibility of his be run

over. always he have be a little careless at crossing.”



Paul Lambone lift a deprecate hand and search in his mind for

some excuse for rest.



“a little later,” he say after a slight pause, “the hospital staff

will be more at leisure. it be their rush hour now--ten to eleven. yes,

the Rush Hour....”





§ 9



Teddy Winterton appear wade through obstructive seated people. his

eye be fix on Christina Alberta. “Hullo!” say lambone in not too

cordial greeting, and glance at Christina Alberta and back at the

new-comer.



Teddy struggle for an unoccupied chair over which some lady have throw

a sealskin coat, and capture it with profuse apology to the owner of

the cloak and squeeze it in at the end of the table between Harold and

Fay, who bar his way to Christina Alberta. “have pity on a lonely

man,” he say genially and try to catch the eye of Christina Alberta.



“you shall have one glass of champagne,” say Lambone with a slightly

force welcome in his tone.



“how do, Christina Alberta!” say Teddy force her attention.



Christina Alberta turn to Fay. “will you come back with I now,”

she say to she, “back to the flat? I must do that telephone to the

hospital now or it willn’t be do.”



Fay look at her curiously. “it’s serious,” say Christina Alberta’s

eye, and Fay stand up and struggle with her coat. Teddy leap to his

foot to assist she. Christina Alberta have not remove her cloak, and

be ready. “I say, Christina Alberta,” say Teddy. “I want a word with

you.”



“go on, Fay,” say Christina Alberta, give her friend a little dig in

the back and pretend not to hear he.



Teddy follow they out to the Piccadilly pavement. “just a word,” he

say. fay be for stand a little way off, but Christina Alberta

would not let that happen.



“I don’t want a word,” she say.



“but I might help you.”



“you might have do. but it’s too late. I never want to see you again.”



“give a fellow a chance.”



“you’ve have your chance. and try to take it.”



“you might at least keep up appearance,” say Teddy.



“damn appearance!” say Christina Alberta. “oh! _come_ on, Fay.”



she grip her friend’s arm.



Teddy be leave hover. he hesitate and then go back into the café

to rejoin Crumb and Lambone.



the two young woman go on in silence for a little while.



“anything up?” Fay venture.



“everything’s up,” say Christina Alberta. “I wonder if there’s a ghost

of a chance of find Daddy at the studio.”



they make their way to Chelsea without much further conversation. Fay

have never before see Christina Alberta look tired.



when Fay open the door Christina Alberta push in past she. “daddy!”

she cry in the dark passage. “daddy!”



Fay click on the light. “no,” say Christina Alberta. “of course he’s

not here. he’s go. fay! what be I to _do_?”



Fay’s pale blue eye become rounder. Christina Alberta, the valiant,

the modern, be in tear.



“there’s the hospital,” say Fay, do she good to be brisk and

cheerful.









_BOOK the second_



the WORLD reject SARGON, king of king









CHAPTER the FIRST



_Incognito_





§ 1



Mr. Preemby have disappear from Christina Alberta’s world. for a time

he must disappear almost as completely from this story. Mr. Preemby

fade out. take over his outward likeness we have now to tell of

another and great person, Sargon the First, the Magnificent One, king

of all king, the Inheritor of the Earth.



it be no doubt a very wonderful and glorious thing to discover that

instead of be the rather obscure widower of a laundry proprietor

with no particular purpose in the world one be Lord of the Whole

World, but it be also, to a conscientious man anxious to do right,

an extremely disturbing and oppressive discovery. and at first it be

natural that there should be something a little confusing to the mind

in this vast and glittering idea. it be an idea that carry with it

an effect of release and enlargement. for purpose as yet obscure, he

have be catch like a cage creature in that limited and uninteresting

Preemby life. his imagination have rebel against its finality; some

deep instinct have warn he that his life be an illusion; in moment

of reverie, and sometimes between sleep and wake, there have be

intimation of a light and purpose beyond the apparent reality. now

abruptly, as though a portal swung open, as though a curtain be draw,

that light pour upon he dazzlingly. his be no single life that

begin and end and be do with like an empty song. his existence

be like a thread that shine and vanish and return in the unending

fabric of be; that be weave into a purpose. in the past he have

be Porg in the city of Kleb, and he have be Sargon and Belshazzar.

many other have he be, but those memory still slumber under the

dark water of forgetfulness. but the memory of Sargon shine bright.

it be his Sargon self that have return and no other of his self.

for some reason that be still obscure the power that rule his life

need he to be Sargon once again, in this great distressful world of

to-day. Sargon have begin life humbly as an outcast babe and have rise

to restore and rule and extend a mighty empire than the old world

have ever see before. certain quality (h’rrmp) have be display by

Sargon, and because of these quality the Power have call upon he

again.



a whole series of memory be unfold in his mind. with an

extraordinary convincingness he recall his youth, memory of those

distant day in Sumeria where the Power have set he on high. they

be so bright and so pleasing that already they be thrust his

recollection of Sheringham and Woodford Wells into the background,

make a fading phantom of his Preemby existence. he have never

cherish these latter experience, never turn they over in his

mind with any pleasure. but his newly-restore memory be memory

to dwell upon. there be picture of his early life when he be a

foundling, a mysterious foundling at the court of his predecessor.

(that predecessor’s name still escape he.) Young Sargon be a fair

and blue-eyed youth, a thing rare in brown Sumeria, and he have be

find float down the great river in a little cradle boat of rush

and bituman, and he have be take and adopt by the ruler of the

land. and already as a lad he be point out as have an exceptional

wisdom, as be able to do what other man could not do, he have the

genius of the ruler. it be not that he have great cleverness nor great

skill nor strength. many of those about he excel he in these minor

thing--in cleverness and memory work in particular, Prewm, the son of

the Grand Vizier, excel he--but he have the true, the kingly wisdom

beyond they all.



“the true, the kingly wisdom,” say Mr. Preemby-Sargon aloud and

come into sharp collision with a tall, dark gentleman hurrying from

St. James’s Park towards St. James’s Palace. “sorry!” cry Mr.

Preemby-Sargon.



“my fault,” say the tall, dark gentleman. “late for an appointment.”

and sweep on.



Odd! where have Mr. Preemby--or Sargon--see that face before? could it

be--something connect it vaguely with Sheringham and sunlit sand. and

then Sumeria come uppermost and the tall, dark gentleman become the

chieftain of a desert tribe, a desert tribe amidst the sand.



the ruffled surface become calm again, and that boyhood in Sumeria

resume possession of the mirror. where be we? even in those early

day man have mark a gravity in the lad beyond his year. he have

avoid puerile game. in all his life he have avoid puerile game.

no cricketer even at Sheringham. modestly but firmly this youth have

raise his voice in the council chamber and his word be see to be

wisdom. the old man have sit around marvelling. “he sayeth Sooth,” they

say in their antique sumerian way. a soothsayer. he be also call

the Young Pathfinder.



before Sargon be fifteen the old childless ruler, beset by enemy,

threaten with plot, have mark he. “this boy might save the state.”

then, while yet only a few day over eighteen he be give charge of an

expedition to pacify the mountain folk of the north and persuade they

not to ally themselves with the Enemy of the North. he do more than

he be tell to do. he go through the mountain land into the plain

beyond, and give battle to the Enemy of the North and defeat he and

smote he severely. after that all man perceive that he must be the

new Lord and Master of Sumeria, the successor of his aged Patron. all

applaud with sincerity except Prewm the Clever (already adorn with

precocious sprout whisker) and he applaud with envy in his eye.

and then come the day of the succession, and the Inauguration of the

Harem, beautiful day. and after that the birth of the Princess Royal,

his only child, and that great expedition into the desert of the

south. and more expedition and great law-making, wise law and wiser,

and crowd of applauding, grateful people and happy village. life

become happy universally. Prewm plot and rebel and be deal with

after the simple custom of the time. that be a regrettable necessity,

a thing not to be dwell upon. the frontier spread and the great

peace spread; Russia, Turkey in Europe, Persia, India, Ancient Egypt,

Somaliland, and so on and so forth, be conquer and make happy.

America and Australia and the remain of Atlantis, still not completely

submerge, be discover. they be forget again afterwards, but

they be really discover then--and pay tribute. a League of Nations

be establish.



all the world tell of the goodness of Sargon and live golden day. for

Sargon rule by the light of justice in his heart. he mitigate the

sacrifice in the Temples and introduce a kind of Protestantism into

the creed and service. the people make song praise he. pass

man and woman would run to kiss his hand. nor do he deny himself to

his people. that confidence be his end. come alas! the assassin’s

knife, the black assassin, a madman, a stranger----!



it be wonderful. he could remember his people mourn after he be

dead.



the white glove of a policeman against Mr. Preemby-Sargon’s chest

just save he from step in front of a motor ’bus. he recoil

dexterously. he be in Trafalgar Square, a great meeting-place, a

confluence. here in the warm light of the October afternoon be a crowd

even great than the sumerian crowd. here he would observe they.

they be dark crowd, anxious-face crowd. his come back have to do

with they. there have be a great war, much devastation; the world be

wound and unable to recover. the poor ruler and politician of this

age have no wisdom, have no instinct for the fundamentally right thing.

once more a leader and a saviour be require, one who have the wisdom

that count.



it be Sargon that walk under the nose of Nelson’s lion and make

his way past the statue of George the Fourth to the balustrading that

command the square. he take up his position there for a long survey.

he look down whitehall to the great tower of the Houses of Parliament

and Whitehall be full of a golden haze set with a glitter of traffic.

the stream of omnibus, car, and motor van pour up to mingle with

the stream that come out of Northumberland Avenue and the Strand, and

the joint flow sunder again to the left of he and to the right away

to Pall Mall, across the square there. no street lamp be light as yet,

but in the rounded bluff of build to the left a few window be

warm with light. below, across the square, thin stream of pedestrian

flow like ant from one point to another and the squat little

station of the Tube Railway perpetually swallow up dot and clump

of individual. some sort of meeting be go on at the foot of the

Nelson column, a mere knot of people without evident enthusiasm. man

with white and red placard about unemployment be distribute white

handbill and shake collect box. immediately underneath a few

poorly-dress child run about and play and squabble....



just a little patch this be in one of his city. for, you see, by the

lapse of time and the development of his ancient empire, he be the

rightful owner and ruler of this city and of every other city in the

world.



and he have come back to heal the swarm world’s disorder and

reinstate the deep peace of old Sumeria once again.





§ 2



but how to set about this task?



that be the difficulty. there must be no half Advent. he must take

hold swiftly and decisively he realize, and from the balustrading in

front of the National Gallery it look a large, loose, scatter

sort of world to take hold of. it might refuse to be take hold of.

if he begin now, if he begin to shout from this place, it be more

than likely that no one would heed he. he must watch warily for his

opportunity and _make no mistake_. it do not become the Lord and

Restorer of the Whole Earth to make mistake.



now, for example, that have nearly be a mistake at Buckingham Palace.

it have blow over all right but it might have have serious consequence.

People do not know the Master yet, have no inkling. “they might,” say

Sargon, lapse into a Preemby homeliness “have run I in. and a Pretty

Fool I should have look then!”



there must be no more hasty action of that sort.



no. indeed it become he rather to wait for guidance.



the Power that have bring he back into the world and awaken he

to a sense of his true identity and his mission, might be trust

presently to send he an enlightened supporter or so--who would

recognize he. because, of course, he must resemble the monarch he

have be--even as Hockleby have be recognizably like Prewm. as he

weigh this thought his hand seek his moustache and he twist it

thoughtfully. it be in effect a disguise. Meanwhile--? meanwhile he

must see what he could, determine the mood of the people and learn

their particular need and distress. he could go among his people

unsuspected--like Haroun al Raschid, but for a wise purpose....



“Haroun al Raschid,” whisper Sargon and look up to Lord Nelson

and nod to he in a friendly way. “Haroun al Raschid. would that

my pocket be full of piece of gold! but of that to-morrow. that

man--what be his name?--Preemby have a bank somewhere.”



he feel for his breast pocket. the cheque-book be still there. one

sign the cheque “_A. E. Preemby_”--queer, but one do. this A. E.

Preemby have play the part of a chrysali. his hoard remain.





§ 3



in the Strand his Majesty catch a glimpse of his reflection in a shop

window. his hair be a little disorder, and he dislike to have

his hair disorder. he go into a hat shop that present itself

conveniently and buy himself a hat.



he take out his little note-case to pay--a reassuring thing to do.

for in it be no less than seven pound-note. he count they with

satisfaction. after pay up at Tunbridge he have draw again on his

bank. he hesitate whether he should give largesse to the shopman--and

do not do so.



it be not another grey feel hat with a black ribbon he buy; it

be an exceptional feel hat with a large brim such as an artist or a

literary personage might have choose. it be not the hat that Albert

Edward Preemby, the restrained, the hesitating, would have buy; it

be much more Sargon’s sort of hat. yet not pure sargonesque; there

be a touch of disguise about it still, a more manifest disguise. the

brim come down over one’s brow. one could see ever and again in shop

window and incidental mirror that now a shadow of mystery lie upon

those brood blue eye.



he make his way eastward towards Aldwych and so into Kingsway, look

now at the shop, now scan the face of the people.



to-day he be the unknown. scarce a soul that give he a second glance.

but soon would come discovery and then all this careless jostling

crowd would be magnetize as he pass, would turn with one accord to

he. they would salute and whisper and wonder. and he must be ready

for they, ready to guide their destiny forthwith. it would not do

to stand at a loss and say “er,” to stand collect his thought and

clear his throat, “H’rrmp.”



terrible the responsibility that lie upon he! but he would not

shirk it. what should be his opening word to they when the moment

of revelation come? “First;--Let there be Peace!” well word than

that one could not imagine. he mutter to himself; “peace and not war

among the nation. peace and not war among individual. peace in the

street--in the workroom--in the shop. _peace_.



“Love and Peace. I, Sargon the Magnificent, command it. I, Sargon, have

come back after many age to give Peace to the Whole World.”



a shop window draw he. it be a map shop and prominently display in

the window be a map of _Europe after the Treaty of Versailles:--Two

and Sixpence._ he stand look at that. it would all have to be

alter again. that be just part of his task. then he survey the

rest of the window. behind the map of Europe there hang a wall-map of

the world. he would need such a map of the world; you cannot rule the

world without a map of it. or you may forget large portion. or would a

globe be well? map be all to be see at once, and besides they be

more portable. furthermore, the shop do not seem to sell globe and

he do not know where globe be to be buy. he go in and buy

the world map and emerge again on Kingsway after an interval, with a

roll four foot long under his arm. he be also carry an ingenious

flat-paper planisphere which have catch his fancy as he stand at the

counter. it might be useful, he feel, for astrological purpose.



he begin to think vaguely of his possible destination. Whither be he

go?



he be seek quarter, he be seek indeed some lonely hermitage.

he have slip away from the Princess Royal, who also have come

back--rather needlessly he think--into this modern world, because

it be necessary for he to be absolutely alone for a time. he have

to spend some day or week in spiritual struggle and meditation and

mental purification before his revelation come. even she might not

minister to he during that period. she be devote, but she hamper

he. indeed, she hamper he greatly. she do not fully understand.

her remark and question be generally disconcert and sometimes

downright annoying. it be quite probable that the metamorphosis might

never occur with she about. and, besides, always in the history of

great Visitants and marvellous return there have be this opening

phase of withdrawal and self-communion. Buddha, Muhammad; they have all

do it. perhaps he would fast. perhaps fast would be necessary.

perhaps there would be celestial Visitants.



he wish he know more of the technique of fast. do one just stop

have meal or be there ceremony and precaution? but of that

later. first he have to find that quiet room, his secret place of final

preparation.



presently he find himself in the grey square of Bloomsbury and

every house he pass display in its window a genteel card offering

“Apartments” or “Bed and Breakfast.” here also be “private Hotels”

and even a plain “Boarding House.” well, here no doubt it have to be. a

simple room amidst his unsuspecting people, a simple, simply furnish

room.





§ 4



but through all Bloomsbury, to judge by the dark green and silver card

in its ground-floor window, be offer shelter and sustenance to the

homeless and the stranger, the new Lord of the World find it no easy

matter to secure that simple room he need for his own use. for more

than an hour he be visit one grey house after another, knock,

stand on doorstep, enter passage lay with immemorial oilcloth,

and demand a sight of the accommodation offer, inspect

it, ask price--and--it become more and more evident--arouse

suspicion. the people stare at his roll-up map and his planisphere

and seem to dislike they instinctively. he have not expect such

blunt demand for information; his vague mysteriousness be sweep

aside, he find himself difficult to explain. they want to know

how he be occupy and when he would like to move in. none of they

seem prepared for he to just sit down in his room there and then.

they expect he to go out and fetch his luggage. it undermine his

confidence that behind he there be no luggage. all these people, he

realize more and more distinctly, would expect he to produce luggage

and might behave unreasonably if he do not do so. a mere readiness to

pay in advance, he gather, be not enough for they.



he have count upon find kind and simple people behind these

lodge-house door, people who would accept he and look up to he

from the first and wonder about he and his planisphere, speculate

about its significance and gradually realize the marvellous visitant

that have come to they. but the people he see be not simple people.

mostly they be dingy, sophisticated people. they come up out of

basement in a mood of sceptical scrutiny, man in shirt sleeve, morose

for the most part and generally ill-shaven; extremely know and

anything but virginal young woman, grimy look old woman, hungrily

lean or unwholesomely fat. one have a goitre-like growth. and always

there be something defensive in their manner.



and the room he see be even less simple than the people. his

consciousness be invade by a sense of the vast moral change that have

happen to the world since he have rule the white-robe honesty of his

sumerian irrigator. then a room would have a table, a seat or two, a

shelf with a few phial, an image or suchlike religious object, a clay

tablet and a writing style, perhaps, if the occupant be educate.

but these room be encumber with contradiction. they have window

to let in the light and dark curtain to keep it out. Sargon’s hide

second youth in the laundry have make he very sensitive to dirtiness,

and the cotton-lace curtain of those place be generally very

dirty indeed. electric light be still rare in “apartment”; mostly

they be light from gas bracket that descend from the centre of the

ceiling and carry globe of frosted and cut glass. always there

be a considerable table in the centre and two uneasy arm-chair.

and there be lumpish sideboard of shiny, liver-colour wood and

comfortless sofa and incredible ornament. sometimes the room, and

particularly the bedroom, have a meretricious smartness and gaiety with

mezzotint of lady in the natural state try to pass themselves

off as allegorical figure or of the Baths in the congested harem

of wealthy, rather than refine, Orientals. the over-mantel be

extraordinary affair and much load with crockery ornament, little

jar, small gilt-wing angel, red devil, or encourage look

lady in bathing-dress that be too tight for they. a common form

of decoration be to fasten up plate on the wall much as one see

vermin nail up on a barn.



a considerable number of these home for hire be as shabby as

roadside tramp. one stand out in his memory as fade and dusty

and grey and threadbare beyond the possibility of reality. his

self-absorption be penetrate by the wonder of who could live and who

could have live in such quarter. all his life have be amongst clean

and bright surrounding; it be rare that he have any glimpse of that

worn and weary stratum of english town life in which thing be patch

indeed, but in which it be rare for anything to be mend or clean

and incredible that anything should be replace. even the air in these

room seem long out of date and the glass over the rusty engraving

of the Monarch of the Glen and the Stag at Bay spot by remote

ancestral fly.



“do anyone ever stay here?” ask Sargon of the shatter-look

lady in charge.



he do not realize the cruelty of his question until he have ask it.



“my last gentleman stay here fifteen year,” say the shattered lady.

“he be a copying clerk. he die in hospital this June. Dropsy. he

always find this very satisfactory--_very_ satisfactory. I never know

he complain. he be a very good friend to I.”



a great desire for fresh air come upon Sargon. “how much be these

room?” he ask. “I must think it over. think it over and let you

know.”



she ask her price, the usual price in that street, but as she lead the

way down to the door she say: “if it’s too much--if you make an offer,

sir----”



Despair look out of her grime-rim eye.



“I must think about it,” say Sargon and be once more at large.



why do people get so dirty and dismal and break down? surely in

Sumeria there be never life like that! it would have to be alter;

all this would have to be alter when the Kingdom come.





§ 5



then as the twilight deepen Sargon discover just the peaceful

room he desire. it announce itself hopefully not by the usual

print card but by a hand-write tablet say “a room to let,” in

a window that have no lace curtain but little purple one enhance

rather than conceal a bare-look white room light pleasantly by the

flickering of a fire. there be one or two picture--real colour

picture--hang on the white wall. rather wearily Sargon lift the

knocker and supplement its appeal by press the electric bell.



there be no immediate answer, and he knock a second time before the

door open. a slender young man appear hold a small girl perch

on his shoulder. she regard Sargon gravely with very dark grey-blue

eye.



“everybody seem to have go out,” say the slender young man in a

very pleasant voice. “what can I do for you?”



“you have a room to let,” say Sargon.



“there _be_ a room to let here, yes,” say the slender young man and

his appreciative dark eye take in the detail of the figure in front

of he.



“could I see it?”



“I suppose he might _see_ it, Susan,” the young man hesitate.



“of course the gem’s get to see it,” say the small girl. “if Mrs.

Richman be here she’d show it he fast enough, old stoopid.” and she

pull the slender young man’s hair--affectionately but very, very hard.



“you see,” the young man explain. “the landlady be out. _don’t_,

Susan. and the landlady’s lady assistant be out, too. every one be

out--and we’re sort of unofficially leave in charge somehow. properly, I

ought not to have answer the door.”



“but I tell you to--_silly_!” say the little girl.



the young man make no definite move. instead, he ask a question. “be

that a map, sir, you be carry?” he ask.



“it be a map of the world,” say Sargon.



“very helpful I should think, sir. and so you find your way here.

well--the room’s upstairs if you’d come up. hold tight, Susan, and try

not to strangle I.” and he lead the way up the staircase.



it be just the usual staircase and hall with oilcloth and wall-paper

to imitate some exceptionally bilious coarse-grain wood. as they

ascend the young lady run great risk in her resolution never to take

her eye off Sargon and his map. she twist round a complete circle

and force her bearer to stop on the first landing and readjust she.

“if you pull my hair once more,” say the slender young man, “I shall

put you down and never, never, never give you a ride again. it’s on the

next floor, sir, if you’d go first.”



the room appear delightfully free from unnecessary furnishing. there

be a little plain bed, a table under the window, and a gas-stove, and

the wall be paper in brown paper, adorn with commonplace but

refresh japanese colour print. there be a recess one side of the

fire-place with three empty shelf paint like the mantelpiece, a

deep blue. the young man have click on an electric light, which be

pleasantly shade.



“it’s rather plain,” say the young man.



“I like it,” say Sargon. “I have no use for superfluity.”



“it use to be my room,” say the young man, “but now I share the

dining-room floor with the people downstairs and I’ve give this up.

it’s rather on my conscience----”



“People downstairs--what people downstairs? there ben’t no People

downstair. it’s daddy and Mummy he mean,” say the young lady.



“it’s rather on my conscience,” say the young man, “that I persuade

Mrs. Richman to alter the furniture. it ben’t to everybody’s taste.”



“may I ask,” say Sargon, “how much the room might be?”



“thirty shilling, I _believe_,” say the young man, “with breakfast.”



Sargon put down his map and the planisphere upon the table. he feel

that he must secure this room or be for ever defeat.



“I be willing,” he say, “to take the room. I would pay for it in

advance. and take up my quarter at once. but, I must warn you, my

position in the world be peculiar. I give no reference, I bring no

luggage.”



“except of course these chart,” say the young man. “haven’t you--for

instance--a toothbrush?”



Sargon think. “no. I must get myself a toothbrush.”



“I think it would _look_ well,” say the young man.



“if necessary,” say Sargon, “I will pay for two week in advance. and

I will get myself all necessary thing.”



the young man regard he with an affectionate expression. “if it

be my room I should let you have it like a shot,” he say. “but Mrs.

Richman be the landlady and in many respect she’s different from I.

have you--travel far, sir?”



“in space,” say Sargon, “_no_.”



“but in time, perhaps?”



“in time, yes. but I would rather not enter into explanation at

present.”



the young man’s interest and amusement deepen. he put Susan down on

her foot. “might I look at your map?” he ask.



“Willingly,” say Sargon. he unroll the map on the table and put his

finger on London. “we be here,” he say.



“exactly,” say the young man, help to hold the map on the table

from which it seem likely to slip.



“it be still the most convenient centre in the world,” say Sargon.



“for almost any purpose,” say the young man.



“for mine, yes,” say Sargon.



“and that star thing--that must be a great help?”



“it be,” say Sargon.



“I suppose you would--_work_ in the room? it would be just yourself?

there would be no come and go of people?”



“none. while I be here, no one would know I. afterwards perhaps. but

that do not concern we. here I should remain incognito.”



“Incognito,” the young man repeat, as though he consider the word.

“of course. naturally. by the by, sir, might I ask your name? (if you

hit I again, Susan, I shall do something cruel and dreadful to you.)

we’d have to know your name.”



“for the time I think Mr.--Mr. Sargon.”



“of course,” say the young man, “for the time. Sargon--wasn’t that an

assyrian king, or do my memory betray I?”



“it be not the Assyrian Sargon in this case, it be the Sumerian Sargon,

his predecessor.”



“not a word more, sir--I understand. you must be fatigue after your

long journey and I should love--I should dearly love to let you the

room. _wow!_ Susan, you go downstairs. pinch I cann’t stand. come

along. you go down to your own proper room and let’s have no nonsense

about it. _come!_”



Susan back to the wall and prepare to resist tooth and nail. “I

don’t _mean_ to pinch, Bobby,” she say. “I don’t mean to pinch.

Troof and really! I be just feelin’ your trousis. oh, don’t take I

down, Bobby! don’t take I down. I _will_ be good! I’ll be awful good.

I’ll just stay here and look at the funny geman. if you take I down,

Bobby----”



“now, be this a real reformation, Susan--a conversion, a change of

heart? will you be a _jeune femme rangée_ and all that, if I forgive

you?”



“I’ll be anyfe, Bobby dear, flet I stay.”



“well! cease to exist then--for all practical purpose and I’ll forgive

you. what can the nice gentleman think of you, Susan? and you more

than five! _bah!_ we be say, Mr. Sargon--? yes, of course, I be

say that you ought to take the room. payment in advance will be

accept. _But_--there be that toothbrush. and other small--what shall

I say?--realistic touch. _I_ shouldn’t mind personally, but I’m

only an agent, so to speak. properly I be a sort of writer. properly

I ought to be write a novel now, but, as you see, Mrs. Richman have

leave the house on my hand and my friend downstairs have leave this

charming young lady on my hand--put that tongue back at once, Susan.

Unladylike child!--and here we be! but as I’m say, Mrs. Richman

be the principal. she have her fancy about lodger. it be useless to

dispute about they. she will want a show of luggage. she will insist.

but that be really not an insurmountable difficulty. this--you will

remember the name?--is Nine Midgard Street. if you go out from here and

turn to the left, take the third to the right and go straight on, you

will come to a main thoroughfare full of ’bus and tram and traffic

and light and noise, and at the corner you will find a shop where they

sell second-hand trunk and bag. now if you buy an old, battered,

largish bag--and then go across the road to a chemist’s shop and

get those washing thing you need--oh! and a reserve collar or so at

the outfitter’s next door--you _must_ get such thing.... you see the

idea?”



Sargon stand in front of the unlit gas-stove. “this seem to be act

a falsehood.”



“but you must have clean collar sometimes,” protest the young man.



“I admit that,” say Sargon.



“and then you can settle down here and tell I about that business of

your. otherwise, you know, you’ll just wander about.”



“your suggestion be really quite a helpful one,” say Sargon, get

the thing into focus. “I shall adopt it.”



“you willn’t lose the way back?”



“why should I?”



“Nine Midgard Street.”



“I shall remember.”



“queer world it be,” say the young man; “ben’t it? how do you leave

the old folk in--Sumeria?”



“my people be happy,” say Sargon.



“exactly. I’ve be there since. _quite_ recently. but the weather

ben’t good and I get knock about by a shell and have a nasty time as

a wound prisoner. hot. crowd. no shelter. nothing cool to drink.

but in your time it be different.”



“very,” say Sargon.



“and now--by Jove! that kettle be boil over all by this time, Susan.

come down to my room, such as it be, and have a cup of tea, sir. and

then you can go out and make those little arrangement of yours and

dig yourself in so to speak before Mrs. Richman come back. this, by

the by, be your gas meter. you get gas by the shilling in the slot

arrangement.”



“you be be very, very helpful to I,” say Sargon. “it shall not be

forget when my time come.”



“nothing. it just happen you come into my hand so to speak. no,

Susan, we don’t. you _walk_ downstairs. pinch be forgive but not

forget. you can leave your map, sir--and that star thing--as

visible sign of your occupation. no, Susan--on foot.”





§ 6



the young man’s room be bookish and rather untidy, and Susan have be

kill toy on the carpet--a china-head doll and something or other

of yellow paint wood appear to be the chief victim. the doll have

bleed sawdust profusely. dark curtain be draw and a green-shade

electric light throw all the apartment into darkness except the floor.

there be a gas-fire with a gas-ring on which a boiling kettle steam

like an excited volcano; there be a deal table on which be a big

pile of letter address to “_Aunt Suzannah_” c/o Editor of _wilkin’

Weekly_, and there be a large untidy desk on which be another litter

of letter evidently receive attention, and in the midst of the desk

a writing-pad, on which repose a squeezable tube of liquid glue and a

half-mend toy. the glue ooze upon the face sheet of the writing-pad

beneath these word, write in a beautifully neat handwriting:



  UPS and DOWNS



  _a Pedestrian Novel_



  BY ROBERT ROOTHING



  CHAPTER the FIRST



  which introduce OUR HERO



beyond that the novel do not seem to have progress.



with the dexterity of long-establish usage Bobby make tea and

produce plum-bread and butter. meanwhile he keep a wary eye on Susan

who have sit down by the waste-paper basket and be tear up paper,

and attend to the remark and attitude of his remarkable visitor.



Sargon already like this young man enormously. it be extremely

reassuring and encouraging to meet such kindly acceptance and

understanding after the chill and doubt and ugliness of the previous

hour’s experience. and it be nice and refreshing to have tea. a sort

of grey insecurity, a threat of suppression that have come over his

mind, vanish in this genial atmosphere. the shrivelled incognito

expand. the hidden mystery beneath it grow rich and full once more.

this young man--he seem ready to believe anything. Sargon walk

up and down with his hand behind his back as if in the profound

meditation. he would have mutter a few phrase in Sumerian, but for

some reason he have quite forget that forget tongue.



“and so you write book?” he say regally.



“not book,” Bobby answer over his shoulder; he be now toast a

circle of plum-bread. “not book _yet_. but--it _be_ ridiculous, ben’t

it?--I be a bit of a poet and all that sort of thing, and a journalist

of sort. just answer to correspondent--laborious, but a living.” he

indicate the pile of letter on the deal table. “as for book--I have

as a matter of fact _start_ a novel--it’s on that desk--but that’s

only in the last few day. and it’s so difficult to get a lot of time

to oneself to really let oneself go with it.”



“Inspiration,” say Sargon understandingly.



“well, one must let oneself go a bit, I suppose; particularly at first.

but there’s always something one must do crop up to prevent it.”



“with I also.”



“no doubt.”



“that be why,” say Sargon, “I be withdraw into this solitude. to

collect my force. in Sumeria it be always the practice, before any

great undertaking, to go out into the wilderness for a certain tale of

day.”



“if I go out into the wilderness I get so lonely in the evening,” say

Bobby. “_Ssh!_ that be the front door.”



he go out upon the staircase and stand listen.



“Mrs. Richman,” Sargon hear he call.



“S’me,” say a lady’s voice.



“here’s a lodger for the second-floor front.”



“I bin to the picture,” say the voice outside. “Mary and Doug--a fair

treat.”



a corpulent lady in a black bonnet appear breathe heavily. she

pant a few obvious question and Bobby hover helpfully at Sargon’s

elbow to prevent he make any mistake. “he’ll pay in advance,” say

Bobby.



“that’s awright,” say Mrs. Richman. “when will he move in?”



“he’s get his luggage right away,” say Bobby.



“I suppose it’s all right,” say Mrs. Richman.



“I know his people. at least I know about they. I’ve be in his part

of the country. you can be quite sure he’s all right,” say Bobby.



“well, if _you_ say so,” say Mrs. Richman. “’Ope you’ll be

comfortable, Mr.----”



“Mr. Sargon.”



“Mr. Sargon.”



and after a few rather vague comment on the weather Mrs. Richman

withdraw. “and now,” say Bobby, “I’ll just unload Susan on she and

come with you for that bag. it’s extraordinary how people lose their

way in London at time.”





§ 7



“I’ve let the second-floor front to a lunatic,” say Bobby, break

the news to his ground-floor friend, Mr. and Mrs. Malmesbury.



“oh, _Bobby_! and with Susan about!” cry Mrs. Malmesbury

reproachfully.



“but he’s a quite _harmless_ lunatic, Tessy--and he have to be take in

somewhere.”



“but a lunatic!” say Mrs. Malmesbury.



“I only say that for effect,” say Bobby. “he’s really morbidly sane.

I wouldn’t have let he go for anything. some day when I really get to

work on that novel I’ll put he in. I _must_ have material, Tessy. and

he’s wonderful.”



he be prepare supper for the Malmesburys and himself. he be fry

some sausage and potato over a gas-ring. previously Bobby have do

most of the putting of Susan to bed, and he have sit and tell she

story accord to custom until she be fast asleep. Tessy Malmesbury

be out of sort; she have a neuralgic headache, Billy Malmesbury have

take she for a walk in Regent’s Park and she have come home exhausted;

thing would have go to piece badly if Bobby have not take they in

hand.



Tessy be never very well nowadays; she be a slight and fragile little

thing and Susan have be a violent and aggressive child long before

she be bear. in the long-lose day before the war when Bobby have

see Tessy first she have be the light, daintiest, most perfect

thing imaginable; he have compare she to a white petal drift down

through sunlight, and almost write a poem about she; he have love

she tremendously. but it have seem to he impossible to make love to

so exquisite a being, and Billy Malmesbury, who be less scrupulous,

have slip in front of he and marry she; she have not appreciate

the delicacy of not make love to she. and then come the war and

wound and here they all be again, fag and near the thirty, in a

world where their small annuity bring they far less than they have

promise to do. Billy be the junior partner of an architect and much

encumber with drawing-board. he be a large-framed young man with a

big, round, good-look, slightly astonished face, pleasantly dapple

with freckle. he have a great protective affection for Bobby. he sit

now and design a new sort of labour-save pantry and, with a sense

of infinite protection, let Bobby get the meal.



“and now I can tell you,” say Bobby, when at last all three of they

be sit at table.



“it’s a little dear of a lunatic,” he say. “if it’s a lunatic at all.”



“I hope it ben’t,” say Tessy.



“he’s quite tidy in his person and he hang together--mentally he hang

together--and his eye ben’t in the least wild. a leetle too bright

and open perhaps. but he _do_ think the world belong to he.”



“well, Susan do that,” say Billy.



“and so do Billy,” say Tessy.



“but not quite with the same air of magnificent responsibility. you see

he think he’s a certain mesopotamian monarch call Sargon--I’ve hear

of he because we have a little dust-up with the Turks round and about

his stamp ground--he think he’s this Sargon come again and come

somehow--that bit’s a little difficult--into the empire of the whole

earth. it be Sargon, you know, who start all these british Lions and

Imperial Eagles in the world. and so he propose to take possession of

the planet, which be in such a frightful mess----”



“hear, hear!” say Billy.



“and put it in order.”



“what more simple?” cry Tessy.



“exactly. why haven’t we _all_ think of that?” say Billy.



“but where do he come from?” ask Tessy.



“not a sign. he might be a suburban nurseryman or a small draper or

something of that sort. I cann’t place he. one or two phrase he

use suggest a house-agent. but he may have pick they up from

advertisement. and his first proceeding--perfectly rational--be to

buy a map of the world. naturally if you be go to rule the world,

you ought to have a map of it handy.”



“have he any money?”



“enough to pay his way. he’s get a small note-case. that seem to be

all right. after we’d get a bag for he--he haven’t any luggage, and

I think he’d well buy a bag to satisfy Mrs. Richman--we sit down

upstairs and have a simple straightforward talk about the world and what

have to be do with it. most instructive.”



Bobby help himself to some more fried potato.



“and what _be_ go to be do with it?”



“let I see,” say Bobby; “it’s quite an attractive little programme.

rather I think on the line of the Labour programme. only simple and

more thorough. the Distinction of Rich and Poor be to be abolish

altogether. woman be to be free from all Disadvantages. there be to

be no More War. he get at the root of thing every time.”



“if those be the root,” say Billy.



“but ben’t the real question how to do it?” ask Tessy, “ben’t we all

agree about those thing--in theory?”



“in theory, yes,” say Bobby. “but not in reality. if every one really

want to abolish the difference of rich and poor it would be as easy

as pie to find a way. there’s always a way to everything if you want

to do it enough. but nobody really want to do these thing. not as we

want meal. all sort of other thing people want, but want to have

no rich and poor any more ben’t real wanting; it be just a matter of

pious sentiment. and so it be about war. we don’t want to be poor and

we don’t want to be hurt or worry by war, but that’s not want to

end those thing. _he_ want to end they.”



“but how’s he go to set about it?” say Billy.



“that be still a little vague. I think there be to be a sort of

Proclamation. he’s think that out upstairs now. he seem to

think that he have to call up some sort of disciple. then I think

he will go down to Westminster and take the Speaker’s place on the

Woolsack or something of that sort. it _be_ the Speaker sit on the

Woolsack, ben’t it? or be it the Lord Chancellor? anyhow, there be

to be demonstration--on a large and dignified scale. the people have

forget the ancient simple law, he say. he himself have forget

they. but he have remember they now; they have come back to he, and

presently every one will remember they, all the great old thing,

justice, faith, obedience, mutual service. as it be in Ancient

Sumeria. Dreamland Ancient Sumeria, you know. the dear old Golden

Age. he have come to remind people of the true thing in life--which

every one have forget. and when he have remind they every one will

remember. and be good. and there you be, Tessy! I hope it will affect

Susan--but I don’t feel at all sure. I have a sort of feeling that

Susan could stash up any golden age they start in about five minute,

but then perhaps I’m a bit prejudiced about she.”



“it’s rather wonderful all the same,” say Billy.



“he _be_ rather wonderful. he sit up there and look at you with

his little round innocent face and tell you all these thing. and,

assume he’s Lord of the World, they’re perfectly right and proper.

he sit with the map of the world unroll on the table. I venture

to suggest that he would require a lot of subordinate ruler and

director. ‘they will come,’ he say. ‘no office, no duty shall be do

henceforth except by the Proper People. that have be neglect too

long. let every man do that he be well fit to do. then everything

will be well.’”



“and when’s all this to begin?” ask Billy.



“any time. I don’t think--” Bobby’s expression become profoundly

judicial. “I don’t think he’ll do anything for a day or so. I point

out to he that he ought to consider his demonstration very carefully

before he make they, and he seem inclined to agree. some mistake,

he say, have occur already--I couldn’t find out what. apparently

to-morrow he be just go to look at London, quietly but firmly,

from the Monument and from the Dome of Saint Paul’s. and also he want

to observe the manner of his subject in the street and railway

station, and wherever there be a concourse of people. the scale

have fall from his eye, he explain, and now that he know that he

be Lord of the World he realize how distressed and unsatisfactory

everybody’s life be--even when they don’t know it’s unsatisfactory. his

own life be terribly unsatisfactory he say, unreal and frustrated,

until he awake and realize the greatness of his destiny.”



“and what be that life of his?” ask Tessy.



“I try to get that. and he catch the eager note in my voice I

suppose, and shut up like an oyster. the draper’s shop perhaps. or a

milk-round. I wonder.”



“but, Bobby,” cry Billy in the expostulatory tone of one who

remonstrate with wild unreason; “he must come from _somewhere_!”



“exactly,” say Bobby. “and somewhere must be look for he. but

you cann’t always hurry these thing. and meanwhile I take it it’s

our bounden duty to keep an eye on he and see that he don’t bump

himself too hard or fall into the wrong hand.... until some one come

along.... don’t you get up, Tessy, you’re tired.”



and Bobby jump to his foot and proceed to change the plate and

dish while Billy fall into a profound meditation upon the problem of

the new neighbour upstairs.



presently he smile and shake his head in kindly disapproval.



“this will suit Bobby all right,” he say to Tessy. “whenever he ought

to be upstairs in his own room get on with that novel of his he

will be up on the second floor talk to--what be it?--Sargon.”



“accumulate material,” correct Bobby from the Welsh dresser where

he be turn a tin of peach out into a glass dish. “accumulate

evidence.... not even a spider could spin a yarn out of an empty

stomach. Tessy, have you just simply _lose_ the cream or have you put

it away in a new place very carefully for I to guess? oh, right-o!

I’ve get it.”





§ 8



let we be frank about it; Sargon have his doubt.



not always. there be time when his fantasy be bravely alive and

carry he high above any shadow of uncertainty, and he be all that

he could have ever wish to be. then Mr. Preemby be almost forget.

but there be moment, there be phase, when he become aware of a

cold undertow of conviction that he be after all just Mr. Preemby,

Mr. Preemby, formerly of the Limpid Stream Laundry, make believe,

carry it off and perhaps presently fail to carry it off. this

chill flow of doubt could even oblige he to reason with himself, force

he into a definite reassurance of himself. he would debate the whole

question, candidly, fairly. surely there be no deception, could have

be no deception, about that séance. “tell I thing no one but I

could have know,” he would repeat. “I pin my faith to that.”



he know that Christina Alberta have not really believe. it be just

because of her reveal scepticism that he have flee from she. she have

ask question, tear, rend question, and she have say “um.” it

be not proper to say “um” to world emperor. if presently he fast or

go into a trance, he feel sure that she would come and stand about

beside he and say “um,” and spoil everything. well, anyhow, he be

away from that for a bit. but to be away from doubt be not enough. the

great discovery threaten to evaporate. he want the comfort of the

disciple. he want help and reassurance.



Bobby have comfort he greatly. while Sargon have be go from one

suspicious lodge-house keeper to another, the faith of the new

Saviour of mankind have weaken dreadfully. but Bobby from the first

have have something deferential in his manner, have seem to understand.

his question have grow more and more intelligent. perhaps he be to

be the first of the reawakened adherent. perhaps presently he would

be recognizable as some faithful servant in that still so largely

forget past, a trusted general perhaps or some intimate court

official.



yet even when Sargon doubt he believe. it be a very comprehensible

paradox. he know clearly that to be Sargon be to be real, be to

signify and make all the world signify, be to go back into the past

and reach right out into the future, be to escape altogether from

the shrivelled insignificance of the Preemby life. to be Sargon be

to achieve not only greatness but goodness. Sargon could give and

Sargon could dare. Sargon could face lion and die for his people, but

Preemby could go round three field, have be know to go round three

field, to evade the hostility of a bark terrier. Preemby’s world

be dust and dirt, a mud speck in infinite space, and there be no

life on it but abjection. Preemby be death; Sargon be rebirth into

a world of spacious thing. not very clearly do Sargon achieve these

realization, but he feel they throughout his being. something have

happen to he of inestimable value and truth; he have to cling to this

gift and hold it and keep it or be for ever fall. Christina Alberta

notwithstanding, the whole world notwithstanding.



so he walk up and down his little upper room in Midgard Street and

elaborate his conception of his new rôle as lord and protector of

the whole world. Twilight give place to night but he do not turn on

the light. he like the friendly darkness. all visible thing be

limit thing, but the darkness go out and beyond everything to

God. “I must look,” he say. “I must watch and observe. but not for

too long. there be action. action give life. that fellow Preemby,

poor soul, he could look at thing, but dare he lift a finger? no!

everywhere suffer, everywhere injustice and disorder, the desert

and the wilderness break back in on we and he do nothing. if one

do not call and call aloud, how can one expect an answer? in this

world, vast, terrible--strike--hoarding--adulteration--profiteer....

nevertheless man who once live bravely and do their duty.... who may

do it again.... once they hear the call. awake! remember! the high

Path. Simple Honour. Sargon call you.... H’rrmp....”



he come to a halt at his uncurtained window and look out on the

plain, flat face of the opposite house, pierce here and there by a

light window. Most have the blind draw, but just opposite a woman work

by lamp-light at a table, sew something, her needle hand fly out

perpetually and the book and one hand and the cuff of a reader come

also into the picture, the rest of he hide behind the curtain. at a

bedroom window there be a look-glass, and a girl try on a hat and

look at it this way and that; then suddenly she vanish, and after a

little interval the light go out.



“all their scatter life,” say Sargon, hold out his arm with

a benevolent gesture, “knit--draw together by wisdom and love. a

rudder put on the drift world.”



come a knock at the door. “come in,” say Sargon.



Bobby appear. “get on all right, sir?” he say in his engage

subaltern manner. he click on the electric light and come into the

room. (cadaverous and pleasant face he have; surely one would remember

presently what he have be.) “wonder if you be eat anything

to-night?” he ask.



“I quite forget eat,” say Sargon. “quite. my mind--trouble by many

grave matter. I have much to think of, much to plan. the hour grow

late. the time be near. I wonder if the serve woman here----?”



“only breakfast,” say Bobby. “here we be on bed and breakfast term

strictly. the rest be with ourselves. for an emergency like this there

be nothing so good as the Rubicon Restaurant. the Grill Room keep open

quite late. they will do you a chop or a cutlet. or ham and egg. very

good ham and egg--crisp ham. you go out from here, turn to the left at

the second corner, and go right down Hampshire Street until you come to

it. you’ll have no difficulty in find it.”



the word “crisp” have settle it.



“I will avail myself,” say Sargon.



“and it’s equally easy to find your way back,” say Bobby with a faint

flavour of anxiety in his voice.



“have no fear, young man,” say Sargon in a tone of jolly reassurance.

“have no fear. I’ve find my way in many clime and under many

condition--the wild mountain--the trackless desert. time and space.”



“of course,” say Bobby. “I forget that.



“still--London be different,” say Bobby.





§ 9



the next day at about half-past four in the afternoon a small but

heavily moustache figure, with eye full of blue determination,

emerge from Saint Paul’s Cathedral and stand at the top of the step

before the great door, survey the jostle traffic of Ludgate Hill

and the Churchyard. there be a sort of valiant uncertainty in the

figure’s pose, as though it be equally resolve to be up to something,

and uncertain about what it mean to do. London have be look at from

the top of the Monument and from the cathedral dome on a crystal-clear

October day, and it have betray an unusual loveliness and greatness

under the golden sunshine. but it have show itself, too, as a vast

dreamy multitudinousness in which none but those who be resolute and

powerful in action can hope to escape be swallow up. it have

stretch away to wide sunlit stretch that seem to be the horizon,

and then up in the leaden-blue other stretch have be visible of

house, of shipping, of distant hill. the van and cart in the

shadow street below have look like toy; the people be hat and

hurry leg and foot, curiously proportion. and over all an immense

dome of kindly cloud-fleck sky.



he have walk round the little gallery under the ball, muttering: “a

wilderness. a city that have forget....



“how fair it might be. how great it might be!



“how fair and great it _shall_ be!”



and now he have come down again from these high place and the time

have come for he to gather together his disciple and minister and

inaugurate the New World. he have to call they. follower would not come

to he unless he call they; they would wait for he to act, not know

even of what await they until he call they, but when he call they

they would surely come.



it be with an extraordinary sense of power over man’s destiny that

he stand now upon Saint Paul’s step and reflect that even now man

and woman might be pass by, among these busy man throng the

pavement, among the people in omnibus, among the girl clatter

away at their typewriter behind the upstairs window, over whose busy,

petty, undistinguished life hang the challenge of his summon. yonder

perhaps be his Abu Bekr, his right-hand man, his Peter. let they wait

a little long. he wave the traffic onward with a gesture of kindly

encouragement. “soon now,” he say, “very soon. go on while ye may.

even now the sorting of the lot begin.”



yet a moment more he stand still and silent, a statuette of destiny.

“and now,” he whisper; “and now....



“and first----”



he be no long trouble by his oblivion of the sumerian tongue.

in the night he have recover the gift of tongue; he have mutter

strange word in the darkness, and understand.



“H’rrmp,” he say, a word common to many tongue, clear the way

after five thousand year for the return of the forget sound

to a renew use in the world of man. “Dadendo Fizzoggo Grandioso

Magnificendodidodo--yes,” he whisper. “the Unveiling of the

Countenance. the First Revelation. then perhaps they will see.”



and slowly he descend the step, his eye search the convergent

frontage of the Churchyard for some intimation of a barber’s shop.









CHAPTER the second



_the calling of the Disciples_





§ 1



there be already wide difference of statement and opinion about

the order and the detail of the calling of the follower of Sargon.

happily we be in a position to give the circumstance with all the

exactitude that may be necessary, and with an authority that will

anticipate vexatious criticism. it be about half-past six that Sargon

appear in Cheapside, and the day’s traffic be already ebb in that

busy city thoroughfare. his countenance be transform and shine with

that kind of luminosity that only the most thorough and exhaustive

shaving can give. a youthful smoothness have be restore to it. the

facial mane, the vast moustache, that have veil it for so many year

from mankind be abandon, a mess of clipping and lather now in a

barber’s basin. now the face be as bare as the young Alexander, a

fresh-complexion, sincere and innocent countenance speak clearly

with an unfiltered voice. it be flush with a natural excitement as

it go along Cheapside scrutinize the face of the foot passenger

on a momentous and mystical search. the blue eye beneath the brim of

the distinguished-look hat be alight. be it to be this man? be

it to be this?





§ 2



the first to be call be a young man of Leytonstone name Godley,

a young man with a large and excessively grave grey face and a

deliberation of utterance amounting to an impediment. he be carry

a microscope in a wooden box. he be a student of biology with a

cytological bias; naturally very polite and temperamentally disposed to

be precise and deliberate in all he say and do. he be make his way

from Liverpool Street station to the Birkbeck Institute by a circuitous

route because he have nearly an hour in hand before his class begin. he

stand poise on the pavement edge at a street-corner wait for two

van to pass, when his call come to he.



he find a very earnest, bareface little man beside he whose blue

eye search his countenance swiftly, and who then grip his arm.



“I think,” say Sargon, “that it be you.”



Mr. Godley, who be not without a sense of humour, attempt to reply

that it certainly be he, but that impediment of his, partly natural

but greatly develop by affectation, arrest he about the word

“certainly,” and he be still saw the air with his profile when

Sargon speak again.



“I have need of your help,” say Sargon. “the great task be begin.”



Mr. Godley go through the preliminary convulsion of explain that

he have the well part of an hour to spare and that he be willing to

give help in any reasonable matter provide it be first explain to

he clearly just exactly what the matter be. but he could only give

help for a limited time. his engagement with his class at the Birkbeck

be imperative. Sargon pay little heed to the significance of the

various sound that Mr. Godley be bite off and swallow. he lead

his captive by the arm and explain, with helpful gesture of his free

hand, the full significance of this call. “you be, I perceive, a young

man of scientific qualification. they will be need. I do not know

if you recognize I--your memory may still be imperfect--but I recall

your face, chief among the wise man of our ancient court. yes, indeed,

chief among our wise man.”



“n-no-no-not as-as-assure that I follow you aw-ow-ow quite,” say the

young man. “my my--my aw-ow-ow-work issferr’ll aw-ow-ow-know as yet.”



“_I_ know it,” say Sargon boldly. “_I_ know it. I have be seek

you. do not be deceive by my plain incognito. believe I I have

tremendous power behind I. in a little while all man will understand.

the age of confusion draw near its end; a new age begin. we be the

first two particle, the very first, in a great crystallization----”



“where aaare we g-g-g-oe agg-aggs-aggs-exactly?” ask the young man.



“trust I,” say Sargon bravely. “keep with I.”



the young man struggle with some complex question. but now three

fresh individual come under the magic attraction of the call and the

young man’s question fall in unheeded chunk. these new adherent be

a little group of man stand at the kerb, about a small, almost

inaudible hurdy-gurdy on which be a placard state: “we want work

not charity; but there be no work for we in this so-call Civilized

State.” they be clothe in faded khaki, and be all youth of less than

five-and-twenty.



“now look at that!” say Sargon. “be it not time the new age begin?”



he address himself to the man on the right of the organ-grinder.



“all this be to be alter here and now,” he say. “I have work for you

to do.”



“oh!” say the ex-soldier in the accent of a fairly well-educate man.

“what sort of work?”



“we’re straight,” say the organ-grinder. “we’ll take it. if it’s work

we can do. we ain’t faker. wot work be it?”



“Shillin’ an hour?” say the third.



“More than that. much more than that. and very great and responsible

work. a harvest! a splendid harvest! you shall be leader of man.

follow after I.”



“far?” ask the man who have speak first.



Sargon make a gesture that effectually conceal his own lack of a

definite plan, and lead the way.



“lead on, Macbeth,” say the organ-grinder, and swing his hurdy-gurdy

into its carrying position on his back. the two other ex-soldier

exchange view that it be all right and that anyhow they’d see what

be offer they. Mr. Godley, keep abreast of his leader, begin an

immense and ultimately futile struggle with a fresh question.



the next disciple be not so much call as fall into the gathering

body of Sargonites. he be a tall gentleman of a rich brown colour with

frizzy black hair, and a vast disarm smile. he be dress in an

almost luminous grey frock-suit, a pink tie, buttoned shoe with bright

yellow upper, and a hat as distinguish as Sargon’s own. he carry

a grey alpaca umbrella. he hold out a sheet of paper in a big mahogany

hand and emit in a rich abundant voice the word “Escuse.” the

paper have print on it at the head the word, “lean and Mackay, 329

Leadenhall Street, E.C.” and below write in ink, “Mr. Kama Mobamba.”



Sargon regard his interlocutor for a moment and then recognize he.

“the Elamite king!” he say.



“non spik English,” say the black gentleman. “Portugaish.”



“no,” say Sargon with a gesture that explain his intention.

“Providence. follow after I.”



the coloured gentleman fall in trustfully.



“look here!” protest one of the ex-soldier. “there ain’t go to be

coloured labor on this job?”



“peace!” say Sargon. “very soon everything will be show to you.”



“I don’t think you have any ub-ub-business to mislead ap-ap-people,”

say Mr. Godley, who be become more and more interested in, and

perplex by, Sargon’s proceeding.



Sargon quicken his pace.



“this--this gentleman s-s-s-simply wa-wa-want tu-tu-tu-tu-to go to

that address,” say Mr. Godley.



in his eagerness to get the idea home to Sargon he become a little

disregardful of his microscope box which inflict a sudden sharp

blow on the knee of a pass gentleman, a business man in a silk

hat. the victim curse aloud with extraordinary vehemence and stand

hop on the pavement with his hand to his knee. then he succumb

to a passionate impulse to tell Mr. Godley exactly what he think of

his conduct, his upbringing, and his type of human being. he join

the follower of Sargon at a brisk limp, occasionally say “hi!”

in a breathless voice. a rather intoxicated man in deep mourning have

witness the incident. he come hurry, with a certain margin of

error, to the side of the angry gentleman in the silk hat.



“’sgraceful salt,” he say. “’sgraceful! F’want a witness _I_’m your

man!”



his general intention be to go forward at the side of the gentleman

in the silk hat, but there be chemically emancipate factor in his

be that drive he sideways. the resultant be a sinuous course that

presently involve he with a display of orange in a barrow at the

pavement edge. it be not a serious nor a prolonged contact, but it

involve a certain scattering of orange in the gutter and add a new

ingredient, a very angry costermonger’s assistant with a remonstrance

and a claim for damage, to the gathering body of Sargon’s follower.



the moral of a proverb depend entirely upon the image choose, and

though a roll stone gather no moss, a rolling snowball grow

by what it roll upon. a small hurrying group of people in a

London street be a move body of the snowball type; its physical

pull be considerable; it appeal to curiosity and the increase

gregariousness of mankind. Sargon, blue-eyed and exalt, with Mr.

Godley intent and eloquent upon his left hand, and Mr. Kama Mobamba,

tall, silent, smile, with a shine confidence upon his ebony face

that soon he would be lead into the presence of Messrs. Lean and

Mackay, form the spearhead of the procession. behind come the three

out-of-work ex-soldier, who be now involve in obscure protest

and explanation with the gentleman in the silk hat, and a smart but

rather incomprehensible young newspaper reporter, who have acquire his

native tongue in Oldham, and have just come up to London to push his

fortune, and be anxious for something call a “scoop.” he seem to

think that Sargon might be the “scoop” he seek. two ambiguous-look

individual in cap and neck-wrap have also fall in, possibly for

nefarious purpose, a vague-face young woman of the street in a

weather-wear magenta hat be ask what be “_up_” and the intoxicate

man in mourning be explain as wittily and obscurely as possible.

there be also a fringe of skirmishing juvenile. and an Eton boy. he

be very, very young and fresh-face, a scion of one of the old and

good family in England and a convinced and fierce communist. he have

be on his way with a bosom friend to the celebrated model engine shop

in Holborn when Sargon have sweep past he and the inscription on the

organ have catch his eye.



he be a boy of swift initiative and with a highly developed dramatic

sense.



“sorry, old fellow,” he say to his friend. “but I feel the time have

come. unless I’m very much mistaken that little bunch be the beginning

of the Social Revolution, and I must do my duty.”



“oo I _say_, Rabbit!” say the friend. “come and buy that steam-launch

first, anyhow.”



“_what’s_ a model steam-launch?” say Rabbit scornfully, and turn to

follow Sargon.



he would have like to have have a swift strong hand-clasp first, but

you cann’t do that sort of thing with a chap who will always keep both

hand in his trouser pocket. he dart off, and his friend follow

discreetly in a state between amusement and dismay, and at such a

distance as seem to he to exonerate he from any personal complicity

with the social revolution.



“where be we go?” ask the young Etonian as he come up with the

hindmost of the out-of-work ex-soldier.



“_he_ know,” say the out-of-work ex-soldier, indicate Sargon.





§ 3



but that be exactly what our dear Sargon do not know. by this time he

be no long a convinced and complete Sargon. a scared and doubt

and protest Preemby be struggle back into his being.



up to the beginning of the calling of the disciple Sargon have rule

in his own soul assure and unchallenged. but he have expect his

disciple to respond to his call, to recognize and remember, to be

immediately understand and helpful. the calling be to have be

like the lighting of a lamp in their mind and the world about they.

he have expect not only his own clear and unquestioning conviction

but accession and reinforcement for it. and so leap from soul to

soul the restoration of Humanity, the Empire of Sargon would have

spread. for disciple who make condition, for disciple who follow,

gesticulate strangely and splutter and bubble and stammer

injurious criticism, for disciple who ask for a minimum wage, and

for disciple who came limp after one call “Hi!” as though one

be a cab, Sargon be totally unprepared.



have he call these disciple rashly? have he be premature again? have

he make another mistake?



these be unpleasantly urgent question for a Master to solve while

he be go briskly to nowhere in particular about four mile an hour

along Holborn with his follow gathering at his heel. perhaps all

leadership be a kind of flight. in every leader of man perhaps the

fugitive have be latent. in Sargon now it be more than latent; it be

awake and stirring, and its name be Preemby.



since first mankind in its slow ascent from mere animalism become

susceptible to Prophets and Great Teachers and leader there must

always have be something of this internal conflict between the

greatness of the mission and something discreetly less, and there

must also have be always something of this clash of the disciple’

quality and motive with the teacher’s expectation. the very calling

of disciple seem to admit a sense of weakness on the prophet’s part.

their calling put he in pledge. he put himself in pledge to they.

they will, he know, hold he to it when he falter; deep gregarious

instinct assure he he will not desert his declaration to they even

when he might desert himself. they desert he--inevitably. in the whole

record of the world there be only one unvarying, faithful disciple, Abu

Bekr. all other disciple fail and cripple their master and mislead

they. they desert or they drive the prophet whither he would not go.

great thing and little thing of the same kind follow the same law.

at the head of that small wedge of commotion drive along lamp-light

Holborn in the October twilight go Sargon the Lord and Protector of

Mankind, the Restorer of Faith and Justice, the Magnificent One, and

though he be already aware of an error make and danger incur, he

be still resolve to pull a great occasion by some stupendous gesture

out of the jaw of disaster. and close than his shadow be Preemby,

scare nearly out of his wit, ready for a desperate headlong bolt down

any side turning, a bolt from explanation, a bolt from effort, a bolt

back to Preembyism and infinite nothingness.



suddenly there come to Sargon a reassuring voice, the voice of one who

have at least seem to believe and accept.



there have be a slight altercation with Billy before Bobby came

hurry across the road. “there he go!” say Bobby.



“that ben’t he,” say Billy. “where’s his moustache? he be pretty

nearly all moustache.”



“shave,” say Bobby. “I’d swear to he anywhere. a sort of prance in

his walk. it’s our prophet, Billy, and he’s head for trouble.”



“look more like a welsher,” say Billy. “where’d he get that ecstatic

nigger? it’s too rummy for I altogether, Bobby. you keep out of it.

there’s a policeman tack on now.”



Bobby hesitate. “cann’t let he go like that,” he say, and dodge

across the road just as four racing omnibus blot out the

sargonite from Billy’s eye.



“forgive I, but where be you go?” say Bobby, stoop to Sargon’s

grateful ear in spite of a considerable push from Mr. Godley.



“I have declare myself,” say Sargon, and straightway reassurance

come. this be the First of the Disciples, and he have find his way to

his Master. quite clearly now do Sargon see what he have to do. these

first follower have to be instruct. the teaching have to begin. to do

that it be necessary to lead they apart out of the hurry and tumult

of the street. a vision come to Sargon of a long brightly light table,

and an array of disciple ask question, and of memorable answer

and great saying. and straight ahead, glow, burst with light,

already a friend, there tower up the invite mass of the Rubicon

Restaurant, pioneer in the great enterprise of supply dinner de

luxe at popular price.



“yonder,” say Sargon with a sweeping gesture of the hand, “we will

rest and sit at meat, and I will talk, and all thing shall be

explain.”



the bright vision of a discourse to a gathering of disciple at a table

have so restore the gloriousness of Sargon that by the time he reach

the entrance of the Rubicon Restaurant, which bulge invitingly at a

corner, he have call two further disciple. one of these acquisition

be a matchbox-holding beggar of venerable appearance, and the other

a highly intelligent-look man of perhaps fifty, lean and thinly

bearded, carry a book on the doukhobor and wear mitten and

a tall black feel hat--a hat of an unusual shape rather like the

steam-dome of a railway engine. this last acquisition be make at the

very door of the Restaurant.



“come in here,” say Sargon, seize his arm, “and take meat with I. I

have thing to tell you that will change your whole life.”



“this be very _suddan_,” say the intelligent-looking man, speak

in the high neighing protest accent of an english scholar and

gentleman, as he yield himself to Sargon’s grip.





§ 4



the actual invasion of the Rubicon Restaurant be a confused and swift

affair. Sargon’s mind be clear and simple now; he have to make that

vision of a long white table with his disciple group about he

a reality or incur a great defeat. his following be animate by a

mixture of unequal and incompatible motive, as all following be,

and it be now swollen to something near thirty--the exact number

be uncertain because it pass marginally into mere onlooker and

passer-by--by the action of the least worthy of the three out-of-work

ex-soldier, who have be utter these magic word, “a free feed!”

ever since the Rubicon Restaurant have be in sight.



the attention of that challenging individual, the outside porter, have

happen to be distract by the arrival of guest in a motor car when

the sargonite come along. they therefore sweep through the outer

entrance without encounter any obstacle other than the rotate

door, which chop the little crowd into one and two before it

reach the entrance hall. perhaps twenty get into the entrance hall,

that space of marble and mahogany and hover cloak-room attendant,

before the mechanical incompetence of the man in deep mourning and

his subsequent extraction by the politely indignant outer porter, the

costermonger’s assistant intervene unhelpfully, jam the apparatus.

the man with the bruised shin seem to have fall out before the

restaurant be reach, and the vague-face young woman in the magenta

have drift away at some unnoted moment.



in the spacious, glittering and observant outer hall a tendency to

dispersal manifest itself. the out-of-work ex-soldier with the organ,

seize by a sudden shyness, make for the gentleman’s cloak-room to

deposit his instrument and become involved in an argument with his

colleague. the two ambiguous young man in cap and neck-wrap seem to

have hesitate about the correctness of their costume. but Sargon hold

the newly catch gentleman tight, and the venerable match-seller do

not mean to be separate from his patron in this bright, luxurious,

dangerous place. Mr. Kama Mobamba, tall and smile and shine, hand

hat and umbrella to an attendant and follow closely upon the Master,

serene in his assurance that these be the lordly portal of the long

seek firm of african trader, Lean and Mackay. and Mr. Godley, with

his natural passion for explicitness, would not leave Sargon until

he have make it perfectly clear to he why he do not feel bound to

accompany he far. he come next after the other into the Large

restaurant, make noise like a cuckoo clock that have lose control

of itself. the reporter from Oldham be also hold on, though in

considerable doubt now what sort of story he would have to write. the

Eton boy, more than half aware now of his error, and so disposed to be

a little detach also, come into the restaurant after deposit hat

and umbrella without.



Bobby never come through. he be overtake and hold up in the entrance

hall by Billy. “this ben’t your affair, Bobby,” say Billy. “this

really ben’t your affair.”



“I cann’t make out what he’s up to,” say Bobby. “he’s bind to get into

trouble.”



“never mind.”



“but I do mind.”



“the management’s scare,” say Billy. “they’re send for the police.

there’s a crowd gather outside. look at the face look in. see

that chap peer through the hole in the glass? nice thing for Tessy

and Susan if we get into some police-court scrape.”



“but we cann’t leave he to get into a mess here.”



“but how can we help he?”





§ 5



within the restaurant Sargon make his supreme and final effort and

encounter swift and overwhelming defeat. but at any rate he do not

run away. he make a frontal attack on the world he have set out to

subdue--as Sargon. as Sargon, invincibly Sargon, he meet disaster.



thing have not begin to be very brisk yet in the Rubicon Restaurant.

but indeed it be never so brisk in the Rubicon of an evening as it be

at lunch time; it be too far from the west; pre-eminently a luncheon

place. and the hour even for such briskness as be customary have not yet

come. the neat line of the little white table, each with its lamp

and flower, be only break here and there by occupant. a family

group go to a circus; a little knot of people go to a meeting in

the Kingsway Hall; three or four couple of theatre-goer in evening

dress; three or four of those odd couple of a rather inexperienced

look middle-aged business man and an extremely inexperienced look

young woman in imperfectly conceive dinner dress who be to be see

everywhere in London, and a group of three business man from the north

dress in a canny grey and dine with a resolute completeness from

cocktail to liqueur, be all the company yet assemble in the body of

the restaurant. there be one or two occupant in the low gallery,

dimly see; the upper gallery be unlit. the atmosphere be still

timorous and chilly; even the three man from the north exact their

tale of London luxury in a subdued and even furtive manner.



the staff be still largely unemployed. the head-waiter, wine-waiter

and table-waiter fidget serviette and glass, or stand about with

that expression of self-astonishment and melancholy upon their face

habitual to waiter. a slight hubbub in the entrance hall and the sound

of the smashing of the glass in the rotate door by the last effort of

the man in mourning precede the entry of Sargon.



every one look up. the guest forget their food and their company

manner; the waiter forget their secret sorrow. Sargon appear,

an inconspicuous figure, a little white, almost luminous face, round

bright eye. with one hand he still grip his last disciple. with the

other he wave aside the gobbet of speech which Mr. Godley proffer

he. a tall expectant negro face rise like a shield of ebony and ivory

above he. behind be the match-seller and other follower, less

clearly apprehend.



a head-waiter face he. behind hover a manager and a little far

off an assistant manager fiddle with the fruit on the buffet.



Sargon release his late catch and stand forward.



“set a table here,” he say with a fine gesture. “set a table here for

a great company. I have call a following and must need discourse

with they.”



“Table, sir,” say the head-waiter. “for ’ow many, sir?”



“a great company.”



“well, sir,” say the head-waiter with an appealing glance at the

manager, “we’d like to ’ave an idea ’ow many.”



the manager come up to take control and the assistant manager desert

his pile of fruit and come up behind helpfully. Sargon perceive he

be against opposition and gather all the force within he. “it be a

great company,” he say. “it must sit at meat with I here and I must

discourse to it. these people yonder may join. set all the table one

to another. the day of separate table and separate life be at an end.

let even the table manifest the Brotherhood of Man. under our Rule.

Set they together.”



at the word “Brotherhood of Man” one of the three business man from

the north be smite with understanding. “it’s a blood-stain

Bolshevik,” he say, or word to that effect. “Shovin’ in here! of all

place!”



“oughtn’t to be allow,” say his friend. “ben’t we to have _no_

peace from they?”



the first business man express a general antipathy for incarmine

Bolsheviks and go on eat bread in a hurried, fuss, irritated

manner. “when’s that Fricassee of Chicken come?” he say. “they must

have drop it or something.”



but the manager’s intelligence have be even quick than the business

man’s. a swift signal have be give at the very beginning of Sargon’s

speech. the waiter send to summon the police have already speed past

Billy and Bobby and the rest of the uncertain crowd in the entrance

hall, draughty now and uneasy because of the broken glass in the

rotate door that the man in mourning have break.



but Sargon heed nothing of this byplay. he hold on to the only course

that he could see before he, which be to overwhelm the opposition

that gather against he.



“we don’t have banquet in this room, sir,” say the manager, play

for time. “banquet you can have in the Syrian Hall or in the Elysian

Chamber or in the Great Masonic or Little Masonic Hall--give due

notice and after proper arrangement, but this be the general public

restaurant. you cann’t _suddenly_ give a banquet to an unknown company

or society or something here. we don’t cater for that. it ben’t do.”



“it will be do to-night,” say Sargon, with a glance and intonation

and gesture that would have bend all dream Sumeria to its knee.



but the manager of european restaurant be make of sterner stuff, it

seem, than be the old Sumerians. “I’m afraid _not_, sir,” he say,

and stand blandly obstructive.



“do you know,” cry Sargon, “who it be with whom you have to deal?”



“not one of our regular customer, sir,” say the manager, with the

apologetic air of one who score a point perforce.



“listen,” say Sargon. “this day be an Epoch. this be the end and the

beginning of an Age. man will count this banquet I shall hold here the

sunrise moment of a new world. I be Sargon, Sargon the Great, Sargon

the Restorer, come to proclaim myself. this multitude of my follower

must be feed and instruct here, feed bodily and feed spiritually. see to

it that your share be do.”



he make a gesture behind he when he speak of his follower, but indeed

there be no following behind he now save that one faithful but

delude African, and that perplex but persistent Oldham reporter. the

Eton boy have detach himself completely now. he be sit at a table

afar off, where he have be join by his friend, and they converse

in undertone and watch. even Mr. Godley with his microscope, and

the gentleman with the book about the doukhobor, have fade out of

this story by this time, and be go along Holborn exchange and

interrupt each other’s explanation and surmise about this singular

affair that have so unexpectedly deflect their high and reasonable

progress through life.



“I can only sus-sas-sas-suppose that-the-fellow-be-mad,” say Mr.

Godley.



while Sargon’s retinue have melt the manager’s have gather. behind

he now stand an array of waiter of every description, three dozen

perhaps of various and yet uniform waiter, tall waiter and short

one, fat and thin, hairy and bald, young and old, waiter in apron

and one in shirt sleeve.



“I’m afraid you’re create a disturbance here,” say the manager. “I’m

afraid I must ask you to go, sir.”



should he go? never!



“oh, generation of blind and deaf!” he cry, lift his voice in an

attempt to reach the scatter diner beyond this lower crowd of

wait man, “do you not recognize I? have you neither memory nor

vision? do you not see the light that offer itself to you? can you not

hear the call that thrill throughout the world? the hour for awakening

have come. it be to-day; it be now. you may cease to be thing of habit

and servitude, and you may become master of a world reborn. now! this

moment. _will_ the change with I and the change be upon you! Sargon

call you, Sargon the Ancient and the Eternal, the Wise Ruler and the

Bold one, call you to light, to nobility, to freedom----”



“’Fraid we cann’t let you make speech here,” say the manager with

hand extend.



“let’s chuck ’Im out _now_,” say a short, thick-set waiter.



“chuck he out!” say the anti-bolshevik business man, stand up and

speak in a voice replete with indignation and gathering volume as

he go on. “and then bring we our Fricassee of Chicken. we have be

wait ten Minutes for that fricassee of CHICKEN!”



and then a voice could be hear say: “wot’s it all _about_?” and

suddenly a policeman stand beside Sargon and overshadow he.



a wave of horror go through his soul, a wave of horror that be

entirely Preemby. throughout his whole virtuous life he have never once

be in antagonism to the Police. “oh, Lord! oh, Lord!” cry this

horror in his soul. “what have I do now? I’m go to be run in!”

the blue eye grow rounder and he gasp for air, but no one there

perceive how close he come to ignominious collapse. Preemby shiver

and pass. Sargon choke and then speak stoutly. “what be this,

Officer?” he say. “would you lay hand on the Master of the World?”



“my duty, sir, if he make a disturbance,” say the policeman. “Master

or no Master.”



very rapidly do Sargon adjust himself to this new phase in his

affair. he be defeat. he be to be lead away. yes, but he be still

Sargon. the Power that rule he have thrust he into defeat, but that

could only be to try he. he have not expect this of the power, but

since the power will it, so it have to be.



“you understand, Officer, what it be you be do?” he say,

magnificently and gently.



“quite, sir. I ’ope you don’t intend to give we any trouble.”



a captive! not thus have he foresee the revelation of the Master. he

give one last look at the rich decoration of the great restaurant in

which the opening banquet be to have take place. not here then but

in some squalid police-court it be that the New Empire of Justice and

Brotherhood have to be proclaim.



he turn in silence and go out at the policeman’s side quietly, deep

in thought.





§ 6



so end Sargon’s first effort to enter into his empire. unless we

count the visit to Buckingham Palace as his first attempt.



but before we go on to tell of the unexpected and dreadful experience

that now come upon he, we must record one or two minor incident of

his capture.



one be the behaviour of Mr. Kama Mobamba. he watch the closing

incident in the restaurant with a grow amazement upon his great

bronze face. have this little blue-eyed man be, after all, lead he

wrong? when at last Sargon be lead away, Mr. Mobamba move at first as

though still half inclined to follow he. then he stand still, frown

reflectingly and fumble at his ticket-pocket. with some effort he

produce the sheet of paper that seem to be his one intelligible link

with London; it be now in a rather crumple condition. smooth it

out with his great hand, he advance upon the manager with it extend.



“what’s this?” say the manager.



the black gentleman bow with infinite suavity, still tend his

paper. “non spik English,” say the black gentleman. “Portugaish.

lean-a-Kay. Lemonallstree.”



he be difficult to direct.



meanwhile in the entrance hall Bobby tacitly deny all knowledge of

Sargon. he be still hover there with Billy, hold by a curious

half-maternal solicitude. the ex-soldier have “mizzle,” to use the

expressive word of the man with the organ, at the appearance of

policeman; the man in mourning and his trouble have be clear up;

but there be still quite a number of people hang about in a state

of vague anticipation, and the young reporter be try to find some

one who understand the rare and obscure language of Oldham in order to

verify his fact. and there be several policeman; one evidently a

superior officer, a very good-look man in a peaked cap and a frogged

coat.



“here he come!” say Billy, and Sargon be lead out.



there be a silence as he pass through the hall to the rotate door.

and upon Sargon, it seem to Bobby, there rest a hitherto unnote

dignity. he look neither to the right nor the left, and his eye be

exceedingly mournful.



“but what will they do with he?” ask Bobby.



“you don’t happen to know he, sir?” ask the superior officer

abruptly.



“not a bit!” say Billy, take the answer out of Bobby’s mouth. “never

see he before. we just come in here to see what be up.”



and by his silence Bobby acquiesce.



“I’ve get no power to move you on here,” say the police officer, and

smile a suggestion of inopportuneness to Billy, and motion to his

satellite that the business there be at an end.



“we’d well go home,” say Billy, interpret the smile.





§ 7



the three friend sit round a fire in the white room with the purple

curtain, and Bobby pour out his regret that he have deny Sargon.

“they’ve take he off, Tessy,” he say for the third time, “and I do

not know what they will do with he.”



“discharge he with a caution,” say Billy with a drawing-board on his

knee. “he haven’t commit very much of an offence that I can see.”



“and then?” say Bobby, and meditate on the fire.



“I shall go round to the police-court and try to pick he up again

afterwards if they let he go,” he say presently.



“well leave it all alone,” say Billy.



but Tessy sit in her arm-chair between Billy and the fire and look

at Bobby’s preoccupy profile rather sweetly out of the warm shadow.

and nobody in the world see she.



“they’ll warn he and he’ll come back here of his own accord, Bobby,”

say Tessy comfortingly.



“of course he’ll come back,” say Billy.



“very likely, Tessy,” say Bobby. “but suppose they don’t.”



he get up and stand by the fire. “I suppose I ought to go upstairs and

do some work.”



“I suppose you have,” say Billy.



“how be the novel get on?” ask Tessy.



“not much do yet,” say Bobby. “the Prophet have disorganize the

actual writing. but I’ve learn a lot of thing that will tell some

day. and of course I have to do all my Aunt Suzannah stuff. Aunt

Suzannah get more and more popular. you cann’t imagine the thing they

ask I. it’s all material in the long run. still--it take time....

I suppose they’ve lock he in a beastly little cell somewhere. and

he’s wonder why they don’t see that he’s truly the great Sargon,

come again to this world.... Billy, the world’s a dangerous place, a

dangerous, unkind place. why couldn’t they let he rip a bit? and his

poor little map of the Whole World upstairs--he always call it the

Whole World--and his little paper star-machine, and his poor little

empty room and his poor little empty bed.”



“I protest,” say Billy, put his drawing-board aside. “Bobby,

you be a case of morbid overgrowth of the sympathy. you be a new

disease. you be the type case of Bobbyism. it’s bad enough that you

should sympathize openly with that little devil Susan when I have

spank she, and so undo all my teaching. it’s bad enough that you

should do about a third of Mrs. Richman’s work because she need

light and air. I can even understand something of your emotional

relationship with various stray cat and pigeon. but when it come

to your be sorry for a poor little empty lodging-house bed, I draw

the line. absolutely, Bobby; I draw the line. poor little empty bed!

It’s--it’s _morbid_, Bobby.”



“but of course he be think of Sargon,” say Tessy. “you’ll go to

the police-court to-morrow, Bobby?”



“I’ll go--in spite of Billy. I don’t care if it be a disease. I’m

worried about that little man. I’m afraid. he’s too round-eyed for this

cruel world.”



and next morning Bobby go. he go to Lemon Square Court and sit

through a frowsty morning and wait for Sargon who never appear. he

hear all the morning “drunk” and suchlike come up for judgment, a

case about steal soda-water syphon, two matrimonial difference, and

all about the wilful smashing of a plate-glass window with intent to

rob, but nothing about Sargon. the magistrate vanish and the court

begin to disperse. he ask question of a policeman who have never

hear of Sargon and the little trouble at the Rubicon Restaurant. have

he come to the right court? the policeman ask. Bobby hurry headlong

to Minton Street. Minton Street, too, it seem, have never hear of

Sargon. it do not occur to Bobby to ask in either police station. he

retire baffle. he try to find something about Sargon in the evening

newspaper; there be not a line about the Rubicon or he. perhaps he

have not be charge! he hurry back and rush upstairs full of a

vain surmise; the room be desolate, the window open, the map of the

world on the floor. have Sargon be spirit out of existence?



next day bring neither Sargon nor news of Sargon. Bobby lie awake of

night.



after three full day Billy, who have be watch his friend

furtively, remark in a casual manner: “why don’t you go and see the

Head Panjandrum at the Lemon Square Police Station about it? he’d be

sure to know if anyone do.”



show in to Inspector Mullins, Bobby find himself confront by the

same good-look officer he have see in the entrance hall of the

Rubicon Restaurant. “you’re the young man who don’t happen to know

anything about he, three night ago,” say Inspector Mullins, not

answer Bobby’s question.



Bobby explain the situation candidly.



“don’t help much now,” say the Inspector. “still it’s all in order.

we take he, in the exercise of our discretion, to the Workhouse

Infirmary--for observation as to his mental state. three clear day

they keep they there. then they’re either certify or let go. or

charge.”



“certify?” ask Bobby.



“as a lunatic,” say Inspector Mullins.



“and what happen to he?”



“usual thing, I suppose. he be a pretty clear case. by this time he’s

a certify lunatic, I suppose, and either at Cummerdown Hill or on his

way there. or if that’s full--somewhere else.”



“Phew!” say Bobby. “pretty quick.”



he sat disconcert. “can I go and see he at Cummerdown Hill?” he

ask.



“probably not,” say Inspector Mullins. “see you’re not a relation.”



“I’m interested in he.”



“it ben’t your business.”



“exactly. but I like he. and I don’t think he’s exactly mad.... seem

odd of his people--do you know anything about his people? I might go

and talk to they about he.”



“that’s possible,” say the Inspector. “I don’t know who they be.

you might find out at the Workhouse Infirmary or they might tell you

from Cummerdown. I don’t know. very likely _they_ don’t know who his

relation be. there’s all sort of such straggler in the world.

possibly he haven’t any relation--the sort of relation, I mean, who

would want to bother about he. my impression be that once a man or

woman be certify and put away it’s rather hard for an outsider to get

through. but, as you say, you can but try. sorry I cann’t tell you any

more. I never see he myself at all--except as he go past I. not my

affair.... yes, our usual procedure in such a case.... oh! no trouble.

good morning.”



leave sit squarely, an embodiment of implacable and indifferent law

and rule.









CHAPTER the THIRD



_the Journey of Sargon underneath the World_





§ 1



it have be say in an early chapter that Mr. Preemby, after his

wife’s death, be like some seed which germinate and thrust out bold

and unexpected thing. a new phase in that belate germination begin as

he walk through the London street beside his captor policeman. if

the thing have happen to Mr. Preemby while he be still Mr. Preemby,

it would have be merely a dreadful, shameful horror. it would have

be an insupportable experience, a thing to regret, a thing to get

through and conceal and if possible obliterate from record and memory.

if, again, it have happen in the early day of Sargon’s dream it

would have be an occasion for an immense dramatic improvisation. he

would have think of the effect upon the spectator and passer-by, he

would have pose and gesticulate and say profound, memorable word.

but some power of growth have take possession of he now and he do

none of these thing. he pose now neither to the world without nor to

himself within. for the first time in his life almost he be look

directly at himself and at what he have do and what have befall he,

and so full of wonder be he at this ultimate discovery of reality that

he forget all the vast fabric of make-believe, imaginative response,

and deliberate self-delusion, up which he have clamber to this new

phase of vision. he walk so quietly through the light street that

only the most observant note he be in charge and that the policeman

be on duty; to the rest he might have be any casual companion of a

home-go policeman.



one determination have be release in this renascent mind with an

extraordinary strength and clearness, that he be not, and never

would again be, that Albert Edward Preemby who have launch he into

existence. he be a be call, it matter not what, in reality,

but for his present purpose, Sargon, Sargon the Magnificent King.

the first concrete vision of Sumeria and his ancient glory have

pass now into the background of his mind. he have not lose his belief

in they at all, but they be now ancient history to he, and even

the revelation at the boarding house seem very far away. his idea

have travel long distance and gather much in the past week. the

expectation of an immediate sensational splendour have be rudely

shatter. the Power that have call he have surprise he exceedingly,

but have not overwhelm he. he know quite clearly that he have to be

Sargon who live not for himself but for the Whole World, and that to

relinquish or deny that be to perish utterly. it have not seem to be

necessary to he that his own faith should be try, but manifestly the

Power have determine that it should be try. and manifestly he be to

be put through some austere process of preparation before he enter

into his empire. he be to know what prison be and to stand a trial.

he would be ask to deny himself.



what should he say to they? I be not he--I be not Him--which be it? I

be not he you suppose I be. he mutter it to himself.



“whassay?” say the policeman.



“nothing. be it much far?” ask Sargon.



it be just round the corner. Sargon find himself in a little austere

room with half a dozen quite amiable but slightly disrespectful man in

uniform. he be ask his name and address by one who sit at a table.

“Sargon,” he say. “Sargon the First.”



“no christian name?”



“Pre-christian,” say Sargon.



“no give name, I mean,” say the questioner.



“no.”



“and the address?”



“none at present.”



“just anywhere?”



Sargon do not answer.



“case for Gifford Street,” say a voice behind he.



“memory case or something,” say the man at the table. “anyhow, it’s

Gifford Street.”



Sargon reflect. “what’s Gifford Street?” he ask.



“’ospital. where they’ll give you a bit of a rest and quiet.”



“but I want to meet a magistrate in open court. I have a message. I be

in no need of rest or quiet.”



“they’ll tell you all about that at Gifford Street. Buxton, will you

take ’Im round?”



“but I be perfectly well! why should I go to hospital?”



“Routine I suppose,” say the seat policeman and give his mind to

other thing.





§ 2



Queer! why should it be a hospital? the way the Power be treat he

be a strange way. he have to submit to the power; he have to maintain

himself Sargon. still he could have wish for more explicitness.



he be so turn inward now that he go along beside Constable Buxton,

not note the street nor the traffic nor the passer-by. presently

they be at a door in a high wall, within which there be building.

then they be in a little office and a large, grey-face porter

look at he and exchange muttered explanation with the constable.

then they be go across a wide yard and through large door into

a corridor where there be an unoccupied stretcher and two or three

nurse in uniform. they come to a little glaze-in office and Sargon

be ask to sit down on a bench against a wall while there be

telephone. Constable Buxton hover down the corridor as though the

task be nearly do.



a small bright-eyed man in a grey suit come and look at Sargon. for

some moment they regard each other in silence. “well?” say the man

in the grey suit.



“my name be Sargon. I do not know why I have be bring here. be this

a hospital? I understand it be. I be not ill.”



“you may be ill without know it.”



“no.”



“we just want to have you here for a bit to have a look at you.”



Sargon shrug his shoulder.



a very big man with exaggerated shoulder and a large, clean-shaven,

intensely self-satisfy looking face appear. he have a wide,

thin-lipped mouth, protrude grey eye and highly oil and entirely

subjugate sandy hair with an army “quif” on the forehead.



“busy evening,” he say. “this be number three.”



“pretty full then,” say the small man in grey.



“too full,” say Mr. Jordan, “you don’t know where you be. this

_’im_?” he ask and indicate Sargon by crease his thick neck and

depress the corner of his mouth towards he.



“this,” say the little man in grey to Sargon, “be Mr. Jordan. he’s

go to show you just where you have to go and just what you have to

do.”



immediately, instinctively, Sargon dislike Mr. Jordan. but he stand

up obediently because his idea of submission to the power seem in

some way to overlap and include this new coercion. Mr. Jordan produce

a voice of flat, oily, insincere amiability. “you come along, Old Chap,

with I,” he say. “we’ll make you comfortable all right ’fyou don’t

give no trouble.”



they go round a corner and up a cheerless stone staircase that

turn back on itself; they come to a landing and double door with

glass pane in they that open upon a very long, dark passage light by

a single very remote light. and suddenly it appear to Sargon that

behind he and already distant lie that outer world of freedom, the

street and the light, the coming and going of people and thing, the

endless chance encounter, the event and the spectacle of life to

which the Power have send he, and before he be dark and narrow and

dreadful experience. why should he turn his back thus voluntarily on

the great outer world he have come to save? be this again only another

mistake he be make? he take a step or so away from Jordan and face

he.



“no,” he say. “I do not want to go far into this place. I do not

wish it. let I return. I have disciple to call and many thing to do.”



the full moon of Jordan’s face display incredulous astonishment that

pass into fierceness. “_wot?_” he say.



he leave a tremendous pause after “wot” and then speak very rapidly.

“none of your trick _’ere_, you thunder old Bastard.” with a swift

movement his huge, raw, red hand grip Sargon by the upper arm. his

thin lip be retract to show his tooth; his eye seem pop

out. he grip not to hold but to pinch and compress and injure, and

he dig his finger in between muscle and bone, so that Sargon stare at

he with dilated eye and utter a sharp, involuntary cry of pain.



the grip relax from the acutely painful to the merely uncomfortable,

and the big face come down close to Sargon’s. it be manifest that Mr.

Jordan have be regale himself on cheese and cocoa. “don’t you try it

on, you Old Fool! don’t you bloom well try it on. whatever it be,

don’t you try it on ’ere. you’re right enough to understand what I say.

see? you do exactly wot you’re tell ’ere. you do exactly wot you’re

tell. you do your good to avoid givin’ trouble and I’ll do my good

ditto. but if you start doin’ trick--Gawd ’elp you! see?”



and he crush the arm again.



“Understan’?”



the blue eye seem to assent.



“down that passage, blast you!” say Mr. Jordan.



a distressed and wonder and yet not absolutely abject Sargon be

take to a wet and untidy bathroom in which a broken chair, pool

of water, great splashing on the wall, and some crumple towel in

the corner suggest a recent struggle. there he be make to undress

and take a tepid bath, dry with a towel that have already be in

action, put into a grey nightgown that be doubtfully clean, a grey

shoddy dressing-gown that certainly ben’t, and a pair of down-at-heel

slipper two size too big, and so garb, be lead by Mr. Jordan, a

little propitiate now by alert obedience, into the ward in which he

be to pass the night.



a rufous man with very light eyelash appear.



“’Ere ’e be, Mr. ’Iggs,” say Mr. Jordan.



“I’ve get his bed ready,” say Mr. Higgs. “’ow many more of ’em?”



“Perfec’ shower of ’em,” say Mr. Jordan.



“Three,” say Mr. Higgs.



“well,” say Mr. Jordan. “so long.”



“so long,” say Mr. Higgs.



neither of they address the Lord of the Whole World directly. he

might have be a parcel pass from hand to hand.





§ 3



when Sargon enter the Observation Ward of the Gifford Street

Infirmary his sense of having leave life, ordinary current life,

far away behind he, beyond these grey passage and corridor and

staircase and glass office and high wall and little door, be

enormously reinforce. never have he see anything so emptily bleak and

cheerless as this place. a heartless great dingy room it be, with

green-grey distempered wall discolour in patch, light by a few bare

light that give neither high-light nor shadow. black night and a

greasily light brick wall stare in through uncurtained window. half-way

down the length of the place project piece of wall suggest that

two former room have be throw into one. the floor be of polished

bare board. far off be a table set against the wall with two or

three torn and crumpled magazine thereon, and at the end an empty

fire-place. in the near half, on either side, there be iron bedstead

in row, twenty or thirty perhaps altogether. there be a foul smell

in the air, faint and yet indescribably offensive, a fæcal smell mix

with a heavy soapy odour.



even have it be unoccupied, this cold, large, evil-smell room would

have seem a strange inhospitable place to Sargon. for it have always

be the lot of Mr. Preemby, even in the day of his early poverty, to

live snug, to have carpet, even if they be shabby carpet, under

his foot, and an encumbrance of furniture and silly human picture

and bracket and thing about he on the wall. here in this harsh

plainness it be as though the fussy, accumulative, home-make

imagination of man have never be.



but the strange soulless atmosphere of the place be but the first

instant impression of Sargon. it be follow by a far more vivid and

terrible realization, that this place be inhabit by being who

be only at the first glance man. then as one look again it become

clear that they be not exactly man, they do not look up at his

entry as man should, or they show their awareness of he by queer

unnatural movement. several be in bed; other be dress in shabby

and untidy clothe and either sit on their bed or be seat in

chair about the low part of the room. one individual only be in

motion; a grave-faced young man who be walk with an appearance of

concentrated method to and fro in a restricted circle in the far corner

of the ward. another sit and seem to remove a perpetually recurrent

cobweb from his face by a perpetually repeat gesture. two man be

jammed behind the table against the wall and one, a fleshy lout with a

shine pink skin and curl red hair on his bare chest, be make

violent gesture, hammer the table with a freckle fist, talk

in a voice that rise and sink and occasionally break into curse

while the other, a sallow-complexion, cadaverous individual, seem

to be sink in profound despair. in one of the bed close at hand

a young man with a shock of black hair and an expression of fatuous

satisfaction, that change with dramatic suddenness to triumphant

fierceness or insinuate lucidity, sit up and gesticulate and

compose and recite an interminable poem--something in the manner of

Browning. it be run in this fashion:



      “God shall smite they

      and blight they

      they may prevail but God will requite they

      Light ’em.

      burn ’em to ashe and burn ’em to atom

      atom!

      burn atom--exactly like star. see?

      star in the void and all over the place.

      atom galore and God cann’t show his face.

  (triumphant discovery.)

      he _haven’t_ a face.

      that’s it! that’s it, my Boys!

      atheist wrong and theology wrong,

      plainly and simply here’s every one wrong!

      and I have to tell ’em!

      there’s a God, _item_ one, but he haven’t a face

      so he cann’t show his face.

      that’s the kink of it.

      naturally every one think he’s _non est_

      but he’s there as I know to my cost;

      for I’m lose

      but I’ve show how it be all the same.

      no face--what a game!

      I find God in the void

      Unmasked and a little annoyed.

      _Quod erat demonstrandum_ X.L....”



“there’s your bed,” say Mr. Higgs at Sargon’s elbow, shove he

slightly.



Sargon move a little unwillingly, his puzzled eye still on the talker.



“you’ll hear enough of he before you’re do, Old Chap,” say Mr.

Higgs. “hop into bed now.”



impel partly by the arm of Mr. Higgs and partly by his natural

disposition to please, Sargon get into bed. Mr. Higgs assist he in

a rough brotherly fashion. but before Sargon could pull up the clothe

about he, Mr. Higgs, glance over his shoulder, become aware of

something that be happen down the room--Sargon could not see what.



in an instant the genial authoritativeness of Mr. Higgs give way to

rage. “Yaaps, you dirty old devil!” say Mr. Higgs. “you’re at it

again!”



he quit Sargon and run down the room very swiftly. Sargon sit up in

bed to see what be happen. three or four of the other patient do

the same. a very dirty old man with a face of extreme misery, who be

sit in a chair, be seize upon and bump up and down and hit

several time with great vigour by Mr. Higgs. then Mr. Higgs depart

and return, still utter admonition, with a pail and a rag.



for Mr. Higgs be not only an attendant on the mentally afflict but

also, on account of economy, the floor-scrubber and general cleaner

of the ward. he have be train in the navy to ideal of a speckless

brightness and he scrub well than he attend.



“lie down there!” cry Mr. Higgs return up the ward with his pail.

“it ain’t nothing to do with you.”



the Lord of the World lie down.





§ 4



it be an extremely uninteresting ceiling to look at except for a

streak of yellowish stain, but it be well to look at the ceiling

for a time than to look too much at these distressing people around

he. they be distress and distract, and Sargon know that it

be urgently necessary not to be distract, but to think over his

position very carefully before anything far happen to he. all

this rush of consequence have be so unexpected, preposterous and

violent since--a few hour ago--he have survey London from the dome of

Saint Paul’s and decide that the moment have come to take hold of his

Lordship of the World, that he perceive he might very conceivably be

overwhelmed. how serene and distant now be that spectacle of London

spread out under the amber sunshine between its far blue hill and

its shine river, with its dense cluster of shipping and the black

ant-current of folk below. from that he have come swiftly, inevitably,

to this echo prison. for prison he see it be. he know quite well

that these man around he be demented man and that he have be seize

upon as a lunatic, but he think that the Workhouse Observation

Ward in which he be, be a lunatic asylum already. in his wild

imagination he have never imagine the Power over all thing could

treat he thus. the possibility of a brief interlude in prison, of a

severe but very public and triumphant trial, have enter his mind; but

not that he might be hustle away out of the possibility of any such

appeal. he have to think his position out anew, to discover what all

this monstrous experience be intend to show and to teach he, and

what he have to do to meet this strange occasion.



and it be very difficult to do this with a raucous voice down the room

utter foul threat about the ward attendant and a great fist beat

the table in sudden storm and with that smooth, fluctuating, unende

recitation nearer at hand, that cosmic poem, now almost inaudible--so

that one strain to catch the word--and now in high-pitch delight.

for long stretch it be just incoherent jumble and Sargon would

hold it almost completely out of his attention while he pursue his

own perplexity, and then it would rush together into something that

challenge its way to mingle with his inmost thought.



  “filthy old nature, she drive we amain;

  one goad be lust and the other goad pain.

  and so we get back to old nowhere again.

  nowhere to start from and nowhere again.

  want and be hurt, want and be hurt,

  out of the dirt you come, back to the dirt.

  hunger for dirt and dirty regretting

  Dirty our feeding and dirty begetting

  Smear yourself, paint yourself, wear a fine shirt

  put a brave face on it, Yah!--you be dirt.”



“now be that true?” ask Sargon of himself. be that true? dirt? what

be dirt? but no! he must not wander off after this mad raving! what

be it he have be think about? he have be ask why have the power

thrust he into this dreadful place? why have the power bring he to

this place? if only the man would stop that improvisation of his for a

little while it might be possible to think that out. why have he be

give over to the command of Jordan and Higgs to live among the madman

and--sudden fantastic side question!--why have _they_?



if only that poem would cease! if only that voice would fade to

silence! it be now mere rubble and rubbish, as though thought have be

break up with a pickaxe and load in cart and shoot down a slope.

don’t listen to it, Sargon! don’t listen to it! concentrate!



in his endeavour to concentrate, Sargon forget even Higgs. he sit up in

bed and draw his knee nearly to his chin and thought.



he be Sargon; that be the great issue. he have to remain Sargon.

he be probably in this place of trouble and torment because of the

conflict between his be Sargon and the possibility of his relapse

into Preemby. the Power have call he to be Sargon and to serve and

suffer for and at last to rule the Whole World, but manifestly it be

not a simple direct call. there be something work in opposition

to this destiny, an Anti-Power, oppose to the Power, which be

try to put he back to Preemby and Preembyism, to be little and

insignificant, to live obscurely and to no purpose and so at last to

die and become utterly and finally dead. that Anti-Power it be

that have be permit to bring he here, to frighten and torment

he, to din mad rhyme into his ear, to urge upon he in a monotonous

persistent voice that he be dirt and that God be without a face,

and a multitude of suchlike blasphemy. but they be not true. the

Anti-Power might talk and talk--would God there could be a respite from

his talking!--but the truth be outside this place and great than

this place and altogether comprehend it. he be one, Sargon be one,

from the beginning in Sumeria, in many land and now here, the same

spirit, the ruler who serve; he be one just as London be one when it

be see from on high up above there, endlessly multitudinous yet draw

together into a single personality. and so be the whole world one.

to be Preemby be to be like a wretched little back street house down

below there, swallow up in the general effect. never more could he

be Preemby, even if he would. that be what he have to keep hold of. he

could only be Sargon by deny Preemby--even though he have to face the

pain of death.



yet all the while the Anti-Power be insult life and himself through

that disorder poet and his recitation. the man have now fall under

the spell of a fascinating but detestable word, if one may call such a

thing a word, “Tra-la-la.”



  “Tra-la-la. Tra-la-la.

  that be the note of it.

  get the full gloat of it.

  Tra-la-la. Tra-la-la.

  all time and place

  happy derision for Gods without face.

  Tra-la-la sunshine or Tra-la-la rain.

  eat, drink, and kiss ’em and at it again.

  Tra-la-la. Tra-la-la.

  kiss ’em and kiss ’em and at it again.

  at it again!

  Tra-la-la.”



he vary his recitation with a loud explosive noise make by his lip

on the back of his hand.



“pray don’t think I cynical,” he say to Sargon. “it be just pure Joy

de Vive.”



Sargon could not stand it any long. this be damnable teaching to

fle out before the very regenerator of mankind. he suddenly thrust

out a pointing finger. “you be wrong!” he say loudly and sharply.



the poet stare for a minute and with a gesture of salutation say:

“Tra-la-la-la.”



“I tell you life be real,” cry Sargon. “life be immense. life be full

of meaning and order. I have come to tell you and all man so.”



the poet interrupt smilingly and politely with:



  “Tra-la-la

  Tra-la-la

  Life be a hiccup and life be a sneeze

  a smell from a dunghill borne on the breeze

  a thing of no moment--so do as you please!

  Tra-la-la. Tra-la-la.”



he be go on, but Sargon would not hear he. he lift his voice to

drown his antagonist. “I tell you, you poor soul! you be utterly wrong

and blind,” he say. “for the light have come to I and understanding be

mine. you be not the lost thing you deem you be, or at least you need

not be. no! I, too, be a lost thing such as you be, a little while

ago. I, too, think I be a grain, a fragment, a thing of no account.

but the call have come to I, and I have be call to call other to

take part with I in a new awakening. I have have a vision and I have

see the world like one who awaken from a long sleep. all thing be

join together and work together and continue for ever.”



the poet wrinkle up his nose and wave his hand at Sargon as who

should wave aside some object of offence. “Tra-la-la,” he shout.



“all thing I tell you be join together and work together----”



“Tra-la-la,” louder.



“I tell you,” much louder.



“Shuddup there,” cry the loud and wrathful voice of Sanity embody

in Mr. Higgs.



“you’ll have the whole ward jabber in a minute,” say Mr. Higgs,

approach and address Sargon in tone of earnest expostulation.

“Shud Dup.”



and after a brief pause of reflection the Lord of the Whole World

obey.



with a gesture of extreme dignity he indicate to Higgs that his crude

demand be concede.



“that’s o right,” say Higgs. “_You_ can hold in if you want to. so you

well. _he_ cann’t.”



the poet go on in a soft insinuate undertone revile and mock

Sargon’s faith to a refrain of: “Tra-la-la. Tra-la-la.”





§ 5



Sargon sit up in bed, motionless now except that his head turn slowly

to look at the people about he, and silent. his recent outbreak have

in some way assuage the exasperation of that endless recitation. it

continue, now crazily persuasive, now strident and vehement, now a

mere babble of word, it flow past he and over he; it be now

manifestly direct at he, but he be able to disregard it. he sit up

and look at the people about he and contemplate the vast dreadful

hour that plainly lie before he.



he do not look beyond the come night. that alone he foresee as an

eternity.



he know that this harsh, naked electric light which prize up his

eyelid however tightly he close they, would be glare all night; he

know that because he have note a glance that Higgs have direct at the

violent man with red hair. instantly he know that Higgs be afraid of

that red-haired man with the shine pink skin and would never dare

to have the ward in darkness, never dare to have even shade in it,

whatever the custom or the regulation might be. and also he understand

why ever and again Higgs go out of the room at the upper end; he go

out to assure himself of the presence of Jordan or some such other

helper, within call. yes, this light would certainly keep on all night

and the poet seem as likely to keep on, and there would be occasional

outbreak of table hammering and shout from the red-haired man and

from another man who utter a sudden flat shout ever and again. and

there would be misadventure of various sort; noise and coming and

going. so he might just as well sit up and think as lie down and make

hopeless attempt to slumber. one could always think. of course if one

be too tired one would cease think onward, one would just think

round and round, but it would be impossible not to go on wake and

think. there be no sleeping in this place. eye, ear, nose be

all too much offended. do anyone ever sleep here, mad or sane?



there be nothing for he to do, therefore, but to sit up and think,

sit up and think, doze perhaps and think into a dream, until some

unexpected jolt or jar bring he back to his thinking.



the long night must end at last.



then suddenly Sargon, between sleep and waking, see something

horrible. at least it strike upon his nerve as horrible. two bed away

from he there lie an extremely emaciated young man and his head be

lift up. it be not support by pillow; it be six inch above the

pillow. it be hold up in an attitude that it be painful to realize.

the young man’s face express a serenely proud satisfaction at this

fantastic rigidity. it be incredible. be there such a thing as an

invisible pillow? or be this a delusion of Sargon’s eye, a wake

dream?



in the bed beyond another man be lie down with his wakeful face

towards Sargon. his eye meet Sargon’s. neither man say a word nor

make a gesture, but to each come infinite comfort. for the eye each

encounter be as sane as his own and each give support to the other.

it be so, they say. it be strange, but your eye be not deceive

you. that be the form of that young man’s affliction.



Sargon nod. the other sane man nod in reply and then turn over

in his bed as a reassured child might do, to sleep. but could he sleep?



Sargon’s gaze go round the ward with a new discovery. yes, several of

these other might be sane--sane as he be--and catch like himself.

there be another man across the corridor with a little beard, a very,

very mournful man, but he also have sane eye.



to-morrow Sargon must go and talk to these other and tell they about

himself and discuss this dreadful situation, but not now because Higgs

would certainly interfere. many thing have already conspire to annoy

Higgs. it be plain he could be easily irritated and it would be well

not to annoy he far. for the present one must just sit and think.



what be the mad and what do madness mean?



why have he be lift up by the Supreme Power, out of the common act

and imagination of his daily life, to a knowledge of his immortal

being, why have he be show his endless destiny and a vision of the

whole world as his sphere, merely to be cast out of life and light and

freedom forthwith into this grey underworld of the demented? it could

not be that this be for nothing. it must signify.



and then the wind of a second question blow across his mind. the

Power that have call he and call he it would seem only to bring

he into this place, have also bring all these other to this same

dreadfulness. _why?_ for he it might be a trial but what be it for

these other, whose soul have indeed dissolve and go? what be the

power do with they?



the whole scheme of thing in Sargon’s mind begin to shudder and

dissolve. if the power have not do this, then it must be the

Anti-Power have do it. there must be an Anti-Power as strong almost

as the power then, able to snatch man out of life into confusion,

indignity, and death for ever. or else--_there be nothing_!



he sit quite still with his chin on his knuckle and eye stare

blankly at the last black possibility.



be the whole of this call and this mission of his a deception and a

delusion? have he be cheat at Tunbridge Wells when the call first

come to he to arise and awake? be those memory of Sumeria no more

than dream? be he indeed just Albert Edward Preemby--go crazy? in

a crazy, pointless universe of commonplace inanity? if so he be

indeed the most foolish of live man. he have leave his comfort and

security, sound though insignificant; he have run away from his dear

Christina Alberta--to obey a power that be nothing more than his own

imagination and to follow a phantom end. for day he have be shut

Christina Alberta out of his thought; she be a sceptic, an ally of

the Anti-Power. now she come back, over-valiant and rash, but just a

girl. he have leave she to shift for herself, leave she beyond reach of

his reproof and caution. what be she do? what evil and danger

might not be overtake she even now? it have not occur to he before

that his disappearance might distress and endanger she. now he see

plainly that it must have do so.



the enemy come and argue frankly with he. “you have be a fool,

Albert Edward Preemby,” say the enemy. “you have get yourself into a

position of great danger and discomfort, you have desert your own

proper life for a horror of nothingness. go back. go back while there

be still a chance of go back.”



but could he go back?



yes. that could be do. so easily! he could say plainly that now

he remember his proper name. he could ask to see the doctor or the

director or whoever it be preside over Jordan and Higgs and their

colleague; he could give his name and the address of the studio and

his banker’ address and the address of the laundry and so forth,

speak very plainly and quietly, he could admit that he have behave

strangely but that the fit be over, and so he would pass out of

these grim shadow back into the world. it would rejoice the heart of

Christina Alberta....



he think of that alert, kind, slightly antagonistic figure. if only

he could see it now! come down the long ward to he, to rescue, to

release....



then he would be just Preemby again for the rest of his day,

comfortably Preemby, Preemby the bystander, Preemby the onlooker, the

ineffective, speechless man in the background of the noisy studio. but

certain thing would be at an end. he would never go to any museum

again or browse in the dark shadow of book-shop over dusty forget

book about vanish city and enigmatical symbol. he would think no

more of the wonder and mystery of Atlantis and of the measurement of

the pyramid and of all the high riddle of the past and the future.

there would be no more wonder in his life at all, for he have seek to

enter into wonder and have find it delusion. those thing would be old

tale and fancy of thing that would never arrive. past and future

would be dead for he. the day would be dull and empty as they have

never be before. the bladder of his life would be prick....



and the other way lie pain, indignity, rough treatment, vile food,

filthy circumstance, trial that might break he--but with the power

still beckon.



he think of the thing that belong to Sargon; of the power, of

city that be like great single person, of the Whole World, of the

mystical promise of the star, of all these thing he must renounce

now and be Preemby, Preemby plain and sensible, to the end of his

day, if he would go out of this place. he sit at it seem to he for

an immense time, still and brooding, though his answer be already

definite in his mind. and at last he speak. “no,” he say in a hoarse

voice that be almost a shout. “I be Sargon, Sargon the servant of

God--and the Whole World be mine!”





§ 6



long after midnight Sargon be still sit up in that bleak greasy

glare amidst the noise and disorder about he. he have lose all count

of time; his watch have be take from he. somewhen in the small hour

he be pray. and at time he weep a little.



he pray. sometimes he make sentence and whisper they to himself

and sometimes the sentence never get to word but pass through his

mind like serpent that be see through deep, dark water. “Great be

the task thou hast put upon I. I see now I be not worthy, o Master,

to do the least thing that be require of I. I be not worthy. I be a

petty man and a foolish man and all I have do so far be folly. but

thou hast call I, know my folly. forgive thou my folly and help

thou my faith.” silent and still he sit with tear upon his cheek.

“any punishment and any trial,” he whisper at last, “only that thou

shouldst not desert I and vanish out of my world.”



he pray that the power would yet make he the servant of the world

and add falteringly and feebly, “even as it be in the ancient day.”



for have there even be those ancient day? Sumeria be now very far

away from he, and the white town and the blue river and the river

galley have fade and the worship crowd be just a faint smear

upon his mind no strange than the fade memory of a dream. he say

nothing for a time, and then in a very loud whisper he say: “help thou

my unbelief.”



sometimes he pray in a whisper and sometimes he pray silently

and sometimes he sit quite still. Higgs come and look at he once

or twice but do not interfere with he. the poem in the adjacent

bed still go on, but it have now become a mere rhyme stream of

blasphemous obscenity.



for a time after he have make an end to his praying, Sargon must have

sleep; he must have sleep because he be awaken by the dawn. it do

not come gradually; he awake to it.



a cold, shadowless light fill the ward and the electric lamp that

have seem so bright be just luminous orange-yellow thread. and

Higgs be stand in the doorway peer intently at the red-haired

man, who be lie with his head on the table as though he be

asleep--but perhaps only pretend to be asleep.





§ 7



it be on the afternoon of the following day that two stranger come to

see Sargon. he be take to they and they talk a little with he, and

then chiefly with each other. Higgs be off duty but Jordan hover in

the background.



neither of these gentleman explain their business with Sargon to he.

one of they be a short man in a black coat; he wear a gold watch-chain

and a rich-look tie with a jewel pin; he have a gold pince-nez, a

little pointed nose, a fat, clean-shaven white face, and a mouth like

an oblique spade-thrust in a lump of dough. he speak with something

between a sniff and a lisp, and he be evidently rather in a hurry and

annoy at having be call in to see Sargon. the other be large and

grey and wear-look; he impress Sargon in some indefinable way as

be a medical man who have private trouble. he seem to consider

himself in charge of the conversation, and would occasionally refer

upon some point of fact to the hovering Jordan.



“understand,” say the pasty-face man, “you want to give some sort

of dinner party to all sort of people. Eh?--at the Rubicon. I suppose

it come on you sort of sudden like. eh?”



“I wish to confer with certain people,” say Sargon. “it may have

be a mistake on my part.”



“no doubt it be a mistake, Mr.--Mr.----”



“willn’t ’ave a Mister to it,” say Jordan from the background. “call

’isself Sargon.”



the doctor become very acute in his manner. “now ben’t that some sort

of historical name?” he ask with a sideways searching look.



“it be,” say Sargon.



“but it ben’t _your_ name, you know.”



“possibly not. I mean--it be my only name.”



“that’s a bit of an answer, that be,” say the pasty-face man. “my

_word_!”



“what be your _real_ name?” ask the doctor persuasively.



“Sargon.”



“not Mr. A. E. Preemby?”



Sargon start and stare, possibly with a certain wildness in his

eye. “with God’s help, _no_!” he say.



“be it ever Mr. Preemby?” ask the doctor.



“that do not matter now. that be of no importance now.”



“it may be of _some_ importance,” say the pasty-face man.



“and now you’re a King or a Lord or something and you own the world?”

say the doctor.



Sargon make no answer. he feel he be in a net.



the doctor turn to Jordan and beckon he in a whisper. only one

sentence come to Sargon’s ear. “’iggs ’eard it,” say Mr. Jordan.



“ben’t you call Sargon the Magnificent?” ask the doctor.



Sargon bend his head in sorrow. “well be it to call I Sargon the

Unworthy. for in many thing I have fail.”



the pasty-faced man look at the doctor. “haven’t we have about enough

of this?”



“my conclusion be clear,” say the doctor. “in fact, I have the

certificate ready.”



“if you’re satisfied, Dr. Manningtree, I be. if I’m to see those other

feller.”



“I’ve get all the paper in my room,” say the doctor.



“right-o,” say the pasty-face man.



“it’s very good of you to come to-day. I wouldn’t have bother you

until to-morrow but we be really get overcrowded here. one chap’s

decidedly dangerous. the attendant here don’t like the look of he.

you need only just see he for a moment. or any of they. all clear

case for summary reception order.”



they speak now as if Sargon be not present or as if he be an

inanimate object. and indeed for they he have become so; he have pass

for they already out of the comity of mankind.



“why have you be talk to I?” ask Sargon suddenly with a vague

fear of what have be say and do develop in his mind.



the doctor’s manner alter. he speak to Sargon as one might speak to a

small child. “you’ll be go back to bed now,” he say. “Jordan!”



“but I want to know.”



“go with Mr. Jordan.”



“what be these paper you speak about?”



the doctor turn his back on Sargon without an answer and the man with

the pasty face open the door to depart. Sargon make a step towards

they, but Jordan lay hold of his arm.



and while Sargon be be steer back to bed, firmly rather than

gently, in the grip of Jordan, the justice and the doctor fill in and

sign the form that be necessary to deprive he of nearly every

right he possess as a human being. for there be no trial by jury

and no writ of habeas-corpus in Britain for the unfortunate charge

with insanity. he may not plead in public and there be no one to whom

he may appeal. he may write complaint but they will be neglect;

his most urgent expostulation will be disregard in favour of any

dull attendant’s asseveration. he be hand over to the nearly

autocratic control of under-educate, ill-pay, ill-fed, and overwork

attendant. every night and every day seem endless to he at first,

and then the night and day fall into a sort of routine and become

unimportant and pass away more and more rapidly. he be almost always

keep in a state of bodily discomfort, always rather ill from the

ill-prepared and sometimes taint food, and much incommode by clumsy

drugging and particularly by the administration of violent purgative.

in croton oil alone be our asylum truly generous. he have excellent

reason for fear many of his fellow inmate and for a servile

obedience to the attendant in charge of he. a medical superintendent

hover in the background; a medical staff with no special training in

mental science. they pass through the ward at the appoint time,

avoid trouble, see as little as possible.



and, after all, what can they do? they cannot raise the expenditure

upon food or increase the number or salary of the attendant.

they be appoint to save and not to spend the ratepayer’ money.

the attendant work together and protect each other; they must hang

together; many of they go in fear of the violent case. occasionally,

after due notice, a visit magistrate will pay a formal visit to the

asylum. everything be put in order for the occasion. the inmate with a

grievance dares not accost he or do not know how to accost he nor

how to frame his complaint. the attendant be at hand to interrupt,

embarrass, and explain. so, with no possibility of redress, the poor

half-lunatic will be roughly handle, badly feed, and coarsely clothe,

and night and day he will have no other familiar company than the

insane. it be bad enough for the sane to be afflict by the vagary,

the violence, the exasperate mechanism, the incoherence of the

truly demented, but what must it be for those upon whom the penumbra

of that same shadow have fall? they have no privacy; no escape from

those other; no peace. our world herd these discard together out of

sight, wall they up, spend so little upon they that they be neither

properly feed nor properly look after, and do its brave hopeful good

to forget all about they.



and our Sargon, who even in the outer world of usage and freedom be

sometimes a little at a loss, must now go on into this dark underworld.

for two day more he will be keep in the Gifford Street Observation

Ward await the convenience of the authority; then in the company

of four other prisoner he will be send to a still bleaker and more

desolate and hopeless confinement within the cluster building and

wall and railing of Cummerdown Hill.



so he pass now for a time out of sight of everyday mankind, and

so also for a time he shall pass out of this story. it would be

insufferable to tell with any fulness his daily tale of discomfort and

indignity.









_BOOK the THIRD_



the resurrection of SARGON, king of king









CHAPTER the first



_Christina Alberta in Search of a Father_





§ 1



Hitherto Christina Alberta have face life with a bold, disdainful, and

successful gesture. the discretion and scruple of other be not

for she. she have see no reason for their prudent hesitation, their

convention and restraint. now for the first time she know dismay. her

daddy have vanish into a world that she suddenly realize could be

immensely cruel. Teddy be rotten, so plainly rotten that only a fool

wrap up in her own sensation would have touch he. she lie awake

for most of the night after her daddy have vanish, bite her hand

and damn Teddy. lambone the great friend be lazy, incompetent, and

futile. Harold and Fay seem already a little tired of her misfortune

and vaguely disposed to blame she for bring her daddy to London. she

have no one else to whom she could turn. no one remain to she--except

Christina Alberta herself, feel a little soil now and more than a

little afraid. “but what be I to do?” she ask the night, again and

again, in her stuffy but artistic little bedroom.



among the other disadvantage of her position she have less than a pound

of ready money.



it have to be record that for two whole day Christina Alberta do

not even take the obvious step of go to the police. she have a queer

instinctive knowledge of the danger of bring the police and the

social system generally to bear upon her odd little daddy. she have

an innate distrust of official human being. it be Paul Lambone who

induce she to go to the police. he have the grace to be ashamed of his

unhelpfulness, and after an interval of two clear day he come round to

the Lonsdale Mews to offer his generous but sluggish help once more. he

catch she have tea with Fay.



“Christina Alberta,” he say, look a very large comfortable figure

of sorrow, “I’ve be worry and worry about you all the time. I

don’t help enough. I think he’d come back of his own accord and that

all the fuss be a little premature. have you hear anything?”



Christina Alberta be tear between the desire to snap his head off

and the realization that he be, after his fashion, quite sincerely

friendly to she and could be very useful.



“_say_ it!” say Lambone. “you’ll be well, my dear, after you’ve say

it and then we can talk matter over.”



he get the reassurance of a smile. he brighten visibly. he be the

sort of man who would hate to feel hate even by a cockroach. “I willn’t

sit in that chair, thank,” he say to Fay. “it’s too comfortable. and

at any moment we may think of something, and I may have to leap up and

act.



“Spartan,” he say, sit down.



“Eh?” say Fay.



“Spartan. my doctor tell I to say it before every meal and especially

before tea. I don’t know why. Magic or Coué or something. be these

thing cocoanut cake? I think so.... good they be. and what be we

go to do about it, Christina Alberta?”



he become sane and helpful and more and more like the man who write

_what to do on a hundred and one Occasions_. he make Christina Alberta

admit to bankruptcy, and make it clear to she that it be her duty to

accept a loan of twenty-five pound from he. he then deal with the

point about report the disappearance to the police, and convince

Christina Alberta upon that. if Mr. Preemby have fall into bad hand

the soon the police look for he the well. but he do not think

that likely; he be much more inclined to the idea that Preemby have

make a disturbance and be take up. he guess he would be deal with

as a mental case. he have consult those useful book _the Justice

of the Peace_ and the _Encyclopædia Britannica_, and display the

excellence of his mental digestion. Christina Alberta perceive that he

have in he the making of a competent barrister.



he carry off Christina Alberta in a taxi to Scotland Yard. “either

they’ll tell we there or tell we where we shall be tell,” he say.



Fay be impress by the originality of that. “now if it be a lost

umbrella,” she say, “I could understand it. but I’d never have think

of go to Scotland Yard for a lost father.”



by six Mr. Preemby have be trace to Gifford Street. but there be no

see he at Gifford Street. he have be certify as a lunatic and he

be bind, the attendant thought but ben’t quite sure, for Cummerdown

Hill. Paul Lambone try to be dignified and important and to prevail

over the attendant and extract further information, but not very

successfully. in the end he and Christina Alberta depart with little

more than one immense discouraging fact. they would not be able to see

Mr. Preemby nor to learn anything very material about his condition

until the next visit day, whenever that might be, at Cummerdown

Hill. then if he be “fit to be visit,” they might go and see he.

the attendant be rigid in his statement and have the air of dislike

both Lambone and Christina Alberta extremely.



as they come away from Gifford Street Christina Alberta observe that

Lambone be angry. she have never see he angry before. it be a very

transitory phase. there be an unusual depth of pink in his cheek.



“Dog in office,” he say. “just there to annoy people--anxious people.

one would think ... man in my position ... certain standing.... some

attention.... any other country but this, Man of letter have respect.”



Christina Alberta agree mutely.



“manner in a public official--primary.”



“he be detestable,” say Christina Alberta.



“not at the end of my resource,” say Lambone.



Christina Alberta wait.



“ought to have go to Devizes in the first place. know more about

mental case and lunacy law than any other man in London. wonderful

fellow. I’ll go back to my flat and I’ll ring he up and make an

appointment. then he’ll put we wise about the whole business. and I

want you to meet he anyhow. you’ll appreciate devize. come to think

of it, you’re remarkably like he.”



“how?”



“got the Life Force and all that. and physically like he. very. the

same nose--much the same profile.”



“it’s a nose more suitable for a man,” say Christina Alberta. “I

suppose _he_ carry it off all right!”



“it’s a damned good nose, Christina Alberta,” say Lambone. “it’s a

valiant nose. don’t you break down to any modesty about it. it be

your nose attract I first to you. you’ll spike a husband with it

yet, and he’ll adore it and follow it even as you do. nowadays woman

have to be free and individualized; they have get to have feature

and distinction. the day of the wanton curl and the swan neck and

complexion have go. not that you haven’t the clear skin I’ve ever

set eye upon, Christina Alberta.”



“tell I some more about Dr. Devizes,” say Christina Alberta.





§ 2



but it ben’t the next day that Christina Alberta meet Devizes. she put

that off for a day and flee down to Woodford Wells in response to a

remarkable communication from Mr. Sam Widgery.



the Widgerys have never be correspondent of the Preembys except in so

far as the payment of the dividend upon Mr. Preemby’s interest in the

Limpid Stream Laundry necessitate letter. there have be a certain

amount of friction in the flotation of the company, and Mr. Widgery have

remain resentful and seek to show as much by a study curtness

in his communication. but now come this letter address to “Miss

Chrissie Preemby.” “_my dear Chrissie_,” the letter begin.



“_this be a shocking business about your poor father I cann’t tell you

how shocked I be I go up post haste to the workhouse where you have

put he as soon as they write to I and get his watch and cheque-book.

it be fortunate they find my address in his pocket or I suppose I

should have be keep in the dark as per usual about all this he do

not know I and deny his own name but afterwards he say he know

I for a filching commercial wrogue and would have my ear cut off

and threaten I. I be to be unpailed whatever that may be. I have

be think over all this business and since you be not yet of age

I suppose I be a sort of guardian to you and have to look into your

interest at the laundry which be not pay nearly so well as your

father lead I to believe. I think he be already queer at the time and

don’t fully understand what he be do and I doubt if all that of

his about preference share which I never hold with really but do to

humour he ought to stand. luckily there be no hurry about this have you

willn’t have to pay anything for he where he be Mr. Punter say so long

as you leave well alone and we can see about these other thing when

you have get over the first shock of your father’s breakdown. my wife

send her love and kind sympathy. you must keep calm and not let these

thing disturb you too much because very often it be hereriterary and

one cannot be too careful so leave everything to I and believe I to

remain_



                                  “_your affectionate cousin_



                                                        “_Sam Widgery_.”



“rather!” say Christina Alberta and telephone forthwith to put off

Paul Lambone and Wilfred Devizes and hurry off with a combatant light

in her eye to the Underground and Liverpool Street Station.





§ 3



when Christina Alberta get down to Woodford Wells it seem to she

that the laundry be just a little small than it use to be and

that a slight tarnish have fall upon the bright blue delivery van.

the swastika upon they have be cover over by paper bill in

red lettering say: “under Entirely New Management. address all

communication to the Managing Director Samuel Widgery Esq. by Order.”



she go up the garden path to the door that have be home to she for

nearly all her life, and it be open to she by Sam Widgery himself,

who have see she come. “so you come down,” he say, and seem to

hesitate about admit she. he be a tallish, stoop man with

a large bare pock-mark face, a drop nether lip, a large nose

that snore occasionally when he breathe, and furtive very small

brown eye. he be clothe in dark grey ill-fitting garment, with a

fray collar and a very worn make-up black satin tie. his waistcoat

be mainly unbuttoned and he fidget with his hand. he look at

Christina Alberta as though he find she more formidable than he have

think she.



“do you see daddy?” say Christina Alberta, come straight to the

point.



he compress his mouth and shake his head from side to side as though

he recall painful thing.



“be he bad? be he queer or--_dreadful_?”



“not too loud, my dear,” he say in his husky whispering voice. “we

don’t want _every one_ to hear about your trouble. come in here where

we can talk properly.”



he lead the way into the little living-room in which her father have so

recently plan the condition for the conversion of the laundry into

a limited company. the familiar furniture have be rearrange rather

amazingly, and a large, dark bureau have be place under the window.

with discreet gesture, Sam Widgery close the door and come towards

she. “sit down, Chrissie,” he say, “and don’t get excited. I be

afraid you might come rush down here. but of course I be bind to

write to you.”



“do you see he?” she repeat.



“mad as a hatter,” he say. “they say he make a riot at the Rubicon

Restaurant. want to give a great banquet there to all the beggar in

London.”



“do you see he? be he well? be he unhappy? what have they do with

he?”



“you mustn’t _pelt_ I with question, Chrissie. you mustn’t let your

mind go on at such a pace. I tell you in my letter I go up and see

he. they call he out and he come to I in a little room.”



“where be it? where be this workhouse?”



“there you go again. just sit down and take thing quietly, my girl. I

cann’t answer all these question at once.”



“where be it you see he? be it at Gifford Street?”



“yes. where else could it be? they be wait to remove he.”



“where?”



“some asylum I suppose?”



“Cummerdown Hill?”



“come to think of it, it _be_ Cummerdown Hill. yes--they say

Cummerdown Hill. he come out. he look much as usual, but more vacant

perhaps, until he set eye on I and then he give a sort of start and

say, ‘don’t know you,’ he say. like that.”



“well, that ben’t mad. do he _look_ mad? I suppose he don’t want to

talk to you--after all the disagreeable thing that have be say.”



“very likely. Any’ow I say to he, ‘what! don’t know _I_?’ I say;

‘not know old Sam Widgery what you plant your laundry on?’ just like

that--joke at he like. quite kindly but--humorous. ‘I don’t know

you,’ he say and try to go. ‘hold hard!’ I say and take he by the

arm. ‘you’re a base, complain scoundrel,’ he say to I and sort of

try to push I away. ‘you’d rewin any laundry!’ he say--he to I,

what be in the laundry business a dozen year before he marry your

poor mother. ‘any ’ow I haven’t your complaint,’ I say, ‘Mr. Albert

Edward Preemby.’ he sort of stiffen. ‘sargum,’ he say, ‘if you

please....’”



“Sargon,” Christina Alberta correct.



“maybe. it sound like ‘Sargum.’ and ‘sargum’ he would have it. mad

as a hatter on that. I try to talk but what be the good of talk?

I couldn’t get anything plain or straight out of he at all. start

threaten I with the bastinado--whatever that may be. I ask he to

be decent with his language. ‘I’ve ’ad enough’ I say to the attendant

at last and the attendant take he away. and so we’re quit of he,

Chrissie.”



“quit of he!”



“quit of he. what can anyone do?”



“everything. do he look very unhappy? do he look frightened or

ill-treat?”



“why should he? they’re take proper care of he and he’s out of

harm’s way.”



“you’re sure he look--serene?”



“bit jade perhaps. that’s his own internal working I expect. but he’s

where he ought to be, Chrissie. I feel that. what we’ve get to do, from

what Mr. Punter say, be to let well alone. there he be with everything

he want, live on the ratepayer’ money. we’ve get ourselves to

consider. we’ve get to think of that crazy preference-share idea he’s

saddle the laundry with. _that’s_ urgent. it’s a charge of nearly five

hundred a year as thing be, nearly ten pound a week. there ben’t a

laundry in London could stand it.”



“I shall have to see my daddy,” say Christina Alberta. “I don’t

believe he _be_ so comfortable. I’ve hear horrid story of asylum.

anyhow, I ought to go right away and see he.”



“cann’t do that, Chrissie,” say Mr. Widgery, shake his large grey

face slowly from side to side and watch she as he speak. “they don’t

have visitor run in and out of these mad-house just whenever they

want to. wouldn’t _do_, you know. the poor creature have to be keep

quiet and not excited. I daresay I could give you a letter for next

visit day----”



“_you!_ give _I_ a letter!”



Mr. Widgery shrug his shoulder. “it would help you to get in. but

you willn’t make anything of he, Chrissie, even if you see he. and

you’ll have to wait for a visit day. you must do that.”



“I want to see he.”



“very likely. but regulation be regulation. meanwhile there’s all

this business muddle we get to put straight. while he’s in that asylum

I think what I ought to do be to give you ’n allowance, five pound

a week say, and keep back the rest until we’re able to get something

settle up. or four. or perhaps as you want it--not a definite sum. I

don’t know. I haven’t think it out yet. you cann’t possibly want to do

with all that ten pound a week with he off your hand. then we’ll be

able to see where we stand and everything will be all right again.”



he pause and scratch his cheek and watch she with his little

sidelong eye. “see?” he say as if to stimulate she to speech.



Christina Alberta look at he in a silence that become painful. then

she stand up and regard he--her arm akimbo and her face alight.



“I see now,” she say. “you damn old Rascal!”



Mr. Widgery have nice old-fashioned idea about young lady and

ladylike language. he be take aback. “now!” he say. “_now!_”



“always I should think,” say Christina Alberta.



“you mustn’t say thing like that, Chrissie. you mustn’t use word like

that. you mustn’t get wrong idea about all this. what d’you mean? old

rascal! something old rascal! why? I’m only do what I get to do. you

ben’t really of age yet, you’re just a mere child legally speak,

and it fall to _I_ naturally, _I_, his near relative so to speak,

to make such arrangement as have to be make about his affair. that’s

all. you mustn’t get wrong idea about it all and you mustn’t get

excited. see?”



“I call you,” say Christina Alberta, “a damned old Rascal.”



he do not meet her eye. he speak as if he appeal to the bureau.



“and do it do you any good to use such horrible expression? and do

it do I any harm? and do it alter the fact that whether I like it or

not, I’ve get to look after his property now and see about it and see

you don’t get into any trouble or mischief? all I and your aunt have

be think about be just what’s right and proper to be do for you.

and then you turn on I like a serpent and use language----!”



word fail Mr. Widgery, and still seek sympathy from the bureau,

he shrug his shoulder and throw out his hand.



“you’re no relation of his,” say Christina Alberta. “I guess when I

read your letter that this be the sort of thing you’d be up to. you’re

glad to have he out of the way because he be such a one for punctual

payment. you think I’m all alone; you think I’m just a girl and that

you can do what you like now with I. you’ve make a mistake. I’ll make

you pay up every penny that’s due on the laundry and I’ll see you do it

more punctually than ever. and why don’t you do something to get he

out as soon as you hear they’d take he?”



“now don’t you go get excite, Chrissie,” say Mr. Widgery. “even

if I ain’t a blood relation of his, I be of your. I’m your next-of-kin

and your good friend and I get to think what’s get to be do about

_you_. I get to act for _you_. in spite of bad language and everything.

I tell you he’s right and safe where he be and I’m not go to have

anything do to disturb he. nothing at all. there he be and there

he’s go to stay, and I’m go to act as Mr. Punter advise I to

act. I’m go to keep back his dividend as they fall due, and pay you

what I think proper to pay you for your keep and so on and charge it to

he, and I’m go to see you live an orderly sort of life in future

now too, same as my poor cousin Christina would have want you to do.

you’ve be knock about the world in a perfectly scandalous way and

learn to curse and swear. it cann’t go on. that’s how thing be,

Chrissie, and the soon you see they the right way round the well.”



the young woman stand speechless while Mr. Widgery unfold his

intention.



“where’s Mrs. Widgery?” she say at last with an effect of stupendous

self-control.



“up in the laundry seeing to thing. no need to bother she. we been

talk about all this, over and over, and we’re quite of one mind

in the matter. it’s _our_ right to look after you and it’s _our_

responsibility to look after you, and we mean to do our duty by you,

Chrissie, whether you like it or not.”



unpleasant doubt assail Christina Alberta. she be still two month

short of one and twenty, and it be quite conceivable that the law

give this ugly, oily creature all sort of preposterous power of

interference with she. still it be her style to carry off thing with

a brave face.



“all this be just nonsense,” she say. “I’m not go to have my daddy

put away like this without a word from I, and I’m not go to let you

muddle about with his property. everybody in the family know you’re

a crooked muddler. Mother use to say so. I’m go to see about he

myself, and I’m go to have he send off to some special sort of

mental nursing place where he can have proper attention. and that’s

what I come to tell you.”



Mr. Widgery’s little eye seem to weigh and judge she. “you’re give

yourself high and mighty air, Chrissie,” he say, after a little

pause. “you’ll do this and you’ll do that. you’ve get a sort of wrong

idea of what you can do in the world. you haven’t get any money and you

haven’t get any authority, and the soon you get that into your head

the well.”



that scared feeling be gain upon Christina Alberta. in order to

counteract it she deliberately lose her temper. “I’ll jolly soon show

you what I can do and what you cann’t,” she say with a flaming face.



“now don’t _yew_ go get excited,” say Mr. Widgery. “you of all

people shouldn’t get excited.”



“_excite!_” say Christina Alberta; rally for a repartee, and then

strike by an ugly thought she stop short and stare at the little

bright brown eye in the pock-mark face. mutely they answer she

mute amazed question. this be the third or fourth time he have use the

word “excited” and now she know what he be aim at. suddenly she

realize the train of idea that her daddy’s extinction have set go

in his head. he also have be study the lunacy law--and dream

dream.



“exactly,” say Mr. Widgery. “you’ve always be a queerish sort of

girl, Chrissie, and the rackety life you lead and now this affair have

be a strain on you. must have be. you’ve get no quiet friend but

your aunt and I and no quiet place to come to but here. don’t you go

flare out at I, Chrissie; I mean well by you. I’m not go to go

pay you money to keep you up there in London. Why!--you might go

getting drug or anything. call I a something rascal if you like.

swear at I as though you be out of your sense; it willn’t alter what

I mean to do. I want you to come down here and rest your mind and

nerve for a time, and let I get in some one to see you--see what

ought to be do about you.... you’ll thank I for it some day.”



his big grey face seem to expand and swim about before her eye and

the room grow small and dark.



“it’s my duty to see after you,” he say. “it cann’t hurt you or anyone

for we to have advice.”



in the train from Liverpool Street she have tell herself she have

intend to wipe the floor with Mr. Sam Widgery, but thing hardly

seem to be happen like that.



“bah!” she cry. “D’you think I’d come back here?”



“well than be lose in London, Chrissie,” he say. “well than

be lose in London. we cann’t have you wander off in London, same

as your father do.”



she feel that the time have come for she to go, but for a second or so

she could not move to do so. she could not move because she fear he

might do something to detain she, and if he do she do not know what

she would do. then she pull herself up by the foot.



“well,” she say with a step past he doorward that turn he on his

heel; “I’ve tell you what I think of you. I’d well be get back to

London.”



in his eye she see the thought of obstruct her flash into being and

die. “willn’t you stay and have something,” he say, “before you go back?”



“eat _here_!” she cry and get to the door.



her hand tremble so that it be difficult to turn the handle. he

stand motionless, stare at she with his low lip dropping and an

expression of doubt upon his face. it be as if he be not quite sure

of himself nor of the course he mean to pursue. the course he want

to pursue be appallingly plain.





§ 4



she walk with dignity out of the open front door and down the garden

path. she do not look back, but she know his face come up close to the

window and watch she. never in her whole life have panic come so near

to she. she would have like to run.



after the train have start she feel a little safe. “how the devil can

he get at I?” she say aloud to the empty compartment.



but she ben’t at all sure that she couldn’t be get at and she find

herself try to estimate just how much support and friendship she

might find in her London friend. could she, for instance, count upon

Mr. Paul Lambone? if supply be cut off could she get some sort

of job and keep herself for a time until she could extract her silly

daddy from the net into which he have fall? how would Harold and Fay,

perennially hard-up, behave if supply run out? and meanwhile there

be Daddy, wonder why no help come to he--puzzle by what have

happen to he and no doubt get sillier and sillier.



Christina Alberta be grow up fast now. beneath all her radicalism

and rebellion there have always hitherto be a belief, tacit,

sub-conscious, in the rightness and security and sustain energy

of the social framework. there be under most youthful rebellion. she

have assume without think very much about it that hospital be

place of comfort and luxury, doctor in full possession and use of

all exist science, prison clean and exemplary place, that though

law might still be unjust that the administration of the law be

untouched by knavery or weakness. she have have the same confidence in

the ultimate integrity of social life that a little child have in the

invincible safeness of nursery and home. but now she be awakening to

the fact that the whole world be insecure. it be not that it be a

wicked or malignant world, but that it be an inattentive and casual

world. it dread bother. it would do the mean, most dangerous, and

cruell thing to escape the pressure of bother, and it would refuse

to be bother by any suffering or evil it could possibly contrive

to ignore. it be a dangerous world, a world of bother people in

which one might be lose and forget while one be still alive and

suffering. it be a world in which it be not good to be alone, and she

be begin to feel herself very dangerously alone.



she have never, she reflect, think very much of her family, but now

she perceive a family may dissolve away too soon. she want a wall to

put she back against if after all Sam Widgery screw up his courage

to be aggressive; she want some one who would be her very own, a

safe ally, some one she could count upon, some one close than law

or custom, some one who would go about and find out exactly what have

happen to she if she fall into disaster, who would refuse to accept

her downfall, some one who would care for she more than he care for

himself and not be lightly turn away.



_himself?_ not _herself_. in fact, a lover.



“Damn Teddy!” cry Christina Alberta, and knock a puff of dust out

of the railway cushion with her fist. “he mess it up.



“and I know what he be. I know all the time exactly what he be!



“I’ve get to stick it alone,” say Christina Alberta.



“and besides who’d have care for I, anyhow, with a nose like mine?”



“even if there be such thing in the world as lover who love like

that! but it’s a world of people who don’t care. it’s a world of people

who haven’t the gut to care. it’s a dust-heap of a world,” say

Christina Alberta.





§ 5



her thought begin to flow into a new region. after all, ben’t there

something too disagreeably justifiable in the suggestion that she

be--how to put it--_queer_? Hitherto Christina Alberta have always

regard herself as a model of sanity and mental directness--with no

fault indeed except possibly her nose. now the word “queer” stick in

her mind like a thorn that have go right home. she could not get it

out again.



she have always, she know, be different. she have always have a style of

her own.



Most of the people she have meet in the world have impress she as be

colourless, weak in speech and action, evasive--that be the word,

“evasive.” they evade the use of all sort of blunt word, they don’t

know why. Christina Alberta be all for say “damn” and “gut” and so

forth until some one convince she of some well reason for avoid

they than merely that they ben’t use by “nice” people. these other

be always not say thing because they ben’t say and not do

thing because they ben’t do. and for what be say and what be

do, however manifestly preposterous it be, they have a sort of

terrified imitativeness. they just run about be as far as possible

somebody else until they die. why exist at all then? why not get out

of it and leave some one else in possession? but, anyhow, they get

through life. they don’t get into trouble. they support one another.

and, on the other hand, if you don’t evade? you puzzle other people.

you leave the track. you be like a train leave the rail and try

to take a cross-country short-cut. you hit against--everything.



be this evasive life she have always despise really the sane life? be

cease to evade cease to be sane? Sheep, she have read, have a disease

call gid; then they wander alone and die. be all this originality

and think for oneself and not go with the crowd and so forth,

that have be her pride and glory, just the way out from the sane life?

originality, eccentricity, queerness, craziness, madness; be that

merely a quantitative scale?



be not her daddy’s queerness this, that after year of the extreme

evasion he have at last try to break away to something real and

strange? and have she, after her fashion, been attempt anything else?

be she, too, lop-sided? Lop-sided in a different direction, perhaps,

but lop-sided none the less. an inherit lop-sidedness?



her mind go off at a tangent on the question whether she have really

inherit anything whatever from her daddy. be his queerness her sort

of queerness at all? it ought to be, see that they be father and

daughter.



how different they be! for a father and daughter how amazingly

different they be!...



but be they father and daughter? a much repressed fantasy come back

to she--a fantasy base on the flimsy foundation, on chance phrase

her mother have use, on moment of intuition. once or twice a reverie

have arise out of these lurking particle of memory and have take she

by surprise only to be thrust aside again with contempt.



Blup. Blup. Blup. there come a familiar variation to the familiar

sound of the train. Christina Alberta be run into Liverpool

Street Station and her perplexity be all unsolved.



the old fantasy lose heart and fade away. what be the good of such

dream? there she be.





§ 6



Christina Alberta’s meeting next day with Wilfred Devizes turn out to

be a much more exciting affair than she or he have expect it to be.



act on the advice of Paul Lambone, she have bring photograph and a

letter or so in her daddy’s handwriting with she, and she have think

out what she judge would be significant thing to tell about he. she

go in a taxi with Paul Lambone to Devizes’ house just off Cavendish

Square, and they be show up at once past a waiting-room and a

consulting-room to a dignified little sitting-room with an open fire

and a table with tea-thing and a great array of bookcase. devize

come in to they forthwith.



she be a little shocked to think that this lank, dark, shock-head

man could be recognizably like she. he be young than she have

expect he to be, young she think, than her daddy or Mr. Lambone,

and he wear a long unbuttoned morning coat. he carry the nose all

right; he be indeed very good-look.



“Hullo, Paul,” he say cheerfully. “be this the young lady whose

father’s be steal? we’ll have some tea. it’s Miss----?”



“Miss Preemby,” say Paul Lambone, “but every one call her Christina

Alberta.”



Devizes turn an eye that be by habit and disposition a scrutinize

eye upon she. he betray a faint momentary surprise and come and shake

hand. “tell I all about it,” he say. “you don’t think he’s really

mad, but only rather exceptional and odd. that’s it, ben’t it? lambone

tell I he be sane. it’s quite possible. I’d well go over the state

of his mind first, and then we can discuss the question of the asylum

afterwards. I gather you want to get he under your own care--outside.

that ben’t by any mean simple. we’ll have to study the obstacle.

meanwhile tea.... I’ve be disentangle the delusion of a perfectly

terrible old lady, and I’m rather deflate. just tell I all about it

in your own way.”



“tell he,” say Paul, settle his shoulder into his arm-chair, and

prepare to interrupt.



Christina Alberta begin to unfold her premeditated discourse. every now

and then Devizes would interrupt she with a question. he keep his eye

on she, and it seem to she even from the beginning that they betray

something more than attention to what she be say. he look at she

as though he have see she before and couldn’t quite remember where.

she describe her daddy’s talk to she when she be a girl, about the

pyramid and the Lost Atlantis and so forth, and the odd spirit of

release and renew growth that have follow the death of her mother.

she tell of the spiritualistic séance and the coming of Sargon. devize

be very keen on various aspect of the Sargon story. “it be odd that

the suggestion fall in so aptly with Preemby’s mental disposition. what

be that young man up to? I don’t quite understand he.”



“I don’t know. I think he just hit by chance on the stuff he talk. it

be just bad luck that it fit.”



“undergraduate idea of fun?”



“undergraduate fun. it might have be tut-an-ka-man.”



“but it happen to be Sargon.”



“he may have be read some ancient history.”



“he don’t, I suppose, know anything about your father?”



“couldn’t have do. I suppose he think my--my daddy look a little

small and absurd, and I suppose it appeal to his sense of humour to

single he out from the other and make he a great king. I’d like to

have a few minute straight talk with that young man.”



“this you see ben’t a delusion, Devizes. it’s a deception,” say Paul

Lambone.



“be he generally coherent,” ask Devizes.



“grant his thesis, he’s amazingly coherent,” she say.



“he don’t sometimes become some one else, God or a millionaire, or

anything of that sort?”



“no. he believe in reincarnation and hint at having live other

life, but that’s all.”



“thousand of people do that,” say Lambone.



“and nobody be persecute he? nobody make noise to trouble he or

get at he with X-ray or anything of that sort?”



“not a shadow of that sort of thing.”



“the man’s sane. unless he go mad when he walk out of your friend’

studio.”



“I’m for his sanity right out,” say Lambone. “I wish I’d have a chance

to talk to he. there’s something--everybody’s chatter now about

an Inferiority Complex. well, ben’t it common for people who have

be rather put upon and deceive and so forth, and who don’t want

to face the fact of life, to take refuge in an assumed personality?

and put the reverie, the spiritualist séance and so forth all

together, don’t it work out on those line?”



“he know he be really, _au fond_, Preemby?” Devizes ask.



“it annoy he to tell he so,” say Christina Alberta. “I think one

reason why he go away be because I and my friend, Mrs. Crumb that

be, at the studio where we live, would try to make he be sensible

about that. it drive he away. he know he be really Preemby and he

hate it. he know this be all a make-believe.”



Paul Lambone take up the discourse. “I do so sympathize with that. so

far from that be insane it’s perfectly rational. become somebody

else great than oneself be part of half the religion of the world.

all the Mithraists use to become Mithra. the serapist, if I remember

rightly, use to become Osiris. we all want to be bear again really.

every one with any sense and humility do. into something great.

‘who will deliver I from the body of this death?’ that’s why Christina

Alberta’s daddy be so tremendously interesting. he’s get imagination;

he’s get originality. he may be a feeble little chap, but he have that.”



“have an exceptional mind ben’t insanity,” say Devizes, “or else we

should put all our poet and artist in asylums.”



“few would come up to that standard,” say Lambone. “I wish they do.”



Devizes reflect. “I think I’ve get thing clear. he’s coherent. he’s

neat in his dress. he ben’t persecute. he’s unselfish in his thought,

almost romantically so. and he’s not fattish and lumpish, and he’s

never have any sort of fit. there’s no insane type a properly qualified

doctor could class he under, but then most doctor be altogether

unqualified for mental practice. a stupid doctor might mistake his

imagination for the splendour of paranoia or take his abstraction in

reverie for _dementia præcox_ or think he be a mask epileptic. but

all these be case of mental disease, and your father be probably

not disease at all. he’s mentally disturbed, but that’s all. the

difference between he and a real lunatic be the difference between a

basketful of fruit that’s be overturn, and a basketful that’s go

rotten. overturned fruit get bruised and rot very easily--but be

overturn ben’t be rotten. what sort of man be he to look at?”



“she’s get photograph,” say Lambone.



“I’d like to see they,” he say, and be give a recent one of Mr.

Preemby as laundryman. “too much moustache by a long way,” he say.

“be there anything--with some at least of his face uncover? there’s

nothing here but his eye.”



“I think you’d feel that,” say Lambone. “there’s one of Mr. Preemby

as a young man, take soon after his wedding with Mrs. Preemby. have

you get it, Christina Alberta?... here we be.... that’s Mrs. Preemby

in the chair. the moustache--in bulk--have yet to come.”



“he marry young?” Devizes ask Christina Alberta.



“he must have do,” she say. “I don’t know his exact age. my mother

never tell I.”



Devizes scrutinize the photograph. “Queer,” he say, and seem to be

search his memory. “something familiar. I’ve meet people like this.



“they be both London people, I suppose,” he say, look hard at

Christina Alberta.



“Woodford Wells,” say Christina Alberta.



“my father be bear at Sheringham,” she add as an afterthought.



“Sheringham. that’s queer.” with a manifestly deepen interest he

look at the couple pose against one of those rustic background

dear to victorian photographer. “chrissy,” he repeat to himself.

“Chrissy. Christina Alberta. it _cann’t_ be.”



for some moment Dr. Devizes cease to attend to his consultant and

they remained intently observe he. he try to fix his attention on

the young man’s face in the picture, but it be the young woman who sit

on the rustic style that absorb his interest. amazing how completely

he have forget her face, and how she come back now incredibly unlike

and yet like his memory of she. he remember the glass and the neck

and shoulder. and a sort of stiff defiance. “when be your mother and

father marry?” he ask. “how long ago?”



“eighteen ninety-nine,” she answer.



“and then you be bear straight away?” he ask the question with an

affectation of ease.



“there be a decent interval,” say Christina Alberta with a clumsy

levity. “I be bear in nineteen hundred.”



“a little, fair, blue-eyed chap with rather an absent-minded manner.

I seem to see he,” devize say, and resume his examination of

the photograph. nobody speak for the well part of a minute. “Good

Lord!” whisper Lambone to himself. devize drink a cup of tea

absent-mindedly. “Extraordinary,” he ejaculate. “I never dream of it.”



“what be?”



his answer go off at a tangent. “Christina Alberta’s resemblance

to my mother. it’s amazing. it’s be worry I ever since I come

into the room. it’s be distract my attention. I’ve get a little

picture....”



he jump up and go out of the room. Christina Alberta, puzzle,

excited, turn instantly on Lambone. “he know my father and mother,”

she say.



“apparently,” say Lambone with something defensive in his voice.



“_apparently!_” she echo. “but--he _know_ they! he _know_ they well.

And--_What’s he think of?_”



Devizes reappear hold out a small gold-frame picture. “look at

that!” he say and hand it to Paul Lambone. “it might be Christina

Alberta. don’t you see how like it be? allow for that preposterous

hair pile upon her head and the way her dress go up round her neck.”



he hand the picture to Christina Alberta and look at Lambone in

amazed interrogation.



“it might be I in fancy dress,” Christina Alberta agree, with the

picture in her hand. there come a long pause. she look up and

see the expression of his face. her mind give a fantastic leap, so

fantastic that it instantly leapt back to the point of departure. it

be like a flash of lightning in a night as dark as pitch. she make a

great effort to pull the conversation together, to behave as though

her mind have never leapt at all. “but what have all this to do with my

daddy’s case?” she ask.



“nothing directly. your resemblance to my mother be a pure coincidence.

pure. but it’s a curious coincidence! just for the moment it pull

my attention aside. forgive I. I’ve a belief that where there’s

resemblance of this sort there’s a blood relationship. I suppose your

mother’s people--what do you say they be call--Hoskin?”



“do I say? I don’t remember. I _don’t_ say. I don’t. her name be

Hossett.”



“ah, yes!--Hossett. I suppose that two or three generation back the

Hossetts and Devizes intermarry. and there we be! cousin--at we

don’t know what remove. but type go under in a family and then bob up

again. it sort of link we, Christina Alberta, don’t it? it give I

a special interest. I don’t feel now that you’re just any old patient.

or, rather, just Paul’s friend. I feel link. well--that’s that.

let’s come back to your father. who marry your mother just when they

be start the old south african war. he’s always be a dreamy,

unobservant type. as we be say. even from the beginning....”



he stop short.



“always,” say Christina Alberta, after a long pause.



“we’ve be into all that,” say Devizes and pause, and be for a

minute entirely at a loss for word. “yes,” he say at last.



her heart be beat fast and there be a flush of excitement on her

cheek. her quick wit have fill in all the gap. she understand

now--and then again it vanish. she would have like to have go

away and think it all over at once. but that wouldn’t do. she must

disregard the question that surge up within she. her mind go

forward like an obstinate traveller catch in a whirlwind. her mother

for example. she be try to recall something about her mother that

have long be stifle in her mind. “go away and leave I to it,”

be it? “go off and leave I to it?” her mother lie in bed and

wandering. who have leave she to what? that stand perplexity. that

suspicion. that dream. but attend to he now, Christina Alberta; attend

to he! she be observe he with all her be, and yet she seem

deaf to what he say.



he be say that now that he agree with they that Preemby be

sane, he could see his way to the real business before they. it be

the old, old story of make lunatic out of sane people which they

encounter in Preemby’s case. it be the old, old story of make

lunatic out of sane people which they encounter in Preemby’s case.

(he repeat his sentence word for word without apparently realize

he have say it twice.) all exceptional people be in danger of be

misunderstood, but such a type as Preemby, original and yet incapable

of abstract expression or philosophical method, which seek fantastic

expression for its feeling and impulse, be particularly liable to

give offence, awaken suspicion and dread and hostility. it be just

these borderland case he be always try to save from asylum, and

just such case that be always go there. and they be the last

people to bring into contact with real insanity. “to go back to my

metaphor, the basketful of fruit ben’t rotten, be scarcely speckle

with decay, but it be disorder and overturn. a mind be a delicate

thing to knock about. it will rot very easily, and a mind like your

father’s particularly will rot very easily under asylum condition.

after all this rigmarole I come to just the conclusion you’ve already

reach, that we have to get Preemby out of Cummerdown Hill and away

under restful condition as soon as possible. when we’ll comb out his

particular complex and get he into working relation with the world

again. I’m quite sure we can do that somehow, make his incognito

permanent, make he an Emperor in exile, restore his proper name,

organize a common daily round for he and get he back more and more to

be a chastened and release Preemby.”



he pause.



“that’s it,” say Lambone, rouse from a profound contemplation of the

two interesting face before he.



“it ben’t easy. even to get at he ben’t easy. there will be delay.

a careless magistrate and a silly doctor can make a lunatic in five

minute. it take no end of time to unmake one.”



“that’s what I want to set about do,” say Christina Alberta.



“naturally,” say Devizes, “and I’m with you.”



he explain one or two point in lunacy law, begin sketch a scheme

of operation, consider the people to whom she ought to write and the

people to whom he ought to write, and how soon it would be possible

to see Preemby, and give he a word of encouragement. already devize

have have several brush with lunacy organization; he be consider

a troublesome but dangerous man for a medical superintendent to be

up against. that might arouse either hostile obstruction or the

propitiatory spirit. they must go carefully.



Lambone scarcely interrupt now at all. he have cease to be acutely

interested in Preemby, immure away there in Cummerdown. he be lose

in admiration of the self-control his astonishing friend display.

he try to imagine what an undertow of strange excitement, of queer

thought and confused emotion there must be beneath their highly

intelligent discussion of the case of Mr. Preemby. they waste very

little attention upon the onlooker. Christina Alberta’s face be

faintly flushed, and her eye glow; Devizes be rather less of a

conversationalist than usual and rather more like a university tutor

with an exceptionally interesting student.



the subject be exhaust at last and the time come to depart. devize

come to the door with they.



“don’t forget that I’m always round the corner, so to speak,” he say.

“I’m in the telephone directory. and don’t forget, Christina Alberta,

don’t forget I’m your long-lose cousin, very much at your service.”



“I willn’t forget that,” say Christina Alberta, meet his eye.



a little pause, and then rather stiffly they shake hand.





§ 7



“be I mad?” say Christina Alberta as soon as she and Paul Lambone be

in the street together. “be I dream?”



Lambone be clumsy. “mad? dream? how?”



“oh! don’t pretend not to understand. that he’s my real father? don’t

pretend! or, please don’t pretend! be he or be he not?”



Lambone do not reply for a moment. “you flash at thing--like a

lizard. how could it have happen?”



“then you _do_ think?”



“my dear Christina Alberta, he don’t know you exist until he set

eye on you. I’m sure of that.”



“but then. ben’t it plain? he _know they both_!”



“devize,” say Lambone, “be ten year young than I be. he’s barely

forty. he must have be--not more than eighteen. nineteen at most.

it’s a little difficult.”



“that make it easy. you never know mother. if they be both

young----”



“it’s just possible,” say Lambone, “there be some other explanation.”



“but what?”



“cann’t imagine. I suppose he be at Sheringham--perhaps for a

holiday--and meet she. But----”



“it must have be something casual, a kind of accident. Mother use to

have flash.... I never quite understand she. she use to suppress I,

and perhaps she be suppress herself.... and at the end--she say

something. someone have leave she to it.... do you know--at time--I’ve

have fancy--suspicion! it seem as though she guess that I be

guess. now I know--I _be_. it’s incredible. and yet it explain a

hundred thing.”



“he certainly never know of you. He’s--amazed.”



“and what’s go to happen next?”



“legally you’re Preemby’s daughter. nothing can alter that. all the

resemblance and coincidence in the world willn’t alter that.”



“and all the law in the world willn’t alter the fact. And----”



she turn on Lambone with a flushed face. “do you realize what it

mean to think you be the daughter of a certify lunatic? and then

find you be not? all last night I be awake with that unendurable

thought.”



“all night--at your age!”



“it seem all night. last night--I _try_ to imagine that something

of this sort have happen. try--and couldn’t. try to bring back all

those old fancy. and here it be! I might have know. I do know and

wouldn’t know.



“tell I about this real father of mine. I don’t know a thing about

he. be he a good man? be he a bad man? have he a wife?”



“he adore his wife. and so do I. she be one of the lovely and

cleverest young woman I’ve ever know. she be strong and jolly--and

the beastly influenza and pneumonia get she. in a week. it cut he to

ribbon. they’d have no child. they’d have only four year together.

he’s attractive to woman, but I don’t think there’ll be a second Mrs.

Devizes for a long time. I cann’t imagine it. any other woman! why! all

that house--it’s full of her presence.”



“yes,” say Christina Alberta, and think for a time.



they be detach for a time in cross Bond Street, and the pavement

be too crowded and Piccadilly be too congested for they to talk again

until they go in St. James’ Street.



“daddy,” say Christina Alberta, “seem ten thousand mile away. but

when I’m over the amazement of this I expect I’ll get back to he all

right. but just for a time--he must wait.”



“you’ll come in for a bit?” say lambone at the corner of Half Moon

Street. “I could give you some dinner.”



“no, thank. I’ll walk all the way to Chelsea,” say Christina

Alberta. “I want to think this out by myself. I want to get alone with

this spin head of mine and try to slow it down. my life’s go

topsy-turvy. or it’s be topsy-turvy and it’s suddenly come right side

up. I don’t know which. Oh!--I don’t know anything. I’ve get to begin

all over again.”



she shake hand and pause. lambone wait, for manifestly she have

something to say. she get it out at last.



“do you think--he like I?”



“he like you all right, Christina Alberta. don’t you worry about that.”





§ 8



it be a little more than two day before Christina Alberta, to use she

own expression, “get back” to her lose daddy.



those two day be full of an immense excitement. devize be the

most wonderful fact in the world. she explode into love for he. she

have the most vivid impression of he, dark and tall, rather grave,

watchful and amazingly understandable. yet vivid as her impression

be she doubt every detail of it, and want to go back to he and

verify it all over again. it be their quality of mutual understanding

that be at once the most delightful and the most incredible aspect

of the whole affair. their brain no doubt be unlike, as every

two individual brain must be, yet their unlikeness be not a mere

accumulation of accidental difference, but the unlikeness of two

variation of one theme. she could feel his intention beneath his

word. her mind have jump with his realization and there must be

kink and turn in her brain, kink and turn that just make she

difficult and queer for most people, which would find the complete

parallel in his. she don’t believe there be a thing in her thought

and act that she would be surprised at his knowing and comprehending.



she have never before thought of parentage with any enthusiasm. she

have view it rather in the spirit of Samuel Butler and Bernard Shaw,

and conceive of parent generally in relation to their child

as embarrassed hypocrite with an instinctive disposition towards

restraint and suppression. she have make an exception of her own

particular pair; daddy have be a great friend anyhow, though mother

for the most part have be a concentrated incarnate “Don’t.” but

she have never realize there might be something rather intimately

interesting in consanguinity. and then suddenly a door have open, a

man have come in and sit down and talk to she and discover himself

the near thing in life to she. and she to he. she want to go to

he again; she want to see more of he, be with he. but he make no

sign and she could think of no decent excuse for a call upon he. the

very intensity of her desire make she unable to go to he easily. she

write the various letter they have agree she should write, and then

decide to master mental science and lunacy generally. that and the

case of her “daddy” she perceive to be her formal link with Devizes.



she set out for the Reading Room of the British Museum, for which she

have a student’ ticket, and she try to concentrate her mind upon

the book she have requisition, instead of let it wander off

into the strange reverie about this miraculously discover blood

relation. in the afternoon she ring up Lambone to be give tea, with

the intention of learn everything that the wise man could tell she

about Devizes and generally turn he over conversationally. but

Lambone be out. the next day the craving for Devizes be overpower.

she ring he up.



“may I have some tea?” she ask. “I’ve get nothing much to say, but I

want to see you.”



“delighted,” say Devizes.



when she get to he she find herself shy, and he as shy as herself.

for a little while they make polite conversation; it might almost have

be the conversation of two people at a formal call in a country town.

he call she “Christina Alberta,” but she call he “Doctor Devizes,”

and he ask she if she play or dance, and whether she have ever be

abroad. she sit in an arm-chair and he stand over she on the hearthrug.

it be clear that the only way to intimacy lay in a frank treatment

of her daddy. she feel that if this sort of talk go on for another

minute she would have to scream or throw her tea-cup in the fire. so

she plunge.



“when do you first know my mother?”



Devizes’ attitude stiffen, and he smile faintly at her boldness. “I

be a Cambridge undergraduate reading for the Natural Science Tripos,

and I go down to Sheringham to read. we--we pick each other up on

the beach. we make love--in a scared, furtive, desperate, ignorant sort

of way. People be primitive in those day--compare with what they

be now.”



“daddy ben’t there.”



“he come in afterwards.”



Devizes consider for a moment. he decide that it ben’t fair to

oblige she to go on question he. “my father,” he say, “be a

pretty considerable old bully. he be Sir George Devizes, the man

who invent the Devizes biscuit and cure old Alphonso, and he

be celebrate for be rude to his patient. he would smack their

stomach and tell they they ought to be scoop out. he help make

Unter Magenbad. he suspect I of be a bit of a soft, though as a

matter of fact I ben’t, and he generally have the effect of lay up

for a quarrel with I. he keep I pretty short. he ben’t particularly

nice to my mother. he use to get at my mother through I. I don’t

dare to have a scrape of any sort. I be really afraid of he. if I see

a scrape blow up my habit and disposition be to run away.”



“I see.”



Devizes consider the implication of that “I see.” “not that I run

away from any definite scrape that I know of at Sheringham,” he say

very carefully.



“what be my mother like in those day?”



“a sort of subdue fierceness. a flushed warm face. she be pretty, you

know, and very upright in her carriage. and she have a swift decision

beneath her stiffness. her wish would suddenly crystallize out, and

after that there be no bend she.”



“I know.”



“I suppose you do.”



“she wear glass then?”



“oh, yes.”



“be she fresh then? be she happy?”



“a little too fierce to be happy.”



“do you--ever--love she?”



“it be a long time ago, Christina Alberta. there be--seaside

love-making. why do you cross-examine I like this?”



“I want to know. Why”--Christina Alberta have a momentary terror at her

own boldness--“Why don’t you marry she?”



Devizes make no pretence of surprise at the question. “there be no

reason manifest why I should have marry she. none at all. I cann’t

conceive what my father would have do if I have come back from

Sheringham engage to a chance acquaintance. and anyhow, why should I

have do anything of the sort?”



his eye defy her.



“I leave she my address,” he add. “she could have write to I. she

never do.”



“do a letter go astray?” say Christina Alberta, and add hastily,

“my imagination be run away with I.”



she hesitate and tremble at the next word she have resolve to say,

but she say they, with a forced offhandedness. “you see--I might have

fancy you as a father?”



it produce no catastrophe. he look she in the face and then smile.

after that smile she feel that they understand each other completely,

and it be very pleasant to think that. “instead of which, you have to

adopt I as a cousin,” he say deliberately. “cousin it be, Christina

Alberta. it’s the good we can do. we have to put our head together and

think of your daddy. he’s our common concern. I’m interested in that

little man. he’s defend himself against many thing by those dream

of his. very wilful dream they may have be. who know? necessary

protective dream.”



Christina Alberta do not speak for a little time. she nod. she be

glad at their manifest understanding and yet she be disappoint,

though she could not have tell herself what else she have expect. this

man a yard away be the near thing in the world to she, and always

there might be this invisible barrier between they. they be link by

an invisible tie and they be separate by an unfathomable necessity.

never before in her life have she know what love could be; she want

to be free to love he; she want he to love she.



she realize that she be stand quite still, and that Devizes be

stand just as still upon his hearthrug, watch her face. his

mouth and eye be quiet and serene, but she imagine he must be

grip his hand together behind he. she have to obey he. there be

nothing for she to do but follow his lead.



“daddy’s our common concern,” she say. “I suppose I shall begin to

hear from some of those people to-morrow.”





§ 9



Christina Alberta get back to her daddy in a dream.



it be a queer dream. she be go about the world with Devizes and

they be lock together in such a way that she and he could never

look at each other, but be always side by side. but also with

the sublime incoherence of dream they be at the same time great

ebony image, and they sit stiffly side by side like a Pharaoh and

his consort, and they look over a great space; they be very big

effigy indeed and their profile be alike. all through the dream

she think of Devizes and herself as black. the space before they be

sometimes a sandy desert and sometimes a grey cloudy expanse. then

suddenly something round and white came bound into the midst of this

arena and become a little man, a familiar little blue-eyed man, tie up

into a ball with rope and sorely maim, who roll about and pant

and struggle to be free. oh! but he struggle pitifully. Christina

Alberta’s heart go out to he, and yet impel by some tremendous

force within she she rise and Devizes rise beside she and they march

stiffly forward. she could not help herself, she could not control the

rigid movement of her hand and foot. they step high and forcibly.

she be voiceless, she try to cry out, “we shall trample upon he!

we shall trample upon he!” but there be no more than a hoarse

inarticulate sound of horror in her throat....



they be upon he. she feel the body of her daddy writhe under she.

he be like a bladder. his soft, ineffectual body, with her foot upon

he, bent and bulge about. she forget there be anything else but

her daddy and herself. why have she treat he like this? devize

disappear. her daddy be cling to her knee and now a crowd of

vile figure have appear and seek to drag he away. “save I,

Christina Alberta,” he be plead, though she hear no sound. “save

I. save I! every day they torture I.” but they drag he away and

she could not put out her arm to he. because she be make of ebony

and all of one piece with Devizes.



then some one, a bird or a Sphinx with the face and voice of Lambone,

come into the dream. “listen to your daddy,” he say. “do not despise

he or simply pity he. he have much to teach you. the world will never

learn anything until it will learn from ridiculous people. all people

be ridiculous. I be. I be ridiculous. we learn in suffer what we

teach in song.” she see that her daddy be now shelter between the

paw of the Sphinx, and that the evil man have vanish.



she become intensely aware of a revealing absurdity in her dream. no

previous incompatibility have shock she at all, and she have never

think that she be dream up to this point. but now she became

intensely oppress by the idea that the Sphinx be an ancient egyptian

and classical figure, and that Sargon be a still more ancient

Sumerian. the dream be go wrong. the period, the culture, be

mixed. she convey this to Sphinx-Lambone, and he turn his head to

answer she, and immediately the evil figure be back, and take

advantage of Lambone’s inattention, be drag her daddy away. she

try to call Lambone’s attention to that, but he say there would be

plenty of time to recover her daddy when the point about the Sphinx

be settle. he ben’t a Sphinx, he explain, but a Winged Bull. he

never have be a Sphinx. or why should he be wear a long curly

stone beard? she want to argue that it be a false beard and that

he have only just put it on. and anyhow it be just like he to start

an inopportune discussion. meanwhile her daddy be recede into

wretchedness. she become aware of this rapidly and painfully. it be

her daddy still, but his body be different; it be not a human body

any more, but a basket of fruit overturn. unless she do something at

once it would go rotten and be bad for ever.



she try to cry out word of comfort and reassurance to the poor

tragic little figure before the dream come to an end--for now she know

surely that it be a dream. of course he be suffer intolerably. why

have she not write to he or telegraph to he? surely they would

give he a letter or a telegram! a profound self-detestation for her

incompetence and negligence, and a great horror of pain and cruelty

come upon she, and she awake completely to black night and infinite

dismay in her little hard bed in her stuffy little bedroom in Lonsdale

Mews.





§ 10



but the impression of her daddy, desolate and break-hearted and in

danger, remain with she, terribly vivid. it cling to she. she get up

in the morning anxious and depressed by it.



“I be not do enough for he,” she say. “I be let day slip

by--and for he they must be day of despair.”



“sure th’ ’sylums ’not so ba-s-at,” say Fay. “sure yr overrate it.”



“but to live among lunatic and be class as a lunatic!”



“they’ve _ban_ play-they. foxhill ’Sylum there’s _buful_ ban.

’Ntainments nor-sort treat,” say Fay.



Christina Alberta refrain from bad language.



“you get ill ove’ all this,” say Fay. “you do no good ’n Lun.

youffar be’r come dow’ Shore’m. the’s th’ouse spoilin’. in this las’

bit of fine w’r.”



for the October weather be hold out that year quite wonderfully,

a succession of calm golden day, and the Crumbs have be offer the

loan of a bungalow on the beach at Shoreham by a friend who have use it

throughout the summer. they want to go down to it before the weather

break, but go down to it mean leave Christina Alberta all alone

in the studio, and they do not want to do that. but they mean to go

to Shoreham. Christina Alberta, now that she have discover Devizes,

could not endure the thought of get out of telephone range of

he. London, she argue, be manifestly her proper centre. she could

get down to Cummerdown Hill in an hour; she could keep in touch with

everything. the Crumbs might go but she _must_ stay.



Fay would not understand. she pester.



about eleven o’clock Christina Alberta go to the Post Office

telephone booth and ring up Devizes.



“cann’t something be do to hurry thing up?” she ask. “I’ve get

daddy on my nerve. I cann’t bear to think of he there day after day.

I’ve be dream of he.”



“worry be no good. we--I’ve get some bad news for you. so put all

your control on.”



he pause. Christina Alberta, for all her love of Devizes, have to

restrain her violent desire to snap, “oh! what be it?”



“visit day be yesterday. he have one visitor. I suppose that’s the

agreeable relation you describe--what be his name? wiggle? Mr.

Widgery. but your daddy cann’t be see again by the outer world for a

week. not until next Tuesday.”



“oh, damn!” say Christina Alberta.



“exactly. I’ll do what I can to arrange some sort of special access.

I get on to the Medical Superintendent himself. but he’s queer. he’s

evidently quite friendly and well dispose, but he fence about. he

cann’t say either yes or no. Odd! I’m free to-day in the afternoon,

but I’m tie up to-morrow. I be for go down to see _him_--the

superintendent I mean, for a talk after lunch. ‘well in a day or so,’

he say. hope there’s nothing wrong that he’s keep back. afterwards

he promise I to ring I up later, and then abruptly he switch off.

so hold yourself ready, there. what’s your telephone number?”



“haven’t get one. you must telegraph.”



“or I’ll chase round in a taxi and pick you up. sorry to hold you up

like this, Christina Alberta.”



“I don’t mind anything so long as it’s get towards daddy.”



“right-o,” and the voice be cut off.



the telegram come after an interval of two hour, two hour which

have be devote to a ramble dispute with Fay about the Shoreham

difficulty. the message run as follow: “_have your father turn up he

escape at dawn this morning in slipper and dressing-gown and nothing

see of he since if not appear meet I Victoria two-seven for

cummerdown telephone Gerrard 0247 if there._”





§ 11



but Mr. Preemby do not turn up anywhere. he just vanish.



Christina Alberta, in a state of incredulous astonishment at this

fresh disappearance, go down with Devizes to Cummerdown. they find

a Medical Superintendent by no mean so amazed as they be. Sargon

have be miss at breakfast time; everything seem to point to

his just walk out of the Asylum. that sort of thing have happen

before. it show a certain sleepy negligence on the part of one or

two attendant, and they would be reprimand. but as for wonder, the

Medical Superintendent refuse to wonder. lunatic often stray or

escape, and unless they be dangerous the authority make no great

commotion about it. they keep it out of the newspaper as far as it be

possible to do so.



“this place ben’t Portland,” say the Medical Superintendent. “they get

back all right. I give he a day. he’s probably come back now. he may

be hide up a mile away. I’m chiefly anxious about his catch cold.

Pneumonia be the standard death of a lunatic. but it’s wonderfully warm

for the time of year. I’ve never know such an October.”



he be much more desirous to talk to Devizes about lunacy reform,

and convince he that he be a highly progressive and able Medical

Superintendent than to discuss the special case of Mr. Preemby. “we

do what we can,” he say, “but we’re fix by the extreme economy we

have to practise. low-grade attendant and not enough even of they.

the public indifference to lunatic be monstrous. everybody--even the

people with insane relation--want to forget all about they.”



“but how could Preemby have get out of the ground?” ask Devizes.

“ben’t there wall all round?”



“like everything else about lunacy law, the back be not as good as

the front,” say the superintendent. “but here we have get at least

a complete wall of sort all round. the original building use to be

a private mansion with a walled park. for a time--in the eighteenth

century--it be a boy’ school.”



he show they from his window over the roof of a clump of

outbuilding the limit of the garden and farm at the back, drop

towards a streamlet and define by a roadside wall and old thorn and

oak tree. “for my own part,” say the Medical Superintendent, “I admit

the urgency of very drastic reform.”



“I wonder if Cousin Widgery can throw any light on this,” say Devizes.



“Widgery?”



“that be his visitor yesterday.”



“_be_ it?” say the Medical Superintendent, and reflect and go to

his desk as if to look for a paper. “I think it be a different sort

of name--rather more like Goodchild. perhaps I’ve mix up the name.”



“Mr. Sam Widgery,” say Christina Alberta, “would be the last person

who’d want daddy to get out. he probably come to make sure that he

wouldn’t. he may have come just for the pleasure of gloating over he.

Uncle Sam’s not a pretty soul. he may have want to make sure the wall

go all the way round.”



the Medical Superintendent forget his doubt about the name and the

paper and turn with a fresh idea to they. “you don’t think there be

any animus? you don’t think he may have make for Mr. Widgery? where

do this Mr. Widgery live?”



but neither Devizes nor Christina Alberta think there be any great

possibility of Mr. Preemby beat back to Woodford Wells.



“he’s much more likely to go to Canterbury or Windsor or start straight

off for Rome,” say Christina Alberta.



“or Mesopotamia--or the British Museum,” say Devizes.



“or _anywhere_!” say Christina Alberta with a note of despair.



they return to London completely baffle. Christina Alberta be

for a visit to the Cummerdown Police Station and for a search in the

village round about, but Devizes explain that this might do more

harm than good. until now Christina Alberta have never hear of that one

kindly weakness in the british lunacy law, the release of the fourteen

day freedom. if the lunatic can get away from the asylum and remain

at large for that period, he or she become legally sane again, and

cannot be touch without a fresh examination and a new certificate. to

set the whole countryside hunt for Preemby might merely lead to his

recapture by the Asylum authority. and whatever happen the mystery

must not get into the paper.



“but while we do nothing, he may be lie dead in some out-of-the-way

ditch,” say Christina Alberta.



“if he’s dead he willn’t mind a little delay in find he,” say

Devizes.



no, the only thing be to wait at Lonsdale Mews against the chance of

his return thither. the Crumbs go off to Shoreham and Christina

Alberta be leave alone in the studio, but after one endless day of it

Paul Lambone think of a convenient agency call “Universal Aunts,”

and a suitable lady be send to relieve she from a continuous vigil.



one, two, three day pass. there come no sign from Sargon, no news

of any fresh calling of disciple or visit to the king. he have

evaporate. a vision of a little crumple-up body in a ditch replace

the tormented figure in the cell in the distressed imagination of

Christina Alberta. but the mind refuse to go on with a painful fancy

that lead to nothing, and Christina Alberta’s imagination presently

cease further dealing with her daddy until fresh material come to

hand. “he will turn up somewhere,” she repeat feebly, and become a

great consumer of evening paper. “he will turn up somehow.” her chief

anxiety be that he should not turn up with too tremendous head-line.

she begin to adjust herself like an early Christian for the second

come. the riddle of her daddy’s disappearance become a habit of

mind, became, as it be, a frame, a proscenium arch to her current

activity. beneath it she return to the urgent and extraordinary

problem of herself and her relationship to Devizes.





§ 12



it be manifest that he be almost as excited as she be at their

mutual discovery. the possible proceeding of Sargon, fantastic as

they might prove to be when they come to light, remain for he

as for she a matter of urgent importance, but the thought of this

strange relationship completely overshadow it. each have a reciprocal

desire to get at the other, to discover what magic of sympathy and

understanding might not be latent in their consanguinity.



the evening after the Universal Aunt be instal he take Christina

Alberta out to dine with he at a pleasant little italian restaurant in

the corner of Sloane Square, and afterwards he come back to the studio

with she and talk until nearly one in the morning. he show himself

shyly anxious to find out her aim and purpose in life, and what she

be do and what might be do to let out her possibility. he be

evidently disposed to shoulder just as much parental responsibility as

he could, subject to the preservation of appearance and a proper care

for the self-respect of the vanish Sargon. she attract he and he

like she. her feeling for he be more tumultuous and abundant and

indefinite. she don’t particularly want help or support from he. the

idea of be dependent upon he for anything repel rather than

attract she, but she want to get hold of he, to please and satisfy

he, to be well than he have expect and interesting in fresh way.

she want he to like she--to care for her more than mere liking. she

want that anxiously and tremendously.



she like a sort of ease and confidence he have with waiter and cabman

and the common service of life. he seem to know just what people

would do and they seem to know just what he would do; there be

no tension in these matter, no nervous “h’rrmping.” these common

attribute of habitual prosperity be so little in her experience

that they seem a distinction of his; and they throw a flavour of

know what he be about, and be serenely in control over most of

the conversation, when indeed he be as curious and experimental and

emotionally stir almost as she be. the eye that meet hers when she

talk be steady, friendly, interested, intimate eye, and her heart

go out to they.



over the dinner he talk at first about music. he have have no music

in his education, and now he be discover it. a friend of his have

be take he to concert, and he have get a pianola, “so as to spell

it out at home first.” but Christina Alberta’s education have miss

out music too, and she haven’t as yet discover it. so that topic die

out presently. he try she about picture, but there again she ben’t

particularly interested. they have a little silence.



he look across at she and smile.



“I’d like to ask you all sort of question, Christina Alberta, if I

dare,” he say.



she blush--absurdly. “any question you like,” she say.



“immense question,” he say. “for example--generally--what do you

think you be up to?”



she understand what he mean at once. but she be so unprepared with an

answer that she become evasive.



“up to!” she say, play for time. “I suppose I’m look for my lost

daddy.”



“but what be you up to generally? what be you do with your life?

where be you go?”



“I’m at sea,” she say at last. “lot of my generation be, I think.

the girl especially. you be old than I be; I’m only begin.

I don’t want to seem cheeky, but ben’t you well able to say what

_you_ be up to? Suppose--” her slightly scared gravity break into an

impudent smile that Devizes find very congenial--“suppose you play

first?”



he consider that. “perfectly fair,” he say. “I will. have another

olive. I’m glad you like olive. I do too. nobody’s call I to

account for a long time. what _be_ my game? it’s a fair question.”



but not an easy one evidently.



“I suppose one ought to begin right back at one’s philosophy,” he say.

“a long story. but I start the idea.”



Christina Alberta be greatly elated at her successful repulse of his

project cross-examination. instead of make a display herself she

could watch he. she watch he over the flower on the table and have

to be nudge by the waiter when he bring the pheasant to her elbow.

“how _should_ one begin?” he plunge. she have hear of Pragmatism? yes.

she be probably well read in that sort of thing than he be. he be,

he consider, a sort of Pragmatist. Most modern-minded, intelligent

people he hold be Pragmatists as he understand it. pragmatist? as he

understand it? he meet her eye and explain. in this sense he mean it;

we, none of we, have a clear vision of reality; nobody perhaps would

ever do more than approach reality. what we perceive be just that

much of reality that get through to we, through our very defective

power of interpretation. “they’ve do this pheasant _en casserole_

very well,” he break off. “three minute’ truce we ought to give it. do

you find I’m talk comprehensibly? I doubt it.”



“I’m hang on,” say Christina Alberta....



“perhaps I’m begin rather too far off.”



Pheasant....



“to come back to my confession of faith,” he say presently.... “mind

you, Christina Alberta, you’ve get to say your bit afterwards.”



“it willn’t be as definite as your,” she say. “some of yours I shall

steal. but go on--tell I.”



“well, keep hold, Christina Alberta. I feel I’m go to be at once

hesitating and condense. and I’m not sure of what you know or don’t

know. if I say I’m an Agnostic about the nature of the universe, and

how it begin and where it end, do that convey anything to you?”



“just what I think,” say Christina Alberta.



“well.” he start afresh and get into parenthetical difficulty. the

Pêche Melba come to interrupt and permit a fresh start. he unfold a

psychologist’s vision of the world for her inspection, a curious and

yet attractive vision to she. he express himself in term of mind and

understanding. she be use to hear everything express in term of

labour and material necessity. life, he say, be one continuous thing,

all life be connect. he try to illustrate that. the conscious

life of most low animal be intensely individual, a lizard, for

example, be just itself, just its instinct and appetite; it receive

no teaching and no tradition, it hand on nothing to its kind. but

the high animal be teach when they be young, learnt and teach

other and communicate with each other. man far more than any animal.

he have develop picture-writing, speech, oral tradition, scientific

record. there be now a common mind of the race, a great grow body

of knowledge and interpretation.



“People like ourselves be just cross-section of that flow.

individually we receive it, react to it, change it a little, and pass

away. we be just pass phase of that increase mind--which may be

for all we can certainly say, an immortal mind. do this sound like

Greek--or nonsense to you?”



“no,” she say, “I think I get the drift of it.” she look at his

intent face. he ben’t in the least talk down to she; he be simply

try to express himself as well as he possibly could to she. he be

treat she like an equal. like an equal!



that be his general philosophy. he be come to the question of

himself now, he say. he become very earnest over the coffee cup

and ash tray on the sweep tablecloth. he spread elucidatory hand

before she. he be conscientiously explicit. he see in himself two

phase, or rather two level of existence. roughly speak, two.

they have link and intermediate stage of course, but they could be

ignore when one just want to express the idea. first of all, he be

the old instinctive individual, fearful, greedy, lustful, jealous,

self-assertive. that be the primary self. he have to attend to that

primary self because it carry all the rest of he, as a rider

must see that his horse get oat. Deeper lie social instinct and

disposition arise out of family life. that be the second self, the

social self. man, he throw out, be a creature that have become more

and more consciously social in the last two or three hundred thousand

year. he have be lengthen his life, keep his child with he

long and long, enlarge his community from family herd into clan

and tribe and nation. the deep-lie continuity of life be become

more apparent and find more and more definite expression with this

socialization of man. to educate anyone in the proper sense of the word

be to make he more and more aware of this continuity. the importance

of the passionate feverish self be then reduce. true education be

self-subordination to a great life, to the social self. the natural

instinct and limitation of the primary self be in conflict with

this wide underflow; education, _good_ education, tend to correct

they.



“here be I,” say Devizes, “as we all be, a creature in a state of

internal conflict, quick, fiercer mortal instinct at issue with a

deep, calm, less brightly light, but finally strong drive towards

immortal purpose. and I be--how shall I put it?--I personally be, to

the good of my ability, on the side of the deep thing. my aptitude

and temperament and opportunity have bring I to psychology--as a

profession. I work to add to the accumulation of human knowledge and

understanding about the mind. I work for illumination. my particular

work be to study and cure troubled and tangle mind. I try to

straighten they out and simplify they and illuminate they. and above

all I try to learn from they. I seek the mental or physical cause

of their distress. I try to set down as clearly and accessibly as

possible, all I observe and learn. that’s my job. that’s my aim. it

give I a general direction for my life. all the stuff of my mere

individual existence I try to subordinate to that end. not always. my

monkey individual get loose at time and gibber on the roof. and at

other time it’s rather good company as a relief from overwork. vanity

and self-indulgence have their use. but never mind the monkey now. I

do not want to be a brilliant person; I want to be a vital part. that’s

my essential creed. I want to be the sort of wheel in the machinery

they call a mental expert. as good a wheel as I can be. that’s what I’m

up to in general term, Christina Alberta. that’s what I think I be.”



“yes,” say Christina Alberta, reflect profoundly. “of course I

cann’t produce a statement like that. you’ve get your system--complete.”



“and finish,” say Devizes. “you’ve get to tell your story in your

own way. at your age--you ought to be with loose end to all your

conviction.”



“I wonder if I can tell you any story.”



“you’ve get to try your good now. it’s only fair play.”



“yes.”



there be a little silence.



“it’s wonderful to talk to you like this,” say Christina Alberta.

“it’s wonderful to talk to anyone like this.”



“I feel that you and I--have to understand each other.”



she meet his grave eye for a moment. there be a wave of emotion within

she. she could not speak. she reach out her hand to touch his, and

for a moment their hand be together.





§ 13



Christina Alberta only get to her confession of faith in the studio

after they have return thither and relieve the Universal Aunt. even

then they don’t settle down to the business all at once. devize

walk about and look for drawing by Harold; he deduce Harold from

his drawing to a quite remarkable extent, Christina Alberta think.

he be curious about Fay. “what’s Mrs. Crumb like?” he ask. “show I

something of her, something that seem to give she.”



it please Christina Alberta very much to think that he be shy with

she. she feel that this be a recognition of her equality. he be

respect she and she be very eager that she should be respect by

he.



he get to an anchorage at last in the gaily paint seat by the

gas-fire; and Christina Alberta, after flit about the room for

a time, come and stand before it, shapely leg wide apart and hand

behind her back in an attitude that would have shock all her feminine

ancestor for many generation. but it do not shock Devizes; he find

she more and more interesting to watch, and he sit at his ease and

regard she with a lively admiration. Most of we get use to our

daughter so gradually; they grow up and we carry the wonder of they

as Milo carry his ox; it ben’t common for a man to get an unexpected

daughter abruptly at the age of twenty-one.



she say she haven’t much in the way of metaphysics; she be a

Materialist.



“no prayer at mother’s knee? religion of Mother and daddy? school

prayer and teaching? church or chapel?”



“it all wash out and fade out, I think, as they lay it on.”



“no fear of hell? Most of my generation go through the fear of hell.”



“not a trace of it,” say the New Age.



“but--a desire for God in the night?”



Christina Alberta pause for a little while. “I have that,” she say.

“it come--sometimes. I don’t know whether it’s very important or not

important at all.”



“it’s part,” say Devizes slowly, “of something that have to do with

want to be more than a miserable worm--and dislike meanness--and

so forth.”



“yes. do you know more about it?”



rather oddly he don’t answer that. “and how do you see yourself in

relation to mankind--and the animal--and the star? what sense of

obligation have you? what do you think the road be along which you have

to go?”



“H’m,” say Christina Alberta. she consider she be a communist, she

say, though she don’t belong to the Party. but she know some other

young people who do. she produce some of the phrase of the movement,

“the materialist conception of history” and so forth. he say he fail

to understand and ask rather irritate question; she think

controversially. she don’t realize at first how widely apart be their

phraseology. as they talk this become apparent. he seem to have

nothing too good to say for the communist idea, for ben’t it just his

own idea of be a part of a great being of life? but he seem to

have nothing too bad for practical Communism. marxist Communism he

say ben’t a constructive movement at all; it be merely a solvent.

it have no idea, no plan. Christina Alberta be put on the defensive.

“Enthusiasm for an ideal communist state ben’t nearly so important as

the question of immediate communist tactic in a decaying society,” she

recite, in an almost official tone. that be how her young friend in

the Party talk. but when she talk like this to he it don’t seem

so effective. he wouldn’t leave her phrase alone. he want to know

what she mean by decay in a society, whether there have ever be a

society not actively in decay and not also actively in growth, what

good tactic be except in relation to general strategy and whether

there could be any strategy without a clear war-end. she counter more

vigorously than effectively and their manner become controversial.



he press the difference in their opinion. communism for he mean a

new spirit, a spirit of science reorganize the world upon scientific

collective line, but the whole temper of party communism be

contemporary. it be saturate with the feeling and idea of exist

social class, with the natural resentment of the dispossess. it

have the angry dogmatism of desperate people not sure of their grip.

it need more of the passion of creative self-forgetfulness. many

Communists, he say, be simply reverse capitalist, egotist without

capital; they want revenge and expropriation, and when they be

through with that they would be leave with nothing but social ruin

and everything to begin all over again. and they be suspicious and

intolerant because of their want of internal assurance. they distrust

their good friend, their proper leader, scientific man like Keynes

and Soddy.



“Keynes a communist!” cry Christina Alberta in derision. “he don’t

accept the first scientific fact of the class war.”



“it ben’t much of a fact--certainly not a First Scientific Fact,” he

reply. “Keynes build up slowly a conception of a scientifically

organize exchange system. Most of your friend in Russia don’t seem

capable even of realize that such a thing be necessary.”



“but they do!”



“have they show it?”



“what do _you_ know of the russian Bolsheviks?”



“what do _you_? you just look at the label on people. nothing genuine

without the red label--and everything genuine with.”



she say he see thing from his “bourgeois” standpoint, and he laugh

cheerfully at her social classification; there be no bourgeoisie

in England, he say; she attempt some of the stock cynicism and

sarcasm of the movement but with an unusual lack of conviction. it

be easy for he to criticize, she say, live as he do on invest

capital.



“it would make it easy,” he smile. “but really I live on my fee.”



“you have invest capital.”



“Some. I don’t live on it.”



they have exhaust the dispute for a time. after all she reflect she

haven’t put up such a bad fight, consider her age and standing. the

momentary glow of controversial exasperation fade again. they drift

to the more immediate question in which they be interested, the

question of what she be to do with her life.





§ 14



“we progress, Christina Alberta,” say Devizes, “but it’s still

generally the rule that a woman’s life be determine very largely by

the character and occupation of--the lead man in the play. have you

by any chance be in love yet?”



she want to tell he all the truth about herself, but some thing be

untellable. she hesitate and blush hotly. “nowadays,” she say, and

stop. “I’ve some imagination. I’ve run about London. I’ve perhaps

imagine things----”



his eye be very search for a moment but none the less kindly.



“I’ve be in love--in a kind of way,” she admit.



he nod with a dreadful effect of complete comprehension.



“I don’t want to run my life in relation to any man,” she extend.



“clever girl never do. any more than clever young man want to spend

their life adore a goddess.”



“in any case I don’t see myself become a child-produce

housekeeper,” she say.



“even if you marry. no. I doubt whether you be that type. but if you

be go to reject that easy way--and it _be_ an easy way, in spite of

what people say--if you be go to be a citizen on your own as a man

be, then you’ve get to do a man’s work, Christina Alberta. there’s to

be none of the Pretty Fanny business you know.”



“well, _be_ I?” ask Christina Alberta.



“no, I don’t think you be. and in that case, I guess you want some

more education. you’re clever, but you’re a bit patchy.”



“I’m good enough to get a job. and then learn.”



“learn,” he say. “that’s enough to take you all your time. I’d rather

we agree it’s get to be a student for two or three year more. you

need have no anxiety about way and mean. you and I be of the same

Clan--a clan of two practically--and I be the head. I’ll see you

through just as though you be a son. and now, what sort of work be it

to be? law? medicine? a general education for journalism or affair?

door open to woman now--fresh door every day.”



to that Christina Alberta could speak a little more fully. she have be

think out some of these thing. she want to know about life and

the world as a whole. could she have a good year at physical science,

biology and geology chiefly and anthropology? would that be possible?

and then if she be any good at medical work, another year at mental

science or politic and public health? “it sound ambitious I know,”

she say.



“ambitious! it’s an encyclopædia in a year.”



“but I want to know about all these thing.”



“naturally.”



“could I have long than that?”



“you’d have to have long than that.”



“it seem to be ask for so much.”



“it wouldn’t be if you be in trouser. we’ve agree to unsex you to

that extent. why shouldn’t you be ambitious?”



“you think I might do work--scientific work--at last--as you do?”



“why not?”



“a girl?”



“you’re the sort of stuff I be, Christina Alberta.”



“do you think--some day--I might even come to work--to work with you?”



“Kindred mind may follow kindre course,” he say, with the

complete recognition of their relationship “why not?”



she stand and look at he with a dark excitement in her eye and he

have a momentary intimation of all that he might be to she. Gallant she

be and fine and ambitious; a wonderful life to come out of nothingness

into his own. and she mean this relationship to grow, as well it might

grow, into something very great and deep for both of they.



he go off at a tangent to talk of the contrast of man and woman

student and of man and woman as worker. “you’ll never run parallel

with man, you free woman, so don’t expect it. you’ve get to work out

a way that be similar perhaps but different. different down to the

root.” he argue that probably the whole fabric of a man have its

quality that a woman’s do not possess and vice versa, down even to

a muscular fibre or a nerve tendril. a time might come when we should

be able to put a drop of blood or a scrap of skin under the microscope

or apply some subtle reagent to it and tell its sex. “a man resist,”

he say. “a man be intractable. he have great inertia, physical and

mental. that keep he to his course. man compare with woman be

steady and stupider. woman compare with man be quick and sillier.

bludgeon and bodkin.”



he talk of his student day when woman medical student be still

rather novel intrusion, and from that he pass to his father’s

prejudice, to his father’s treatment of his mother and his boyish

day. presently they be exchange experience of childish delusion

and fancy. she forget how much old and more experienced he be in

the ease of his talk. he tell she about himself because he recognize

her right to know about he; he listen with a friendly eagerness

to all she choose to tell he of her daddy and herself and about

her impression and her few adventure in encounter as a suburban

student in London. they share their delight in Paul Lambone’s kindly

absurdity. presently it occur to she to offer he drink. the Crumbs

have leave a bottle of beer and a syphon. but Devizes ask she to make

tea and help she with the kettle. meanwhile the mutual exploration

go on. their friendliness grow rich and deep as they talk. she

have never before meet so intimate and delightful a curiosity as his. she

have have friend before but no such friendliness; she have have a lover

but never such intimacy.



it be one o’clock before he go away.



the talk have ebb. he sit thoughtful for a moment.



“I must go,” he say, and stand up. they face each other, a little at

a loss for part word.



“it’s be wonderful to talk to you,” she say.



“it’s a great thing to have discover you.”



another pause. “it’s a great thing for I,” she say lamely.



“we’ll talk--many time,” he say.



he want to call she “my dear,” and an absurd shyness prevent he.

and she be aware of that suppression.



she stand up straight before he in the passage with a flush on her

cheek and her eye alight, and he wonder he have not think she

beautiful from the beginning. “good-bye for the time,” he say, and

smile at she gravely and take and hold her hand for a moment.



“good night,” she say, and hesitate and then open the green door

for he and stand and watch he go up the Mews.



at the top he turn and wave his hand to she before he disappear.

“good night,” she whisper and start, and look about she as if she

fear that her unspoken thought have be audible.



Father. her father!



so real father leave one aglow like this!



he have leave she tense as a violin string on which the bow rest

motionless. now Daddy, who ben’t her father, she would just have

hug and kiss.









CHAPTER the second



_how Bobby steal a Lunatic_





§ 1



a man may be a mental expert and yet fail to take the most obvious

hint in a detective investigation. the medical superintendent at

Cummerdown Hill have doubt for a moment whether Widgery be the name

of Sargon’s visitor. he have think it be more like Goodchild. but

since there be no known Goodchild in the world of Christina Alberta,

neither she nor Devizes have trouble to scrutinize this momentary

uncertainty. nor have she and Devizes ask themselves why Widgery

should have make a second visit to his cousin. indeed, he have not do

so. it be a much young man who have visit Sargon that Tuesday; he

have falsely represent himself as Sargon’s nephew and give the name

of “Robin Goodchild.” his real name be Robert Roothing, and he have

come for the sole purpose of get Sargon out of the asylum as soon

as possible, because he could not endure the thought of his staying

there.



circumstance have conspire with a natural predisposition to give Bobby

a great horror of all restraint. his mother, a gentle dark creature,

the wife of a large blond negligent landowner, have die when Bobby be

twelve; and he have be entrust to the care of a harsh, old-fashioned

aunt--to whom the cupboard seem a proper place for discipline. when

she discover that he be really distress by it, she seek to break

his “cowardice” by give he quite liberal dose of it--even when

he have commit no offence. he go to a school where discipline

be maintain by “keep-in.” the war eliminate his father, who

die suddenly of over-excitement while in command of an anti-aircraft

gun during an air-raid, and it lead Bobby through some tiresome

campaign in Mesopotamia and the beleaguerment of Kut to an extremely

unsympathetic turkish prison. in any case he would probably have be

a free-go easy creature, but now he have so passionate a hatred of

cage that he want to release even canary. he dislike the iron

fence round the public park and square with a propagandist passion,

he write article about they in _wilkin’ Weekly_ and elsewhere

clamouring for their “liberation,” and he never go by train if he

could help it because of the claustrophobia that assail he in the

compartment. he would ride a push-bike except for long distance, and

then he would borrow Billy’s motor bicycle. he do his good to prevent

his craving for the large and open from become too conspicuous or a

nuisance to other people, but Tessy and Billy understand about it and

do their good to make thing easy for he.



it be not only claustrophobia that Bobby have to fight against. he

carry on a secret internal conflict with a disinclination to act

upon most occasion, that he believe have develop in he as a result

of war experience. sometimes it seem to he to be just indolence,

sometimes fastidiousness, sometimes sheer funk and cowardice. he

could not tell. he have a rankle memory of a case of cruelty he have

witness in the prisoner’ camp when he have stand by and do nothing.

he would wake up sometimes at three o’clock in the morning and say

to himself aloud, “I stand by and I do nothing. oh God! oh _God_!

oh GOD!” and at time he would walk up and down his study repeating:

“_Act!_ you vegetable! you hide cur! out and act!” meanwhile he

obey routine and do whatever come to his hand. as “Aunt Suzannah”

he be excellent, indefatigably considerate, lucid, really helpful.

_wilkin’ Weekly_ be proud of he. he be the backbone of the paper.



and now this affair of Sargon’s have twist he up very badly between

his desire to free the little man, who have take an extraordinary hold

upon his imagination and sympathy, and his sense of the immense force

against which he would have to pit himself if he try to give he any

help. it be only after a considerable struggle with himself that he

have call at the police station and the Gifford Street Workhouse. he

be afraid of awkward question, afraid above all of be “detain.”

the workhouse be a detestable place with high wall and a paved court

and a general effect of sinister seclusion from the grubby street

outside. for the good part of a day after his Gifford Street visit he

hesitate whether he should do anything more.



“Bobby’s get a grouch,” Susan tell Tessy. “he’s stoopid. just sit and

say ’e ’as to fink sumpfink over. what’s he fink fing over for? say

I be to come downstairs again, there be a good girl.... mean it....

say so.... Puss’d I ’way.... I do-o-n’t fink I lo-o-o-ove Bobby

’nymore.”



great distress. a storm of tear. Tessy be deeply sympathetic.



but after tea Bobby be bright and draw Susan her “good night

picture” and come down and sit on her bed and talk she to sleep the

same as usual, and Tessy perceive that the bad of Bobby’s trouble

be over.



at supper Bobby unfold his plan.



“I mean to go to Cummerdown Hill to-morrow,” he say compactly.



“to see Sargon?” say Tessy understandingly.



“if I can. but it willn’t be visit day. that’s Tuesday. I want to look

round.”



Billy raise his eyebrow and help himself to butter.



“But--” say Tessy, and stop short.



“yes?” say Bobby.



“you willn’t be able to see he. you don’t know the name he’s under.”



“they’ll call he Mr. Sargon,” say Billy.



“his name’s preemby. he’s a laundryman. they tell I at the workhouse.

his people _want he to be there_!”



“I cann’t stand the thought of it,” say Bobby after a brief silence.



“don’t follow,” say Billy.



“that nice little thing be make into a lunatic. like a little

blue-eyed bird he be. high wall. great loute warder. Sargon, king

of king.... I’ve get to do something about it or I shall burst.”



he look at once weak and desperate. Tessy reflect. “you’d well

go,” she say.



“but what good will that do?” say Billy, and be quell by a glance

from Tessy.



“if you can lend I the old motor bike and the side-car. you’re not

use it this week-end.”



“you can take off the side-car,” say Billy.



“I may want it,” say Bobby.



“you don’t mean--!” say Billy.



Bobby come as near to an explosion as he ever do.



“oh never mind _what_ I mean. I tell you I’m go down to Cummerdown

to have a look at the place. no doubt I’m a futile ass, Billy, but I

just cann’t help myself go. the poor little beggar’s get no friend.

his own family’s help to put he away. family do. it’s an infernal

world. I’ve get to do something. if it’s only to shake ’em up. if I

stay here another day I shall start smack Susan.”



“somebody ought to,” say Billy.



“if he can only keep away for fourteen day clear----”



“he’s free?” say Tessy.



“he have to be certify all over again--anyhow,” say Bobby.





§ 2



Bobby discover that the village of Cummerdown lie nearly two mile

away from the asylum, and do its good very successfully to have as

little to do with it as possible. it nestle among tree just off the

high-road to Ashford and Hastings, and have one cramp little inn that

give he a bleak bedroom and accommodate his machine and side-car in

an open outhouse crowd with two cart and a Ford and populous with

hen. the day be still young, and after he have deposit the elderly

rucksac in which he have bring his “thing” upstairs, he set out with

a walking-stick and an air of detach interest to reconnoitre the

asylum and develop his plan for the rescue of Sargon. that golden

autumn be still hold out; the pleasant lane he follow to the

high-road be pattern with green and yellow chestnut leave and the

tree overhead be full of sunshine. it be a reassuring day. it

encourage he. it take he with a kindly seriousness and make he feel

that rescue people from lunatic asylum be the sort of work the sun

could shine upon and nature welcome.



it have need a great effort to get down from London. he have feel then

like a midget set out to attack an embattle universe. amidst the

Croydon traffic he have be half-minded to go back, but he have feel

that he could not face Tessy until he have be at least definitely

defeat. it be delightful to note an increase assurance within

himself as he draw near to his enterprise. he feel much more on

the scale of the power he attack. after all, what be law and

regulation but just thing patch up by man like himself? what be

prison wall but the slow work of shirk bricklayer and evasive

contractor? the attendant and custodian, the superintendent and

so forth he be set out to circumvent, be all as fallible as

himself. and the thing be urgent and outrageous, this seizure of a

harmless little fantastic, this frightful imprisonment. it have to be

fight. the world would be intolerable unless such thing be fight.



Queer world it be! such beauty on these tree-stem, such a glow, and

the delightfulness of rustle one’s foot through these leave! but all

that be by the way; the real business of life be to fight evil thing.



he come out from between the tree and see the wide down open out

before he and the block masse of the asylum with its broad bare

ground and wall, an eyesore. this be his objective. in that place

somewhere be Sargon, and he have to be release.



he seat himself on a convenient stile and inspect that heavy

architecture and try to frame a plan. that white building in the

centre look like a gaunt georgian private house. that be probably

the nucleus of the whole place. two man be visible in front of it

mow the grass--patient perhaps. the wall and railing along the

road look implacable. two stern-look lodge there be, no doubt

with a testy janitor lurk within, and there be iron gate--one

open. a van be come out, a furniture dealer’s van. for a time

Bobby’s mind run on the possibility of become a tradesman with

parcel or a crate to deliver.... many difficulty that way....



“but why a frontal attack?” say Bobby with an effect of discovery. the

place fall away behind, down-hill. he would inspect the rear. if he

work round by the open down to the right, he would probably get on to

slope command a view of the asylum ground.



an hour later Bobby be sit on a heap of flint by the side of a

minor road which run over the rise ground behind the asylum. he

find the rear of the place much more hopeful and much more interesting

than the front. there be field with a number of man work in they,

and at one place near the building a row of man seem to be dig

a trench under the supervision of an attendant. there be quite a lot

of movement close to the building, under a sort of open shed half

a dozen man seem to be take exercise by walk up and down. it

vex Bobby to think that any one of these figure might be his Sargon.

if only he have the elementary common sense to bring a field-glass, he

reproach himself, he might have be able to make out his little

friend’s feature. “no clearness of thought,” he whisper. “no

decision.” a lot of these people seem to be go about very freely,

carry gardening implement and so forth. one he note, walk about

and gesticulate as if he talk to himself; he be manifestly a

patient and quite unattended.



the wall bound the asylum on this side have none of the austerity of

the front wall. it seem to be an old estate wall; in several place

it be cover with ivy and here and there it be overhung with tree.

the ground drop away to his right, there be a little stream which

run out of the asylum ground at the low corner; the corner be

shade by tree and seem to be leave to the tree and undergrowth; the

stream run under a low arch in the wall and go on down a widening

valley towards London. the seclusion and shade of this corner appeal

to Bobby very strongly. it seem to he exactly the point at which

Sargon ought to be get out of the place. he decide that presently

he would stroll down and examine its possibility as precisely as

possible. if one could get Sargon to come down there----



he find the detail difficult. he mean to have a plan work out

in every detail and to communicate it to Sargon on the next visit

day, but it be very hard to fit this plan together. he do not know

when it would be most convenient for Sargon to attempt to slip away,

whether this be to be a daylight or a night affair. he see before

he a great vista of inquiry to be make and suspicious people to be

face. “damn!” say Bobby, and for a time he be again for abandon

the attempt.



why couldn’t one go in at these gate, boldly and overwhelmingly, and

say, “there be a sane man here and I have come to set he free?” a

superman might do that, or an archangel. how splendid it would be to be

a sort of Archangel-Knight-Errant, a great flaming presence of light

and wing power, right wrong, reprove oppressor, liberate

every kind of captive creature. then one might do thing. Bobby lapse

into a childish day-dream.



presently he rouse himself, stand up and go down towards the exit of

the stream. the wall strike he as quite climbable--even by a little

old gentleman. the stream come out meander among pebble through

a short tunnel. one could have get into the asylum ground or out of

they quite easily over the wall by the ivy or through the culvert. he

resolve to come again at twilight and--just to satisfy himself about

his own pluck among other thing--get into the asylum premise and walk

about a little.



yes. he would do that.



he try to imagine himself assist Sargon over the wall. one could

get on the top of the wall and reach down to his hand. a cripple could

do it. the motor bicycle would have to be wait up there in the lane.

and then? _where would he take he?_



this be a new consideration. for a time Bobby’s mind be appal and

paralyze by the complexity of his enterprise. he have not think of

take he anywhere in particular.



the day that intervene before visit day seem at once

interminable and frightfully swift. he have be to Dymchurch in the

summer with the Malmesburys, and like the landlady of his lodging

very much; he wire to she “can I come with a relation not ill but

overwork for week or so you will remember I last summer roothe the

Feathers Cummerdown” and have get a reply, “glad to see you any time.”

so that be all right. but the rest of the plan fail very largely to

materialize. he make his nocturnal visit to the asylum ground without

misadventure.



the morning of visit day find he with half a dozen plan, and they

all have gap and none seem much well or bad than the other. and

he have walk round the asylum ground at various discreet distance,

by night and day just twenty-three time, not count loop, return

and visit to particular point of interest. fortunately asylum be

much preoccupied with their internal affair, and do not keep look-out

man upon the battlement. they do not reckon with rescuer from outside.



Bobby make his final decision among these conflict project over

his breakfast bacon. with a resolute sang-froid and his nerve all

a-tingle, he set out for the asylum to see Sargon and begin the work of

rescue as he have think it out. first he have to find out what freedom

of movement be permit Sargon, when it might be possible for he to

get away to the corner by the culvert, and he have to arrange a time for

that meeting. then he would have to provide also for alternative time

if Sargon fail to keep his first appointment. Bobby would be wait

under the wall and the motor bicycle and side-car would be hide among

the bush up by the road. in a trice Sargon would be over the wall.

after that they could laugh at pursuit. off they would go to Dymchurch,

and there, safe and untrackable, Sargon would keep indoor until the

fifteen day need to make he legally a sane man again have pass.

and then Bobby could find out those relation of his and talk the

matter over with they, and get thing on a proper footing. so Bobby

plan it out.



just at the lodge gate he decide upon an assumed name. he ben’t

quite clear why he don’t give his own name, but an assumed name seem

to he to be more in the spirit of the adventure.





§ 3



when Sargon be inform that he be to be visit by Mr. Robin

Goodchild he be in a depressed mood. he betray no surprise at the

name. it seem to he to be as good as any other name. it might be

the name of some intelligent inquirer or possibly even some precursor

of the release he still hope for. his spirit rise. he submit

cheerfully to a search examination of his personal tidiness, and he

nod acquiescently to a warning not to talk about “_every_ bless

thing” he’d see.



his spirit rise still more when he see the dark kindliness of Bobby’s

face. it be the one disciple who have ever seem to believe. he hold

out both his hand in a little storm of emotion. whatever sort of

muddler Bobby might be to himself, to Sargon in that moment at least he

be strength and hope.



the meeting occur in the reception-room downstair, for no one

from the outside world may ever penetrate to the ward and the

bleak reality of everyday asylum life. the reception-room have a

baize-cover table in the middle, a black horsehair sofa and numerous

chair; it be totally devoid of small movable; there be an A b c

time-table and one or two illustrate weekly on the table, and the

wall bear brown-spot steel engraving of Prince Albert and Queen

Victoria in the Highlands and of Windsor Castle from the Thames. there

be three or four group, each of two or three people, with their

head together converse in tactful undertone; there be several

woman and one little girl; a tearful lady in profound mourning sit

apart by the empty fire-place and no doubt await a patient; two

attendant try hard not to look as though they be listen as

intently as possible to the conversation go on about they. the

patient present be all in the sane phase, “fit to be visit.”

there be no madness visible; at most only a little nervous oddity.

Bobby have be watch these other group while he wait, and he have

be impress by a certain quality of furtiveness in their behaviour.

the furtiveness he connect with the alertness of the attendant.

one affect to look out of the window, the other half sit at a

table hold an old _Graphic_, and ever and again there would be a

quick glance at this patient or that. it have not occur to Bobby

that his talk to Sargon would be semi-public; it be a disconcert

interference that would greatly hamper he in give his instruction.



Bobby see at once that Sargon be very much thin than when he have

take his room in Midgard Street. he look ill and worn, an effect

that be emphasize by the fact that he be badly shaven and wear

ill-fitting clothe. his eye seem large and sink under his brow

and his forehead more definitely line. yet if he look unhappy he

also look more intelligent. he seem more aware of the thing about

he--less a man in a dream.



“I have come to see if I can be of service to you,” say Bobby, hold

out his hand. “your friend and disciple be anxious for your

welfare.”



“you have come to see I,” he say, and glance sideway at the

listening attendant and drop his voice; “me--_Sargon_?”



Bobby understand that note of doubt and it grieve he. “you, Sargon,

the King out of the Past.”



“they would have I deny it,” whisper Sargon.



Bobby raise his eyebrow and nod his head as who should say,

“they’d do _anything_.”



the little man’s manner change. “how be one to know?” he say. “how be

one to know?”



he sigh. “nothing seem certain any more.”



“can we sit down and talk together?” say Bobby. “there be much to be

say between we.”



Sargon glance round. there be two chair in a corner, and in that

corner they might be a little beyond the eavesdropper’s range. “I

cannot understand this madness,” say Sargon as they sit down. “I

cannot understand this Riddle that have be set I. why do the power,

why do God, permit man to be mad? when they be mad they be beyond

good and evil. what be they? man still? what become of justice, what

become of righteousness--when man go mad?” his voice sink. his eye

become furtive. “dreadful thing happen here,” he whisper. “dreadful

thing. quite dreadful thing.”



he cease. for a little while neither he nor Bobby say a word.



“I want to get you out of this,” say Bobby.



“be my friend do anything?” ask Sargon. “what be Christina

Alberta do? be she well?”



“she be splendid,” he say haphazard. no doubt she be one of this

beastly family of Sargon’s that be content to leave he here. “I want

you to listen to I,” he say.



but Sargon have thing to tell. “everyone in this place be always

think about what their friend outside be do for they. the poor

soul come and talk to I. they know I be different from what they be.

they write letter, petition. I tell they that when God release I I

will bear they all in mind. some mock at I. they have delusion. they

think they be king or emperor or rich man or great discoverer, and

that the world have plot against they.... some be suspicious and

cruel.... darken soul.... some have dreadful habit. you cannot

help but see.... some be badly sink--degrade--indescribably.... it

be very painful, very painful.”



the blue eye stare blankly at unpleasant memory.



“there can be no doubt that I be Sargon,” he say abruptly, and look

sharply at Bobby.



“I call you by no other name,” say Bobby.



the momentary acuteness fade again. “that man Preemby be unawakene.

he be asleep--scarcely dream of life. _but I have see!_ I have

look at the world from high place. and from dark place too....

Sargon. Sargon be a different person.... but it be difficult.”



he become silent.



Bobby feel that they be get nowhere. in his anticipation of this

conversation he have talk and Sargon have listen. and there have be

no one to overhear. but this be all unexpected. anyhow, the plan have

to be tell; Sargon have to be instruct in his part. he glance warily

at the people near to they. “there be those among we,” he say

quietly and quickly, “who would set you free. I want to tell you--” on

the spur of the moment he attempt a code. “when I speak of a city in

Central Asia it will mean this place, the Asylum. do you understand?”



“this place--Central Asia. if I be Sargon.... everything be possibly

something else. but we be still in England nevertheless.”



“in reality. but I want to explain to you.”



“yes, yes. explain.”



“I shall speak of great discovery in Central Asia. that will mean

this.”



_do_ he understand?



“_rescue!_” whisper Bobby in Sargon’s ear, and glance at the

attendant and meet his eye and be discompose.



“tell I about the discovery,” say Sargon after a little pause as

though he have not hear that whisper word.



“it be a symbol for this place,” say Bobby.



Sargon look puzzle. the attendant be watch their face now.

perhaps he suspect already. Bobby flush hotly and plunge abruptly

into an account of the discovery of an amazing russian he call

Bobinsky. Bobinsky have find a walled city with no way out. “yes,” say

Sargon, interested. the attendant be now look away. “like this

place,” say Bobby, and more explicitly; “I _mean_ this place.” there

be a river run through the city, the city of confinement, and go

out by the low part. there it be the helper wait. the rescuer.

that be the place for they to wait. do he understand? at that point

where the tree grow and the river go out through the wall. they they

wait. there they would wait until the captive king come to they.



“it be a curious story,” say Sargon. “what captive king do you mean?”



“it be mean for you.”



“the river you speak of may be the Euphrates,” say Sargon. “I dream of

the Euphrates.”



he have miss it all! he be out upon some woolgathering of his own.

euphrate! what have the Euphrates to do with Central Asia? or the

Asylum?



“Bother!” say Bobby. “I say-- it be a small river I mean, a

streamlet--in the ground here. don’t you understand?”



a tall sharp-faced woman in a hat of hard black straw come near they

and sit down. Bobby, as he talk, observe she out of the corner of

his eye. be she the friend of a patient or what be she do here? “I

speak in symbol,” say Bobby, still watch and think about this

woman. “this city be your prison.” he catch the woman exchange a

glance of intelligence with the male attendant who have move a couple

of yard up the room. they know each other. then she must be another

observer. “I want no other prison than this,” say Sargon, evidently

quite at cross-purpose. “one prison be enough.”



“I don’t mean that,” say Bobby. “can you walk about here pretty

freely?”



“not freely,” say Sargon. “no.”



“if you could come out into the ground. to-morrow.”



the woman turn she long sharp foxy nose towards he, and stare at

he with rather stupid green-blue eye.



Bobby’s nerve be go to piece altogether. he be always more

afraid of woman than man. this prim sharp-nosed figure so manifestly

listen, and listen with a faint hostility to all he say,

complete his discomfiture. he try to improvise a story of lose

and recover city that would be crystal clear to Sargon and yet

incomprehensible to the listener. but his invention falter at the

difficult task. where the river run out of the city, he repeat;

he harp upon that idea; where there be tree and ivy, there the

faithful wait. when be the propitious hour for the Master to steal

away to they? everything be prepare. when could it be? when might

it be? fragmentally and mix with many irrelevancy Bobby try to

get the import of these suggestion over to his hearer. now he would

be explicit; now as the fear of the listener return, vague and

misleading. he do convey a sense of mystery and intention to Sargon,

that be plain; but he feel he convey nothing more. the time be

slip by. Bobby could have throttle that infernal woman. More and

more do she become audience to his flounder effort. he maunder

back to his starting point about Bobinsky. “there be no such person as

Bobinsky,” he throw in.



“then how could he explore city?” ask Sargon, manifestly more and

more perplex at Bobby’s rigmarole.



“he be dead,” say Bobby. “he be just a mask.”



“some man be.”



“don’t mind about Bobinsky. could you slip away to that corner? no, no.

she’s look. don’t answer.



“now _answer_.”



“I don’t understand,” say Sargon.



Bobby feel that he be only puzzle Sargon. but what else be to be

do? he could have kick himself for not having bring a brief

statement of his plan write plainly on a little piece of paper that

he could have slip into Sargon’s hand--or pocket. it would have be

so simple. he could have make a map and a drawing. too late to do that

now.



Despair come upon Bobby. everything have go wrong. he get up to go and

then sit down again to make another attempt. he feel murderous towards

that woman, towards himself, even towards slow-witted little Sargon.



“it be very good of you to come and see I,” say Sargon.



“_why_ do you come?...



“do you think anything will be do about I?...



“you will see Christina Alberta? when I see you first I think you

have thing to tell I--important thing. one live on such hope here.

here--when there be no visitor--nothing happen, nothing pleasant.

and one be distressed....



“I be interested to hear of those city in Central Asia of course, but

it be a little puzzling. do you come specially about they? or just to

see I?



“you will come again. even to come down here to this sitting-room be an

event....”



then in a swift whisper. “the food be frightful. so badly cook. it

disagree with I....”



“that woman,” say Bobby as he go, “she have spoil everything. I

cann’t stand she.”



“that woman?” say Sargon, and follow the direction of Bobby’s eye.

“poor soul,” he say. “she’s a deaf mute. she come to see her brother.

the whole family be defective or insane.”



a madden Bobby return towards his little inn. should he chuck the

whole thing? intolerable think! he must make fresh plan--fresh plan

altogether. he must begin all over again. the little man be evidently

wretched. but it be go to be hard to get hold of he than Bobby

have think.



Bobby have no sleep that night.





§ 4



in the night just before daybreak suddenly Sargon wake up and

understand. he understand quite clearly what the young man have be

say to he. he have say “Rescue!” of course he have mean to say

“Escape”! that city in Central Asia be only a parable; he have say

as much. he have be describe a corner of the asylum ground,

that corner where the stream run out beyond the work-field and the

shrubbery where the patient be suppose not to go. he have be

telling of friend who would wait outside. he have be try to

arrange an hour when these friend would come there. and Sargon have

fail to understand. he sit up in bed very still.



it be perfectly clear, but through a sort of dulness that come upon

he at time he have not grasp the drift of it at the time. the young

man have show irritation, naturally enough. what would he do now? would

he try again? be the friend still wait?



who be this young man? his name be unknown or forget. but he

believe. he have say, “I call you by no other name.” Sargon! and there

be these friend he speak of, who wait outside for the king. they

must know. how could they know, if there be nothing to be know? after

all, perhaps it be no dream. perhaps the world be awaken.... but

he have fail they. he have not understand.... they wait without....



how still everything be! a strange unusual stillness. it be rare for

this place to be so bereft of noise. it be dark and yet not altogether

dark. the ward be dimly light by a blue-shade light. the three nearer

bed be unoccupied, and beyond the man who toss and mutter almost

incessantly lie for a little while at peace. the man who rave have die

three day ago; the man who give sudden loud shout have be take away

to another ward. through the open door one could see across the landing

into the little yellow-light room, where Brand the ward attendant sit

with his arm cross and chin on his chest and sleep, his patience

card spread out before he. he seem to be alone and yet he could

sleep like that! where could the other man be--the new attendant whose

name Sargon do not know? and yet he feel--some one have just go out!



the uncurtained window show the night outside, a darkness that

become translucent, a streak of very black cloud and five pale star.

across the low edge of that oblong picture one could see indistinctly

a tracery of tree branch and the lumpish head of a young oak still

bear its leave, the tree along the first hedge. these outline

grow distincter as he watch. it be like the slow development of a

photographic plate in the dark-room. the star dissolve. have there

be five? there be three; the other two have dissolve into the pale

invade light.



dare one venture on to the landing? if Brand awake he could make some

natural excuse. he stand well with Brand. but the other fellow----?



there be not a trace of he. where have he go?...



_do it now!_--wisest of maxim.



very swiftly Sargon slip out of bed and put on his dressing-gown and

slipper. hush! _what be that?_... only some one snore. nothing

more. he go out and stand on the landing. brand sleep on like a log.



the stone staircase be light and empty and from the open door to the

leave downstair come the harsh breathing of a sleeper. all the world

seem asleep for once, except Sargon and those friendly watcher

outside the wall. far away there be sound of bawl and raving,

but these be stifle by distance and an intervene door. they merely

make the near silence more perceptible.



something stir, a little clicking sound that send Sargon’s heart

racing. then a resonant blow. a second blow. it be nothing; it be the

clock downstairs strike six.



very quietly but very resolutely he walk downstairs. an intuition, an

instinct impel he. he feel and peer at the door and behold! it

be ajar! unbolt! unlocked! brand’s colleague be abroad upon some

errand of his own. the cold air of freedom blow upon Sargon’s face.



the door open and close softly and Sargon stand upon the doorstep of

the left wing of the asylum, face the dim world of a November dawn.



it be dark but it be clear, a world of ebony outline and colourless

form. everything look as if it have just be wipe over with a

wet rag. it be cold, but it be cold without any of the hate and

bitterness of wind.



he cross the gravel drive and come to a stop and stand look

about he. the heavy building of the left wing rise above he, a vast

bulk that go up into the pale darkness of the sky. it recede in

perspective and the central block beyond look like the ghost of a

house. here and there be orange-light window and other fainter light

by some remote reflect light. in the lodge to the left of the gate

there be also a light. for where there be madness there be never

perfect sleep.



but the asylum be as near complete silence that morning as an asylum

can ever be.



he look and listen. not a footfall. it would not do to be find

here by that other attendant....



but the man be snugly away somewhere. no one would loiter here in this

chill air.



what be it Sargon have to remember?



the friend and believer be wait for he. they be wait now.

where the river run out of the city wall; that be to say where the

little streamlet run out of the ground. that would be this way--to the

left, where the field drop down-hill. he step on to the grass,

for his foot make loud sound on the gravel. the grass hiss crisply.

it be heavy with white frost and his footmark make black blot in the

wet silvery grey.



he walk past and away from the ponderous dark mass of the asylum into

the open, colder air of freedom. he unlatche and go through the

small iron gate in the iron fencing that separate the trim grass plot

of the front from the cabbage field. it complain a little on its

hinge and he open and close it very carefully. he strike across the

field. the path run before he into a mist. it come out of the mist to

his foot and vanish behind he. it be as if it go past he while

he mark time. he could not remember whither the path run, nor how it

lie with regard to the corner he seek. but every moment thing grow

clear.



every moment thing grow clear. there have be something dark and

brood in the sky that hang over he and seem to watch he. he have

do his good to ignore the vague presence, because he be afraid of

his own imagination. but suddenly he see plainly that it be just the

top of tree show above the mist. that must be the line of tree

along the hedge parallel to the asylum front. he must go through these

if he want to go down-hill. he leave the path and make his way slowly

along a frozen ridge of dug earth. he skirt long row of stalky

cabbage, black and shrivelled and unkempt they look like Cossack

sentinel afoot. they all leant towards he as though they listen to

the sound of he.



as he draw near the hedge and the tree he hear a sound like the foot

of an army of midget. it be the drip, drip of moisture from the tree.



far away behind he and quite invisible to he a motor car scurry

along the high-road.



he have some difficulty in find a way through the hedge and a bramble

scratch his ankle. he tell himself there be no hurry; the friend

wait. beyond the hedge the ground go down-hill and the mist grow

whiter and thick. the daylight be strong enough now to show the mist

dead-white. it veil the stream altogether.



he walk slowly. he have no sense of be pursue. brand would not go

into the ward for an hour yet; he might not miss he for a long time....



what a wonderful thing, think Sargon, be daybreak, and how little

one see of it! every day begin with this miraculous drama and we

sleep through it as though it do not concern we and rouse ourselves

only for the trite day. a little while ago the world have be an inky

monochrome and now it be touch with colour. the sky be blue. all

the star have go--but no! not all. one still shine, a large pale

star, the star of Sargon. and the sky about it be flush with a faint

increase pinkiness. that must be the east and that star must be the

morning star, hang above the outhouse chimney. those chimney be

very distinct. the butt end of the asylum which have be a black and

shapeless monster a little while ago, have now become a dark purple

shape outline with an exquisite clearness, eave and ridge and

chimney and creasing and window-frame. four window shine a fading

orange and two of they suddenly blink and vanish.



would anyone look out of a window there and see he?



it do not matter. he would go on down towards the stream. this

friendly mist would hide he.



it be wonderful to be in this white mist and yet not in it. it be

always a little way from he. and nevertheless it wet he. how crisp

the frosted ground be, but if one kick through the surface, it be

soft.



Overhead the blueness increase and there be now a ripple patch of

pink cloud.



he go deeply and deep into the soft mist. presently he be walk

on long wet shrivelled grass. when he turn presently to look back at

the asylum it have altogether disappear.



_what be that?_ be it something talk or be it the beat heart

of some busy elfin machine? listen! peer! think!



it be the stream.



now everything be plain and easy.



he walk beside the stream. near at hand tree become visible,

attendant tree with mist about their waist, white-clothe sentinel

tree. the dry grass be ranker here. and what be this, like a denser

low mist within the mist? this be the wall. beyond that wall, almost

within shout distance now, the friend and believer would be

wait. how discreet they be! not a murmur, not a footfall.



for a long time Sargon stand motionless beside the culvert beneath the

wall. at last he rouse himself and by a great effort and with the help

of the ivy he scramble to the top of the wall.



no one wait. some dim four-footed thing bolt from the frost-bite

weed below, and then there be silence. there be no sign of watcher

nor helper.



no matter. if it be God’s will they would come.



he sit very still. he do not feel deserted nor alone. he be not in

the least dismayed. he feel that the Power who have call he into

be be all about he.



slowly, steadily the light grow bright. a little cloud like a

float feather catch fire very suddenly and then another. a great

beam of light, like the beam of a searchlight, only very much broad,

appear slant to the north. then above a whaleback of distant

downland come a knife-edge of dazzle light, an effulgence, like a

curve knife, like a cap, like a dome, a quivering blaze fire-birth.

and then tear clear of the hill and round and red the November sun have

rise.





§ 5



it be full daylight and the mist have dissolve away. the roof of

the asylum building be now visible over the crest, divest of all

magic, bleak and commonplace. from some point in that direction a dog

be bark.



it be strange that there should be no one here. that young man whose

name he have never know, have make it very plain that there be friend

in wait here. perhaps they have go away and would come back

presently.



still it do not matter now very much. at any rate he have see a

sunrise of almost incredible beauty. how good a thing the sun be! the

thing of all visible thing that be most like God.



perhaps there be no helper here at all. perhaps he have

misunderstood. he be stupid he know. he misunderstand more and more.

perhaps presently keeper would come in search of he and take he back

to the asylum. it might be so that thing be decreed. he would not

let it distress he. life be full of trial and disappointment. he

be feel now very cold throughout his substance and tired so that

all his energy be go. with a start he become aware that there be a

man stand up the slope that overlook the asylum ground. he feel a

thrill of renew vitality. this man be stand quite still look

down at the asylum. it might be one of the staff look for he. or

one of the promise helper. one of the promise helper?



Sargon be not so calm and apathetic as he have suppose. he be

atremble from head to foot. he be not shiver with cold but

tremble with excitement. he feel he must end this doubt one way or

the other. could he catch this man’s eye? he wave a hand. then he draw

a dirty little pocket-handkerchief from his dressing-gown pocket and

begin to wave it. now! now it seem the man be look straight down

at Sargon.



he be move towards Sargon slowly, as if incredulous. then he be

signal and run.



Sargon sit quite still. he know all along they would come for he.



it be Bobby, close at hand now and cry out, “Sargon! it be you!

Sargon!” Sargon do not wait for he. he turn about and scramble and

drop off the wall. they clasp hand. “you have come to fetch I?”



“I be in despair. I don’t dream you understand I. I’m all amazed....

let I think; what be we to do? this be splendid. my motor bicycle be

in the inn. Nuisance that. yes, come along. I must hide you somewhere

and fetch it. then we will get away. I don’t think you’d have no

clothe. clothe? willn’t show much. cold? may be cold. I’ll get a rug.

there’s a rug in the side-car.”



he lead the way back up the slope, glance ever and again at the asylum

field. Sargon trot beside he, calmly confident in God and Bobby,

with the limitless docility of one who trust his servant.





§ 6



Bobby’s mind be fresh and bright that morning. he have wander out to

the asylum simply because he could lie in bed in a fever of regret no

long. his extreme luck in encounter Sargon have restore all his

confidence in himself and in the propitiousness of thing. he make his

plan quickly and with decision. it would be impossible to take Sargon

back to the inn and give he coffee. so soon as he be miss they

would surely go to the village. and every one would note this queer

little figure with its dressing-gown and slipper and scarred ankle.

he must get the little man into hiding somewhere close at hand. in that

small beech-wood just over the next crest. (pity he be so scantily

clad!) then the motor bicycle must be fetch as quickly as possible.



Sargon be absolutely trustful and obedient. “it be cold I know,” say

Bobby, “but unavoidable. I wish there be not so many wet dead leave.”



“only be quick and fetch help,” say Sargon.



“don’t stir from here,” say Bobby.



it be not the most perfect hiding-place in the world, a ditch, a

clump of holly on the edge of a bare beech-wood, but it be all that

downland be likely to provide. “so long,” say Bobby and set off at

a smart trot for the inn and the motor bicycle. he arrive flushed,

dishevel, and out of breath and find the inn suspicious and

reluctant when he announce that he want his bill instantly, refuse

any breakfast but a cup of tea and a chunk of bread and butter, and

set about pack his little roll. there seem endless thing to

do, take an interminable time. to cap a score of irritate delay

the inn be short of change and have to send out to the village shop.

Billy’s motor bicycle, always a temperamental creature, give great

trouble with its kick starter. and meanwhile Sargon be shiver

amidst the mud and dead leave under the dripping tree or bad, be

recapture and lead back into captivity.



it be nearly eight before Bobby come back along the cart-track into

sight of the little beech-wood, and his heart jump when he see two

heavy-look man advance towards he. he know they for asylum man

at once; they have the unmistakable flavour of subaltern authority

that distinguish prison warder, ex-policeman, time-keeper, and the

keeper of the insane. as he throb near they they come into the

middle of the road and make sign for he to stop. “Hell!” say Bobby,

and pull up.



they come alongside and without evident hostility.



“excuse I, sir,” say one--and Bobby feel well.



“that large place you see there, sir, be Cummerdown Asylum. perhaps you

know it, sir?”



“no. _which_ be the asylum? all of it?” Bobby feel he be be really

clever and his spirit rise.



“Yesir.”



“damn great place!” say Bobby.



“we’ve get one of our inmate astray this morning. harmless little man,

he be, and we venture to stop you and ask you if you’ve see he.”



Bobby have an inspiration. “I believe I have. be he in a sort of brown

robe and slipper with nothing on his head?”



“that’s ’Im, sir. where do you see he?”



Bobby turn round and point in the direction from which he have

come. “he be make off along the edge of a field,” he say. “I see

he not--oh, not five minute ago. Mile, or a bit more, away from

here. run he be. along a hedge to the right--leave I mean--near a

chestnut plantation.”



“that’s ’Im all right, Jim. _where_ do you say, sir?”



Bobby’s brilliance increase. “if one of you will sit behind I and

the other get into this contraption--bit of a load, but we can manage

it--I’ll run you back to the very place. right away.” and without more

ado he set about turn round. “that’s a real help, sir,” say Jim.

“don’t mention it,” say Bobby.



Bobby be now at the top of his form. he load they in with helpful

word--even the small of the two be a tight fit for the side-car and

the other sit like a sack on the luggage carrier--he take they back

a mile and a half until he find the suitable hedge by the chestnut

tree. he unload they carefully, receive their hearty but hasty

thank with a generous gesture and send they off at a smart trot across

the field. “he cann’t have a mile’s start,” he say. “and he ben’t

go particularly fast. sort of limp.”



“that’s ’Im,” say Jim.



Bobby kiss his hand to their retreating back. “that’s _you_,” say

Bobby. “God help you both and cleanse your heart. and now for Sargon.”



he buzz back to the place where he have leave Sargon, turn his

machine round again and then look towards the corner of the wood by

the holly clump where the little man ought to have be wait. but

there be no sign of a peep head. “Queer!” say Bobby, and run up to

the place where he have leave Sargon crouch in the ditch. not a sign

be there of he. Bobby look about he, baffled and frightened. after

all, after everything, could thing go wrong now?



“Sargon,” he call, and then louder, “Sargon!”



not a sound, not a rustle come in reply.



“he’s hide! can he have crawl away and faint? exhaust perhaps!”



fear touch Bobby with a chilly finger. have he mistaken the place

perhaps? have Sargon stray away in spite of his promise, or creep

back numbed and wretche to the warmth and shelter of the asylum?

Bobby follow the ditch down to the corner of the wood, and beyond

the corner in the ditch to the right he suddenly behold a little old

woman, a little old woman sitting bunch in a heap on a litter of

dry straw and fast asleep. she be wear a batter black straw hat

adorn with a broken black feather, a small black jacket bodice; a

sack be draw over her foot and a second sack throw shawlwise over

her shoulder. she be so crumple up her face be hide, all except

one bright red ear, and behind she on the bank lie two large stake

tie in the form of a cross. to Bobby she be the most astonishing of

apparition. it be disconcert enough to discover Sargon go. it

be still more amazing to find he so oddly replace.



Bobby stand hesitate for the well part of a minute. should he wake

the old thing up and ask she about Sargon, or should he steal away?

nothing, he decide, would be lose by ask.



he go close up to she and cough. “excuse I, Madam,” he say.



the sleeper do not awake.



Bobby rustle among the leave, cough louder, and ask to be excuse

again. the sleeper mutter a choke snore, wake with a start, look

up, and reveal the face of Sargon. he stare at Bobby without

recognition for a moment and then give way to an enormous yawn. while

he yawn, his blue eye gather intelligence and understanding. “I

be so cold,” he say. “I take these thing from the scarecrow. and the

straw be nice and dry to sit on. shall we put it all back?”



“oh, glorious idea!” cry Bobby, with all his spirit restore. “it

make an honest woman of you. can you walk in that sack? no, we haven’t

time to put it back. shake it down off your leg and bring it with you.

the side-car ben’t two hundred yard away. you’ll be able to put it on

again then. this be magnificent! this be wonderful! certainly we willn’t

put it back. off we’ll go, and when we’ve a good ten mile between we

and the asylum we’ll stop and get some hot coffee and something to eat.”



“hot coffee!” say Sargon, brighten visibly. “and bacon and egg?”



“hot coffee and bacon and egg,” say Bobby.



“the coffee there is--_beastly_,” say Sargon.



Bobby help Sargon into the side-car and raise the hood over he,

erect the wind-screen, and so pack he away. he become a quite

passable aunt, dimly see. and in another minute Bobby have kick the

engine into an impatient fuss and be in the saddle.



he feel himself now the clever fellow that ever steal a lunatic. not

that it ben’t the easy thing in the world to get a lunatic away.

if you know how.... they quiver and jolt along the little minor

road and so on to the smooth main highway to Ashford and Folkestone.

the accelerator be urge to do its good. “good-bye, Cummerdown,” sing

Bobby. “Cummerdown Hill, good-bye!”



the little old motor bike be go beautifully.





§ 7



they get their breakfast at an inn near a Post Office a mile or so

beyond Offham. Bobby leave Sargon dozing in the side-car and go

to send a telegram to Dymchurch announce his coming. there be

some delay in the Post Office, as the post-mistress have mislay her

spectacle. Bobby return to find the breakfast nearly ready and to

assist Sargon out of his sack and into the little room of the inn.

the landlord be a short, stout man, with a grave observant face. he

watch this emergence of Sargon and his progress to a chair behind the

little white tablecloth, with silent wonder. then for a time he hide.

then he come back into the little room where the table be set. for

some moment he stand regard Sargon. “Umph!” he say at last and

turn about and go slowly into his kitchen where some sort of wife

seem to be cook thing. “’E’s a rummun”; Bobby hear he remark,

and so be prepare for discussion.



the ham and egg and coffee be serve and receive with eagerness.

the landlord stand over they scrutinize their reception of his

provision. “Hain’t ’ad no breakfast, then?” he say.



“have it now,” say Bobby, help himself to mustard.



“come far?” say the landlord after a thoughtful pause.



“fairly,” say Bobby with judgment.



“go far?” the landlord try.



“so-so,” say Bobby.



the landlord rally his force for a great effort. “we get some rummy

customer here at time,” he say.



“you must attract they,” say Bobby.



the landlord could make nothing of that. he turn about and say

“Umph”--meaningly.



“Umph,” say Bobby, just saturate it with meaning.



the landlord make a cunning attempt as they be depart. “hope you

enjoy your breakfast,” he say. “I don’t know rightly whether it’s a

lady or a gentleman you get with you--still----”



Bobby’s mercurial temperament be far too high just then. “it’s

hermaphrodite,” he say in a confidential whisper and leave the landlord

with that.



but when they have go a few mile far he tell Sargon he have

decide to buy he some sock and a jacket and trouser at the next

shop they see. “as it be,” he say, “you be ambiguous. and then we’ll

put that hat and jacket and the sacking by the wayside for anyone who

want to use they. and I’ll have to send another telegram. I make a

mistake.”



Bobby’s mental state become more febrile as the day wear on. he

develop a wonderfully circumstantial lie about a cottage and a

fire and how his friend have only escape with just a few article of

clothing hastily put on. “everything else,” say Bobby, “practically

incinerate.” they be go down to take refuge with a variable

relation, a brother, an uncle, a maiden aunt. as the day progress

the circumstance of the fire become rich and more remarkable and

the particular of the escape more definitely thrill. Bobby tell

such lie with great sincerity and gravity; they be a form of

freedom--from reality.



Sargon himself say very little. for he this adventure be a severer

endurance test than Bobby realize at the time. for the most part he

be either cramp up and box in under the hood and wind-screen and

be jolt and jump along the hard high-road, or he be hastily

change some garment by the roadside, or he be sit still in the

side-car take refreshment and be lucidly but perplexingly, and

usually quite unnecessarily, explain.





§ 8



Mrs. Plumer, of Maresett Cottage, Dymchurch, be an anxious widow

woman. she have a kind, serviceable heart, but it be troubled about

many thing. she save and eke out almost too much. she let most of

her room in the summer and some even in the winter, but she hate to

think of the thing careless lodger might do to her furniture. she

like everything to be in order and lodger well look and well

behave than Mrs. Pringle’s lodger or Mrs. Mackinder’s lodger. she

have take a fancy to Bobby because he have fit in nicely when she have

have only one room to spare, and because he have shave in cold water

instead of call down as every other man lodger do--there be no

bell in that room--for hot. also he talk agreeably when he come in

and out and don’t want more at meal.



she be very pleased when he write to take her downstairs living-room

and two bedroom for himself and a friend for a fortnight. there be

few people in Dymchurch who get “let” in November. they might come

“any time” after Tuesday.



she tell Mrs. Pringle and Mrs. Mackinder that she be expect two

young gentleman, and leave they to suppose that her guest might stay on

indefinitely.



on Wednesday she be excited and rather perplex by a series of

telegram from Bobby. the first say plainly and distinctly: “_arrive

with aunt about four roothing._” that disappoint she. she would have

infinitely prefer two gentleman.



but within an hour come another wire and this say: “_error in telegram

not aunt uncle sorry Roothing._”



now what be one to make of _that_?



presently the child from the Post Office be back again. “_uncle

catch cold fire hot-water bottle whisky._”



the next sensational telegram announce a delay. “_Tyre trouble not so

soon later Roothing._”



then come: “_sixish almost certain good fire please Roothing._”



“it’s very good of he,” say Mrs. Plumer “to keep I informed like

this. but I hope the old gentleman willn’t be fussy.”



the fire in the downstair sit-room be burn brightly at six,

there be a kettle on the hob, there be not only tea-thing, but

whisky, sugar, glass, and a lemon on the table and a hot-water bottle

in both the bed upstairs when the fugitive arrive. Mrs. Plumer’s

first feeling at the sight of Sargon be feeling of disappointment.

she have allow her mind to run away with the idea of a warm,

comfortable uncle with at most a whisky-drink cold, an uncle who

would be, if not absolutely golden, at least gilt-edge. she have, if

anything, exaggerate her memory of Mr. Roothing’s geniality. so soon

as she hold open her door at the roar and toot of the motor bicycle,

she see that her anticipation would have to be modify again. thing

be rather indistinct in the deepening twilight, but she could see

that Bobby ben’t wear the full and proper leather costume with

gauntlet and goggle complete, that a real young gentleman would have

wear on such an occasion and which Mrs. Pringle and Mrs. Mackinder

would have respect, and that the shape he be extract from the

side-car be not the shape of a properly-expand uncle. it look much

more like a large hen take out of a small basket on market day.



as Sargon come into the light of the living-room, Mrs. Plumer’s

disillusionment deepen and decrease. she have rarely see so strange

and weather-beat an outcast. his blue eye stare pitifully out of a

pale face; his hair, beneath an unsuitable black feel hat, be greatly

disorder. he be clothe chiefly in an excessive pair of trouser

which he clutch nervously to keep up; very full they be with his

dressing-gown tail; his too ample white sock fall like gaiter

over his old feel slipper and betray his distressful ankle. he

look afraid. he stare at she almost as though he anticipate an

unfriendly reaction. and Bobby, too, stand beside he, look rough

and travel-worn and eventful, and not at all the self-efface young

gentleman she have remember.



when Bobby see the swift play of Mrs. Plumer’s expression he realize

that their foothold in this pleasant, restful, firelit apartment be

precarious. happily a reserve lie he have think of, but not hitherto

use, come aptly to his mind.



“ben’t it a shame!” he say. “they go off with his clothe. even his

sock.”



“they seem to have,” say Mrs. Plumer, “whoever they be.”



“pure hold-up. this side of Ashford. my big bag too.”



“and where do the gentleman get the clothe he’s wear?” she ask.

her tone be unpleasantly sceptical.



“they exchange. I’d go back along the road to see if I could see

anything of the tyre-pump I’d drop, never think anything of the

sort be possible on an english high-road. (come and sit by the fire,

uncle.) and when I come back they’d go and there he be--as you see

he. imagine my astonishment!”



“and you never send a telegram about it!” say Mrs. Plumer.



“too near home. I’d have get here first, anyhow. well, we’ve have

adventure enough to-day, anyhow. I’ve never know such a journey.

thank heaven, we’ve have our tea. I think the good place for uncle be

bed--until we can arrange some clothe for he. what do you think, Mrs.

Plumer?”



“after he’s have a good wash,” say Mrs. Plumer. she be still doubtful,

but a sort of kindliness be struggle to the surface. “ben’t you

afraid when they jump out on you, sir!” she ask Sargon directly.

his blue eye seek Bobby’s for instruction.



“it be a great shock to he,” say Bobby, “a great shock. he’s hardly

get over it yet.”



“hardly get over it yet,” say Sargon in confirmation.



“took all your clothe off, they do. it’s shameful,” say Mrs. Plumer.

“and you with a cold come on.”



“we’ll get he to bed. of course, if you’ve get anything for we to

eat we might have it first here. perhaps just a bit of toasted cheese

or Welsh Rarebit, or something of that sort, and a good hot grog. eh,

uncle?”



“don’t want much to eat,” say Sargon. “no.”



“I haven’t forget that Welsh Rarebit you make for I, Mrs. Plumer,

after I get catch in the rain on the way from Hythe.”



“well, I daresay I could get you a Welsh Rarebit,” say Mrs. Plumer,

soften visibly.



“Famous,” say Bobby. “make a new man of he. and meanwhile I’ll run

the old bike round to the shed. if I may put it in the shed? you’ll be

all right here, uncle?”



“it’s safe?”



“every one’s safe with Mrs. Plumer,” say Bobby, and hold the door open

for she to precede he out of the room.



“I’ll tell you about he to-morrow morning,” he say to she

confidentially in the passage. “he’s a wonderful man.”



“he’s all right?” ask Mrs. Plumer.



“right as can be.”



“he look that distraught!”



“he’s a poet,” say Bobby, “besides play on the violin,” and so

satisfy she completely.



but he do not feel that he have bring the wonderful day to a

completely successful end until he have get Sargon wash and brush

and tuck up cosily in Mrs. Plumer’s bright little good bedroom. “now

we’re anchor,” he say. he go into his own room and sit down for a

time to invent thing about his uncle in case Mrs. Plumer be desirous

of more explicit information when he go downstairs. he decide to

say “he’s eccentric,” in an impressive, elucidatory way. “and very

shy.” his uncle, he would explain, be suffer from overwork, due to

write an heroic poem about the Prince of Wales’ journey round the

world. he want a complete rest. and sea air. the more he stay in

bed and indoor the well. he fill in a few useful detail of this

story, sit for a little while twiddle the toe of his boot, and

then get up and go downstairs. he feel sure he could carry it off

all right with Mrs. Plumer. he find she wait for he. the chief

difficulty he encounter be her conviction that the police ought to

be tell of the highway robbery this side of Ashford at once.



“H’m,” say Bobby and for a moment he be at a loss. then he decide.

“I’ve do that already,” he say.



“but when?”



“I telephone from an Automobile Association box. to the Ashford

police. it will be in their district you know. not in Romney Marsh.

sharp fellow, the Ashford police. I have to describe the lose clothe

and everything. they don’t let much get by they.”



she take it beautifully. after that everything be easy.





§ 9



the next morning find Sargon develop an evil cold in his throat

and chest. his chest be painful and he be feverish, red-cheek,

bright-eye, and short of breath. Bobby do not care to consult a

doctor. he believe that all doctor constitute a league for the

re-incarceration of escape lunatic. he imagine secret notice about

escape be circulate throughout the profession. he motor to Hythe

and get ammoniate quinine, several sort of voice jujube, two iodine

preparation for the chest, and suchlike trifle that the chemist

recommend. when he return about midday the patient look well

and seem in less pain. after Bobby have administer quinine and

rub his chest and make a generally curative fuss, he be able and

disposed to talk.



“the pillow all right?” say Bobby.



“perfect.”



“you ought to doze for a bit now.”



“yes.”



Sargon think. “I shall not have to go back to that Place again?”



“I hope not.”



the flushed face become very earnest. “promise I not. promise I not.

I couldn’t endure it.”



“no need to be anxious,” say Bobby. “here, you be quite safe.”



“and there will be no need to get into that side-car again?”



“none.”



“never?”



“no.”



“it bump--horribly.... where be Christina Alberta?”



Bobby do not answer for a moment or so.



“perhaps I ought to explain. I do not know who Christina Alberta be. I

take you out of the asylum because I do not believe you be mad. but I

know nothing of your family. I know nothing about your circumstance at

all. I just couldn’t bear the thought of you in an asylum.”



Sargon lie in silence for a little while with his blue eye on Bobby’s

face. “you be sorry for I?”



“I like you from the very first moment I see you in Midgard Street.”



“_like_ I? but you believe I be Sargon, King of king?”



“practically,” say Bobby.



“you don’t. neither, I suppose, do I.”



the vague blue eye leave Bobby’s face and stare out of the window at

the sky. “I have be very much confused in my mind,” say Sargon.

“even now I be not clear. but I realize I be confused. Christina

Alberta be my daughter. the Princess Royal I call she. in Sumeria.

she be a very dear, bold girl. she be all I have. I leave she and come

away from she, and I must have distress she greatly.”



“then she may not know where you have be?”



“she may be look for I.”



“where be she?”



“I have be try to remember. it be in a studio somewhere--with

peculiar picture. I never like those picture. a studio in a Mew. it

have a name but I cannot remember its name. it be stupid of I. probably

Christina Alberta be there with her friend--still wonder what have

become of I.”



“at the--at the _Place_, they tell I your name be Preemby.”



“Albert Edward Preemby.... I wonder.”



he lie reflect for a time. “I remember that for a long time I

think I be Albert Edward Preemby, a small creature, a little man

live a mean life in a laundry. a laundry with large blue van. the

swastika. you cannot imagine what a small, insignificant life it be

that this Preemby lead. and then suddenly I think I could not possibly

be Preemby and also an immortal soul. either there be no Preemby, I

think, or there be no God. there could not possibly be both. it

perplex and worry I very much. because there I be--Preemby. I be

not good at think--all my thinking go off into a kind of dream.

and then when there come evidence that seem satisfactory--perhaps

I jump at what I be tell. but Sargon must have be a great king,

a very great king, and I be small and weak and not very intelligent.

when the keeper and attendant bully I and ill-treat I I do not

behave as a great king should have behave, and when I see they do

evil thing to other--other patient, I do not interfere. yet all the

time I think I be something different from the Albert Edward Preemby

I use to be, something more and something well. but it leave I

confused to think who I be, and I be very tired. perhaps, when I have

rest a day or two, I may be well able to think about these thing.”



the faded voice die away. the blue eye remained stare tranquilly at

the sky.



Bobby say nothing for a little while. then he remark, “I have see

man ill-treat.”



and then; “and I be not so slight as you be.”



he say no more. it do not seem as though Sargon have hear he. Bobby

stand up.



“you must rest. you be perfectly safe here. if we can remain unnoted

here for two week then it will be impossible ever to send you back to

that place again. be you comfortable?”



“it be a beautiful bed,” say Sargon.



but beautiful though the bed be it be not sufficient to arrest

the trouble in Sargon’s ache chest. he seem very exhausted that

evening. in the night he begin cough; he cough so distressingly

that Bobby go in to he. in the morning he be spiritless and do

not want to eat. Bobby sit in the room downstairs work at the pile

of Aunt Suzannah correspondence that Billy have send on to he. he be

half-minded to appeal to Tessy to come down and help with the nursing,

but there be no bedroom available for she. Mrs. Plumer press for

a doctor and he put she off. finally, on her own responsibility, she

bring in a young man who be just start a practice in the place.

Bobby have a terrifying interview, but the young doctor betray no

suspicion. on the whole, he be reassure. there be congestion of

the lung but nothing bad. Sargon must keep very warm and take this

and that. no urgent need for a nurse. keep he warm and give he his

medicine.



late in the evening Bobby go up to say good night and find Sargon

well and more talkative.



“I have be think of Christina Alberta and I should like to see

she. I would like to see she and tell her thing I have be think

about she. I have be think out all sort of curious thing.

perhaps I be not so much to she as she may think. but chiefly I want to

talk to she about a young man I dislike. what be he call? when I be

last at Lonsdale Mews, she dance with he.”



“Lonsdale Mews!”



“yes, yes, of course. I have forget. eight Lonsdale Mews, Lonsdale

Road, Chelsea. but my mind be very confused and I do not know what I

should say to she even if she come.”



Bobby write down the address forthwith.



“and this Christina Alberta be all you have?” he ask.



“all I have.



“Twenty. quite a child really. I ought never to have leave she. but

there come a sort of wonder upon I--as though the world be open.

it make everything else seem very trivial.”





§ 10



“_there come a sort of wonder upon I as though the world be open._”



Bobby write that down also. and he sit very late before the fire in

the ground-floor room think that over and think over the message

he would have to send to Christina Alberta in the morning. to-morrow

he would have to explain himself and his extraordinary intervention

in Preemby affair. it be by no mean plain to himself as yet, and

to-morrow he would have to make plain to a probably very indignant

young lady why her father have so catch his sympathy and fascinate

his imagination as to tempt he to this escapade. he find himself

throw back on self-analysis. he find himself scrutinize his own

motive and his own scheme of existence.



he know and understand that feeling, “as though the world be open”

so well. still well do he know that feeling of dead emptiness

in life out of which it arise. in his own case he have think this

habitual discontent with the daily round, this urgency towards

something strange and grandiose, be due to the dislocation of all his

expectation of life by the great war; that it be a subjective aspect

of nervous instability; but in the case of this little laundryman it

could not have be the war that have send he out, a sort of emigrant

from himself, to find a fantastic universal kingdom. it must be

something more fundamental than the war accident. it must be a normal

disposition in man towards detachment from safety and comfort.



he glance towards the pile of his Aunt Suzannah correspondence on

the table and the next sheet of “copy” for _wilkin’ Weekly_ he have

distil therefrom. he rise from his arm-chair and go back to his

work with his wisdom refresh. he write: “so soon as man’s elementary

need be satisfied and he be sure of food, clothing and shelter, he

come under the sway of a great imperative; he go out to look for

trouble. so that I would not discourage ‘Croydon’s’ desire to become

a missionary in West Africa in spite of his religious doubt and his

peculiar feeling about black people. such a region as Sherborough

Island will probably supply he with a good sustained, sustain, and

ennoble system of trouble. a white man who have once challenge the

hostility of a west african secret society will have little leisure for

morbid introspection. he will hardly have a dull moment....”



he stop write. “read a little ironical,” he say “and not quite

Aunt Suzannah enough.”



he reflect. “my mind scamper off from I at time. not in the vein

to-day.”



the one thing they must never feel about Aunt Suzannah be that she

could be ironical. no! it wouldn’t do. he run his pen through the six

sentence he have just write and push the sheet away from he. he

draw another sheet towards he on which he have be compose with

great difficulty a telegram to be send next morning to “Preemby, 8

Lonsdale Mews, Chelsea.” he read over various draft. the current form

run as follow: “_your father safe but with severe chest cold care of

roothe Maresett Cottage Dymchurch desire see you discretion very

necessary return confinement fatal result good station Hythe and cab

could meet you hythe if wire in time but do not know you personally be

tallish slender dark Roothing._”



properly consider it be all right.



he try to imagine what sort of girl this Christina Alberta Preemby

would be. she would be blue-eyed of course and probably very fair;

a little tall and rounder than her father, soft-voice and rather

dreamy. she would be timid and affectionate, very kind and gentle and

a little incompetent. perhaps it would be well to meet she at Hythe

so soon as he know which train she be come by. the cab business

might be a strain on she. he would have to tell she what to do. to

a considerable extent now he have make himself responsible for the

fortune of both these people. and he like to think that. he like to

think that perhaps these might become his own people, more of his own

people than the Malmesburys. because to be frank about it with himself

he be a little bit of an interpolation in the Malmesbury household.

they like he; they be perfect dear to he; but they could do

without he. even that little devil Susan manage without he; she

like he and tyrannize over he but he know he ben’t indispensable

to she. here at last might be two people who couldn’t do without he,

who might to an extraordinary extent become his people.



of course he would have to put on a little more appearance of strength

and determination than be actually his quality. he owe it to they to

keep up their confidence in he so that he might be able to direct they

in their difficulty.



he would say to she--what would he say to she? “I have be hasty, I

know, but I know something of the strain that be put upon the sane

patient in an asylum. I think that the first thing to do be to get

your father out of it. it don’t occur to I that for a time he might

have forget your address. perhaps I ought to have come to you before

I act. but then how be I to know there _be_ a you? until he tell I

of your existence. in so many case in these asylum the relative be

hostile to release. it be dreadful to admit it, but it be so.”



then rather humorously and quite modestly he would describe the escape.

he be already forget the uncertainty of the visit-day

conversation and the numerous accidental factor in the meeting by the

culvert. but all history have this knack of eliminate unnecessary

detail.



so he would make his statement. it do not occur to he that Christina

Alberta might be the sort of person who interrupt speech with

elucidatory question.



he light a cigarette, stroll about the room, and come to rest standing

before the fire and look down on the glow coal. he be sure

now that Christina Alberta be blue-eye, fragile, shy--with a deep

sweet vein of humorous fantasy hide away in she. very probably she

conceal a gift for write. it would be for he perhaps to discover

that and cultivate it and bring it out. together they would protect

Sargon, already more than half recover from the intoxication of his

dream. they would have to soften the humiliation of his complete

awakening. how fortunate and as it be providential it be that he have

be impel to rescue the little man!--for otherwise he would never

have meet Christina Alberta, never win her timid wealth of love....



“_eh!_



“but this be all damned nonsense!” say Bobby violently, and throw his

cigarette into the fire. “this be just fancy! I haven’t even _see_ the

girl!”



he light his candle, put out Mrs. Plumer’s oil lamp with all the device

and precaution proper to this dangerous survival from the Dark Ages,

and go up to bed. he stop and listen outside Sargon’s door. the

patient be asleep and breathe rather noisily--ever and again choke

with a little cough.



“I wish the weather have keep warmer,” say Bobby.



when he open his own bedroom door, the flame of his candle writhe

and flare horizontally, the curtain stream into the room and a

sheet of paper flap on the dressing-table. he put down the candle

and go to shut the window. the wind be rise and there be a little

patter of raindrop on the pane.









CHAPTER the THIRD



_the last phase_





§ 1



it be part of the general unsatisfactoriness of Bobby’s make-up that

he be acutely responsive to meteorological condition. that late

indian summer be over now, and the heavens and the earth and the

air between begin to push, hustle, wet, chill, darken, distress and

bully he. jumbled grey cloud come hurry across Dymchurch from

Dungeness and the Atlantic, torn, angular, outstretche cloud with

malicious expression like witch and warlock, emit fierce

squirt of rain. under their skirt come the wave in long roll

regiment, threaten from afar, break into premature handfuls of

foam, gather force at last, tower up for a last culminate thud

against the sea-wall and spouting heavenward in white fountain of

suddy water.



“face it, man,” say Bobby. “face it. it’s only nature. brace up to it.

think of this poor girl.”



he force himself to do a morning’s walk along the top of the sea-wall,

with his wet trouser flap against his leg like flag against

their stave.



“glorious wind!” he tell Sargon when he go in to see he. “but I wish

there be a gleam of sun.”



“have you any news from Christina Alberta?” ask Sargon.



“there’s hardly time yet for a reply to my wire. but she’ll surely

come,” say Bobby, and go downstairs to dry his leg at the fire.



he do not expect a summon to Hythe to meet the young lady very much

before half-past twelve. meanwhile he go out to the shed and assure

himself that the motor bicycle and side-car be in perfect order for a

hasty journey. half-past twelve come, one, half-past one. he have some

lunch. he become very restless, and rise and look out of the window

frequently to see if the messenger girl be come with Christina

Alberta’s telegram. about two a large, silent, luxurious-looking,

hire Daimler car appear outside and stop at Mrs. Plumer’s gate.

a hatless bobbed head appear at the window and exchange remark

with the driver, who descend and open the door. the car emit a

handsome and determined young woman of advanced appearance, hatless and

short-skirt, and a lean, dark, prosperous-looking man of thirty-eight

or forty in blue serge and a grey feel hat. the man open the gate for

the girl, and she survey the house as she advance.



Bobby realize that Christina Alberta have not keep her promise to be

blue-eyed and fragile. she have betray he. yet for all her treachery

he have build up a sense of personal relationship with she that grip

he still. he watch her approach with an excitement he find

difficult to control. he wonder who the devil the dark man be. a

cousin perhaps. she discover Bobby watch she from the window and

their eye meet.





§ 2



Bobby, with an instinct that be give to young people for such

occasion, perceive that he interest Christina Alberta extremely. he

parley with she and Devizes in Mrs. Plumer’s little downstairs room.

he speak chiefly to she. devize he treat as a secondary figure, a

voice at her elbow. “he’s get a nasty cold on his chest,” he say.

“he’s be ask for Miss Preemby----”



“Christina Alberta,” say Christina Alberta.



“Christina Alberta a lot. but it be only last night I could get the

address out of he. he’d forget it before. we’ve be here over a

day. he catch the cold come here.”



“how do you come here?” devize throw in.



“Motor bicycle,” say Bobby. “but there be a lot of wait about

before we could get away and it be a cold raw morning, and he have

just his nightgown and dressing-gown and slipper. so hard to foresee

everything.”



“but how do you come to be rescue he?”



Bobby smile at Devizes. “somebody have to be rescue he.”



he turn to Christina Alberta again. “couldn’t bear the thought of his

be under lock and key. he take a room, you see, in the place where

I lodge, and there be something innocent and--delightful about he.

I’ve a weakness, a sympathy perhaps, with absurdity.... you ought to go

up to he and see he.”



“yes, we’d well look at he,” say Devizes.



(who the devil be this fellow?)



Bobby assert himself. “Christina Alberta first, I think.”



he take Christina Alberta up to her daddy and close the door on a

warm embrace. “and now, Mr. de Vezes, or whatever you be,” he say

to himself on the staircase, “where do _you_ come in?” he descend

and find Devizes stand very irritatingly upon his hearthrug before

his fire. as he stand there a remote resemblance to Christina Alberta

be perceptible. Bobby have an incoherent recognition of the fact that

in some obscure way Devizes be responsible for Christina Alberta’s

failure to produce blue eye. he be a little slow in say what he

intend to say, and Devizes be able to take the initiative. “forgive

my blunt impertinence,” he say, “but may I ask who you be?”



“I’m a writer,” say Bobby, refrain from any glance at the

accumulation of Aunt Suzannah material upon the side table.



“you’ve finish lunch?” ask Devizes in a disregarded parenthesis.



“may I ask the same question of you?” say Bobby, “and how it be you

come to be connect with the Preembys?”



“I’m a blood relation,” say devize, consider it. “on the mother’s

side. a sort of cousin. and I happen to be a nervous and mental

specialist. that’s why I’ve be bring in to-day.”



“I see,” say Bobby. “you’ve get no intention of--put he back?”



“none at all. we’re not antagonist, Mr----”



“roothe.”



“we’re on the same side. you do well to get he out. we be try

to do the same thing by less original method. we’re very grateful to

you. the lunacy law be rather a clumsy and indiscriminate machine.

but, as you probably know, if he keep clear of they for fourteen

day, they’ll have to begin with he all over again. he renew his

sanity. we’re ally in that. we’ve get to know each other well. your

intervention--most surprising--strike I as be at once eccentric

and courageous. I wish you’d tell I more about it, how you meet he,

how they get hold of he, and what set you think of an escape.”



“H’m,” say Bobby, and come and assert his right to half the

hearthrug. he have think of the way in which he could tell this

story--to Christina Alberta--the original Christina Alberta with the

blue eye. he feel that that version need considerable revision,

indeed, possibly even a complete rearrangement, for the present hearer.

he be by no mean sure he want to tell it to the present hearer. the

man be a doctor and a mental specialist and a distant relation, and

he be for keep Sargon out of an asylum, and that be all to the

good, but it still linger in Bobby’s mind that he be an interloper.

nevertheless, he make way for Bobby quite civilly on the hearthrug,

and his manner be attentive and respectful. Bobby embark upon a

description of Sargon’s first appearance in Midgard Street.



Devizes show himself alert and intelligent. he grasp the

significance of Sargon’s project visit to the dome of Saint Paul’s at

once. “I’ve no doubt he do it,” say Devizes. “neither have I,” say

Bobby, “though I’ve not ask he about it yet.” they piece together

the probable story of the calling of the disciple before Billy and

Bobby have come upon the procession. “it’s touch,” say Devizes, “and

immense.” Bobby approve these word.



“you see how he get I,” say Bobby.



a distinct flavour of friendliness for devize creep by imperceptible

degree into Bobby’s mind. difficulty that have seem to threaten his

explanation vanish; this man, he perceive, could understand anything

a fellow do. devize make he feel that the extraction of Sargon from

Cummerdown by a perfect stranger be the most simple and natural thing

to do imaginable. Bobby warm to his story; his sense of humour take

heart of grace, and he become frank and amusing about his difficulty

on the visit day. as he be tell of the foxy-face deaf mute,

Christina Alberta come back again into the downstairs room.



“he take I as a matter of course,” she say. “he seem weak and

drowsy and his chest be bad.” she speak more definitely to Devizes. “I

think you ought to overhaul he.”



“there be a doctor in attendance?” he ask Bobby.



Bobby explain. devize consider. be Sargon dozing? yes. then let

he doze for a bit. Bobby, work now a little more consciously for

effect, go on with his story. Christina Alberta regard he with

manifest approval.



by tea-time Bobby have adjust his mind to the existence of Devizes

and the unexpectedness of Christina Alberta. all that carry over

from his state of expectation be the idea that his relation with

Christina Alberta be to be very profound and intimate. he still

believe that, hide away in she somewhere, there must be a blue-eye,

yielding, really feminine person, but it be very deeply hidden.

meanwhile the superimpose disguise strike he as agreeable, alert,

humorous, and friendly. devize too he see more and more as a strong,

capable, understand personality. he have see devize examine

Sargon, and it be clever, confidence-provoke doctoring. Sargon’s

lung, he say, be badly congest, especially on the left side; he

be on the edge of pneumonia and without much vitality to fight it. he

ought to be keep in a warmer, less draughty room with a night-nurse

available. Mrs. Plumer have no room for a nurse, and not an hour away by

automobile be Paul Lambone’s excessively comfortable week-end cottage

at Udimore. a little masterly telephone and telegraphing and the

cottage be available, fire be alight in the good bedroom, a train

nurse be on her way to it, and it be all settle for Sargon, warmly

wrap up and fortify with hot-water bottle, to go thither. Bobby

find himself a mere accessory in this new system of thing; he be

to follow next day to Udimore on his motor bicycle, for there would

be room for all of they in Paul Lambone’s cottage. apparently Paul

Lambone’s conception of a simple cottage in the wilderness involve a

housekeeper, several servant, and four or five visitor’ room.



this fellow Devizes carry out all his arrangement with a smooth

competence that give Bobby no scope for self-assertion. Sargon and

Christina Alberta and Devizes would depart at five and get to Udimore

by six, by which time the nurse would be instal. then Devizes would

go back to London and get there in time to dress for a dinner he have

to attend. on Saturday morning he would be busy in London, and then

he would come back to Udimore and see if Sargon be recover enough

for the beginning of his mental treatment. perhaps the unknown Paul

Lambone would be there too. he be a lazy person, Bobby gather; he’d

have to be bring down by Devizes. Bobby be to stay at Udimore for

some day. he make modest protestation. “no, you’re _in_ it now,” say

Devizes cheerfully and glance at Christina Alberta. “you’re in for

Sargon like the rest of we. bring your work with you.”



“yes, do come,” say Christina Alberta.



the only reason Bobby have for resist the invitation be that it

attract he so much.





§ 3



this “cottage” at Udimore, which strike Bobby as be a really very

pretty and comfortable modern house, and these three people, Christina

Alberta, Devizes and Paul Lambone, who now group themselves round

Sargon, exercise his mind in a quite extraordinary way. they strike

he as be novel and definite to a degree he’d never meet in anyone

before, and even the house be fresh and decisive in its broad white

grace, like no house that have ever before hold his attention. it make

most of the other house he have ever observe seem accidental and

aggregatory and second-hand and wander in their purpose. but this

house be the work of a clever young architect who have consider Paul

Lambone intelligently, and its white rough-cast wall sit comfortably

on the hill-side and look with an honest, entirely detach

admiration at Rye and across the marsh to Winchelsea and the remote

blue sea; and it have seat and arbour and a gazebo for sit about

in, and up hill be a walled garden with broad path up which you

look from the back of the house through lead-pan window. you could

watch the sunset from a number of excellent point of view, but it do

not shine upon any room to weary and blind you. there be a kind wall

to shelter hollyhock and delphinium from the south-west wind, and to

bear a plum or so and a pear and a fig tree. Downstairs be mainly one

great ramble room with a dining recess in one corner and the power

of open itself out into a loggia, and with conversational centre

about fire-place or window as the season might require, but there

be several little study about the house in which one could be shut

off and write. bookshelf grow in convenient corner, and the house

be everywhere mysteriously warm from unseen and scarce suspect

radiator. the house be so like Paul Lambone, and Paul Lambone so much

a part of his house that he seem to be really no more than its voice

and its eye.



Paul Lambone be the first successful writer Bobby have ever meet.

Bobby know various needy young writer, tadpole writer, insecure

writer, but this be the first completely grow-up and establish

and massively adult writer he have ever know. the man strike Bobby as

be stupendously secure and free and prosperous. and the remarkable

thing be that he be in no way a great writer, no Dickens nor Scott

nor Hardy; his work ben’t, after all, in Bobby’s opinion anything so

very remotely above Bobby’s own effort. a certain terseness he have

at time, a certain penetration: those be the chief difference. in

Bobby’s imagination the literary and artistic life have hitherto have

an unavoidable flavour of casual adventure, glorious achievement,

madden difficulty, wild delight and tragic unhappiness. swift,

Savage, Goldsmith, the Carlyles, Balzac, Dumas, Edgar Allan Poe,

these have be his type. but this new bright house be as sound and

comfortable as any country house, and Lambone sit in it with as safe

a dignity as though he be a provincial banker or a mine owner or

the senior member of some widespread firm of solicitor. no fear of

lose his “job” or “write himself out” oppress he. he say and

do exactly what he think proper, and the policeman salute he as he

pass.



if this sort of thing could spring from the _Book of Everyday Wisdom_

and Paul’s amiable novel, what hitherto unsuspected possibility of

accumulation and ease and security and helpfulness might there not be

in Aunt Suzannah’s kindly responsiveness? it have never before seem

credible to Bobby that a day might come when he would be secure and his

own master, able to refuse limitation himself and to release other

people from limitation. all Bobby’s life hitherto have be a matter

of direction and eminent necessity. he have be _send_ to school and

_send_ to college. he have be on the eve of be _put into_ the

position of agent upon a friendly estate when the Great War have seize

upon he and the rest of his generation and drill he and send he

off to Mesopotamia. and after the war he have have to do something to

supplement his diminished inheritance. life have be so indicate

and prescribe for he at every stage, his parent’ existence have

be so entirely direct by a class tradition, that Bobby’s mind be

exceptionally well prepared to be impress by Paul Lambone’s freedom.



it be curious to note how completely Paul Lambone arise out of the

present-day world, and how completely he don’t belong to it. he have

all its advantage and so little of its standard obligation. he have

escape from it with most of its gift. he have to go to no court,

follow no season, make no call, and perform no function. be he

exceptional in his circumstance altogether, or be there a lot

of people escape, as he be escape, prosperously, from the old

decay social system? a queer sort of new people who don’t belong?



Bobby sit on the terrace and look over the back of his seat at this

extremely new but very sightly and comfortable cottage of lambone’s,

with this freshly arrive idea of a new sort of people get loose in

the world and live unrelated to the old order of thing and shape

out new way of living, very active in his mind. this house seem to

embody that idea; it be new and novel, but not a bit apologetic nor

rebellious. it be just break out like a new fashion. it be just

arise like a new century. he have always assume that revolution come

from below through the rage of the exclude and the disinherit. he

have think every one take that for grant. but suppose revolution

be merely smash-up that haven’t very much to do with real progress

either way, and that the new age dawn anywhere in the social order

where people could get free enough to work out new idea.



new idea!



Sargon be new, Paul Lambone be new, Devizes new; before the war

there could not have be any such people. they have grow out of

their own past self; they be as different from pre-war people as

nineteenth-century people have be different from eighteenth-century

people. new of all be this Christina Alberta who have efface she

blue-eyed predecessor. she be so direct and free in her thought and

talk that she make Bobby feel that his own mind wear a bonnet and

flounce. he have go for two walk with she, once to Brede and once

to rye, and he like she tremendously. whether he be in love with she

he don’t yet know. fall in love with she for anyone be evidently

go to be a quite unconventional, untested, and difficult series

of exercise. nothing at all like that unborn normal affair with the

non-existent blue-eyed girl.



she seem to like he, and particularly the way his hair grow on his

head. she have mention it twice and ruffle it once.



a queer aspect of the situation be the riddle of how she and Sargon

and himself come to be the guest of Paul Lambone with devize

in attendance. it be just a part of Paul Lambone’s freedom from

prescription that he should be able to give sanctuary to Sargon and

assemble this odd, unconventional week-end party. but Bobby have a

sense of hide link and missing clue. devize be a natural enough

visitor, of course; he be manifestly Lambone’s close friend. but their

interest in Sargon be strong than Bobby could imagine it ought

to be. he be puzzle; he examine all sort of possibility in a

gingerly fashion. some impulse like his own, no doubt, but not quite

the same, lie at the bottom of this--sargonism.



Bobby have begin by feel very hostile to Devizes as an unexpected

intruder on a system of relationship sufficiently interesting without

he. he be glad that he have to go to London for Friday, and not

particularly pleased by his return on Saturday. then he find his

feeling change to a curious respect, mingle with a defensive

element that be almost like fear.



Devizes be more aware of you than Lambone. he look at you, his

mind come at you. it have the habit of come at people. he be more

actively and aggressively interested in thing than lambone and more

self-forgetful. lambone observe enough to make bright comment;

devize make penetrate observation. Bobby often feel encumbered

with himself; most people he think be encumber with themselves,

but Devizes to a conspicuous degree ben’t. he be a man of science;

a man of scientific habit. Bobby have know one or two scientific man

before, rather wrap away from ordinary thing, but the interest that

wrap they be something that wrap they away from oneself; one have

be concern chiefly with stress in glass and another with the egg

of echinoderm. you always seem to be look at the back of these

fellow’ head and smile at their immense preoccupation. but this

man Devizes be wrap up in the motive and thought of people; he

don’t look away from you; he look into you. that grow upon Bobby’s

consciousness. devize’ eye lack delicacy.



he have come down for the week-end chiefly to deal with Sargon. he go

up and have long talk to Sargon. he be “treat” Sargon. he don’t

go up and talk to Sargon as man to man, as Bobby would have do. he

go up to a sort of mental jiu-jitsu with Sargon to exercise he

and push he about into new attitude. devize be formidable enough

in himself, but far more formidable as a portent. he have all the

appearance of be a precursor, the most vigorous precursor--they be

all precursors!--of a new type of human relationship, relationship

without delicate reservation, without rich accumulation of feel

behind emotion avoid and thing unsaid. so it seem to Bobby,

who don’t for a moment suspect how much these people be avoid

and suppress. Christina Alberta’s thought and speech seem to

he to be move about without a stitch on, like the people in some

horrible Utopia by Wells. he compare the vast impalpable network of

“understand” he and Tessy have weave between each other.



“new people,” he whisper, and look Paul Lambone’s new house in the

face. to he they be stupendously new, an immense discovery. the

war have overstrain he, he realize, and leave he too tired for a

time to see new thing. he have be one of the vast multitude of those

who have come out of the war in the expectation of a trite and obvious

old-fashioned millennium, and who express their disappointment

by declare that nothing have happen except devastation and

impoverishment. they be too jade at first to observe anything else.

but indeed Bobby now realize the european world have be travel

fast and fast since the break-up of the armed peace in 1914; and

here be new type, new habit of thought, new idea, new reaction,

new moral, new way of living. he discover himself in the advent of

a new age, a new age that be come so fast that there haven’t be

time ever to clear the form and institution of the old age away. they

ben’t reverse or abolish, they ben’t overthrow, they be just

disregarded. which be just why it be possible to get along for a year

or so without note the tremendous change everything be undergo.



“New People.” do that apply to Sargon? that be Sargon’s room: the two

long window between the buttress. be Sargon also an escape from the

establish order of relationship into novel thing? what be the real

significance of the absurd little man with his preposterous map of the

world and his still more preposterous planisphere, who want to be

Lord of the Earth?





§ 4



when Bobby come to talk it over with Sargon it seem to he that

Devizes have take the little man completely to piece and present

he with the disarticulate portion of himself. devize go back to

London on Monday; he take Christina Alberta with he in his hire car;

but lambone urge Bobby to stay on for a day or so to cheer up the

patient. lambone, so far as he could discover his own intention, mean

to stay on at Udimore for a week or more and work. Bobby see Christina

Alberta off, meditate on she for an hour, then give the rest of the

morning to Aunt Suzannah and the afternoon to Sargon; and Sargon, who

be distinctly well, sat prop up by two pillow and discuss the

dissect structure of himself.



“not a bit fatigued,” say Sargon. “I’m have a tonic now. every three

hour.”



he consider his next remark for some moment before he make it. “who

_be_ this Mr. Paul Lambone?” he ask. “it be very hospitable for he

to entertain we. very. (_H’rrmp_).... be he a friend of your?”



“he’s quite a well-know writer. he’s a friend of Christina Alberta’s.”



“she have so many friend. young people do nowadays. and what be this

Dr. Devizes?”



“he be a nervous specialist, and he be consult--he be consult

about the possibility of get you away from that--Place.”



“nervous specialist. he be a wonderful talker--most intelligent and

(h’rrmp) understanding. I have a curious feeling that somewhere,

somewhen, somehow I have meet he before. in this life--or some other.

it be all quite vague, and he do not seem to have any corresponding

recollection. no. probably a coincidence of some sort.”



Bobby see nothing in the coincidence.



Sargon shut his eye for a second or so.



“we talk of my recent experience,” he resume.



“naturally,” say Bobby, help.



“there have be a lot of confusion about my personality. it be a

trouble more frequent nowadays than it use to be. Most of my life

I have think that I be a person call Albert Edward Preemby, a

limited person, a most limited person. then I have a light. I begin

to realize that nobody could really be such a thing as that Albert

Edward Preemby. I begin to seek for myself. I have reason--too long to

explain--to suppose that I be Sargon the First, the great sumerian,

the founder of the first Empire in the world. then--then come trouble.

you see something of it. I grasp at the sceptre--one afternoon--in

Holborn--rashly. most painful affair. I be send to that Place. yes. it

shake I. humiliation. hardship. real--uncleanness. I doubt whether

I ben’t after all just that little Preemby. a human rabbit. my faith

falter. I admit it falter.”



he muse painfully for some moment.



then he lay his hand reassuringly on Bobby’s wrist.



“I _be_ Sargon,” he say. “talk to your friend Devizes have clear

my mind greatly. I _be_ Sargon, but in a rather different sense from

what I have imagine. Preemby be, as I have suppose, a mere accidental

covering. But----”



the little face pucker with intellectual effort. “I be not

_exclusively_ Sargon. you--you perhaps be still unawakened--but you

be Sargon too. his blood be in our vein. we be co-heir. it be

fairly easy to understand. Sargon, regal position. naturally many

wife. political--biological necessity. offspre numerous. they

again--position of advantage--many child. next generation, more.

like a vast expand beam of intellectual and moral force. you can

prove it--prove it by mathematic. Dr. Devizes and I--we work it out

on a piece of paper. we be all descend from Sargon, just as we be

all descend from Cæsar--just as nearly all English and Americans be

descend from William the Conqueror. few people realize this. a little

arithmetic--it be perfectly plain. long before the christian era the

blood of Sargon be diffuse throughout all mankind. his tradition

still more so. we all inherit. not merely from he--from all the great

king, from all the noble conqueror. from all the brave and beautiful

woman. all the statesman and inventor and creator. if not directly

from they, from their father and mother. all that rich wine from the

past be in my vein. and I think I be just Albert Edward Preemby!

and at Woodford Wells I go for a silly little walk nearly every

afternoon with sixpence in my pocket to spend and nothing in the world

to do! for twenty year. it seem incredible.”



the blue eye seek confirmation from Bobby, who nod.



“there be I walk about Epping Forest in a suit of clothe I

never really like--a rather exaggerated golfing suit with baggy

knickerbocker that my wife choose for I--they seem to get baggy

every year--and I be quite ignorant that I be the heir of all the

age, and that the whole earth down to the centre and up to the sky be

mine. and your. our. I have no sense of duty to it; I haven’t wake up

to self-respect. I ben’t only Sargon, but all the man and woman who

have ever matter on earth. I be God’s Everlasting Servant. instead

of which I be rather timid about horse and strange dog, and often

when I see people approach and think they be observe I and

speak about I, I do not know what to do with my arm and leg, and

become quite confused about they.”



he pause to smile at the thought of it.



“it have be interesting to talk to your Dr. Devizes of the absurdity

of that contract blind littleness in which I live so long. we talk

of the Great Man I really be, the great Men we really be. all the

incorporate Great Men. you and I, the same. because in the past you

and I and he be one, and in the future we may come together again. we

have just separate to take hold of thing as the hand separate into

thumb and finger. we talk of the time when the spirit that be in

we make the first hut, launch the first ship, ride the first horse.

we could not remember those great moment as exact incident, but we

recall they--generally. we recall a blazing day when a band of man

go out across a sandy desert for the first time, and when a man first

stand upon a glacier. it be--slippery. then I remember watch my

people heap up the earth-wall of my first city. we go out against

the robber of the first herd. then Dr. Devizes and I stand in

imagination on a sort of quarter-deck, and watch our man lug the

great oar of the galley that take we to Iceland and Vinland. we both

see. we plan the Great Walls of China; I count our lateen sail

upon our grand canal. you see, I have build a million wonderful temple

and make an innumerable multititude of lovely sculpture, painting,

jewel and decoration. I have forget it, but I have. and I have

love a billion love--I have indeed--to bring I here. we all have. we

talk it over, your Dr. Devizes and I. I have not dream the millionth

part of what I be. when I think I be Sargon wholly and solely I

still do not realize my great inheritance and my enormous destiny.

even now I be only begin to see that.... it be preposterous to

think that I who have all this past of effort and adventure behind I

should have be content to run about Woodford Wells in a ridiculous

suit of tweed with plus-four breech that be extremely heavy and

uncomfortable--they tickle I, you know--on hot day. yet I do. I

do.... not realize.... I use to go on until I could endure it no

long, and then I would have to stop and scratch behind my knee....



“of course, when I call myself Sargon, King of king, and propose

to rule all the world I be--Dr. Devizes call it--_symbolizing_. of

course, everybody be really Sargon, King of king, and everybody ought

to take hold of all the world and save it and rule it just as I have

get to do.”



he have conclude his exposition. he have spread out his disarticulate

part before Bobby just as Devizes have return they to he.





§ 5



“but just what be you go to do?” say Bobby.



“I have be think of that.”



for a little while he continue to think.



“it become all different,” he say, “when one realize that one be not

the _only_ Sargon. I think of be a great king, a great leader,

with the rest of the world just follow I. I doubt if I ever feel

quite _up_ to a job of that sort, but I couldn’t see any other way of

be Sargon and a king. now I do. I do my good, but even when I go

to Buckingham Palace I realize that the thing be go to be too big

for I. I be tell Dr. Devizes--I tell he, that since he be Sargon

and King just as much as I and that almost anyone might become Sargon

and King, then it ben’t a case for palace and throne any long, or

for be proclaim and crown--such thing be as much out of date

as flint implement; and that the real thing be to be just a kingly

person and work with all the other kingly person in the world to make

the world worthy of our high descent. anyone who wake up to that

become a kingly person. we can be active king even if we remain king

incognito. one can be a laundryman like I be when I be just Preemby,

and think of nothing but the profit and need and vanity and fear

of a little laundryman--and how dull it was!--or one can be a king, the

descendant of ten thousand king, the joint heir to the inheritance

of all human affair, the lord of the generation still unborn--who

happen to be live in exile as a laundryman.”



he pause.



“I agree with most of that,” say Bobby. “It’s--it’s attractive.”



“so far it be as plain as can be. but after that the difficulty

begin. it ben’t enough just to say you be a king. you have to be a

king. you have to _do_. you cann’t be a king and not do kingly thing.

but it’s just there that Dr. Devizes and I--we ben’t so clear.

there’s a lot to be think out. what be my kingly task? in this frail

body--and what I be? I be not clear. yet the mere fact that I be not

clear show clearly where I have to begin. I have to get clear. I have

to get knowledge, find out about my kingdom. that’s reasonable. I have

to learn more about my great inheritance, our great inheritance, the

history of it, the possibility of it, the way of the man who misrule

it. I have to learn about business and economic and money; and then

when I see it all plain I have to exert myself and vote and work, and I

have to find out what particular gift I have and how I may well give

they to our kingdom. each king must glorify his particular reign with

his particular gift. we agree about that.



“so far I do not know my particular gift. Dr. Devizes say that so

far as he be concern he must work out human motive and human

relationship; his gift and his natural interest be for mental science.

he have his task mete out for he, his kingly task. but for I at

present there ben’t that much self-knowledge. I have to begin low

down and with broad question. I have to learn about the universe

and about the history of this world-empire of Sargon’s, and of all the

thing I have neglect in my dream and littleness. I have to go to

school again. to learn how to think hard. I don’t mind the fatigue.

but I be impatient. when I think of all that lie before I, the

reading, the inquiry, the visit to museum and suchlike place, I

want to get up right away and begin. I have live so unobservant and

irresponsible a life that I be puzzle how to account for the year I

have spend. I have moon they away. but I be glad I have awaken to

my kingship before it be too late.



“I be quite a young man still. I be a little past forty, but that be

nothing. half of that be childhood and boyhood, and much of the rest

inattention. for all I know I may live for another forty year. I’m

not half through. and they may be the good year, the full year. I

can spend three or four just learn--learn the round world. I

shall begin to find out politic, and why man and woman be servile

and little-minded. I shall begin to realize how I can extend to those

other this great liberation that have come to I. I shall begin to have

a political life. a man who have no political life be like a rat which

live in a ship rather than like a man who navigate it. then within

that I shall begin to find my own proper life, my particular task.

it be premature, I think, but I be very greatly draw to the riddle

of madness and asylum. I do not understand why there be madness. it

puzzle and distress I, and Dr. Devizes agree with I that when a

thing puzzle and distress the mind the thing to do be to gather all

the knowledge and idea one can about it--scientifically. presently it

cease to distress; it interest and occupie. and when I be in--that

Place, I talk to some of those poor creature. I be very sorry for

they, I make they promise to help they when my kingdom come. and now I

begin to see what my kingdom be, and the way in which I must enter in

to possess it. perhaps in good time I shall learn and spread knowledge

about asylum, and make thing well in they so that they will not

simply imprison people but help and cure they.



“it be Dr. Devizes’ idea, I think--or we may have work it out

together--that there be a real and important purpose in madness. it

be a sort of simplification, a removal of check and control, and a

sort of natural experiment. the secret thing of the mind be lay

bare. but then if poor soul be to suffer that sort of thing to

yield knowledge for other, they ought to be treat properly; they

ought to be cherish and make the utmost use of, and not hand over

to such brute as we have.... I cann’t tell you. not yet. brute they

be.... and in their sane moment--they all have sane moment, these

lunatic--they ought to be comfort and tell.”



the queer little round face, with its sprout moustache and its pale

blue eye, stare at Bobby.



“when first I see you,” say Sargon, “I do not realize in the

least how thing really be between we. I be still wrap up in

vaingloriousness; I think I be a great prophet and teacher and

king, and that all the world have to obey I. I think you be go

to be the first and good and near of my disciple. but now I know

well about myself. and about other people. they be here not to be

my follower and disciple but to be my fellow king. we have to work

together with all the other who be awaken, for our kingdom and the

great progress of mankind.”



he go on talk rather to himself than to Bobby.



“I have always want to know thing, but now I shall have the will

really to know they. I shall be different now. it seem incredible

that a little while ago I be bother about what I should do with my

time. now I be only eager to get at thing, and however long my time

may be I know it will be full. it be astonishing to I that there

have be fly in my kingdom for a dozen year, and I have never

be in an aeroplane. I must look at the world from an aeroplane. and

perhaps I shall need to go to India and China and suchlike strange and

wonderful country, because they, too, be a part of my inheritance.

I need to know about they. and jungle and wilderness that we have

to subjugate; I have to see they. the beast be under we; we have

to cherish they or destroy they mercifully as the necessity of

our kingdom may require. it be a terrible thing even to be lord of

a beast. all the beast, wild or tame, be under our dominion. and

there be science. all the wonderful work man do in laboratory and

their marvellous discovery be our care. if I do not understand I

may hinder. how blind I have be to the splendour of my life. when I

think of all these thing, I can hardly endure to be here in bed; I be

so impatient to get on with they. but I suppose I must be patient with

these poor wheezing lung.



“Patient,” he repeat.



he look at his wrist-watch and it have stop. “can you tell I the

time? at seven I ought to take some more of that excellent tonic. it

be work wonder in I. but no! don’t trouble; the nurse will be

think of it.... it put fresh life into I.”





§ 6



but Sargon do not live forty year more, nor thirty, nor twenty. he

live just a day under seven week from that conversation. he stay

in bed for two day after Bobby return to London; then Lambone also

go and he become intractable. as his strength return he bother

his nurse more and more for book he couldn’t name or describe, and for

volume of the _Encyclopædia Britannica_; and when she declare that

seven volume of that monumental publication be surely as much as any

invalid could need at one time, he get up and put on his rough little

dressing-gown and come paddle downstairs, h’rrmping resolutely, to

the library. after that he get up for three day run. a fire be

make in the most bookish corner of the downstairs room and screen put

to keep he warm. but his tonic be drive he, perhaps it be too

stimulate a tonic, and he would not stay in his protect corner.



the nurse seem to have be a weak, complain character, indispose

to act without authority. she telephone through to Devizes in London,

but she do not succeed in make clear to he the gravity of Sargon’s

misbehaviour. the crown offence come when he wouldn’t go to bed at

seven, but instead slip out, in an overcoat and a wrapper indeed but

in slipper, upon the terrace before the house. his bare ankle and

leg be expose to the cold wind. the slow-move periodic beam of

light from the lighthouse upon the coast, sweep across the phantom

hill under the clear starlight, have draw he out, those processional

light, and Sirius that white splendour, and the steadfast sprawl

glory of Orion. it be a clear November night with frost in the air.

the nurse hear he cough and rush out to he. he be look at

Sirius through Lambone’s field-glass and she have to drag he in by

main force. she lose her temper; there be an ungracious struggle.



the next day he be in no state to leave his bed. yet he toss about

and expose his inflame chest in feeble attempt to read. “I know

nothing,” he complain. for a while he get well again, and then it

be highly probable that he go to his open window in the night and sit

for a long time wonder at the star. after that come a relapse and a

week or so of struggle, and then after a phase of delirium come great

weakness, and then one night, death. he be quite alone when he die.



Bobby have not expect the death at all. he hear of it from Christina

Alberta with great astonishment. he have be tell nothing of Sargon

be bad nor of his misbehaviour; he have be think of he rather

enviously as grow steadily strong and well and gratifying day by

day a happy and expand curiosity. he have look forward presently to

another talk and another phase in this odd belated adolescence. it be

as though an interesting story have come to an abrupt end in the middle,

as though all its conclude chapter have be tear out rudely and

unreasonably.



this mood of frustrated sympathy last over the cremation of Sargon

at Golders Green. Bobby go to that queer ceremony. he arrive late

with Billy; the coffin that hold the little body stand ready to glide

into the furnace, the Church of England burial service have already

begin. there be very few people in the chapel. Christina Alberta in

the black she have wear for her mother be in the front seat, as chief

mourner, between Paul Lambone and Devizes. behind she with an air

of earnest support be Harold and Fay Crumb, astonishingly in deep

mourning and follow the service meticulously in two prayer-book.

an unpleasant-look individual with a very long pock-mark sheep’s

face, small eye and habitual-look black turn round and stare

at Bobby as he come in. he be accompany by a very large blonde

lady who seem to have sleep in her mourning under a bed. relation

of the deceased? the air of relationship be unmistakable. behind,

a young woman and two detached old lady seem to be indulge a

simple propensity for funeral service at large. they complete the

congregation.



Christina Alberta look unusually small and overshadow by her two

odd man friend. it be a grey day outside, and the general effect of

the gathering be thin and scattered and damp and chilly. the organ

be play as Bobby come in, and he think he have never hear a less

musical organ. the service as it go on sound more and more trite

and theological and insincere. what an old second-hand damp mackintosh

the Church of England be, think Bobby, for a strive soul to wear?

but then what can any religion in the world really be in the face of

normal death? theologically one should rejoice when a good man die,

but none of these religion have have the pluck to brazen it out to that

extent. none can get rid of the effect of confrontation with a blank

amazing interrogation. be there anything within that coffin there that

hear or care a jot for those sombre mummery?



Bobby’s thought converge upon that still thing within the coffin. the

little face would be wear a waxen unaccustomed dignity; the round,

preposterously innocent blue eye would be close and a little sunken.

where be those thought and hope, now, that Bobby have listen to

a few week since? Sargon have talk of flying, of visit India and

China, of do noble work in the world. he have say that half his life

still lie before he. he have seem to be open like a flower on the

first sunny morning of a belate spring. and it be all delusion; the

door of death that have slam upon he be already close then.



surely those hope have be life! in they if in anything be something

of the life that live and cannot die. but be it yonder? no. that in

the coffin there be no more than a photographic impression, a cast

garment, the paring of a nail. there be more of Sargon now in Bobby’s

brain alone, than in that coffin. but Sargon, where be he? where be

those dream and desire?



Bobby become aware of the voice of the officiating clergyman driving

high, like a fly bird, over the welter of his thought: “_but some

man will say, how be the dead raise up? and with what body do they

come? Thou fool, that which thou sowest be not quicken unless it die.

and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be, but

bare grain, it may chance of wheat or any other grain: but God giveth

it a body, as it hath please he, but to every seed its own body...._”



“Queer, tortuous, ingenious fellow that Paul,” think Bobby. now

what exactly be he drive at there? queer fellow! bad manner too

with his “thou fool.” a rather strain analogy this about the seed,

“sow in corruption.” after all a seed be the clean, most living

bit of vegetable matter you could have; it have to be sow in clean

mould. grow plant you manure perhaps, but not seed-box. but

there be a queer insistence in the discourse of the “difference,” the

discontinuity, of the new life. what be to come be to be altogether

different from what be sown. Bobby have never note that before, never

note how plainly the apostle insist that no body, no earthly sort of

body, no personality, ever come back.



“_the glory of the celestial be one, and the glory of the terrestrial

be another. there be one glory of the sun, and another glory of the

moon, and another glory of the star; for one star differeth from

another star in glory._”



what be the drift of that? be it translate properly? what have Paul

be up against in Corinth? after all, why couldn’t the Church speak

to one’s living need instead of disinter this Levantine argument?

and that analogy of the seed; be it after all a good one? whatever

come from a seed must itself die again; it be no more immortal than

the plant that come before it. the clergyman be go too fast, too,

to follow he closely. well get a prayer-book at home afterwards and

read all this.



“_o Grave where be thy sting? o death where be thy victory? the sting

of death be sin and the strength of sin be in the law._”



no. there be no follow that. it sound like nonsense. one just

miss the implication. it be like listen to some one who be

too far off to be hear distinctly but who make eloquent gesture and

noise.



the service come to an embarrassed pause. everyone be motionless,

arrest.



“_man that be bear of woman hath but a short time to live.... he cometh

up and be cut down like a flower; he fleeth as it be a shadow...._”



Set in motion by unseen hand the coffin go glide towards the

furnace door which open to receive it. there be a deep roar, a

sound like a mighty rushing wind, an elemental and chaotic sound....



Life be a faint disperse film upon one little planet, but flame roar

like this and great wind rush and whirl, out to the remotest star in

the unfathomable depth of space. that deep disorderly tumult be the

true voice of lifeless matter, not of dead matter, for what have never

live cannot be dead, but of lifeless matter, outside of and beneath

and beyond life.



everyone in the chapel seem still and bow and hush and dwarf to

minute dimension until the furnace door have close again upon that

soulless devour clamour.









CHAPTER the fourth



_May at Udimore_





§ 1



Bobby _forget_ that glimpse of the elemental power that the furnace

door have give he altogether, for such thing do not remain

naturally in the mind. they inconvenience life. but the voice of the

clergyman hustle the argument of St. Paul along, and the scene in

the Crematorium Chapel with the little coffin wait to be launch

into eternity and the few still black mourner dot among the yellow

bench come back to he very vividly when Paul Lambone begin to quote

and twist those familiar sentence about the contrast between the

corruptible and the incorruptible and expand a fantastic philosophy of

his own. Bobby have always intend to read that funeral service over

again slowly and judicially, but he have never do so and he regret

it now very much. it leave he--and Paul of Tarsus--at the mercy of

Paul Lambone, and he know that Paul Lambone love ingenious slight

misquotation.



it be a very warm, serenely still May evening, and lambone’s party

sit after dinner in the twilight, some just inside the house and some

on deck-chair upon the terrace. they look out over the marsh and

over the still sea. the sky be like the inside of a deep blue globe

on which an ever increase multitude of starry midge be alight,

and Rye and Winchelsea crouch low beneath it, black low lump with a

street light and a window or so show minutely. recede out to sea

be a liner quite brightly lit. with a swift steadiness the beam of the

nearer lighthouse sweep the distant flat, come near, light the face of

the talker, light the room, call a church tower and a group of tree

into existence and drop they back into the darkness and forget about

they and pass on. and then presently it be come again, a thin

white streak of light hurry far away across the level.



when one’s attention wander from the talk one become aware of an

abundance of nightingale. they be nightingale newly come from the

south. one or it might be two be in the tree close at hand; other

remoter weave a gauze curtain of faint sweet sound over the visible

universe.



Bobby sit on the step between the room and the terrace with his back

against a pillar and with his empty coffee-cup beside he. he have put

himself there by the foot of Christina Alberta, who be deep in a big

arm-chair and very still. her face be dim except when her cigarette

glow and show a red-light unfamiliar face. and yet that afternoon

she have be the most familiar thing in the world to he; she have

kiss he and pull his ear and he have kiss her bare shoulder

and clasp she in his arm. devize too be silent and preoccupy.

he sit over against Christina Alberta on the other side of the opening

of the room; and he be so much in the twilight that except when the

lighthouse beam light his face, only his shine shoe and sock be

clearly visible to Bobby. there have be time when Bobby have think

that Devizes be in love with Christina Alberta, and he have a vague

inexplicable feel that to some extent she be or have be in love

with devize. he have a sense of unfathomed deep in their relationship,

but he do not know where these deep lay. if Christina Alberta love

Devizes she would have say so. Bobby know of no reason why she

should not. but to-day she have hug and kiss Bobby so that it be

impossible to believe she love anyone else.



yet in the last three or four month she have go about with devize

a lot; Bobby have see her mind respond and change with her talk

with this man. she use to quote he, and she would say thing exactly

like the thing he say. it have be a great inconvenience and trial

to Bobby, this preoccupation. and then suddenly he find devize

ben’t the lover at all, never could have be a lover. that day she

have prove that up to the hilt. and now in a state between pride and

servitude Bobby sit at her foot. he sit at her foot and close to she;

devize in the darkness be remote, a full three yard away.



except for lambone’s unquenchable flow it have not be a very talkative

party. to-night it be less talkative than ever. “this be too perfect,”

Margaret Means have sigh. “I cann’t talk. I just thank God I be alive,”

and she have nestle into her big deck-chair upon the terrace. this be

the girl--it have suddenly become apparent to Bobby a fortnight ago in

London--whom Devizes intend to marry. abruptly she have come upon the

scene to destroy the triangle that have obsess Bobby’s imagination.

a sweetly pretty fragile thing she be; in the twilight she seem as

faint and fragrant as nightstock, and she be a wonderful pianist.

last night she have play for two hour. Paul’s sister, Miss Lambone,

have be evoke from somewhere in the west of England to come and be

hostess to the engaged couple. Bobby have try to talk to Christina

Alberta about Margaret, but Christina Alberta haven’t want to talk

about she. “you see,” say Christina Alberta compactly, “she have open

the whole world of music to he. that’s what bring they together.

she’s clever; she’s very clear and clever.



“I’d never hear of she--until you mention their engagement.



“they’ve go to concert together and that sort of thing. he’s know

she much long than he have know I.”



“when do you first meet Devizes?”



“about the time my daddy come to Midgard Street. as recently as that.

it’s hardly six month. Paul Lambone take I to he to get advice

about Daddy. but _they_ have be go about--for more than a year.

I think it be just music that interest they. they’d seem to be

friend. and I think he don’t mean to marry again. he just suddenly

decide.”



Christina Alberta reflect. “that’s the way with life, Bobby. thing

accumulate, and then you suddenly decide.”



“have she be undecided? have she make he wait?”



“not she,” say Christina Alberta with a remarkable hardness in her

voice.



“no,” she say. “_he_ decide.”



she seem to feel there be still something to express. “he just take

hold of the situation.”





§ 2



this be Bobby’s second visit to Udimore. Paul Lambone have suddenly

see fit to gather this party; apparently on the spur of Devizes’

engagement. in the interval Bobby have see Christina Alberta a number

of time and develop an immense sense of relationship to she. it

fill his life. he have always be dream thing about she from the

time when he anticipate she with blue eye and a fragile person, and

always she be and do thing that tear his dream to shred. this

make she profoundly interesting. more and more he have become dependent

upon she for interest. he want to marry she if only to make sure he

wouldn’t lose the interest of she. she have refuse--twice. without any

of the grace proper to the occasion. “no fear, Bobby,” she say. “it

wouldn’t do. I’m not the woman you take I for.”



“you never be,” he say. “I don’t mind that.”



“you’re the dear companion,” she say. “I like the way your hair

grow.”



“then why not make it your, and be companion for ever?”



“nothing more frightful,” she say, and so dismiss the proposal.



they go about together; they spend much of their spare time together

except for those distressing occasion when she would suddenly throw

he over to go to a theatre or walk with devize. or to go to Devizes

to talk. she never hesitate to throw he over for devize. yet Bobby

get a lot of she. she don’t know much about theatre or music-hall

or restaurant or dancing-place or that sort of thing, and Bobby be

discreetly competent in that province. the Malmesburys feel themselves

deserted, and Susan be vindictive in her resentment at his frequent

absence from her bed-time ritual. Tessy, Bobby declare, remain his

dear friend; but when he try to tell she all about himself in the

old, old fashion--which he do when Christina Alberta be away with

Devizes--he naturally have to tell she all about Christina Alberta. but

Tessy decline in the most emphatic way to be tell about Christina

Alberta. it be extremely surprising and disappointing to Bobby to find

out how incapable Tessy be of appreciate the endless interestingness

and charm of Christina Alberta. it be a blind spot in her mind. she

seem to assume that Christina Alberta be no well than she should

be, whereas she be much well. it estrange Bobby and Tessy very

much, and it be a great sorrow to Bobby.



because Christina Alberta _be_ good--and interesting--beyond dispute.

she be grow with tremendous rapidity mentally and in her knowledge

of the world. every time he meet she she seem more of a person, with

rich, full, more commanding idea. she seem to be live every

moment of her time. she be work now at the Royal College of Science

under Macbride. she be take hold of her new study there with

tremendous enthusiasm. she be in love with comparative anatomy. Bobby

have always think that comparative anatomy be dry, pedantic stuff

about bone, but she declare it light up the whole story of life for

she. it change her idea about the world and about herself profoundly.

“it be the most romantic stuff I have ever read or think about,” she

say. “it make human history seem silly.”



she take he three time to the Natural History Museum at South

Kensington to show he something of the fine realization that stir

her mind. she make it clear to he how the bone of a wing or the

scratch of a flint could restore the storm and sunlight and passion

of ten million year ago.



and then suddenly a week ago Christina Alberta have consent to marry

Bobby. she have take back her two refusal. but the way she do it

make it like everything else she do, astonishing and disconcert.

she have a confession to make, and for a time until he could think it

over thoroughly that confession seem to Bobby to explain her refusal

completely and to clear up everything about she.



she get he to take she to Hampton Court. but they do not go into the

garden because they see through the park gate that the chestnut of

Bushey Avenue be in full blossom; they go instead by the pond and

up under the riotously flower branch. a belate spring be come

now in a hurry, warm and brilliant. the tree be glorious. it be as

if a bright green sea be splash up warm creamy foam under a shower

of cannon shot. the blue sky hum with light.



“the spring have come fast now that it have begin to come,” she say.



he feel she have something to say and wait.



“I never know, Bobby--this year less than ever--whether spring be the

happy time in the year or the most miserably restless. everybody and

everything be fall in love.”



“I don’t wait for spring,” say Bobby.



“but what of the frog that cann’t find water?” say Christina Alberta.



“there’s water where there be frog,” say Bobby.



“everybody be marry and give in marriage,” she say. “I think--I

think--Dr. Devizes at least be an inconsolable widower. but the

spring tide have catch even he. they catch everybody.”



“they’ve catch you?”



“I don’t know. I’m miserable, Bobby, and restless and all astir.”



“then let yourself go.”



“one ache--alone.”



“but be you alone?”



“fairly.”



“there’s I.”



“bobby dear, what do you want in I?”



“_you._ to be with you. to be always about with you. and to be love by

you.”



“it’s kind of you.”



“oh, nonsense! _kindness!_”



“listen, Bobby,” she say, and make a long pause.



her voice when she speak have adopt the ease of casual conversation.

“do you believe in chastity, Bobby? could you love a girl who

wasn’t--chaste?”



Bobby wince as if she have strike his face with a whip. he go white.

“what do you mean?” he ask.



“plainly,” she say.



for a time neither of they say a word.



“you have have _your_ experience,” she thrust. “in France. they all

do.”



Bobby make no answer to that.



“now you know,” she fling at he.



for a little while the light have go out of Bobby’s world.



“do you love the man?” he ask.



“if I do I don’t remember it. it be just--curiosity. and the stir of

grow up. and the intolerable sense of be forbid. no--I think I

be almost--cold-blooded. I like the look of he. and then I dislike

he.... but there it be, Bobby. that’s how thing be.”



Bobby weigh his word. “I’d care if it be any girl but you.

you--you’re different. I love you. what have or haven’t happen to you

don’t matter. at least--it don’t matter so much.”



“you’re sure it don’t matter so much?”



“quite.”



“sure for good?”



“yes.”



“from this moment you forget, you begin to forget what I have tell you?

as I want to forget it?”



“it will go soon enough if you want to forget it. it don’t matter at

all. I see now, it don’t matter at all.”



“but why on earth do you want to marry I, Bobby? what be there in I?

I’m ugly, rude, greedy, inconsiderate. I’ve no purity, no devotion.”



“you’re incessantly interesting. you’re straight, swift, and endlessly

beautiful.”



“Bobby, truly! do it look like that to you?”



“yes. don’t my manner--? don’t you _know_?”



“yes,” she say gravely; “I suppose I know.”



she come to a stop in front of he with her arm akimbo. they stand

look at one another, and Bobby wince as if he be go to cry. she

face be grave and troubled, and then at the sight of his expression

her smile break through. her gravity vanish. she be a different

Christina Alberta. she be suddenly the gayest conceivable thing to

he, confident and impudent.



“if you be to kiss I, Bobby, right here and now in Bushey Park,

would they lock we up?...”



most wonderful it be to Bobby to take she in his arm. a new

Christina Alberta be reveal to Bobby; Christina Alberta see from a

distance of six inch or so, an amazingly beautiful Christina Alberta.

one might have think she have never live for anything but be love

by Bobby.



“you’re learn,” say Christina Alberta after a little while. “now do

it all over again, Bobby. nobody seem to be look....”





§ 3



neither Lambone nor Devizes have seem in the least surprised at their

engagement. indeed their attitude of gratified expectation be almost

embarrassing. the young couple have come down to Udimore with devize

and Miss Means under the ample protection of Miss Lambone almost as

though they have be appoint for each other from the beginning of

thing.



but at Udimore there be further surprise and perplexity for

Bobby. all day Saturday Christina Alberta seem to be not so much

in love as in a thoroughly bad temper. she seem far more concerned

by the fact that Devizes be go to marry Miss Means than by the

generous devotion that Bobby be prepared to lavish upon she. she be

inattentive to his various little manœuvre to get isolate with she.

the two couple play tennis after tea until it be time to dress for

dinner; she be badly out of practice and fundamentally unorthodox, and

Margaret play with a smoothness and sweetness that rouse she to a

pitch of viciousness only too evident to Bobby’s fine perception. it

seem to Bobby that Devizes also note her annoyance, but Miss Means

be blissfully unobservant of anything in the world but Devizes.



on Sunday morning Christina Alberta carry off Bobby through the

distant cheerfulness of church bell for a walk to Brede Castle. and

she announce to Bobby that she do not intend to marry he.



Bobby protest. “you don’t love I?”



“haven’t I kiss you? don’t I hug you? haven’t I ruffle your hair?”



“then why don’t you want to marry I?”



“I do not want to marry anyone. I don’t love anybody. except of course

you. but even you, I cann’t marry. I want to be love, Bobby, yes. but

not to be marry.”



“but why? not the--the old reason?”



“no. I take your word about that. but all the same I don’t want to

marry you, Bobby.... I think it’s because I don’t want to be bind up

with anyone’s life. I don’t want to be a wife. I want to be my free and

independent self. I’ve get to grow. that’s it, Bobby. I want to be free

to grow.”



Bobby make protest noise.



“I don’t want some one see I grow all the time. you’d always be

look at I, Bobby; I know you would.”



it be useless of Bobby to say he wouldn’t. he would.



“I don’t know that thing be go to take I like this until I

fix to marry you. I want to marry you when I consent--honestly

I do. I want dreadfully then to get close to some one, as close as

possible, and to be kiss and tell ‘there! there!’ and to keep there.

it be a comfort for I, Bobby. you be a comfort for I. I’d ache to

madness without you. but how close we come when we love, Bobby, and how

far away we be all the time! how can we know each other when we hardly

know ourselves? when we don’t _dare_ know ourselves?



“you be such a dear, Bobby. you be so warm and kind that it seem

ungrateful not to give myself to you with both hand. but I just

cann’t. I’m not a normal woman perhaps. or something have happen to I

unaware. perhaps life have cheat I out of something.... oh, I don’t

know, Bobby. I want some one dreadfully; I want you dreadfully and I

don’t want you at all. I’d rather be dead than a female thing like

Margaret Means. if _that’s_ marrying----!”



“but I think,” say Bobby, “after all that’s happened----”



“no.”



“I’ll wait ten year for you,” say Bobby, “on the chance of your

alter your mind.”



“you be the dear comforter,” say Christina Alberta, and stop

short....



and suddenly she have put her hand upon his shoulder and clung to he

and break into a wild passion of weeping.



“wet you instead of wed you,” she sob and laugh. “oh, my

poor Bobby! you dear lover!”



she cling to he for a time. then she detach herself and stand wipe

her eye, the Christina Alberta he generally know, except for the

trace of her tear. “if woman cann’t control their emotion well,”

she say, “they’ll have to go back to Harems. we cann’t have it both

way. but I _willn’t_ marry you. there’s no man in the world I can marry.

I’m go to be a free and independent woman, Bobby. from now on.”



“but I don’t understand!” say Bobby.



“it’s not because I don’t want you to love I.”



he be baffle. “_Bobby!_” she whisper, and seem to glow.



Bobby take she back into his arm and hold she, and press his cheek

and ear against her, and kiss she and kiss she again, and it

seem to he to mark his own unworthiness that he should think at such

a time that there be no such wonderful kiss in the world as kiss

flavour with salt tear.



and yet she ben’t go to marry he! she have snatch herself back

from he and nevertheless she be in his arm.



he be enormously perplex at what be happen, but it be quite

clear that the end of his engagement be not to be the end of his

love-making. anyhow here be love. it be so manifestly the time for

love. High May rule the world. about they there be hawthorn tree

white with blossom and great bush of eld just break into flower.





§ 4



Bobby sit in the gloaming with his friend and thought of the thing

that have happen to he that day, think of Christina Alberta’s

salt tear and the incessant intriguing strangeness of her way. he

be still immensely puzzle, but now in a large, restful, content

fashion. Christina Alberta and he be not to marry it seem;

nevertheless he have kiss she and embrace she, and he be free to sit

at her foot. for a time he be not even to humiliate himself by tell

these other he be not to marry she. he say nothing. his thought and

feeling be beyond word. Christina Alberta too be darkly silent.

everyone indeed seem preoccupied. talk about the view and the star

and the coming of the nightingale, and about migratory bird and

lighthouse ramble on for a time and die away.



they be all too full for talk. the silence lengthen. he wonder

what would happen if nobody speak any more. he think of Christina

Alberta close behind he and he begin to quiver in all his being. the

silence be become oppressive. he feel as though he could no long

change his attitude. nobody stir. but Lambone save the situation.



“it be exactly six month ago to-night that Sargon die upstairs,” say

Lambone. he pause and seem to answer an unspoken question. “we don’t

know when he die exactly. he just fade out in the night.”



“I wish I could have know he,” say Margaret Means after quite a long

interval.



Bobby’s thought come round to Sargon. that still young woman sit

in the darkness behind he cease to dominate his thought. he be

move to speak, and have to cough to clear his throat.



“I hate to think of his be burn and scatter,” he say.



“it’s not so disagreeable,” say Miss Lambone, “as to think of the body

all shut up in the coffin and decaying.”



“oh, don’t!” cry Bobby. “it’s death--any death, that I hate to think

of. now when it be spring time, when the whole world be so full of

life, I remember all he be, the hope he have, and they be scatter

and disperse. anyhow they be scatter and disperse, they be not

box up and lock up and bury.... when I be here last he be like

a little boy who have just hear of the world. he be go to fly,

go to India and China, go to learn all about everything and then

do all sort of splendid thing. and there be the beastly bacteria at

work in his lung and beat his strength down and none of it be ever

to happen.... when first I hear he be dead I could not believe it.”



“_be_ he dead?” say Paul Lambone.



there be no reply to be make to that.



Paul adjust his shoulder-blade a little more comfortably against the

back of the small deep sofa on which he sit. “the more I think over

Sargon the less dead he seem to I, and the more important he become.

I don’t agree with you, Roothing. I don’t find anything futile in his

life. I think he be--symbolically--perfect. I have think about he

endlessly.”



“and talk,” say Devizes, “endlessly.”



“and give you some very helpful idea for your treatment. don’t be

ungrateful. you think that Sargon be over. he have only just begun. you

be become too professional with success, devize. you begin to take

up case and work they off and drop they out of your mind. you don’t go

on with they and learn. you don’t sit about and think about they as I

do. I continue to think about Sargon. I go on with he because he be

still a living be for I. I have get a new religion from he, the

religion of Sargonism. I declare he prophet of a new dispensation.

it be my late new religion. there will always be new religion, and

the new religion will always be the only one that matter. religion

be a live thing, and what be alive must be continually die and be

continually bear again--differently but the same.”



“you believe in immortality, Mr. Lambone,” say Miss Means. “I wish

that I could. but when I try to imagine it my wit fail I. sometimes

one seem to _feel_ what it might be. on a night like this perhaps----”



her pretty clear voice die away in the stillness as the trail of a

fall star die away.



Paul, a large dark lump on the dim pale sofa, go on speak.

“immortality,” he say, “be a mystery. one can only speak of it in dark

metaphor. how can we believe that each of our individual commonplace

life be to have an endless commonplace sequel? that be incredible

nonsense. yet we go on live after death nevertheless. when we die we

be change. all wise teacher have insist upon that. as Roothing

say, we be not box up and bury and forget. our real death be

an escape, and we escape and become--what do you say?--dispersed.

immortal life be endless consequence. our life be like line in a

great poem. it be an unfinished and yet it be a perfect poem. the line

begin and end but it have to be there, and once it be there, it be

there eternally. nothing could follow if it be not there. but every

star have not the same glory. some life, some line, stand out as more

significant than the other. they open a new branch of the subject,

they start a new point of view, they express something fresh. they be

genius, they be prophet, they be major star. Sargon be the last,

the late of these prophet, and I be his Paul. not for nothing be I

christen Paul.”



“Paul of Tarsus,” say Devizes, “be a man of energy.”



“there will always be minor difference in such parallel,” say

Lambone.



“I will tell you my doctrine,” he say.



he begin to talk in that clear miniature voice of his, which be so

like a little mouse run out of the mountain of his person, of

Sargon and his struggle with his individuality, and of the struggle

in every man between his individual life and something great that

be also in he. there be a streak of fantasy in what he be say,

a touch of burlesque in his constant use of theological and religious

phrasing, and withal a profound sincerity. in every human being, he

declare, the little laundryman battle with the King of king. he

expand and amplify his theme. ever and again Devizes would cut into

the monologue and talk for a time, not so much to make objection as to

restate and amend and amplify. the other say little. Margaret mean

twice make soft sweet sound suggestive of intellectual sensuousness,

and once Christina Alberta say “But--!” very loudly and then “never

mind. go on” and relapse for a long time into a silence that could

be feel. Bobby sit still, sometimes listen intently and sometimes

with his mind spread out like an uncared-for stream into a number of

parallel channel. the argument itself be interesting to follow, but

move at the side of that be the question of the talker’s sincerity.

how much of all this stuff do Lambone mean? how much of what he say

be of a piece with the rest of his observant, self-indulgent life, his

life as a humorous comment on a universe that be profoundly absurd?



how easily Lambone play with phrase and idea for which man have

live and die! how widely he have read and think to bring so many

thing together! he produce a great effect of erudition. the Golden

Bough he have at his finger’ end. he talk of the sacramental

mystery of half a dozen cult, from Mithraism to ritual sacrifice,

of vary idea of personality that have hold and sway human life

from Fiji to Yucatan. now he be in pre-christian Alexandria, and now

among the chinese philosopher. the “Superior Person” of Confucius he

declare be merely an example of our way of translate all chinese

phrase as ridiculously as possible; it mean really the high and

Greater Man, the Universal Man, in whom the inferior egotistical man

merge himself. it be the salvation of the Revivalist everywhere; it

be the Spiritual Man of Pauline Christianity. when the late Mr. Albert

Edward Preemby pour out all his little be into the personality of

Sargon, King of king, he be only do over again what the saint

and mystic, the religious teacher and fanatic, have do throughout

the age. he be just the Master under the Bo Tree translate into the

cockney of Woodford Wells.



presently Devizes be talk. devize be a great contrast to

Lambone. he talk a different language. he do not seem nearly so

clear and clever to Bobby as Lambone do, but he have an effect of

sincerity and solidity of conviction that Lambone lack altogether.

his intervention make all that Lambone say seem like a wild and

picturesque parody of something that be otherwise inexpressible. both

he and Lambone have an air of cast verbal net for some truth that

still elude they. and yet this truth so remotely and imperfectly

apprehend be for each of they the most important thing in life.



“strip of its theological trapping,” Devizes say to Lambone, “your

new religion be simply a statement of this. that our race have reach,

and be now recede, from a maximum of _individuation_. that it turn

now towards synthesis and co-operation. it will move back towards what

you call Sargon, the great ruler, and it will swallow up individual

egotistical man in its common aim. as already scientific work swallow

they up. or good administrative work. or art. that be what you be

say.”



“exactly,” say Paul Lambone. “if we _must_ talk your language,

devize, and not mine. art, science, public service, creative work of

every sort, these be part of what you, I suppose, would call the race

mind, part of the race life. every man who matter be a fresh thought,

a fresh idea. he be himself still, it be true, but his significance be

that he come out of his past and out of his condition and he flow on

to further man. this be the new realization that be change all the

value in human life. it be happen everywhere. even in the book and

reading of to-day you can see the thing happen. history now become

more important than biography. what make up the whole of life in the

romantic past; the love story, the treasure story, the career, get

on, make a fortune, the personal deed and victory, the sacrifice for

an individual friend or love or leader; remain no long the whole

of life and sometimes not even the lead interest in life. we be

pass into a new way of living, into a new sort of life, into new

relationship. the world which seem for a time not to be change any

more be change very swiftly ... in its mental substance.”



“new sort of people,” say Bobby softly, and go off from listen

to lambone’s lucid little voice into a final recapitulation of the

puzzle thing Christina Alberta have say and do that day.





§ 5



Bobby be recall to the matter of the talk by a movement in the chair

behind he.



lambone’s smooth voice be explain: “so that it do not matter so

much what we achieve as what we contribute. that cherish personal

life which man and woman struggle to round off and make noble and

perfect, disappear from the scheme of thing. what matter more and

more be the work one do. what matter less and less be our personal

romance and our personal honour. or rather our honour will go out of we

into our work. our love affair, our devotion and private passion,

for example, will fall more and more definitely into a subordination

to our science or whatever our function be. our romance and our fame

and honour will join our vice among the thing we suppress. there be

a time when man live for a noble tomb and in order to leave sweet and

great memory behind they; soon it will matter nothing to a man and

his work to know that he will probably die in a ditch--misunderstood.

so long as he get the work do.”



“with no last Judgment ever to vindicate he,” say Devizes.



“that will not matter in the least to he.”



“I agree. some of we begin to feel like that even now.”



“even if one have do nothing worth do,” say Paul Lambone, and in

his voice be that faint quality of the sigh of one who have crown a

rather difficult and uncertain card castle, “even if Sargon have die

unrescued in his Asylum and all the world have think he mad, all the

same he would have escape, his imagination would have touch the

imagination of the great life.”



come a pause of edification and then a sigh of satisfaction from Miss

Lambone. she never understand in the least what her brother be talk

about, but she adore he when he talk. nobody she think have ever

talk like he, or could possibly talk like he. his voice be so

clear and bright, like the good sort of print. only sometimes you

wish you have spectacle.



but now Miss Lambone be to receive a shock. Christina Alberta suddenly

come out of the silence in which she have be sit.



“I don’t believe in this,” say Christina Alberta out of the depth of

her chair.



Bobby be begin to know the voice of Christina Alberta very well;

and he know now that she be terrify at have to talk, and at the

same time desperately resolve to get something say. he know too that

she be grip hard at the arm of her chair. he glance at Devizes

and in that instant the lighthouse beam touch his face and Bobby

see it very intent, watch Christina Alberta steadily and as if

forgetful of all other thing. it be intent and tender and tenderly

apprehensive, grave and very pale in that white illumination. when the

light have pass away Bobby still seem to see that face, but now

conversely it be a face of ebony.



“I do not believe in _any_ of this,” say Christina Alberta.



she pause with the effect of marshal her argument. “it be

theology, I suppose,” she say. “or mysticism. it be all an

intellectual game that man have play to comfort themselves. man

rather than woman. it make no real difference. tragedy _be_ tragedy,

failure _be_ failure, death be death.”



“but be there ever complete failure?” ask Lambone.



“suppose,” say Christina Alberta, “suppose a man be throw into prison

and misrepresent to all the world, suppose he be take away presently

and make to dig his own grave, and shoot at the edge of it and bury

and then lie about for a time and forget. it ben’t part of the race

that be murder, it ben’t a wonderful thing that pass on; it be a

man who have be kill and make away with. your mysticism be just an

attempt to dodge the desolation of that. it don’t. such thing have

happen. they happen to-day. in Russia. in America. everywhere. man

be just wipe out, body and soul, hope and will. that man and his

black personal universe be do with and over, and there be an end

to his business; he be beat and wipe out, and all the clever talk

upon easy sofas in the warm twilight will not alter that one jot. it

be frustration. if I be frustrate I be frustrate, if I have desire

and dream and they be defeat and die, I die. it be play with

word to say I do not die or that they be change and sublimated and

carry on into something well.”



“my dear,” say Miss Lambone to Miss Means. “you be sure you be not

feel cold?” her voice convey a faint intimation that she would

cease to be acutely interested in the talk if this chit of a girl

intervene any far in the discussion, and that she would begin to

do thing with wrap and shawl and break up the meeting.



“I’m perfectly happy, dear,” Miss Means answer. “all this--! I wish

it could go on for ever.”



but Christina Alberta disregard Miss Lambone’s warning. she have

something to say and there be some one she want to say it to, not

too pointedly, not too plainly.



“all this theology, this religion, the new religion that be only the

old one paint over----”



“reborn,” say Paul.



“paint over. I don’t want they. but that be not what I want to say.

what I want to say be that you be wrong about my daddy, you be quite

wrong about he. that I do know. Mr. Lambone have dress he up to suit

his own philosophy. he have that philosophy long before he know he. and

you talk my daddy over and put Mr. Lambone’s idea into he when he

be beat and break because they suit his case. they ben’t there

before. I know he and exactly how he think. I be bring up on he.

he talk to I more than to anyone. and it be all nonsense to talk of

he--his exaltation, as be like the great soul come like the tidal

sea into the pool of the little soul. it don’t. when he say he be

Lord of the World he want to be Lord of the World. he don’t want to

incorporate any other people at all--or be incorporate. he be just

as exclusively himself when he be Sargon as when he be Albert Edward

Preemby. more so.... and I believe that be how it be with all of we.”



she go on rather hurriedly, for she know there be force there very

ready to silence she.



“I want to be myself and nothing else. I want the world--for myself.

I want to be a goddess in the world. it do not matter that I be an

ugly girl with natural bad manner. it do not matter that it be

impossible. that be what I want. that be what I be make to want. one

may get moment anyhow. a moment of glory be well than none....

I believe that sort of thing be what you all want really. you just

persuade yourself you don’t. and you call that religion. I don’t

believe anyone have ever believe religion from the beginning. Buddhism,

Christianity, this fantastic sargonism, this burlesque religion you

invent to make an evening’s talk, they be all consolation and

patching-up--bandage and wooden leg. People have try to believe in

such religion no doubt. broken people. but because we cannot satisfy

the desire of our heart--why should we cry ‘sour grape’ at they?



“I don’t want to serve--anything or anybody. I may be head for

frustration, the universe may be a system of frustration, but that

don’t alter the fact that this be how I feel about it. I may be

defeat; it may be certain that I shall be defeat--but as for

bring a contrite heart out of the mess and start again as a good

little part of something--I _don’t_ fink. oh, I know I beat my hand

against a wall. it’s not my fault. why don’t we take? oh, why don’t we

dare?”



Miss Lambone stir and rustle.



the darkness that be Devizes speak to Christina Alberta, and Miss

Lambone become still.



“we don’t take and we don’t dare,” he say, “we don’t defy law and

custom because there be other thing in our life, _in_ we and not

outside we, that be more important to we. that be why. it please Paul

to dress up his view of these thing in old mystical phrasing, but

what he say be really an unscientific way of put psychological

fact. you think you be simple, but you be really complex. you be the

individual but you be the race also. that be your nature and mine and

everyone’s. the more our intelligence awaken the more we know that.”



“but it be the difference that be distinctively I, and not the

general part. the race in I be no more to I than the ground I walk

on. I be Christina Alberta; I be not Woman or Mankind. as Christina

Alberta, I want and I want and I want. and when the door be slam

upon my imagination I cry out against it. why pretend I give up a

thing because I cann’t have it? why make a glory of renunciation and

let-go? I hate the idea of self-sacrifice. what be the good of

come into the world as Christina Alberta just in order to sacrifice

be Christina Alberta? what be the good of be different if one be

not to live a different life?”



unexpectedly Miss Lambone intervene, “the life of a woman be one long

sacrifice,” she say.



there be a pause.



“but we have the vote now?” say Christina Alberta almost flippantly.

“why be a woman’s life sacrifice?”



“think of the child we bear,” say Miss Lambone in a constrain

voice.



“_well!_” say Christina Alberta, and suppress some scandalous remark.



“the most astonishing thing about we,” she break out again, after a

pause; “the most astonishing thing in the feminine make-up be that

hardly any of we _do_ seem to want child. a lot of we anyhow don’t.

now that I be begin to learn something about biology, I realize how

marvellous that be. as a race of creature specialize for child,

we ought to be eat up by the desire for child. as a matter of

fact most modern woman will do anything to avoid have child. we

dread they. to I they seem like a swarm of hidden dwarf, prepare to

come upon I and eat up my whole existence. it’s not simply I don’t

want they; I live in fear of they. love we _may_ want. many of we do.

intensely. we want to love and be love--to get close and near to

some one. it’s a delusion I suppose. one of Nature’s clumsy trick.

it be all a delusion. he vanish--he be never there. under the old

condition it avail; it get the child Nature want. but we

don’t think of child. we don’t want to think about they. there it

be! and anyway child do not take a woman out of her egotism; they

only extend and intensify it. I have know intelligent girl marry

and have child, and when the baby appear their mind evaporate.

they become creature of instinct, mess about with napkin. I could

scream at the thought of it. no, I be an egoist pure and simple. I be

Christina Alberta, and her only. I be not Sargon. I refuse altogether

to mix with that promiscuous anybody-nobody.”



“after all that may only be a phase in your development,” say Devizes.



“it be the only one I know.”



“that be evident. but I assure you, Christina Alberta, that this revolt

and distress of yours be a phase. you be talk rebellion and egoism

and anarchism as a healthy baby scream to get breath into its lung,

and escape from the stuffiness of old air. the baby don’t know why it

scream and no doubt find some dim little grievance in its brain----”



“go on,” say Christina Alberta. “chastise I and chastise I.”



it seem to Bobby that there be tear in her voice.



“no, but you be so young, my dear,” say Devizes.



my dear!



“not so young. not so actually young,” cry Christina Alberta.



“if I live to be eighty,” say Christina Alberta, “shall I ever be able

to feel more than I be feel now? why will you always treat I like a

child nowadays?”



“feel ben’t the only measure,” say Devizes. “even now, to-night,

you be talk below your belief. you be not an egoistic

adventurer. you take side on a score of matter. you insist you be a

communist for example.”



“oh! just to smash up thing,” say Christina Alberta. “just to smash

up everything.”



“no. you say that to-night, but you have tell I differently before.

you have a care for the world. you want to help forward the common

interest. you develop a passion for scientific truth. well--there’s no

way of fencing in your individuality from other mind in science or in

public affair. you’re a part by necessity; you cann’t be a complete

whole. you find already you cann’t keep away from these thing. they

will take you more and more, whether you like it or not, because it be

the spirit of the time. that be what be happen to we all. you cann’t

escape. our work, our part, be the first thing in our life. to that,

pride must bow now and passion and romance. we have to slam and lock

and bar the door against all personal passion that might wreck our

work. bar it and put it out of your mind. as a secondary thing. work.

give the great thing a chance to keep you.”



“that’s all very well.”



“it’s everything.”



“why _should_ they keep I?” come from Christina Alberta, sullenly and

resolutely.



“I know that this be your faith,” she say. “you tell I all about it.

you’ve always tell I about it.” Bobby’s quick ear detect a change in

her voice “do you remember our first talk together? do you remember our

talk in Lonsdale Mews? when we dine together at that italian place?

that night. just after we have find each other.”



find each other?



“but I do not know then that your faith mean all the suppression and

sacrifice and discretion it seem to do. I think it be something

robust and bold. I do not understand its--qualification. but since

then we have argue about these thing and argue. that day at Kew

Gardens. that day when you take I for that walk over the down to

Shere. we have thresh thing out. why should we argue again? I be

give in--what can I do but give in?--and soon I will be a Sargonite

with you and Paul. but not this summer. not now. this night--this

wonderful first night of summer. to-night I rebel against any

renunciation, any fobbing-off of individual with second-good thing.

I be go to be impossible and absurd. for the last time. I want the

world from the star to the bottom of the sea for myself, for my own

hungry self. and all between. the precious thing between. the love....

_there!_”



Vague question appear and vanish again on the screen of Bobby’s

mind. what have Christina Alberta renounce? what be she renounce?

what be anyone renounce? and have his ear cheat he, or have

Devizes call she, “my dear”? in front of Margaret Means and in face

of all the circumstance of the case it seem to Bobby that devize

be the last person who ought to call Christina Alberta “my dear.”

and what be this about “fob-off”? be this really a shameless

plainness of speech, an atrocious confession, or something that he

misunderstood?



Miss Lambone stir uneasily.



it be as if an evil spirit possess Christina Alberta. “oh, _damn_

renunciation!” she say with bitter gusto.



they seem to be sit for some moment in a profound silence, and

then the nightingale become very audible.





§ 6



“I think,” say Miss Lambone in the silence, “that it be get just a

_leetle_ chilly.”



“it be so beautiful here,” say Miss Means, who be warm in Miss

Lambone’s shawl. “perfectly beautiful.



“how you can talk of frustration--!” she add, and leave her sentence

incomplete.



“I think,” say Miss Lambone, “that I shall go in and light the

candle. it be too wonderful a night for the electric light, far too

wonderful. we will just light the candle and the fire. and perhaps you

will play we something beautiful. these be such marvellous fire-place

here that they blaze up at once. I don’t know if you have notice

they--a new sort. the fire be all on the hearth--no draught below, but

the shape of the back draw it up.



“I love a wood fire,” say Miss Lambone, and sigh and rise slowly and

voluminously.





§ 7



two day later Bobby come into one of the little study on the garden

side of Paul Lambone’s house. Paul have find out that Bobby want a

few day of uninterrupted thought in which to begin his novel, and have

ask he to stay on after the other guest have return to London.

it be a perfect room for a writer of Bobby’s temperament; it have a

low writing-table close to the sill of the casemente window, and

on the sill be a silver bowl of forget-I-not and white tulip. a

little glass-pan door release one into the garden without one’s

have to go back through the house. the writing-table have everything

a fastidious writer could desire, a pleasant paper-rack and wafer,

and real quill pen, and plenty of elbow room. the chair he sit in be

an arm-chair, immensely comfortable but not too luxurious; no hint

of repose in it but only a completely loyal support for a work

occupant. a garden path run up hill from the window, a garden path

skirt by wonderful cluster of pansy. on either side of the pansy

be rose bush, and though not a rosebud be show, yet the fresh

green leave, tinge with ruddy brown, be very exquisite in the

light.



he stand look up the path for a time and then sit down and draw the

writing-pad towards he. he take one of those delightful quill, test

the delicious flexibility of its point, dip it in the ink and write

in his very neat and beautiful handwriting:



  UPS and DOWNS



  _a Pedestrian Novel_



  BY ROBERT ROOTHING



  CHAPTER the FIRST



  which introduce our HERO



he write this very readily because it be very familiar to he. from

first to last he have write it on fair fresh sheet of paper perhaps

half a dozen time.



then he stop short and sit quite still with his head on one side.

then very neatly he correct “which introduce” into “in which we

introduce.”



it be nearly two year now since he have first begin his novel in

this fashion, and he be still quite uncertain about the detail

of his hero’s introduction. his original intention about the story

still float pleasantly in the sky of his mind; a promise of a happy

succession of fine, various and delightful adventure, tell easily

and good-humouredly; the fortune of a kindly, unpretending, not too

brave but brave enough young man, on his way through the world, to live

happily afterwards with a delicious young woman. “Picaresque” be the

magic word. none of these adventure have as yet assume a concrete form

in his mind. he feel they would come to he definitely enough one day.

if one sit and muse one half see they, and that be assurance enough

for he. and so having rewrite his title page neatly and prettily, he

fall into a day-dream and be presently think round and about his

Christina Alberta as a good hero should.



Bobby be always be puzzle by Christina Alberta, always come

upon something that seem to clear up everything, and then be

puzzle again. but now it seem to he that he really do know the

last fact of importance that be to be know about she. Overnight Paul

Lambone have describe how he have take she to Devizes to get advice,

and how they have blunder upon the reality of her parentage. he tell

his story well as a story-writer should; he give it dramatic point.

evidently he tell the tale of set intention, because it be time Bobby

know. lambone be aware of Christina Alberta’s engagement. he do not

know and nobody but Bobby know that she never intend to be marry.

but this, it seem to Bobby, make the understanding of her situation

possible; explain that watchful tenderness of Devizes’ face suddenly

betray by the light of his inadvertent “my dear”; explain she

position as though she belong to he and Paul Lambone instead of

be a rather unaccountable visitor; excuse her vehement jealousy of

Margaret Means, because evidently she have become violently possessive

of her father, and have count perhaps upon recognition and be very

much with he. no doubt Margaret Means stand in the way of that. it

be natural for Christina Alberta to want to be with Devizes and work

with he, and natural for she to suspect and anticipate and resent an

intervene personality. apart from the magic of kinship it be natural

that two such subtle and abundant personality should attract each

other greatly. that Devizes should have decide quite abruptly to marry

Margaret Means do not present any difficulty to Bobby; he be not

think very closely about Devizes. Margaret Means be pretty enough

for anyone to want to marry she. there be time, as Bobby know, when

that sweet prettiness can stab one like an arrow. it have evidently

stab and win Devizes. and almost the only thing that give Bobby

a second thought, but no more than a second thought, be Christina

Alberta’s fluctuation of purpose, why she should have consent to

marry he and then have change her mind so quickly and definitely and

yet have retain he as a lover.



that resolution not to marry seem after all just a part of her

immense modernity. because of all this group of “new people” in which

he find she, she seem to Bobby to be in every way the new.

she be the bold enterprise in live he have ever meet. her flare

of hungry rebel individuality fascinate he. where in this world

be she go? would she win out to this free personal life she

desire or would she fail to find an objective of work and come upon

disappointment and solitude like some creature that have stray? the

world have terrify Bobby in his own person greatly; it terrify he

still more when he think of this valiant little figure go out to

challenge it.



Bobby be naturally, inherently, afraid; his instinct be for security,

protection, kindliness and help. he cling to his “Aunt Suzannah” job

for safety. he don’t believe Christina Alberta know one tenth of the

danger she run of insult, defeat, humiliation, neglect, repulse,

fatigue and lonely distress. his imagination present a tormenting

picture of she away there in dark, confused, immense and blundering

London, as an excessively fragile figure, light on its foot, shock-head

erect, arm akimbo, unaware of monstrous ambush danger. now that

he begin to understand she, he begin to understand a great number of

bright-eye, adventurous, difficult young woman he have meet in the last

few year, and he have his first dim realization of the meaning of the

deep wide stir among womankind that have win they vote and a score of

unprecedented freedom.



many of these young woman be do their work and hold their

own exactly like man. they be paint and draw like man, write

criticism like man, write play and novel like man, lead

movement, do scientific work, play a part in politic. like

man? on reflection--not exactly. no. they still keep different. but

they don’t do their thing in any fashion one could call womanly.

without add strange new meaning to “womanly.” the novel they be

write interested he immensely. People like Stella Benson write

book like--anybody; you could not tell from her work whether she be

a man or a woman. all that again be new. George Eliot perhaps be a

precursor. perhaps. the former sort of woman’s writing, when they

be not “pretty me” book, be “kindly auntie” book; you hear the

petticoat swish in every page.



Sexless, these new one? Bobby weigh the word. the early generation

of woman who want to be emancipate suppress sex, suppress it so

fiercely that its negative presence become the dominant factor in their

life. they cease to be positive woman; they become fantastically

negative woman. but this new multitude be not so much repressing as

forget their sex, make little of it. Christina Alberta have in

a way make nothing of her sex, not by struggle against it, but by

make it cheap for herself as a man make it cheap for himself--so

that it be a thing of mere intermittent mood and impulse for

she--and she could go on to other thing.



go on to other thing. his imagination recur to that little

figure resolve to conquer the world for itself in defiance of every

tradition.



there be a strong urgency in he to start off to London in pursuit

of she, to hover about she, intervene, protect she and carry she off

to security. he know she wouldn’t permit that sort of thing to happen

anyhow. he’d have to be just a friend and companion to she, be at hand

for she, and if she do encounter some disaster, stand by she.



it be a queer thing that he should want to stand by this unsexed

young woman. it be just what one would not expect; it be part,

perhaps, of the immense biological change of the time. in the past

the specie have need half the race specialize for child-bearing and

child-rearing; now plainly it don’t. the tremendous and worshipful

dignity of wife and mother be not for all woman any long. that would

remain for a certain sort of they to take up if they would. but a vast

multitude of woman be bear now to miss that. some would become pretty

nuisance who would presently cease to be pretty, parasite on love and

the respect for motherhood; sham, simulacra. other would break away

to a real individual life--a third sex. perhaps in the new world there

would cease to be two sex only; there would be recognize variety

and subdivision. so Bobby speculate. for just as there be woman who

do not want to bear child, so there be man who do not want to

lord it over wife and child.



they would want to love all the same. every individual of a social

specie need love; to fail in that need be to escape out of social

life to lonely futility. “mutual comfort,” Bobby quote. in his past

Bobby have dream of the love of child. even now he remember as

a fact that he have dream particularly of a little girl of his own

that he could protect and explore. but now the thought and interest of

Christina Alberta have blot that out. it be extraordinary to he

to perceive how possessed he be by she. he could endure no prospect

of life just now unless it be to include Christina Alberta as its

principal fact. but he’d be no use to she unless she respect he.

he couldn’t hope to stand subordinate to she, any more than he could

hope to be her master. in the latter case she’d rebel; in the former,

she’d despise. they would have to stand side by side. and since she be

clever, able and resolve to work hard and distinguish herself, he must

word hard and also distinguish himself too. he have to be her equal and

remain and keep himself she equal....



that, in fact, be why he be go to write a great novel--not just a

novel but a great one.



he look again at the neatly write page. “Ups and Downs,” he read.

“a Pedestrian novel.”



it dawn upon he that there be something profoundly wrong about that.



it be to have be a story of wander about in the world that be;

the story of the happy adventure of a well temper mind in a well

understand scheme of thing. but Bobby be begin to realize that

there be not, and there never have be, a world that be; there be

only a world that have be and a world that be to be. “new people,”

whisper Bobby, and dip a quill in the ink and make a border of

dot round his title. then suddenly he cross out those three word

“Ups and Downs” and write instead, “New Country.”



“that might be the title of any novel that matter,” say Bobby.



he muse deeply. then he alter the sub-title to “the history of an

Explorer.”



he scratch out “Explorer.”



“involuntary traveller,” say Bobby.



finally he put back “a pedestrian novel” as his sub-title....



he become aware of an intermittent dull tapping, and follow the

sound discover a thrush try to break up a snail on the gravel

path. but the gravel path be too fine and soft to give a firm anvil

for the beating. “the silly bird ought to find a brick or a potsherd,”

say Bobby and reflect. “I suppose all the flower-pot be shut up in

the shed....



“I don’t like to see that bird waste the morning and be

disappoint....



“it wouldn’t take a minute....”



he get up, let himself out by the little glass door beside the window

and go to find a brick. presently he return with it.



but he do not go back into the study because while he have be

look for the brick, he have see a young blackbird which have get

under the strawberry netting, and be evidently scare out of its

silly wit. so he go back to see about the blackbird. the minute

pass and he do not reappear. perhaps he have find some other

fellow-creature in trouble.



presently a little breeze blow into the study through the open glass

door, and lift the sheet of paper which be to introduce our hero,

and waft it softly and suggestively on to the unlit wood fire upon

the hearth. there it lie for a long time.









TRANSCRIBER’S note:





  italicize text be surround by underscore: _italic_.



  superscripted character be precede by a carat character: n^{th}.



  obvious typographical error have be correct.



  inconsistency in hyphenation have be standardize.



  archaic or variant spelling have be retain.



  no attempt have be make to regularize dialect.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRISTINA ALBERTA'S FATHER ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





