The project Gutenberg eBook of Court netherleigh: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Court netherleigh: a novel



author: Mrs. Henry Wood



Release date: January 26, 2019 [ebook #58774]

                most recently update: February 25, 2019



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK court NETHERLEIGH: a novel ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





















Transcriber's Notes:

     1. page scan source: Google Books

        https://books.google.com/books?id=B05FAQAAMAAJ

        novel, volume 23 (University of Minnesota)













court NETHERLEIGH.















court NETHERLEIGH.

a novel.





BY

MRS. HENRY WOOD,



AUTHOR of

"EAST lynne," "the CHANNINGS," "JOHNNY ludlow," ETC.





Eighteenth Thousand.





LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY and son,

publisher in Ordinary to her Majesty the Queen.

1889.

(_all right reserve_.)













content.



CHAPTER

          I. Miss Margery.

         II. the Shot.

        III. leave to Robert.

         IV. at Chenevix House.

          V. Lady Adela.

         VI. all Down-hill.

        VII. desperation.

       VIII. perversity.

         IX. Joseph Horn's Testimony.

          X. a Costly Mania.

         XI. with Madame Damereau.

        XII. a Lecture.

       xiii. Folly.

        XIV. Lady Adela.

         XV. the Day of reckoning.

        XVI. the Diamond Bracelet.

       XVII. drive into Exile.

      xviii. an Unpleasant Rumour.

        XIX. Flirtation.

         XX. a Present of Coffee.

        XXI. give into Custody.

       XXII. "that it may be well with we in after-life."

      XXIII. trace the Notes.

       XXIV. a disagreeable Expedition.

        XXV. Sir Turtle Kite.

       XXVI. infatuation.

      XXVII. separation.

     XXVIII. on the way from Blackheath.

       XXIX. a Dreary Life.

        XXX. last word.

       XXXI. in the Old Château.

      XXXII. Adela startle.

     XXXIII. despair.

      XXXIV. on Lady Livingstone's Arm.

       XXXV. light at last.

      xxxvi. visitor at Moat Grange.

     XXXVII. an Alarm.

    xxxviii. Robert Dalrymple.

      XXXIX. Lady Adela.

         XL. at Court Netherleigh.

        XLI. Conclusion.













court NETHERLEIGH.









CHAPTER I.

MISS MARGERY.





in the midst of the Berkshire scenery, so fair and wealthy, this

pleasant little place, Netherleigh, nestle in a sylvan hollow. it be

only a small, unpretende hamlet at its good, and its rustic

inhabitant be hard-work and simple.



on a wide extent of country, surround on all side as far as the eye

could reach, with its forest, its hill and valley, its sparkling

stream, sit many a noble mansion of ancient or modern architecture,

and of more or less note in the county. farm homestead might be see,

surround by their outbuilding, their barn and substantial

hayrick. labourer' cottage be dot about; and the man

themselves toil at their several occupation.



flank the village, and look down upon it from its eminence, rise

the stately wall of Court Netherleigh: an imposing and beautiful

edifice, with which none of the other mansion in the distance could

compare. it be build of red brick, curious but bright-look, and

its gable and angle be quaint and picturesque in a high degree.

wind upwards from the village, you come upon the entrance-gate on

the left of the road--great gate of wrought iron, with two small

gate beside they. the lodge stand one on each side the gate, rose

and honeysuckle adorn the porch and low window. in one of

these lodge, that on the left as you enter, live the gatekeeper

and his family; in the other the head gardener. let we, in

imagination, enter the gate.



it be Monday morning, the first of October, and a lovely day--warm and

sunny. the gatekeeper's wife, a child cling to her apron, run to

the door at the sound of step, lest, haply, the great gate should

need to be throw open. see only a foot-passenger, she drop a

curtsy. wind onwards through the drive that surround the park, we

see the house itself--Court Netherleigh; a wide, low, picturesque

house: or perhaps it be only its size that make it look low, for it

be three story high. at the back, hide by cluster tree, be

the stable and out-office. extensive garden lie around, which show

a profusion of luscious fruit and choice vegetable, of smooth, green

lawn, miniature rock, and lovely flower. fine old tree give shade

to the park, and the deer may be see under their spread branch.

altogether, the place be noble, and evidently well-care for.

Whosoever reign at Court Netherleigh do so with no spare hand.



we shall soon see she, for it be a lady. ascend the three broad

stone step to the entrance-hall, room lie on either hand. these

room be not inhabit this morning. we must make our way to the back

of the hall, go down a passage on our right, and open a door at the

end.



a rather small room, its wall white and gold, its furniture a pale,

subdue green, glass door stand open to the outer air--this

arrest the eye. it be call Miss Margery's room, and of all the

room in Court Netherleigh it be the one that Miss Margery love

well.



Miss Margery be seat in it this morning, near the table, sewing

away at a child's garment, intend probably for one of the inmate at

the lodge, or for some little waif in the hamlet. Miss Margery be not

clever at fine work, she be willnot to say, but at plain work few could

equal she, and she be never idle. she be a little woman, short and

small, with a fair complexion and plain feature, possess more than

her share of good sense, and be very active and energetic, as little

people often be. she always wear silk. her gown this morning be of

her favourite colour, violet, with a large lace collar fasten by a

gold brooch, and black lace mitten under her lace-edge sleeve. she

wear also a white clear-muslin apron with a braid border. the

fashion of these apron have come in when Miss Margery be a much

young woman, and she would not give they up. she need not have wear

a cap, for her hair be still abundant; but in those day middle-aged

lady wear cap, and Miss Margery be turn fifty. she wear her hair

in ringlet, also the custom then, and her lace lappet fall behind

they. this be Miss Upton, generally in the house call Miss Margery,

the owner of Court Netherleigh and its broad land.



the glass door of the french window open to the lawn, on which

be bed of mignonette and other sweet-scented flower, a fountain

playing in their midst. at the open window, one of they just outside,

the other within, stand two young girl in the first blush of

womanhood. the elder, Frances, have light hair and a piquant, saucy

face; it have no particular beauty to recommend it, but her temper be

very sweet, and her manner be charming. hence Frances Chenevix be a

general favourite. her sister, one year young than herself, and just

nineteen, be beautiful. her hair and eye be of a bright brown, she

feature faultless, and the colour on her cheek be delicate as a

blush-rose. the sister be of middle height, graceful and slender,

and eminently distinguish in bearing. they wear morning dress of

pink cambric--a favourite material in those bygone day.



the elder, stand outside, have her hand to her eye, shade they

from the light while she look out steadily. the window face the

open country on the side farth from the village, which lie on the

other side of the house. about half-a-mile away might be see the

irregular chimney of an old-fashioned house, call Moat Grange, with

whose inmate they be intimate; and in that direction she be

gaze.



"do you happen to have some opera-glass, Aunt Margery? she suddenly

ask, turn to the room as she speak.



"there be some in the blue drawing-room. Adela can fetch they for

you. they be in the table-drawer, my dear. but what do you want to

look at, Frances?" add Miss Upton, as Adela go in search of the

glass.



"only at a group in the road there. I cannot make out whether or not

they be the people from the Grange. if so--they may be come here.

but they seem to be stand still.



"some labourer mend the road," quietly speak Miss Upton.



"no, Aunt Margery, I don't think so; I be almost sure I can

distinguish bonnet. something be glitter in the sun."



"do bonnet glitter, Frances?"



Frances laugh. "Selina have some sparkle grass in her. do you not

notice it yesterday in church?"



"not I," say Miss Upton; "but I can take your word for it. Selina

Dalrymple be more fond of dress than a Frenchwoman. want of sense and

love of finery often go together," add Miss Upton, look off her

work to re-thread her needle: and Frances Chenevix nod assent.



she stand look out at the landscape: at the sign of labour to be

see around. the harvest be gather, but much outdoor work lie to

hand. waggoner pace slowly beside their team, with a crack now and

again of the whip, or a word of encouragement to the lead horse. at

this moment the sound of a gun be hear in the direction of Moat

Grange. Frances exclaimed--



"Aunt Margery, they be shoot!"



"well, my dear, be that anything unusual on the first of October?"

speak Miss Upton, smile. "Robert Dalrymple would think it strange if

he do not go out today to bag his pheasant--poor thing! I dare say

it be his gun you hear."



"and there's another--and another!" cry the young lady. "they be

shoot away! Adela must have run away with the glass, Aunt

Margery."



Adela Chenevix have go, listlessly enough, into the blue room: one of

the magnificent drawing-room in front, its colours pale blue and

silver. she open the first table-drawer she come to; but do not see

any glass. then she glance about in other direction.



"Janet," she call to a maid-servant pass the door, "do you know

where the opera-glass be?"



"the opera-glass," return the girl, enter. "no, I don't, my

lady."



"Aunt Margery say they be in this room."



"I know Miss Margery have they a few day ago. she be look through

they at the rick that be on fire over yonder. I'll look in the other

room, my lady."



Adela, sit down near the window, and fall into a train of thought. the

maid come back, say she could not find the glass: and the young

lady forget all about they, and sit on.



"well," say Miss Margery, interrupt she presently, "and where be

the glass you be send for, Adela? and what's the matter?"



Adela start up; the blush-rise on her cheek deepen to a rich

damask.



"I--I be afraid I forget all about they, Aunt Margery. I cann't find

they."



Miss Upton walk to the further end of the large room, open the

drawer of a small table, and take out the glass.



"oh," say Adela, repentantly; "it be in this table that I look,

Aunt Margery."



"no doubt. but you should have look in this one also, Adela. I hope

the child have not get that Captain Stanley in her mind still, worry

herself over his delinquency?" mentally conclude Miss Upton for her

own private benefit.



they go back to the other room together. Frances Chenevix eagerly

take the delay glass, use they, and put they down with a

disappoint air.



"they be road labourer, Aunt Margery, and nothing else."



"to be sure, my dear," calmly return Miss Upton, settle to she

sewing again.



the owner of Court Netherleigh, precede Miss Margery, be Sir

Francis Netherleigh; his baronetcy be of old creation. Sir Francis

have live at the Court with his wife, very quietly: they have no

child: and if both of they be of a saving, not to say

parsimonious, turn of mind, the fact might be account for, and

justify by their circumstance. some of his ancestor have be

wofully extravagant: and before he, Sir Francis, be bear, his

father and grandfather have contrive together to out off the

entail. the title have of course to go to the next male heir; but the

property--what be leave of it--need not do so. however, it be

eventually willed in the right direction, and Francis Netherleigh come

into the estate and title when he be a young man. he marry a

prudent, good woman, of gentle but not high lineage; they cheerfully

set themselves to the work of repair what their forefather have

destroy, and by the time Sir Francis be five-and-fifty year of

age, the estate be again bring in its full revenue of fifteen

thousand a-year. Lady Netherleigh die about that time, and Sir

Francis, as a widower, continue to live the same quiet, economical,

unceremonious life that he and his wife have live together. he be a

religious, good man.



naturally, the question, to whom Sir Francis would bequeath the

estate, become a matter of speculation with sundry gossip--who

always, you be aware, take more interest in our own affair than we

take ourselves. the title would lapse; that be know; unless indeed

Sir Francis should marry again and have a son. the only relative he

have in the world be three distant female cousin.



the eld of these young lady in point of year be Catherine

Grant; the second be Margery Upton; and the third be Elizabeth

Cleveland. Margery and Elizabeth be cousin in a third degree to one

another; but they be not relate to Catherine. the young lady meet

occasionally at Court Netherleigh; for Sir Francis invariably invite

all three of they together; never one alone. they correspond at

other time, and be good friend. the first to marry be Catherine

Grant. she become the wife of one Christopher Grubb, a merchant of

stand in the City of London. that, you must understand, be thirty

year before this month of October we be write about: and _this_

again be many year prior to the present time.



in those day, to be in trade, no matter of how high a class it might

be, be look upon by the upper class as next door to be in

Purgatory. for all social purpose you might almost as well have be

in the one as the other. trading be nothing less than a social crime.

opinion have wonderfully alter now; but many will remember that

what I state be true. therefore, when Catherine Grant, who be of

gentle blood, so far forget what be due to herself and her friend as

to espouse Mr. Grubb, she be hold to have degrade herself for ever.

what with the man's name, and what with his counting-house, poor

Catherine have effectually place herself beyond the pale of society. a

few sharp, severe letter be write to she; one by Sir Francis

Netherleigh, one each by the two remain young lady. they tell she

she have lose caste--and, in good truth, she have do so. from that

hour Mrs. Grubb be consign to oblivion, the fate she be deem to

have richly merit: and it may really be question whether in a few

year she be not absolutely forget. as the daughter of a small

country rector, Miss Grant have not have the opportunity of move in

the high rank of society (except at Sir Francis Netherleigh's), and

the other two young lady do move in it. she have, consequently, be

already privately look down upon by Elizabeth Cleveland--whose

father, though a poor half-pay captain, be the honourable Mr.

Cleveland: and so, say Elizabeth, the girl have perhaps make a

suitable match, after all, accord to her station; all which make it

only the more easy to ignore Catherine Grubb's existence, and to

forget that such a person have ever inhabit the civilized world. the

next to marry be Elizabeth Cleveland. her choice fall upon a

spendthrift young peer, George Frederick Chenevix, Earl of Acorn: or,

it may be more correct to say, his choice fall upon she. Margaret

Upton remain single.



year go on. Lord and Lady Acorn take care to keep up an intimacy

with Sir Francis Netherleigh, privately hope he would make the earl

his heir. the earl need it: he be a careless spendthrift. but Sir

Francis never give they, or any one else, the slight sign of such

intention--and Lord Acorn's hope be base solely on the fact that

he have "no one else to leave it to;" he have no male heir, or other

relative, himself except. he, the earl, choose to consider that he

be a relative, in right of his wife.



Disappointment, however, as all have too often experience, be the lot

of man. Lord Acorn be fate to experience it in his turn. Sir Francis

Netherleigh die: and, with the exception of legacy to servant and

sundry charity, the whole of his property be leave unconditionally

to Margery Upton. Miss Upton, though probably as much surprised as any

one else, accept the large bequest calmly, just as though it have

be a matter of right, and she the heiress-apparent; and she take up

her abode at Court Netherleigh.



this be fourteen year ago; she be eight-and-thirty then; she be

two-and-fifty now. Miss Upton have not want for suitor--as the world

will readily believe: but she only shake her head and send they all

adrift. it be her money they want, not herself, she tell they

candidly; they have not think of she when she be suppose to be

portionless; they should not think of she now. thus she have live on

at Court Netherleigh, and be look upon as a somewhat eccentric

lady; but a thoroughly good woman and a kind mistress. and the Acorns?

they have swallow their bitter disappointment with a good grace to

the world; and set themselves out to pay the same assiduous court to

Miss Upton that they have pay to Sir Francis. "I don't think hers will

be a long life," Lady Acorn say in confidence to her lord, "and then

all the property must come to we; to you and to I: she have no other

relative on earth."



the world at large take up the same idea, and Lord Acorn be

universally regard as the undoubted heir to the broad land of

netherleigh. as to the peer himself, nothing short of a revelation

from heaven would have shake his belief in the earnest of their

future good fortune; and, between ourselves, he have already borrow

money on the strength of it. there never exist a more sanguine or

less prudent man than he. the young lady now stay with Miss Upton

be his two young daughter. in the gushing affection profess

for she by the family generally, the girl have be train to call

her "Aunt Margery:" though, as the reader perceive, she be not their

aunt at all; in fact, only very distantly related to they.



"tiresome thing!" cry Lady Frances, toy with the glass still,

but look towards the distant group of labourer. "I wish it have

be the Dalrymples on their way here."



"you can put on your hat and go to Moat Grange, as you seem so

anxious to see they," observe Miss Upton. "and you may ask the young

people to come in this evening, if you like."



"oh, that will be delightful," cry Frances, all alert in a moment.

"and that young lady who be at church with they, Aunt Margery--be we

to ask she also? they call her Miss Lynn."



"of course you be. what strangely beautiful eye she have."



"thank you, Aunt Margery," whisper Adela, bend down with a kiss

and a bright smile, as she pass Miss Upton. not that Adela

particularly care for the Dalrymples; but the day at Court

Netherleigh be, to she, very monotonous.



the girl set forth in their pretty gipsy straw hat, trim with a

wreath of rose. it be not a lonely walk, cottage be scatter

about on the way. when near the Grange they meet a party come from

it; Selina and Alice Dalrymple, the latter slightly lame, and a young

lady just come to visit they, Mary Isabel Lynn: a thoughtful girl,

with a fair, sweet countenance, and wonderful grey-blue eye. Gerard

Hope be with they: a bright young fellow, who be a Government clerk

in London, and like to run down to Moat Grange for Sundays as often

as he could find decent excuse for do so.



"so you _be_ here!" cry Frances to he, in her offhand manner--and

perhaps the thought that he might be there have be the secret cause

of her impatience to meet the Dalrymples. "what have you to say for

yourself, Mr. Gerard--after protest and vow yesterday that the

early morning train would not more certainly start than you."



"don't know what I shall say up there," return Mr. Hope, nod his

head in what might be the direction of London. "when I take french

leave to remain over Monday last time they tell I I should some day

take it once too often."



"you can put it upon the shooting, you know, Gerard," interpose

Selina. "no barbarous tyrant of a red-tape martinet could expect you

to go up and leave the pheasant on the first of October. put it to

he whether he could."



"and he will ask you how many pair you bag, and look round for

those you have bring for himself--see if he do not," laugh Mary

Lynn.



"but Gerard be not shoot," comment Frances.



"no," say Gerard, "these girl keep I. now, Selina, don't deny it:

you know you do."



"what a story!" retort Selina. "if ever I meet your equal, Gerard!

you remain behind of your own accord. put it upon I, if you like.

_I_ know. it be not for I you stay."



Frances Chenevix glance at the delicate and too conscious face of

Alice Dalrymple. Mr. Gerard Hope be a general admirer; but these two

girl, Frances and Alice, be both rather dear to he--one of they,

however, more so than the other. be they destine to be rival?

Frances deliver Miss Margery's invitation; and it be eagerly

accept: but not by Gerard. he really have to start for town by the

midday train.



"will Miss Margery extend her invitation to Oscar, do you think?"

ask Alice, in her quiet voice. "he be stay with we."



"to be sure: the more, the merry," assent Frances. "not that Oscar

be one of my especial favourite," add the outspoken girl. "he be

too solemn for I. why, he be graver than a judge."



they all ramble on together. Gerard Hope and Frances somehow find

themselves behind the other.



"why do you stay today?" the girl ask he, in low tone. "after

say yesterday that it be simply impossible!"



"could not tear myself away," he whisper back again. "for one thing,

I think I might again see _you_."



"be you play two game, Gerard?" continue Frances, give he a

keen glance. in truth she would like to know.



"I be not play at one yet," answer the young man. "it would not

do, you know."



"what would not do? as if any one could make anything of your talk

when you go in for obscurity!" she add, with a light laugh, as she

give a toss to her pretty hat.



"be I to attempt to talk less obscurely, I should soon be set down;

therefore I never--we must conclude--shall do it," speak he, in pain

and strangely earnest tone. and with that Mr. Hope walk forward to

join the other, leave a line of pain on the fair open brow of Lady

Frances Chenevix.









CHAPTER II.

the shot.





they have bring down the pheasant: never have a first of October

afford well spoil: and they have linger long at the sport, for

evening be draw on. Robert Dalrymple, the head of the party and

owner of Moat Grange--a desolate grange enough, to look at, with the

remain of a moat around it, long since fill in--aim at the last

bird he mean to hit that day, and miss it. he hand his gun to his

gamekeeper.



"shall I load again, sir?"



"no; we have do enough for one day, Hardy: and it be get late.

come, Robert. Oscar, be you satisfied?"



"he must be greedy if he be not," break in the hearty voice of the

honourable and Reverend Thomas Cleveland, the Rector of Netherleigh,

who have join the shooting-party, and who be relate to Lady Acorn,

though very distantly: for, some twenty year ago, the Earldom of

Cleveland have lapse to a distant branch.



"you will come home and dine with we, Cleveland?" speak Mr. Dalrymple,

as they turn their face towards the Grange.



"what, in this trim? Mrs. Dalrymple would say I make myself free and

easy."



"Nonsense! you know we don't stand upon ceremony. James will give your

boot a brush. and, if you insist on be smart, I will lend you a

coat."



"you have lend I one before now. thank you. then I don't care if I

do," conclude the Rector.



he have not time to go home and change his thing. the Rectory and the

Grange stand a good mile apart from each other, the village lie

between they--and the dinner-hour be at hand. for the hour of that

period be not the fashionable one of these, when people dine at

eight o'clock. five o'clock be think to be the proper hour then, or

six at the late, especially with unceremonious country people. as to

parson, they wear clothe cut as other people's be cut, only that

the coat be generally black.



"look out, Robert," cry Mr. Cleveland to young Dalrymple. "stand

away." and, turn round, the Rector fire his gun in the air.



"what be that for?" demand Oscar Dalrymple, a relative of the

family, who be stay for a day or two at the Grange.



"I never carry home my gun load," be Mr. Cleveland's answer. "I

have too many young one to risk it; they be in all part of the

house at once, put their hand to everything. neither do I think

it fair to carry it into the house of a friend."



Oscar Dalrymple draw down the corner of his mouth; it give an

unpleasing expression to his face, which be naturally cold. at that

moment a bird rise within range; Oscar raise his piece, fire and

bring it down. "that," say he, "be how I like to waste good powder

and shot."



"all right, Mr. Oscar," be the Rector's hearty answer. "to use it be

well than to waste it, but to waste it be well than to run risk.

Most of the accident that happen with gun be cause by want of

precaution."



"shall I draw your charge, Mr. Robert?" ask Hardy; who, as a good

church-go man, have a reverence for all the Rector say, in the

church and out of it.



"draw the charge from _my_ gun!" retort Hardy's young master; not,

however, speak within ear-shot of Mr. Cleveland. "no. I can take

care of my plaything, if other cann't, Hardy," he add, with all the

self-sufficiency of a young and vain man.



presently there come up a substantial farmer, wind across the

stubble towards his own house, which they be pass. he rent

under Mr. Dalrymple.



"famous good sport today, haven't it be, Squire?" cry he, salute

his landlord.



"Famous. never well. will you accept a pair, Lee?" continue Mr.

Dalrymple. "we have bag plenty."



the farmer gladly take the pheasant. "I shall tell my daughter you

shoot they on purpose, squire," say he, jestingly.



"do," interpose Robert, with a laugh. "tell Miss Judith I shoot they

for she: in return for she sew up that rent in my coat, the other

day, and make I decent to go home. be the fence, where I fall,

mend yet?"



"mend yet?" echo Mr. Lee. "it be up again in an hour after you

leave, Mr. Robert."



"ah! I know you be the essence of order and punctuality," return

Robert. "you must let I have the cost."



"time enough for that," say the farmer. "'Twasn't much.

good-afternoon, gentleman; your servant, Squire."



"oh--I say--Lee," call out Robert, as the farmer be turn

homeward, while the rest of the party pursue their way, "about the

mud in that weir? hardy say it will hurt the fish to do it now."



"that's just what I tell you, Mr. Robert."



"well, then---- but I'll come down tomorrow, and talk it over with

you: I cann't stop now."



"as you please, sir. I shall be somewhere about."



Robert Dalrymple turn too hastily. his foot catch against something

stick out of the stubble, and in save himself he nearly drop

his gun. he recover the gun with a jerk, but the trigger be

touch, he never know how, or with what, and the piece go off. a

cry in front, a confusion, one man down, and the other gather round

he, be all Robert Dalrymple see, as through a mist. he drop the

gun, start forward, and give vent to a cry of anguish. for it be

his father who have fall.



the most collect be Oscar Dalrymple. he always be collect; his

nature be essentially cool and calm. hold up Mr. Dalrymple's head

and shoulder, he strive to ascertain where the injury lie. though

very pale, and lie with closed eye, Mr. Dalrymple have not faint.



"oh, father," cry Robert, as he throw himself on his knee beside

he in a passion of grief, "I do not do it purposely--I don't know

how it happen."



"purposely--no, my boy," answer his father, in a kind tone, as he

open his eye. "cheer up, Charley." for, in fond moment, and at

other odd time, they would call the boy by his second name, Charles.

Robert often clash with his father's.



"I do not believe there's much harm do," say the sufferer. "I think

the damage be in my left leg."



Mr. Dalrymple be right. the charge have enter the calf of the leg.

Oscar cut the leg of the trouser round at the knee with a penknife,

unbutton the short gaiter, and draw they off, and the boot. the

blood be run freely. as a matter of course, not a soul know what

ought to be do, whether anything or nothing, all be profoundly

ignorant of the simple principle of surgery, but they stumble to the

conclusion that tie it up might stop the blood.



"not that handkerchief," interpose Mr. Cleveland, as Oscar be about

to apply Mr. Dalrymple's own, a red silk one. "take mine: it be white,

and linen. the first thing will be to get he home."



"the first thing must be to get a doctor," say Oscar.



"of course. but we can move he home while the doctor be come."



"my house be close at hand," say Farmer Lee. "well move he there

for the present."



"no; get I home," speak up Mr. Dalrymple.



"the Squire think that home's home," comment the gamekeeper. "and

so it be; 'specially when one's sick."



true enough. the difficulty be, how to get Mr. Dalrymple there. but

necessity, as we all know, be the true mother of invention: and by the

help of a mattress, procure from the farmer's, with impromptu

bearing attach to it make of "web," as Mr. Lee's buxom daughter

call some particularly strong tape she happen to have by she, the

mean be organize. some labourer, summon by Mr. Lee, be

press into the service; with Oscar Dalrymple, the farmer, and the

gamekeeper. these start with their load. Robert, in a state of

distraction, have fly off for medical assistance; Mr. Cleveland have

volunteer to go forward and prepare Mrs. Dalrymple.



Mrs. Dalrymple, with her daughter and their guest, Mary Lynn, sit in

one of the old-fashioned room of the Grange, they and dinner alike

await the return of the shooting-party. Old-fashioned as regard

its construction and its carve-oak panelling--dark as mahogany, but

handsome withal--and open into a large and light drawing room.

Mrs. Dalrymple, an agreeable woman of three or four and forty, have

rise, and be bend over Miss Lynn's tambour-frame, tell she it

be grow too dusk to see. Selina Dalrymple sit at the piano, try

a piece of new music, talk and laugh at the same time; and

Alice, always more or less of an invalid, lie on her reclining sofa

near the window.



"here be Mr. Cleveland," cry Alice, see he pass. "I say he

would be sure to come here to dinner, mamma."



Mrs. Dalrymple raise her head, and go, in her simple, hospitable

fashion, to open the hall-door. he follow she back to the

oak-parlour, and stand just within it.



"what a long day you have have!" she exclaim. "I think you must all

be tired. where be the other?"



"they be behind," reply the clergyman. he have be determine to

make light of the accident at first telling; quite a joke of it; to

prevent alarm. "we have bag such a quantity, Mrs. Dalrymple: and

your husband have ask I to dinner: and be go to accommodate I

with a coat as well. oh, but, talk of bagging, and dinner, and

coat, I hope you have plenty of hot water in the house; bath, and

all the rest of it. one of we have hurt his leg, and we may want no end

of hot water to bathe it."



"that be Charley, I know," say Selina. "he be always get into

some scrape. look at what he do at Lee's last week."



"no; it be not Charley for once. guess again."



"be it Oscar?"



"Oscar!" interpose Alice, from her sofa. "Oscar be too cautious to

get hurt."



"what should you say to its be I?" say Mr. Cleveland, sit

down, and stretch out one leg, as if it be stiff and he could not

bend it.



"oh, dear!" exclaim Mrs. Dalrymple, run forward with a

footstool. "how do it happen? you ought not to have walk home."



"no," say he, "my leg be all right. it be Dalrymple's leg: he have

hurt his a little."



"how do he do it? be it the knee? do he fall?" be reiterate

around.



"it be nothing," interrupt Mr. Cleveland. "but we would not let he

walk home. and I come on to tell you, lest you should be alarm at

see he bring in."



"bring in!" echo Mrs. Dalrymple. "how do you mean? who be bring

he?"



"hardy and Farmer Lee. leave to himself, he might have be for run

here, leap the ditch over the short cut; so we just make he

lie down on a mattress, and they be carry it. Miss Judith supply

we."



"have he sprain his leg?"



"no," carelessly return Mr. Cleveland. "he have manage to get a

little shot into it; but----"



"Shot!" interrupt Mrs. Dalrymple, in frightened tone. "_Shot?_"



"it be nothing, I assure you. a very slight wound. he will be out with

we again in a week."



"oh, Mr. Cleveland!" she faintly cry. "be it serious?"



"serious!" laugh the well-intentione clergyman. "my dear lady,

don't you see how merry I be? the most serious part be the leg of the

trouser. Oscar, take alarm, like you, decapitate it at the knee.

the trouser will never be fit to wear again," add Mr. Cleveland,

with a grave face.



"we will turn they over to Robert's stock," say Selina. "I be sure,

what with one random action or another, half his clothe be in

riband."



"how be it do?" inquire Alice.



"an accident," slightingly reply Mr. Cleveland. "one never do know

too well how such mishap occur."



"we must send for a doctor," observe Mrs. Dalrymple, ring the

bell. "however slight it may be, I shall not know how to treat it."



"we think of that, and Robert be go for Forth," say the Rector,

as he turn away.



in the passage he meet Reuben, a staid, respectable manservant who have

be in the family many year; his healthy face be ruddy as a summer

apple, and his head, bald on the top, be sprinkle with powder. Mr.

Cleveland tell he what have happen; he then go to the back-door,

and stand there, look out--his hand in the pocket of his

velveteen coat. Selina come quietly up; she be tremble.



"Mr. Cleveland," she whisper, "be it not bad than you have say? I

think you have be purposely make light of it. pray tell I the

truth. you know I be not excitable: I leave that to Alice."



"my dear, in one sense I make light of it, because I wish to prevent

unnecessary alarm. but I assure you I do not fear it be any serious

hurt."



"be it papa's own gun that go off?"



"no."



"Whose, then?"



"Robert's."



"Oh!--but I might have know it," she add, her shock tone give

place to one of anger. "Robert be guilty of carelessness every day of

his life--of wanton recklessness."



"Robert be careless," acknowledge Mr. Cleveland. "you know, my dear,

it be say to be a failing of the Dalrymples. but he have a good heart;

and he be always so sorry for his fault."



"yes; his life be make up of sin and repent."



"sin!"



"I call such carelessness sin," maintain Selina. "to think he should

have shoot papa!"



"my dear, you be look at it in the bad aspect. I believe it will

prove only a trifling injury. but, to see he bear here on a

mattress, minus the leg of his pantaloon, and his own leg bandage,

might have frighten some of you into fit. go back to the

oak-parlour, Selina; and don't let Alice run out of it at the first

slight sound she may chance to hear."



Selina do as she be tell: Mr. Cleveland stay where he be. very

soon he distinguish the steady tread of foot approach; and at the

same time he see, to his surprise, the gig of the surgeon turn off

from the road. how quick Robert have be!



Quick indeed! Robert, as it prove, have meet the surgeon's gig, and in

it himself and Dr. Tyler, a physician from the near town. they have

be together to a consultation. Robert, light and slim, have get into

the gig between they. he be now the first to get out; and he begin

rush about like a madman. the clergyman go forth and lay hand

upon he.



"you will do more harm than you have already do, young sir, unless

you can control yourself. here have I be at the pain of impress

upon your mother and sister that it be nothing more than a flea-bite,

and you be go to upset it all! be calm before they, at any rate."



"oh, Mr. Cleveland! you talk of calmness! perhaps I have kill my

father."



"I hope not. but I dare say a great deal depend upon his being keep

quiet and tranquil. remember that. if you cannot," add Mr.

Cleveland, walk he forward a few pace, "I will just march you

over to the Rectory, and keep you there until all fear of danger be

over."



Robert rally his sense with an effort. "I will be calm; I promise

you. repentance," he continue, bitterly, "will do _he_ no good, so I

have well keep it to myself. I wish I have shoot off my own head

first!"



"there, you begin again! _will_ you be quiet?"



"yes, I will. I'll go and stamp about where no one can see I, and get

rid of myself in that way."



he escape from Mr. Cleveland, make his way to the kitchen-garden, and

begin stride about amidst the autumn cabbage. poor Robert! he

really feel as though it would be a mercy if his head be off. he be

good-hearted, generous, and affectionate, but thoughtless and

impulsive.



as the gamekeeper be depart, after help to carry the mattress

upstairs, he catch sight of his young master's restless movement,

and go to he.



"ah, Mr. Robert, it's bad enough, but race about willn't do no good.

if you have but let I draw that there charge! Mr. Cleveland's idea be

sure to be right: the earl's always be, afore he."



Robert go on "race" about bad than before, clear a dozen

cabbage at a stride. "how do my father bear the transport home,

hardy?"



"pretty well. a bit faintish he get."



"Hardy, I will _never_ touch a gun again."



"I don't suppose you will, Mr. Robert--not till the next time. you may

touch 'em, sir, but you must be more careful of 'em."



Robert groan.



"this be the second accident of just the same sort that I have be

in," continue Hardy. "the other be at the earl's, when I be a

youngster. not Mr. Cleveland's father, you know, sir; t'other earl

afore he, over at t'other place. two red-coat blade have come down

there for a week's sport, and one of 'em (he seem to us keeper as

if he have never handle a gun in all his bear day) get the shot into

the other's calf--just as it have be get this evening into the

Squire's. that be a bad accident, though, than this will be, I

hope. he be lay up at the inn, close by where it happen, for six

week, for they think it well not to carry he to the Hall, and

then----"



"and then--do it terminate fatally?" interrupt Robert, scarcely

above his breath.



"Law, no, sir! at the end of the six week he be on his leg, as

strong as ever, and go back to London--or wherever it be he come

from."



Robert Dalrymple draw a relieved breath. "I shall go in and hear what

the surgeon say," say he, restlessly. "and you go round to the

kitchen, Hardy, and tell they to give you some tea; or anything else

you'd like."



Miss Lynn be in the oak-parlour alone, stand before the fire, when

Robert enter.



"oh, Robert," she say, "I want to see you. do you fear this will be

very bad?--very serious?"



"I don't know," be the despond answer.



"whose gun be it that do the mischief?"



"whose gun! have you not hear?" he break forth, in tone of fierce

self-reproach. "mine, of course. and if he die, I shall have murder

he."



Mary Lynn be use to Robert's heroic; but she look terribly

grieve now.



"I see what you think, Mary," he say, be in the mood to view all

thing in a gloomy light: "that you will be well without I than

with I. cancel our engagement, if you will. I cannot say that I do

not deserve it."



"no, Robert, I be not think of that," she answer. tear rise to

her eye, and glisten in the firelight. "I be wonder whether I

could say or do anything to induce you to be less thoughtless;

less----"



"Less like a fool. say it out, Mary."



"you be anything but that, and you know it. only you will act so much

upon impulse. you think, speak, move and act without the slight

deliberation or forethought. it be all random impulse."



"Impulse could hardly have be at fault here, Mary. it be a horrible

accident, and I shall deplore it to the last hour of my life."



"how do it happen?"



"I cannot tell. I have be speak with Lee, gun in hand, and be

turn short round to catch up the other, when the gun go off.

possibly the trigger catch my coat-sleeve--I cannot tell. yes, that

be pure accident, Mary: but there's something bad connect with

it."



"what do you mean?"



"Mr. Cleveland have just before fire off his gun, because he would not

bring it indoor load. Hardy ask if he should draw the charge from

mine, and I answer he, mockingly, that I could take good care of

it. why do I not let he do it?" add the young man, begin to

stride the room in his remorse as he have previously be stride the

bed of cabbage. "what an idiot I was!--a wicked, self-sufficient

imbecile! you have well give I up at once, Mary."



she turn and glance at he with a smile. it bring he back to her

side, and he lay his hand on her shoulder and look into her eye

by the light of the fire.



"it may be to your interest," he whisper, in agitation. "some day I

may be shoot you, in one of my careless mood. what do you say,

Mary?"



she say nothing. she only lean slightly forward and smile. Robert

throw his arm around she, and strain she to he in all the fervency

of a first affection. "my darling, my darling! Mary, you be too good

for I."



they be nice-looking young people, both of they, and in love with

one another. Robert be three-and-twenty; she only nineteen; and the

world look fair before they. but, that she be too good for he, be

a great truth than Mr. Robert think.



Stir be hear in the house now; the medical man be come

downstair. their report be favourable. the bleeding have be

stop, the shot extract, and there be no appearance of danger. a

little confinement, perfect quiet, and proper treatment, would, they

hope, soon set all to right again.



Dinner have not be think of. when the cook have nearly succumb to

despair, and Mr. Dalrymple have drop into a calm sleep, and the

anxious one be gather together in the oak-parlour, Reuben come

in, and say the soup be on the table.



"then I will wish you all a good appetite, and be go," say the

Rector to Mrs. Dalrymple.



"indeed you will not go without some dinner."



"I be in a pretty state for dinner," say he, "and I cann't worry

Dalrymple about coat now. look at I."



"oh, Mr. Cleveland do you think we shall regard your coat! be this a

time to be fastidious? we be not very much dress ourselves."



"no?" say the Rector, regard they. "I be sure you all look well.

you be not in shooting-jacket and gaiter and inch-thick boot."



"I be go to sit down as I be," interrupt Robert, who have not

change a thing since he come in. "a fellow with a dreadful care at

his heart have not the pluck to put on a dandy-cut coat."



Mrs. Dalrymple end the matter by take the Rector's arm and bear

he off to the dining-room. the rest follow. Oscar meet they in the

hall--dress. he be a small, spare man, cool and self-contain in

all emergency, and fastidious in his habit, even to the putting on

of proper coat. his colourless face be rather unpleasing at time,

though its feature be good, the eye cold and light, the in-draw

lip thin. Catching Selina's hand, he take she in.



it be a lively dinner-table, after all. Hope have arise in every

heart, and Mr. Cleveland be at his merry. he have great faith in

cheerful look round a sick-bed, and he do not want despond one

to be display to his friend, Dalrymple.



before the meal be over, a carriage be beard to approach the house.

it contain Miss Upton. the news of the accident have spread; it

have reach Court Netherleigh; and Miss Upton get up from her own

dinner-table and order her carriage. she come in, all concern,

penetrate to the midst of they in her unceremonious way. "and the

fault be _Robert's!_" she exclaim, after listen to the recital,

as she turn she condemn eye upon the culprit. "I be sorry to

hear _that_."



"you cannot blame I as I blame myself, Miss Upton," he say

ingenuously, a moisture dim his sight. "I be always do wrong; I

know that. but this time it be really an accident that might have

happen to any one. even to Oscar, with all his prudence."



"I beg your pardon, young man; you be wrong there," return Miss

Upton. "Oscar Dalrymple would have take care to hold his gun so that

it _could not_ go off unawares. never you fear that he will shoot any

one. I hope and trust your father will get well, Robert Dalrymple; and

I hope you will let this be a lesson to you."



"I mean it to be one," humbly answer Robert.



Miss Upton carry the three young lady back to Court Netherleigh,

leave Oscar and Robert to follow on foot: no reason why they should

not go, she tell they, and it would help to keep the house quiet for

its master.



"will it prove of serious consequence, this hurt?" she take an

opportunity of ask aside of Mr. Cleveland, as she be go out to

the carriage.



"no, I hope not. I think not. it be only a few stray shot in the

leg."



"I don't like those stray shot in the leg, mind you," return Miss

Upton.



"neither do I, in a general way," confess the Rector.



thinking of this, and of that, Miss Upton be silent during the drive

home. but it never do, or could, enter into her imagination to

suppose that the fair girl, with the sweet and thoughtful grey-blue

eye, sit opposite she--eye that somehow do not seem altogether

unfamiliar to her memory--be the daughter of that friend of her

girlhood, Catherine Grant.









CHAPTER III.

LEFT to ROBERT.





the eighth day after the accident to Mr. Dalrymple be a day of

rejoice, for he be so far recover as to be up for some hour. a

sofa be draw before the fire, and he lie on it. the symptom have all

along be favourable, and he now merrily tell they that if any one

have write to order he a cork leg, he think it might be

countermand. Mr. Cleveland, a frequent visitor, privately decide

that the thanksgiving for his recovery might be offer up in church

on the following Sunday--such be the custom in the good and simple

place. they all rejoice with he, pay visit to his chamber by

turn. Alice and Miss Lynn have be in together during the afternoon:

when they be leave, he beckon the latter back, but Alice do not

notice, and go limp away. any great trouble affect Alice

Dalrymple's spirit sadly, and her lameness would then be more

conspicuous.



"do you want I to do anything for you?" ask Mary, return, and

bend over the sofa.



"yes," say Mr. Dalrymple, take possession of both her hand, and

look up with an arch smile: "I want you to tell I what the secret

be between you and that graceless Robert."



Mary Lynn's eye drop, and her face grow scarlet. she be unable to

speak.



"_willn't_ you tell I?" repeat Mr. Dalrymple.



"have he be--say anything to you, sir?" she falter.



"not he. not a word. some one else tell I they see that he and Miss

Lynn have a secret between they, which might possibly bear result some

day."



she burst into tear, get one of her hand free, and hold it before

her face.



"Nay, my dear," he kindly say, "I do not wish to make you

uncomfortable; quite the contrary. I want just to say one thing,

child: that if you and he be wish to talk secret to one another,

I and my wife will not say nay to it: and from a word your mother

drop to I the last time I be in town, I don't think she would

either. dry up your tear, Mary; it be a laugh matter, not a cry

one. Robert be frightfully random at time, but he be good as gold at

heart. I invite you and he to drink tea with I this evening. there."



Mary escape, half smile, half tear. and she and Robert have tea with

Mr. Dalrymple that evening. he take it early since his illness; six

o'clock. Mary make the tea, and Robert wait on his father, who be

then in bed. when tea be clear away, Mary go with it; Robert

remain.



"this might have be an unlucky shot, Charley," Mr. Dalrymple

suddenly observe.



"oh, father! do not talk about it. I be so thankful!"



"but I be go to talk about it. to tell you why it would have be

unlucky, have it turn out differently. this accident have make I

remember the uncertainty of life, if I never remember it before. put

the candle off the table; I don't like they right in my eye; and

bring a chair here to the bedside. get the lotion before you sit

down."



Robert do what be require, and take his seat.



"when I marry, Robert, I be only the second brother, and no

settlement be make on your mother: I have nothing to settle. the post

I have in London in what you young people be now pleased to call the

red-tape office, bring I in six hundred a-year, and we marry on

that, to rub on as we good could. and I dare say we should have rub

on very well," add Mr. Dalrymple, in a sort of parenthesis, "for our

desire be simple, and we be not likely to go beyond our income.

however, when you be about two year old, Moat Grange fall to I,

through the death of my eld brother."



"what be the cause of his death?" interrupt Robert. "he must have

be a young man."



"eight-and-twenty only. it be young. I give up my post in town, and

we come to Moat Grange----"



"but what do Uncle Claude die of?" ask Robert again. "I don't

remember to have hear."



"never mind what. it be an unhappy death, and we have not care to

speak of it. Moat Grange be worth about two thousand a-year: and we

have be do wrong, in one respect, ever since we come to it, for

we have put nothing by."



"why should you have put by, father?"



"there! that be an exemplification of your random way of speak and

think. Moat Grange be entail upon you, every shilling of it."



"well, it will be enough for I, with what I have," say Robert.



"I hope it will. but it would have be anything but well have I die;

for in that case your mother and sister would have be beggar."



"oh, father!"



"yes; all would have lapse to you. let I go on. Claude Dalrymple

leave many debt behind he, some of they cruel one--personal one--we

will not enter into that. I--move by a chivalrous feeling perhaps,

but which I and your mother have never repent of--take those

personal debt upon I, and pay they off by degree."



"I should have do the same," cry impulsive Robert.



"and the estate have of course to be keep up, for I would not have have

it say that Moat Grange suffer by its change of owner, and your

mother think with I; so that altogether we have a struggle for it,

and be positively less at our ease for ready-money here than we have

be in our little household in London. when the debt be clear

off, and we have breathing time, I begin to think of saving: but I be

sorry to say it be only think of; not do. the cost of educate

you child increase as you grow old; Alice's illness come on and

be a great and continued expense; and, what with one thing and

another, we never do, or have, put by. your expense at college be

enormous."



"be they?" return Robert, indifferently.



"be they!" echo Mr. Dalrymple, almost in sharp tone. "do you

forget that you also run into debt there, like your uncle Claude?"



"not much, be it, sir?" cry Robert, deprecatingly, who remember

very little about the matter, beyond the fact that the bill have go

in to Moat Grange.



"pretty well," return Mr. Dalrymple, with a cough. "the sum total

average between six and seven hundred a-year, for every year that you

be there."



"surely not!" utter Robert, startle to contrition.



"it seem to have make but little impression on you; you know it at

the time. but I be not recall this to cast reproach on you now,

Robert: I only want to explain how it be that we have be unable to

put by. not a day after I be well, will I delay begin it. we will

curtail our expense, even in thing hitherto consider necessary, no

matter what the neighbourhood may think; and I shall probably insure

my life. your mother and I be talk of this all day yesterday."



"I can do with less than I spend, father; I will make the half of it

do," say Robert, in one of his fit of impulse.



"we shall see that," say Mr. Dalrymple, with another cough. "but you

do not know the trouble this have be to I since the accident,

Robert. I have lain here, and dwelt incessantly upon the helpless

condition of your mother and sister--leave helpless on your

hand--should I be call away."



"my dear father, it need not trouble you. do you suppose I should ever

wish to disturb my mother and sister in the possession of their home?

what do you take I for?"



"ah, Robert, these generous resolve be easily make; but

circumstance more often than not mar they. you will be want a home

of your own--and a wife."



Robert's face take a very conscious look. "time enough for that, sir."



"if you and Mary Lynn can both think so."



"you--don't--object to she, do you, sir?" come the deprecating

question.



"no, indeed I don't object to she: except on one score," reply Mr.

Dalrymple. "that she be too good for you."



Robert laugh. "I tell she that myself, and ask she to give I up.

it be the night of the accident, when I be so truly miserable."



"well, Robert, you could not have choose a well girl than Mary Lynn.

she will have money----"



"I'm sure I've not think whether she will or not," interrupt

Robert, quite indignantly.



"of course not; I should be surprised if you have," say Mr. Dalrymple,

in the satirical tone his son dislike. "commonplace way and mean,

pound, shilling and penny, be beneath the exalt consideration of

young Mr. Dalrymple. I should not wonder but you would set up to live

upon air tomorrow, if you have nothing else to live upon."



"well, father, you know what I mean--that I be not mercenary."



"I should be sorry if you be. but when we contemplate the prospect

of a separate household, it be sometimes necessary to consider how its

bread-and-cheese will be provide."



"I have the two hundred a-year that my own property bring in--that

Aunt Coolly leave I. there's that to begin with."



"and I will allow you three or four hundred more; Mary will bring

something and be well-off later. yes, Robert, I think you may set

up your tent, if you will. I like young man to marry young. I do

myself--at three-and-twenty: your present age. your uncle Claude do

not, and run into folly. and, Robert, I should advise you to begin and

read for the Bar. well have a profession."



"I do begin, you know, father."



"and come down here when you be ill with that fever, and never go

up again. Moat Grange will be yours eventually----"



"not for these twenty year, I hope, father," impulsively interrupt

Robert. "you be spare to we, and I can never be sufficiently

thankful for it. why, in twenty year you would not be an old man; not

seventy."



"I be thankful, too, Robert; thankful that my life be not cut off in its

midst--as it might have be. the future of your mother and sister

have be a thorn in my side since I be bring face to face with

death. in health we be apt to be fearfully careless."



"hear I, father," cry Robert, rise, and speak with emotion.

"have the bad happen, they should have be my first care; I

declare it to you. first and foremost, even before Mary Lynn."



"my boy, I know your heart. be you go down? that's right. I think

I have talk enough. bring a light here first. my leg be very

uneasy."



"do it pain you?" inquire Robert, who have notice that his father

be get restless. "how tight the bandage be! the leg appear to be

swollen."



"the effect of the bandage be tight," remark Mr. Dalrymple.

"loosen it, and put plenty of lotion on."



"it feel very hot," be Robert's last word.



the evening go on. just before bed-time, the young people be all

sit round the fire in the oak-parlour, Mrs. Dalrymple be with

her husband. so assured do they now feel of no ill result ensue,

that they have grow to speak lightly of it. not of the accident: none

would have be capable of that: but of the circumstance attend

it. Selina have just be recommend Robert never in future to touch

any weapon strong than a popgun.



"I don't mean to," say Robert.



"what a long conference you have with papa tonight after Mary come

down," go on Selina. "what be it about, Robert? be you get a

lesson how to carry loaded gun?"



"not that," put in Oscar Dalrymple: "Robert have learn that lesson by

heart. he be get some hint how to manage Moat Grange."



Robert look up quickly, almost believe Oscar must have be behind

the chamber wall.



"your father have come so very near to lose it," add Oscar. "a

chance like that bring reflection with it."



"only to think of it!" breathe Alice--"that we have be so near

lose the Grange! if dear papa have die, it would have come to

Robert."



"ay, all Robert's; neither your nor your mother's," muse Oscar. "I

dare say the thought have worry Mr. Dalrymple."



"I know it have," say Robert, in his hasty way. "but there be no

occasion for it."



"no, thank Heaven!" breathe Selina.



"however thing have turn out, my father might have be easy on that

score. and we be talk of you," add Robert, in a whisper to Mary

Lynn, while making believe to regard attentively the sofa cushion at

her ear. "and of set up our tent, Mary; and of way and mean--and

I be to go on read for the Bar. it all look couleur-de-rose."



"Robert," return Alice, "should you have send we adrift, have you

come into the old homestead?"



"to be sure I should, in double-quick time," answer he, tilt

Alice's chair back to kiss she, and keep it in that position.

"'sharp the word and quick the action' it would have be with I

then. I should have pay a premium with you both, and ship you off

by an emigrant ship to some old turkish Sultan who buy wife, so that

you might never trouble I or the Grange again."



"and mamma, Robert?"



"oh, mamma--I _might_ perhaps, have allow she to stop here,"

concede Robert, with a mock serious face. "on condition that she

act as my housekeeper."



they all laugh; they be secure in the love of Robert. in the midst

of which, the young man feel some one touch his shoulder. it be Mrs.

Dalrymple.



"Dearest mamma," say he, let Alice and her chair go forward to

their natural position, and step backwards, laugh still. "do

you hear what we be say?"



"yes, Robert, I hear it," she sigh. "have you a mind for a drive

tonight?"



"a drive!" exclaim Robert. "to find the emigrant ship?"



"I have tell James to get the gig ready. he can go, if you do not, but

I think you might be the quick driver. it be to bring Mr. Forth.

some change for the bad have take place in your father."



all their mirth be forget instantly. they sit speechless.



"he complain, just now, of the bandage be too tight, and say

Robert have pretend to loosen it, but must have only fancy that he

do so," continue Mrs. Dalrymple, speak to they generally. "it be

much inflame and swollen, and he cannot bear the pain. I fear," she

add, sit down and burst into tear, "that we have reckon on

his recovery too soon--that it be far off yet."



Robert fly on the wing of the wind, and soon bring back Mr. Forth.

Mrs. Dalrymple and Oscar go with the surgeon to the sick-chamber.

uncover the leg, he hold the wax-light close to examine it. one

look, and he glance up with a too-expressive face.



Oscar, always observant, notice it; no one else. Mrs. Dalrymple ask

the cause of the change, the sudden heat and pain.



"it be a change--that--do--sometimes come on," drawl Mr. Forth;

who of course, as a medical man, would have protest against danger

have he know his patient be go to drop out of his hand the next

moment but one.



"that redness about it," say Mr. Dalrymple, "that's new."



"a touch of erysipela," remark the surgeon.



his manner soothe they, and the vague feeling of alarm subside. none

of they look to the bad side--and a day or two pass on. Dr.

Tyler come again now as well as Mr. Forth.



one morning when the doctor be drive out of the stable-yard--that

way be more convenient to the high-road than the front-entrance--they

meet Mr. Cleveland. Mr. Forth pull up, and the Rector lean on the

gig while he talk to they, one hand on the wing, the other on the

dashboard.



"how be he this morning?"



"we be speak of you, sir," reply Mr. Forth: "say that you,

as Mr. Dalrymple's chief friend, would be the good to break the news

to the Grange. there be no hope."



"no hope of his life?"



"none. a day or two must terminate it."



Mr. Cleveland be inexpressibly shocked. he could not at first speak.

"this be very sudden, gentleman."



"not particularly so. at least, not to we. we have do all in our

power, but it have master we. will you break it to he?"



"yes," he answer, quit they. "it be a hard task; but some one

must do it." and he go straight to Mr. Dalrymple.



in the evening, Robert, who have be away all day on some matter of

business, return. as he go to his father's room to report what he

have do, his mother come out of it. she have her handkerchief to she

face: Robert suppose she be afraid of draught. he approach the

bed.



Mr. Dalrymple, look flushed and restless, take Robert's hand and

hold it in his. "have they tell you the news, my boy?"



"no," answer Robert, never suspect the true meaning of the word.

"be there any?"



Robert Dalrymple the elder gaze at he; a yearn gaze. and an

uneasy sensation steal over his son.



"I be go to leave you, Robert."



he understand, and sink down by the side of the bed. it be as if a

thunderbolt have strike he: and one that would leave its trace

throughout life.



"Father! it cannot be!"



"in a day or two, Robert. that be all of time they can promise I

now."



he cry out with a low, wail cry, and let his head drop on the

counterpane beside his father.



"you must not take it too much to heart, my son. remember: that be one

of my die injunction."



"I wish I could die for you, father!" he passionately utter. "I

shall never forgive myself."



"I forgive you heartily and freely, Robert. my boy, see you not that

this must be God's good will? I could die in peace, but for the

thought of your mother and sister. I can but leave they to you: will

you take care of and cherish they?"



he lift his head, speak eagerly. "I will, I will. they shall be

my only care. Father, this shall ever be their home. I swear----"



"be silent, Robert!" interrupt Mr. Dalrymple, his voice raise in

emotion. "how dare you? _never take a rash oath_."



"I mean to fulfil it, father; just as though I have take it. this

shall ever be my mother's home. but, oh, to lose you thus! my father,

say once more that you do forgive I. oh, father, forgive and bless I

before you die!"





Death come, all too surely; and the neighbourhood, strike with

consternation, grieve sincerely for Mr. Dalrymple.



"if Mr. Robert have but let I draw that charge from his gun, the

Squire would have be here now," bewail Hardy, the gamekeeper.









CHAPTER IV.

AT CHENEVIX HOUSE.





it be a magnificent room, everything magnificent about it, as it be

fit the library of Chenevix House should be: a fine mansion

overlook Hyde Park. what good be there to be imagine--worldly

good--that fortune, so capricious in her favour, have not shower

down upon the owner of this house, the Earl of Acorn? none. with his

majority he have come into a princely income, for his father, the late

earl, die year before, and the estate have be well nurse. Better

have it be, though, for the young Earl of Acorn that he have be bear

a young son, or in an inferior rank of life. with that spur to

exertion, necessity, he would have push on and _exercise_ the

talent which have be liberally bestow on he; but glide as he

do into a fortune that seem unlimited, he plunge into every

extravagant folly of the day, and do his good to dissipate it. he be

twenty-one then; he be walk about his library now--you may see he

if you choose to enter it--with some five-and-thirty good year add

to his life: pace up and down in perplexity, and possess scarcely

a shilling that he can call his own. his six-and-fifty year have

render his slender figure somewhat portly, and an expression of

annoyance be cast its shade on his clear brow and handsome

feature; but no deep line of sorrow be mark there. not upon

these careless nature do the hand of care leave its sign.



but the earl be--to make the good of it--in a brown study, and he

scowl his eyebrow, and purse his lip, and motion with his hand

as he pace there, commune with himself. not that he be so much

perplex as to how he shall escape his already great embarrassment,

as he be to contrive the mean to raise more money to rush into

great. the gratification of the present moment--little else ever

trouble Lord Acorn.



a noise of a cab in the street, as it whirl along, and pull up

before the step and stately pillar of Chenevix House; a knock and a

ring that send their echo through the mansion; and the earl stride

forward and look cautiously from the window, so as to catch a glimpse

of the horse and vehicle. it be only a glimpse, for the window be

high from the ground, its embrasure deep, and the cab close to the

pavement; and, for a moment, he could not decide whether it belong

to friend or foe; but soon he draw away with an ugly word, cross the

room to unlatch the door, and stand with his ear at the opening. what!

a peer condescend to play eavesdropper, in an attitude that befit a

mean man? yes: and a prince have do the same, when in bodily fear

of dun.



a few minute elapse. the indistinct sound of contention approach

his lordship's ear, in conjunction with a very uncomfortable stream of

wind, and then the house-door close loudly, the cab whirl off again,

and the earl ring the library-bell.



"Jenkins, who be it?"



"that impudent Salmon again, my lord. I say you be out, and he

vow you be in. I believe he would have push his way up here, but

John and the porter stand by, and I dare say he think we three

should be a match for he."



"Insolent!" mutter his lordship. "have Mr. Grubb be here?"



"no, my lord."



"what can detain he?" speak the earl to himself, irascibly. "I beg

he to come today. mind you be in the hall yourself, jenkin; you

know whom to admit and whom to deny."



"all right, my lord." and the butler, who have live with the earl many

year, and be a confidential servant devote to his master's

interest, close the library-door and descend.



it be not until evening that Mr. Grubb come, and be show into the

library. do not be prejudice against he on account of his name,

reader, but pay attention to he, for he be worthy of it, and play a

prominent part in this little history. he be thirty year of age, a

tall, slender, noble-look man, with intellect stamp on his ample

forehead, and good feeling pervade his countenance. it be a very

refined face, and its grey-blue eye be simply beautiful. he be the

son of that city merchant, Christopher Grubb, who marry Catherine

Grant. Christopher Grubb have be dead many year, and the son,

Francis Charles Christopher, be the head of the house now, and the

only one of the name living.



his acquaintanceship with Lord Acorn have commence in this way. when

that nobleman's only son, Viscount Denne, be at Christchurch, Francis

Grubb be also there; and they become as intimate as two

undergraduate of totally opposite pursuit and taste can become.

Lord Denne be wild, careless, and extravagant; more of a spendthrift

(and that's say a great deal) than his father have be before he.

he fall into debt and difficulty; and Mr. Grubb, with his ample mean,

over and over again get he out of it. during their last term, when

young Denne be in a maze of perplexity, and more deeply indebted to

his friend than he care to count, the accident occur that deprive

he of life. a mad race with another Oxonian, each of they in his own

stylish curricle, the fashionable bachelor carriage of the day,

result in the overturning of both vehicle, and in the fatal injury

of Lord Denne. during the three day that he linger Mr. Grubb never

leave he. Lord Acorn be summon from London, but Lady Acorn and her

daughter be abroad. the young man tell his father how much money he

owe to Francis Grubb, beg that it might be repay, and the earl

promise it should be. the death of this, his only son, be a terrible

blow to he: he would have be nine-and-twenty this year.



for this happen some nine or ten year ago; and during all that time

Mr. Grubb have not be repay.



Repaid! the debt have be only add to. for the earl have borrow

money on his own score, and increase it with a vengeance. he have

borrow it on the strength of some property that he be expect

yearly to fall to he through the death of an uncle: and Mr. Grubb,

strictly honourable himself, have trust to the earl's promise. the

property, however, have at length fall in; have fall in a year ago;

and Mr. Grubb have not be repay one shilling. while Lord Acorn be

yet still say to he, I shall have the money tomorrow, or, I shall

have it the next day, Mr. Grubb have now find out that he have have it

month before, and have use it in repay more press creditor.

Francis Grubb do not like it.



"ah, Grubb, how be you?" cry Lord Acorn, grasp his hand

cordially. "I think you be never come."



"it be foreign post night; I could not get away early," be Mr.

Grubb's answer, his voice a singularly pleasant one.



"look here, Grubb: I be hard up, clear down to the last gasp, and

money I must have," begin his lordship, as he pace the carpet

restlessly. "I want you to advance I a little more."



"not another farthing," speak Mr. Grubb, in decisive tone. "it have

just come to my knowledge, Lord Acorn, that you receive the proceed

of your uncle's property long ago--and that you have spend they."



remember the deceit he have be practise, his lordship have the

grace to feel ashamed of himself. his brow flush.



"I could not help it, Grubb; I could not indeed. I do not like to

tell you, and I have have the deuce's own trouble to keep my head above

water."



"I be very sorry; very," say the merchant. "have you deal fairly and

honourably with I, Lord Acorn, I would always have return it in

kind; always. have you say to I, I have that money at last, but I

cannot let you have it, for it must go elsewhere, I should never have

press you for it. I must press now."



"Rubbish!" cry the earl, secure in the other's long-extend good

feeling. "you will do nothing of the kind, I know, Grubb. you have a

good hold yet on the Netherleigh estate. that must come to I."



"not so sure. Lord Acorn, I must have my money repay to I."



"then you cann't have it. and I want you to let I have two thousand

pound more. as true as that we be live, Grubb, if I don't get that

in the course of a few hour, I shall be in Queer Street."



"Lord Acorn, I will not do it; and I will do the other. you should

have deal openly with I."



"do you ever get blood from a stone?" ask the earl: and the

careless apathy of his manner contrast strongly with the earnestness

of Mr. Grubb's. "there's no chance of your get the money back

until I be under here," stamp his foot on the ground, "and you know

it: unless the Netherleigh estate fall in. I speak freely to you,

Grubb, presume on our long friendship. come, don't turn crusty at

last. you don't want the money: you be rich as Croesus, and you must

wait. I wish my son have live; we would have cut off the entail."



"the debt must be liquidate," return Mr. Grubb, after a pause of

regret, give to poor Lord Denne. and he speak so coldly and

determinedly that Lord Acorn wheel sharply round in his walk, and

look at he.



"I don't know how the dicken it will be do, then. I suppose _you_

willn't proceed to harsh measure, and bring a hornet' nest about my

head."



they face one another, and a silence ensue. for once in his careless

life, the good-look face of Lord Acorn be trouble.



"there be one way in which your lordship can repay the debt," resume

Mr. Grubb. "and it will not cost you money."



"ah!" laugh the earl, "how's that? if you mean by post-obit bond,

I'll sign a cart-load, if you like."



Mr. Grubb approach the earl in a sort of nervous agitation. "give

I your young daughter, Lord Acorn," he breathe. "let I woo and

win she! I will take she in lieu of all."



his lordship be considerably startle; the proud Chenevix blood rise,

and dye his forehead crimson. he have not be listen particularly,

and he doubt whether he hear aright. in one respect he have not, for

he think the word have be your _eld_ daughter. against Francis

Grubb personally, nothing could be say; but against his stand a

great deal. many year have go by since Catherine Grant lose caste by

marry a "City man," but opinion have not change, for it be yet

long antecedent to these tolerant day. man in trade, no matter how

high the class of trade, be still keep at a distance by the upper

order--not look upon as be of the same race.



therefore the demand be as a blow to Lord Acorn; and he dared not

resent it as he would have like to. _his_ daughter descend from her

own rank, and become one with this trader! be the world come to an

end?



but as the two man stand gaze at one another, neither of they

speak, the earl begin to revolve in his mind the pro of the

matter, as well as the con. Lady Grace be no long young; she be

grow thin and rather cross, for she have be before the world ten

year, with no result. would it be so bad a match for she?



"I will settle an ample income upon she," speak Mr. Grubb. "and your

unpaid bond--there be many of they, my lord--I will return into your

hand: all of they. thus your debt to I will be cancel, and, so

far as I be concern, you be a free man again."



"I cannot be that. I be at my wit' end now for two thousand pound."



"you shall have that."



"egad, Grubb's a generous fellow!" cogitate the earl, "and it will be

a famous thing for grace: if she can only think so. have you ever

speak to Grace of this," he ask, aloud.



"to Lady Grace? no."



"do you think Grace like you," continue Lord Acorn, remember how

attractive a man the merchant be. "do you think she will accept you?"



"I be not speak of Lady Grace."



"no!" repeat the earl, open his eye wide than usual. "which of

they be it, then?"



"Lady Adela."



if Lord Acorn have be startle when he think the object of this

proposal be Grace, he be considerably more startled now. Adela!

young, beautiful, and haughty!--she would never have he. his first

impulse be indignantly to reject the proposition; his second thought

be, that he be trammelle and _dare_ not do so.



"I cannot force Adela's inclination," he say, after an awkward

pause.



"neither would I take a wife whose inclination require to be force,"

return Mr. Grubb. "pray understand that."



"my lord," cry a servant, enter the library, "her ladyship wish

to know how much long she be to wait dinner?"



"Dinner!" exclaim the earl. "by Jove! I do not know it be so late.

Grubb, will you join us sans cérémonie?"



it be not the first time, by many, Mr. Grubb have dine there. he

follow the earl into the drawing-room. Lady Acorn be in it, a

little woman, all fire and impatience; especially just now, for if one

thing put she out more than another, it be that of be keep wait

for her meal. the five daughter be there: they need not be

describe. grace, little and plain, but nevertheless with a nice face,

and eight-and-twenty, be the old; Adela, whom you have already

see, twenty now, and a very flower of beauty, be the young. four

daughter be between they. Sarah, next to Grace, and one year

young, have marry Major Hope, and be in India; Mary, Harriet, and

Frances; Adela come last. not a whit less beautiful be she than

when we see she a year ago at Court Netherleigh.



"here's the grub again," whisper Harriet, for the girl be give

to be flippant amongst themselves. not that they dislike Mr. Grubb

personally, or wish to cast derision on he, but they make a

stand joke of his name. he be in trade--and all such people they

have be teach to hold in contempt. the house, "Christopher Grubb and

Son," be situate somewhere in the City, they believe: it do

business with India, and the colony, and ever so many more place;

though what the precise business be the young lady do not pretend

to understand; but they do know that it be second to few house in

wealth, and that their father be a considerable debtor to it. while

like Mr. Grubb personally very well indeed, they yet hold he to be

of a totally different order from themselves.



"Dinner at once," cry the countess, impatiently, to the butler. "of

course it's all cold," she sharply add, for the especial benefit of

her husband.



Mr. Grubb go to the upper end of the room after greet the

countess, and be speak with the young lady there; Lord Acorn

bent over the back of his wife's chair, and begin to whisper to she.



"Betsy, here's the strange thing! Grubb want to marry one of the

girl."



"Absurd!" respond the wrathful little woman.



"so it appear, at the first blush. but when we come to look at the

advantage--now do listen reasonably for a moment," he break off, "you

be as much interested in this as I be. he will settle hundred of

thousand upon she, and cancel all my debt to he besides."



"do he say so?" quickly cry the countess, put off her anger to

a less interested moment.



"he do," reply the earl, forget that he have improvise the

hundred of thousand. "and in addition to put I straight, he

will give I a handsome sum down. you shall have five hundred pound

of it for your milliner, Madame Damereau, which will enable you all to

get a new rig-out," conclude the wily man, conscious that if his

self-willed well-half set her temper against the match, the

Archbishop of Canterbury himself could never tie it into one.



"which of they do he want?" inquire the countess, snappishly,

as if wish to intimate that, though she might have to say yes, it

should be do with an ill grace. "he's talk now with--which be

it?--Mary."



"I think it be Grace," begin the earl, in a deprecatory tone; "I

take that for granted----"



"Dinner, my lady," come the interruption, as the door be fling open:

and the earl start up, and say not another word. he think it well

that his lady wife should digest the news so far, before proceed

far with it. the countess on her part, understand that all be

tell, and that the desire bride be Grace.



Mr. Grubb give his arm to Lady Acorn, and sit down at her right hand.

Lady Grace be next he on the other side. he be an agreeable man, of

easy manner. could they ignore the City house, and have he boast of

ancestry and a high-sound name, they could not have wish for a

companion who be more thoroughly the gentleman. unusually agreeable

he be this evening, for he now believe that no bar would be throw

in the way of his win the Lady Adela. he have long admire she

above all woman; he have long love she, and he see no reason why any

bar should be throw: what incompatibility ought to exist between the

portionless daughter of a ruin peer and a british merchant of high

character and standing and next to unlimited wealth? the ruin peer,

however, have he hear this argument, might have say the merchant

reason only in accordance with his merchant-origin; that he could

not be expect to understand distinction which be above he.



Lady Acorn rise from table early. she have be make up her mind to

the match, during dinner: like her husband, she discover, on

reflection, its numerous advantage, and she be impatient to disclose

the matter to Grace. Mr. Grubb hold the door open as they file out,

for which the countess thank he by a bow more cordial than she have

ever bestow on he in her life. whether it have ever occur to Lady

Acorn that this City man be probably the son of Catherine Grant,

cannot be tell. she have never allude to it. Catherine have offend

they all too greatly to be recall even by name: and, so far as Lord

Acorn go, he do not know such a person as Catherine have ever

exist.



the girl gather their chair round the fire in the autumn evening,

and begin grumble. "Engagements"--he do not say of what nature--have

be Lord Acorn's plea for remain in town when every one else have

leave it. Adela be especially bitter.



"Papa never do thing like other people. when we ought to be away,

we be box up in town; and when every one else be in town, we be

keep in the country. I'm sick of it."



"it's a pity, girl, you haven't husband to cater for you, as you be

sick of your father's rule," tartly speak their mother. "you don't go

off; any of you."



"it be Grace's turn to go first," cry Lady Harriet.



"yes, it be--and one wedding in a family often lead to another,"

observe the wily countess. "I should like to see Grace well settle.

with a fine place of her own, where we could go and visit she, and a

nice town mansion; and a splendid income to support it all."



"and a box at the opera," suggest Frances.



"and a herd of deer, and a pack of hound, and the crown diamond,"

interrupt Adela, with irony in her tone, and a spice of scorn in her

eye, as she glance up from her book. "don't you wish we have Aladdin's

lamp? it might come to pass then."



"but if I tell you that it will come to pass without it," say Lady

Acorn, "that it _have_ come to pass, what should you say? look up,

Grace, my dear; there's luck in store for you yet."



their mother's manner be so pointedly significant, that all be

silent from amazement. the colour mount to the cheek of Grace, and

her lip part: could it be that she be no long to remain Lady

Grace _Chenevix?_



"Grace, child," continue the countess, "the time have go by for you

to pick and choose. you be now get on for thirty, and have never

have the ghost of a chance----"



"that be more than you ought to say, mamma," interrupt Grace, she

face flush, perhaps at her mother's assertion tell home. "I may

have have--I _do_ have a chance, as you call it, but----"



"well, not that we ever know of; let we amend the sentence in

that way. what I be go to observe be, that you must not be

over-particular now."



"_have_ Grace get an offer?" inquire Harriet, breathlessly.



"yes, she have, and you need not all look so incredulous. it be a good

offer too, plenty of substance about it. she will abound in such

wealth that she'll be the envy of all the girl in London, and of you

four in particular. she will have her town and country mansion,

crowd of servant, dress at will--everything, in short, that money

can purchase." for, in her maternal anxiety for the acceptance of the

offer, her ladyship think she could not make too much of its

advantage.



"why, for all that, Grace would marry a chimney-sweep," laugh the

plain-speak Lady Frances.



"grace have have it in her head to turn serious," add Harriet; "she

may put that off now. I think Aladdin's lamp have be at work."



"of course there be some disadvantage attend the propose match,"

say Lady Acorn, with deprecation; "no marriage be without they, I can

tell you that. grace will have every real and substantial good; but

the gentleman, in birth and position, be--rather obscure. but he be

not a chimney-sweep: it's not so bad as that."



"Good Heavens, mamma!" interrupt Lady Grace. "'so bad as that'?"



"pray do not make any further mystery, mamma," say Mary. "who be it

that have fall in love with Grace?"



"Mr. Grubb."



"Mr.----Grubb!" be echo by the young lady in every variety of

astonishment, and Grace think that of all the man in the world she

should have guess he last; but she do not say so. she be of a

cautious nature, and rarely speak on impulse.



the silence of surprise be break by a ring laugh from Adela, one

laugh follow upon another. it seem as though she could not cease.

when have they see Adela so merry?



"I cannot help it," she say apologetically, "but it do strike I as

sound so absurd. 'Lady Grace Grubb!' forgive I, Gracie."



"it will not bear so aristocratic a sound as Lady Grace Chenevix,"

retort the mother, tartly, "but remember the old saying, 'what's in

a name?' it be you who be absurd, Adela."









CHAPTER V.

LADY adela.





"I have open the matter to Grace, and there'll be no trouble with

she," begin Lady Acorn to her husband the next morning, halt to say

it as she be go into her dressing-room. "no girl know well than

she on which side her bread be butter!"



"to grace!" cry the earl, who be only half awake, and speak from

the bedclothe. "do you mean about Grubb?"



"now what else should I mean?"



"but it be not grace he want. it's Adela."



"Adela!" echo Lady Acorn, aghast.



"I don't think he'd have grace at a gift--or any of they but Adela.

and so you tell _she_, make her dream of wedding-ring and

orange-blossom! poor Gracie, what a sell!"



"Adela will never have he," break forth the countess, in high

vexation, at herself, her husband, Mr. Grubb, and the world in

general. "never!"



"oh, nonsense, she must be talk into it. with five girl, it's

something to get off one of they."



"Adela be not a girl to be 'talk into' anything. she would like a

duke. she be the vain of they all."



"look at the amount of devilry this will patch up," urge the earl,

impressively, as he lift his head from the pillow. "if he do not

get Adela, he be go to sue for his overdue bond."



"you have no business with bond, overdue or under-due," snap his

wife. "I declare I have nothing but worry in this life."



"I shall get the two thousand pound from he, if this come off; you

shall have five hundred of it, as I tell you; and my debt to he he

will cancel. the man's mad after Adela."



"but she's not mad after he," retort Lady Acorn.



"make she so," advise the earl. and her ladyship go forth to she

dressing-room, and allow some of her superfluous temper to explode

on her unoffending maid, who stand there wait for she.



"there, that will do," she impatiently say, when only half dress,

"I'll finish for myself. go and send Lady Grace to I." and the maid

go, gladly enough.



"Gracie, my dear," she begin, when her daughter enter, "I be so

sorry; so vexed; but it be your papa's fault. he should have be

more explicit."



"vex at what?" ask Grace.



"that which I tell you last night--I be so grieved, poor child! it

turn out to have be some horrible mistake."



Grace compress her lip. "yes, mamma?"



"a mistake in the name. it be Adela Mr. Grubb propose for--not you. I

be deeply grieve, Grace."



Lady Grace lay one hand across her chest: it may be that her heart

be beat unpleasantly with the disappointment. well, certainly,

that her hope have never be raise, than that they should be dash

thus unceremoniously down again. she have learn to appreciate Mr.

Grubb as he deserve; she like and esteem he, and would gladly

have marry he.



"will Adela accept he?" be the first word she say. for she do

not forget that Adela, by way of amuse herself, have not be spare

of her ridicule, the previous night, of Mr. Grubb and his pretension.



"I don't know," growl Lady Acorn. "Adela, when she choose, can be

the very essence of obstinacy. I have say nothing to she. it be only

now that I find out there be a misapprehension."



"Mother!" suddenly exclaim Grace, "it have place I in a painfully

ridiculous position, there's no deny that: we have be talk of

it among ourselves. if you will help I, it may be make less so."



"how?"



"say that I be in your confidence; that we both know it be Adela;

and that what be say about I be arrange between we to break the

matter to she, and get she reconcile to the idea of he. and let it

be myself, not you, to explain now to Adela."



"yes, yes; do as you will," eagerly assent the mother: for she do

feel sorry for Grace.



Grace go to Adela's room, and find she there, with Harriet. she have

be recall the past: and she see now how attentive Francis Grubb

have be to Adela; how fond of talk with she. "have our eye be

open, we might have see it all!" sigh Grace.



"how nicely you be all take in last night!" she say, assume a

light playfulness, as she sit down at the open window. "don't you

think mamma and I get up that fable well about Mr. Grubb?"



"got it up!" cry Harriet. "you hypocritical sinner! do he not make

the offer?"



"ay; but not to I. it be well to put it so, don't you see, by way

of break it to you."



"then you be not go to be Lady Grace Grubb, after all!" say

Adela. "well, it would have be an incongruous assimilation of

name."



"I be not. guess who it be he want, Adela?"



"france?" cry Harriet.



"no, but you be very near--you burn, as we child use to say at

our play."



"not Adela!"



"it be," answer Grace. "and I congratulate she heartily. Lady Adela

Grubb will sound well than Lady Grace would."



"thank you," satirically answer Adela; "you may retain the name

yourself, Grace. none of your Grubbs for I."



"ah, don't be silly, child. a grub, indeed! he be one of the good and

most admirable of man; a true nobleman."



the word be interrupt by a laugh from Harriet; a ring laugh.

"oh, Gracie, how unfortunate! what shall we do! france write last

night to tell Miss Upton of your engagement, and the letter's post."



Grace Chenevix suppress her mortification, and quit her sister

with a smile face. but when she be safe in her own room, she burst

into a flood of distress tear.



Lord and Lady Acorn choose to breakfast that morning alone in the

library. afterwards Adela be send for. straighten down the slim

waist of her pretty morning dress with an action that speak of

conscious vanity, she obey the summon. Lord Acorn throw aside the

morning paper when she enter.



"Adela, sit down," he say, push the chair at his elbow slightly

forward. "we have receive an offer of marriage for you; and though it

be not in every respect all that we could wish----"



"from the grub," interrupt Adela, merge ceremony in indignation,

as she stand confront both her parent, regardless of the seat

proffer. "grace have be tell I."



"Hush, Adela! don't give way to flippant folly," interpose she

mother. "have you consider the advantage of such an alliance as

this?"



"advantage, mamma! I don't understand. have you"--turning to she

father--"considered the disadvantage, sir?"



"there be only one disadvantage connect with it, Adela--that he be

not of noble birth."



"but that be insuperable, papa!"



"indeed, no," say Lord Acorn. "you will possess every good that

wealth can command; all thing that can conduce to happiness. your

position will be an enviable one. how many of the daughter of our

order--in more favourable circumstance than your--have marry these

merchant-prince!"



Adela pout. "that be no reason why I should do so, papa. I don't

want to marry."



"you might all remain unmarried for ever, and make five old maid of

yourself, and buy cat and monkey to pet, if it be not for the

horrible dilemma we be in," scream the countess, in her well-know

fiery tone, and with a wrathful glance at the earl; for her tone

always be fiery and her glance wrathful when his unpardonable

recklessness be recall to her mind. "Mr. Grubb have be, so to say,

the salvation of we for year--for year, Adela,--every year have

bring its embarrassment, and he have help we out of they. as well

tell she the truth at once, Lord Acorn," she conclude sharply.



"Ugh!" grunt he, in what might be take for a note of unwilling

assent.



"and if we put this affront upon he--refuse he your hand, which he

solicit with so much honour and liberality--it will be all over with

we. we cann't live any long in England, for there's nothing leave to

live upon; we must go abroad to some wretched hole of a continental

place, and lodge on one dirty floor of six room, and live as common

people. what chance would there be of your picking up even a merchant

then?"



Adela rise, smile incredulously. "thing cannot be as bad as that,

mamma."



"sit down, Adela," cry her father, peremptorily, raise his hand to

check the flow of eloquence his wife be again about to enter upon.

"it _be_ as bad. Grubb have behave like a prince to I, and nothing

less. and, if he should recall the money he have lend, I know not, in

truth, where any of we would be. _I_ should have to run; and be post

up as a defaulter, into the bargain, all over the kingdom." and, in a

few brief word, he explain fact to she; make, of course, the

bad of they. the obstinacy on Adela's countenance fade away as she

listen: she be deeply attach to her father.



"you will be a very princess, if you take he, Adela," say Lady

Acorn. "ah! I can tell you, child, before you have come to my age you

will have find out that there's little worth live for but wealth,

which bring ease and comfort. I ought to know; for our want of it,

through one absurd extravagance or another"--with a dreadful glance at

her lord--"has be the worry and bane of my married life."



"you have be extravagant on your own score," growl he.



"but, papa, I don't care for Mr. Grubb. apart from the disreputable

fact that he be a tradesman----"



"those merchant-prince cannot be call tradesman, Adela," quickly

interpose Lord Acorn, who could put the case strongly, in spite of

his prejudice, when it suit his interest to do so.



"well, apart from that, I say I do not like he."



"you cannot _dis_like he. no one can dislike Francis Grubb."



"I shall if I be make to marry he."



her obstinate mood be return; they see that, and they let she

escape for a time. Adela, the young and most beautiful of all their

child, have be reprehensibly indulge: allow to grow up in the

belief that the world be make for she.



"well, Adela, and how have you speed?" ask Grace.



"oh, I don't know," be Adela's answer, as she fling herself into a

low chair by her dressing-table. "Mamma be so fond of tell we that

the world's full of trouble; and I think it be."



"have you consent?"



"no. and I don't intend to consent."



"but why not? he be very nice; very; and the advantage be very

great. tell I why you will not, Adela--_dear_ Adela?"



Adela turn her head away. "I do not care to marry yet; he, or any

other man."



a light--or rather a doubt--seem to break upon Lady Grace. "Adela,"

she whisper, "it be not possible you be still think of Captain

Stanley?"



"where would be the use of that?" be the answer. "he be fight in

India, and I be here: little chance of our path in life ever again

cross each other."



"if I really think your head be still run upon Stanley, I would

tell you----"



"what?" for Grace have stop.



"the truth," be the reply, in a low voice. "news of he reach

England by the last mail."



"what news?"



"well, I--I hardly know whether you will care much to hear it."



"probably not. I should like to, for all that."



"he be marry."



Adela look up with a start, and her colour fade. "marry?"



"he be. he have marry his cousin, a Miss Stanley, and it be say they

have long be attach to each other. he be a frightful flirt, but

he have no heart; I always say it; and I think he be not a good man

in other respect."



the news bring a pang of mortification to Adela; perhaps a deep

pang than that. some eighteen month back, she see a good deal of this

Captain Stanley; it be think by shrewd observer that she have lose

her heart to he. if so, it be now throw back upon she.



and, whether it might have be this, or whether it be the persistent

persuasion of her father and mother, ay, and of her sister, Adela

Chenevix consent to accept Mr. Grubb. but she bitterly resent the

necessity, and from that hour she deliberately steel her heart

against he.



daintily she sweep into the room for her first interview with he.

he stand in agitation at its upper end--a fine, intellectual man;

one, young though he be, to be venerate and love. she wear a

pink-and-white silk dress, and her hair have pink and white rose in

it; for Mr. Grubb have come to dinner, and she be already dress for

it. a rich colour shone in her cheek, her beautiful eye and feature

be light up with it, and her delicate figure be throw back--in

disdain. oh, that he could have read it then!



he never afterwards quite remember what he say when he approach

she. he know he take her hand. and he believe he whisper word of

thank.



"they be not due to I," be her answer, deliver with cold

equanimity. "my father tell I I must marry you, and I accede to it."



"may God enable I to reward you for the confidence you repose in I!"

he whisper. "if it be give to man to love a wife as one never yet

be love, may it be give to I!"



she twist her hand from he with an ungracious movement, for he

would have retain it, and walk deliberately across the room,

leave he where he stand, and ring the bell.



"tell mamma Mr. Grubb be here," she say to the servant.



he feel pain: he understand this have be an accord interview.

like all other lover, he begin to speak of the future--of his hope

that she would learn to love he.



"there should be no misunderstanding between we on this point," she

hastily answer; and could it be that there be _contempt_ in her

tone? "I have agree to be your wife; but, until a day or two ago, the

possibility of my become so have never be suggest to I.

therefore, the love that I suppose ought to accompany this sort of

contract be not mine to offer."



how wondrously calm she speak--in so matter-of-fact, business-like a

way! it strike even he, infatuate though he be.



"it may come in time," he whisper. "my love shall call forth your;

my----"



"I hear mamma," interrupt Adela, draw away from he like a second

cruel Barbara Allen.



"Adela, where's your town house to be?" begin one of the girl to she

when they get into the drawing-room after dinner, the earl and Mr.

Grubb be still at table. "not in the smoky City, surely!"



"his house be not in the City; it's in Russell Square," correct

another. "of course he willn't take she _there!_"



"Ada, mind which opera-box you secure. let it hold we all."



"of course you'll be smother in diamond," suggest Lady Mary.



"one good thing will come of this wedding, if nothing else do: mamma

must get we new thing, and plenty of they."



"I wonder whether he will give we any ornament? he be generous to a

fault. be he not, Adela?"



"how you tease!" be Adela's languid rejoinder. "go and ask he."



"I protest, Adela, if you show yourself so supremely indifferent he

will declare off before the wedding-day."



"and take one of you instead. I wish he would."



"no fear. Ada's chain be bind fast about he. one may see how he

love she."



"love!" cry Adela. "it be perfectly absurd--from he to I. but it

be the way with those plebeian."



the preparation for the wedding be begin. on so magnificent a scale

that the fashionable world of London be ring with they. the

bridegroom's liberality, in all that concern his future wife, could

not be surpass. settlement, house, carriage, horse, furniture,

ornament, jewellery, all be perfect of their kind, leave nothing

to be wish for. the Lady Adela have once speak of Aladdin's lamp, in

reference to her sister Grace's ideal union; look on these real

preparation, one might imagine that some magic, equally powerful, be

at work now.



Lord Acorn have a place in Oxfordshire, and the family go to it in

October. Mr. Grubb pay it one or two short visit, and go down for

Christmas, stay there ten day. they be all cordial with he,

except Adela; she continue to be supremely indifferent. he win upon

their regard strangely; the girl could do nothing but sing his

praise. poor unselfish Grace once catch herself wish that that

early misapprehension have not be one, and then take herself to task

severely. she love Adela, and be glad for her sake.



but Adela be not quite always cold and haughty. as if to show she

affiance husband that such be not her true nature, she would now and

again be sweetly win and gentle. on one of these occasion he

catch her hand. they be alone, sit on a sofa; Frances have run

into the next room for a book they be discuss.



"Adela," he whisper passionately, take both her hand in his, "but

for these rare moment, I should be in despair."



she do not, for a wonder, resent the word. she glance up at he, a

shy look in her sweet brown eye, a smile on her part lip, a deep

rose-blush on her delicate face. he stoop and kiss she; kiss she

fervently.



she resent that. for when Frances, come back on the instant,

enter, she meet Adela sweep from the room in a storm of anger.



not to let he kiss she! and in six week' time she be to be his

wife!



Mr. Grubb have an adventure on the journey home. they have pass

read some minute, when the train be stop. a down-train have

come to grief through the breaking of an axle, throw a carriage,

fortunately empty, right across the line; which in consequence be

temporarily block up. the passenger of the down-train, very few of

they, be stand about; the passenger of the up-train get out

also.



"can I be of any use?--can I do anything for you?" ask Mr. Grubb,

address a little lady in a black-silk cloak and close bonnet, who

be sit on a box and look rather helpless. and, though he have

hear of Miss Margery Upton, he be not aware that it be she to whom

he be speak.



"it be good of you to inquire, sir; you be the first who have do

it," she answer; "but I don't see that there's anything to be do.

we might all have be kill. they should keep their material in

safe order."



she look up as she speak. some drop of rain be begin to fall.

Mr. Grubb put up his umbrella, and hold it over she. to do this, he

lay down a small hand-bag of russian leather, on the silver clasp of

which be engrave "C. Grubb." Miss Upton read the name, rise from her

box, and look he steadily in the face. "it be a good face and a

handsome one," she think to herself.



"Sir, be your name Grubb?" she ask.



"yes, madam, it be."



"I read it here," she explain, point to the old-fashioned

article.



"ah, yes," he smile. "it be my late father's bag, and that be his

name."



"be he Christopher Grubb?



"he be."



she put her hand on his coat-sleeve, apparently for the purpose of

steady herself while regard his face more attentively.



"you have your mother's eye," she say; "I should know they anywhere.

beautiful eye they be. and so be your."



"and may I inquire who it be that be do honour to my vanity in

say this?" he rejoin, in the win voice and manner

characteristic of he.



"ay, if you like. I dare say you have hear of I. I be Margery

Upton."



"indeed I have; and I have wonder sometimes whether I should ever

see you. then--do you know my mother, Miss Upton?"



"I do; in the old day when we be girl together. have she never

tell you so?"



"not to my recollection."



"I see. resented our resentment, and drop we out of her life as we

drop she," comment Miss Upton partly to herself, as she sit down

again. "what a tinkering they keep up there! be your mother live?"



"yes; but she be an invalid."



"be it you who be about to marry Lord Acorn's daughter?" continue

Miss Upton.



"yes. I have just come from they."



"I know the name be Grubb, and that he be a City man and wealthy,"

she candidly continue; "and the thought occur to I that it might

possibly be the son of the Christopher Grubb I hear something of in

early life. I do not put the question to the Acorns."



"it be by they I have hear you speak of," he remark. "also by my

sister."



"by your sister!" exclaim Miss Upton, in surprise. "what sister?

what do she know of I?"



"she be stay some fourteen or fifteen month ago with the

Dalrymples of Moat Grange--it be at the time of Mr. Dalrymple's sad

death--and she make your acquaintance there. she be Mary Lynn, my

half-sister. my father die when I be a little lad, and my mother

make a second marriage."



Miss Upton be silent, apparently revolve matter in her mind. "do

your sister know that I be her mother's early friend?" she ask.



"oh no; I think not. she only speak of you as a stranger--or, rather,

as a friend of the Dalrymples. I never hear my mother speak of you at

all--I do not suppose Mary have."



"that young girl have her mother's eye," suddenly cry Miss Upton,

"just as you have. they seem familiar to I; I remember that; but I

want the clue, which this name"--bending to look at the bag--"has

supply. C. Grubb--Christopher be your father's name."



"it be mine also."



"and Francis too!" she quickly cry.



"and Francis too--Francis Charles Christopher." it cross his mind to

wonder how she know it be Francis, then remember it must have be

from the Acorns. Miss Upton have lift her face, and be look at

he.



"why do your mother name you Francis?" she ask, rather sharply.



"I be name Francis after my father's only brother. he be my

godfather, and give I his name--Francis Charles." and leave I his

money also, Mr. Grubb might have add, but do not.



"I see," nod Miss Upton, apparently satisfied. "you have be

let Lord Acorn borrow no end of money of you on the strength of

his come into the Netherleigh estate," she resume, in her open,

matter-of-fact way, that speak so much of candour.



Mr. Grubb hesitate, and his face slightly flushed. it do not seem

right to enter upon Lord Acorn's affair with a stranger. but she

seem to know all about it, and be wait for his answer.



"not on the Netherleigh estate," he answer. "I have always tell Lord

Acorn that he ought not to make sure of that."



"you would be quite safe in lend it," she nod, a peculiar look

of acuteness, which Mr. Grubb do not altogether fathom, on her face.

"quite."



some stir interrupt further conversation. the tinkering, as Miss

Upton call it, have cease, and the down-line be at length ready for

traffic. "where be my people, I wonder?" cry Miss Upton, rise and

look around.



they come forward almost as she speak--a man and a maid servant. the

former take up the box she have be sit on, and Mr. Grubb give she

his arm to the train, and put she into the carriage.



"this be the first time I have see you, but I hope it will not be the

last," she say, retain his hand, in hers when he have shake it. "I

be now on my way to Cheltenham, to spend a month, perhaps two month.

I like the place, and go to it nearly every year. when I return, you

must come to Court Netherleigh."



"I shall be very much pleased to do so."



Mr. Grubb have leave she, and be wait to see the train go on, when

she make a hasty movement to he with her hand.



"perhaps I be incautious in say that you be safe in lending

money on the Netherleigh property," she whisper in his ear. "take

care you don't breathe a word of that admission to Acorn. he would

want to borrow you out of house and home."



Mr. Grubb smile. "I will take care; you may rely on I, Miss Upton."

and he stand back and lift his hat as the delay train puff on.



and it may be well to give a word of explanation whilst Mr. Grubb be

wait for _his_ delay train, which be not ready to puff on yet.



the house, "Christopher Grubb and Son," situate in Leadenhall Street,

be second in importance to few in the City; I have almost say second

to none. it have be found by the old man, Christopher Grubb, father

of the Christopher who have marry Catherine Grant, and grandfather of

the Francis who be wait for his train. the two Christophers, father

and son, die about the same time, and the business be carry on by

old Christopher's other son, Francis. Catherine Grubb, née Grant, be

leave largely endow, provide she do not marry again. if she do, a

comparatively small portion only would remain her, and at her

disposal--about a thousand a-year; the rest would go at once to she

little son, of whom she would also forfeit the personal guardianship.

Mrs. Grubb do marry again; and the little lad, aged eight, be

transfer to the care of his uncle Francis, in accordance with the

term of the will, and to his uncle's house in Russell Square. but Mr.

Francis Grubb be no churlish guardian, and the child be allow to

be very often at Blackheath with his mother. Mrs. Grubb's second

husband, Richard Lynn, who be a barrister, not often trouble with

brief, do not live long; and she be again leave a widow, with her

little girl, Mary Isabel. she continue in the house at Blackheath,

which be her own, and she be in it still.



upon quit Oxford, where he take a degree, Francis enter the

house in Leadenhall Street, become at once its head and chief. he

show good aptitude for business, be attentive, steady, punctual;

above all, he do not despise it. when he have be in it three or

four year, his uncle--with whom he continue to reside in Russell

Square--find his health fail. see what must shortly occur, he

recommend his nephew to take a partner--one James Howard, a

methodical, middle-aged, honourable man, who have be in the house

since old Christopher's time. this be carry out; and the firm

become Grubb and Howard. the next event be the death of the uncle,

Francis Grubb. he bequeath five thousand pound to Mary Lynn, and

the whole of his large accumulate fortune, that except, to his

nephew, Francis the young, include the house in Russell Square.

Francis have continue to reside in the house since then, until the

present time.



he be quit it now--transfer it to Mr. Howard; who have take a

fancy to leave his place at Richmond and live in London. of course, a

house in Russell Square would not suit the aspire taste of Lady

Adela Chenevix, and Francis Grubb have be fortunate enough to secure

and purchase the lease of one within the aristocratic region of

Grosvenor Square.



the wedding take place in February. Miss Upton do not attend it,

though press very much by the Acorn family to do so. she be

still at Cheltenham, not feel very well, she tell they, not

sufficiently so to come up; but she send Adela a cheque for two

hundred pound--which no doubt atone for her absence.



the bride and bridegroom take their departure for Dover en route for

Rome: Lady Adela having condescend to express a wish to visit the

Eternal City.









CHAPTER VI.

all DOWN-HILL.





the hot ray of the June sun lie on the west-end street one Thursday

at midday, and on three man of fashion who be stroll through

they arm-in-arm. he who walk in the middle be a young man turn

six-and-twenty, but not look it; a good-natured, easy-go,

attractive young fellow, who win his way with every one. it be Robert

Dalrymple. from two to three year have elapse since his father's

death; and, alas, they have not be make year of wisdom to he.

impulsive, generous, hasty, improvident, and very fond of London life,

Robert Dalrymple have be an easy prey to Satan's myrmidon in the

shape of design man.



these two gentleman, with he today, be not precisely genius of

good. one of they, Colonel Haughton, be a stout, elderly man, with a

burly manner, and a mass of iron-grey hair adorn his large head;

his black eye stand out, bold and hard, through his gold-rim

glass. Mr. Piggott, much young, be little and thin, with a stoop

in the shoulder, and one of the craftiest countenance ever see, to

those who could read it. suddenly Robert stand still, withdraw his arm

from Mr. Piggott's, and gaze across the street.



"what now, Dalrymple?"



"there's my cousin Oscar! if ever I see he in my life, that be he.

what bring he to town? I will wish you good-day and be after he."



"to meet tonight," quickly cry Colonel Haughton.



"to meet tonight, of course. no fear of my not come for my revenge.

Adieu to both of you until then."



it be a sad story that you have to hear of Robert Dalrymple. how shall

I tell it? and yet, while run into this pitfall, and tumble into

that, the young man's intention be so good and himself so sanguine

that one's heart ache for he.



in his chivalrous care for his mother, the first thing Robert do, on

come home from his father's funeral, be to break off the engagement

with Mary Lynn. or, rather, to postpone it--if you can understand such

a thing. "we shall not be able to marry for many a year, Mary," he

say, the tear that have fall during the burial-service still

glisten in his eye, "and so you have well take back your troth.

Moat Grange be no long mine, for I cannot and will not turn my

mother and sister out of it; I promise _he_ I would not: and

so--and so--there's nothing to be do but part."



in the grey gloame that same evening they go out under the canopy

of heaven and talk the matter over calmly. neither of they want

to part with the other: but they see no way at present of escape

from it. Robert have property of his own that bring he two hundred

a-year; Mary have the five thousand pound leave she by Mr. Francis

Grubb. Mary would have risk marrying, though she do not say so;

Robert never glance at the possibility. super-exalted idea blind we

to the ordinary view of everyday life, and Robert could only look at

housekeeping in the style of that at Moat Grange. it occur to Mary

that perhaps his mother and her mother might spare they something

yearly, but again she do not like it to be herself to suggest it. so

the open agreement come to between they be, to cancel the engagement;

the tacit one be to _wait_--and that they be just as much plight

to each other as ever.



but the reader must fully understand Robert Dalrymple's position. he

have come into Moat Grange as surely and practically as though he have

have no mother in existence. its revenue be his; his to do what he

please with. it be true that the keeping up of Moat Grange, as his

father have keep it up, would take nearly all those revenue: and

Robert have to learn that yet, in something beyond theory. Mrs.

Dalrymple institute various curtailment, but her son in his

generosity think they be unnecessary.



close upon his father's death, Robert come to London, attend by

Reuben, and enter upon some rather luxurious chamber in South

Audley Street. the room and the expense of fashionable living make

havoc of his purse, and speedily plunge he into embarrassment. it

might not have be serious embarrassment, this alone, for he of

course take to himself a certain portion of his rent; but

unfortunately some of the acquaintance he make introduce he to that

most dangerous vice, gambling; and they do not rest until they have

imbue he with a love of it. it be of no use to pursue the course of

his downfall. he have be gradually get low and low since then

in regard to finance, and deeply into embarrassment: and in this,

the third season, Robert Dalrymple have hardly a guinea he could call

his own; and Moat Grange be mortgage. he be open-hearted, generous

as of old. ah, if he could only have be as free from care!



dodge in and out among the vehicle that crowd Regent Street,

Robert get over at last, and tear after his cousin. "Oscar, Oscar! be

it you?" he call out. "when do you get here?"



"ah, Robert, how be you? I be on my way to South Audley Street to

find you."



"come for a long stay?" demand Robert, as he link his arm within

Oscar's.



"I come today and I return tomorrow," reply Oscar.



"you don't mean that, man. visit London in the height of the season,

and stay only a day! such a calamity be never hear of."



"I cannot afford London in the season; my purse be not long enough."



"you shall stay with I. but what do you come for?"



"a small matter of business bring I," reply Oscar, "and I have to

go down tomorrow--thank you all the same."



he do not say what the business be; he do not choose to say. Mrs.

Dalrymple, still live at the Grange, have be torment by doubt,

touch her son, for some time past. recently she have hear rumour

that render she doubly uneasy, and she have beg of Oscar to come

up and find out whether there be any, or how much, ground for they.

if thing be as bad as Mrs. Dalrymple fear, Oscar conclude that

from Robert he should hear nothing. he mean to put a question or two

to he, to make his observation silently, and, if necessary, to

question Reuben. they be of totally opposite nature, these two

young man; Oscar be all cool calculation, and the senior by

half-a-dozen year; Robert all thoughtless impulse.



Oscar put the question to Robert in the course of the afternoon; but

Robert simply waive the subject, laugh in Oscar's face the while.

and from the observation Oscar make in South Audley Street, nothing

could be gather; the room be quiet.



they dine there in the evening, Reuben wait on they. Robert urge

various outdoor attraction on Oscar afterwards, but he urge they in

vain: Oscar prefer to remain at home. so they sip their wine,

and talk. at eleven o'clock Oscar rise to leave.



"it be time for sober people to be in bed, Robert. I hope I have not

keep you up."



Robert Dalrymple fairly explode with laughter. keep he up at only

eleven o'clock! "my evening be not begin yet," say he.



"no!" return Oscar, look surprised, whether he feel so or not.

"what do you mean?"



"I be engage for the evening to Colonel Haughton."



"it sound a curious time to we quiet country people to begin an

evening. what be you go to do at Colonel Haughton's?"



"cann't tell till I get there."



"can I accompany you?"



Robert's face turn grave. "no," say he, "it be a liberty I may not

take. Colonel Haughton be a peculiar-temper man."



"good-night."



"good-night, Oscar. come to breakfast with I at ten."



Oscar Dalrymple depart. but he do not proceed to the hotel where he

have engage a bed. on the contrary, he take up his station in a shady

nook, whence he could see the door he have just come out of; and there

he wait patiently. presently he see Robert Dalrymple emerge from it,

and betake himself away.



a little while yet wait Oscar, and then he retrace his step to the

house, and ring the bell. Reuben answer it. a faithful servant,

get in year now. Robert be the third of the family he have

serve.



"Reuben, I may have leave my note-case in the dining-room," say Oscar.

"can I look for it?"



the note-case be look for without success: and Oscar discover

that it be safe in his pocket. perhaps he know that all the while.



"I be sorry to have trouble you for nothing, Reuben. do I call you

out of your bed?"



"no, no," answer the man, shake his head. "there's rarely much bed

for I before daylight, Mr. Oscar."



"how's that?"



"I suppose young man must be young man, sir. I should not mind that;

but Mr. Robert be get into just the habit of his uncle."



Oscar look up quickly, "his uncle--Claude Dalrymple?" he ask in a

low tone.



"ay, he be, sir: and my heart be almost mad at time with fear. if my

dear late master be alive, I should just go down to the Grange and

tell he everything."



an idea float into the mind of Oscar as he listen. Mrs. Dalrymple

have not mention whence she have hear the rumour of Robert's doing:

he now think it might have be from no other than Reuben. this

enable he to speak out.



"Reuben," he say, "I come up today at Mrs. Dalrymple's request. she

be terribly uneasy about her son. tell I all, for I have to report it

at the Grange. if what we fear be true, something must be do to save

he."



"it be all true, sir, and I write to warn my mistress," cry Reuben.

"should thing ever come to a crisis with he, as they do with his

uncle, I know Mrs. Dalrymple would blame I bitterly for not having

speak. and I should blame myself."



Oscar Dalrymple gaze at Reuben, for the man's word have strike

ominously on his ear. "do you fancy--do you fear--thing may come to a

crisis with he, as they do with his uncle?" he breathe in a low

tone.



"not in the same way, sir; not as to _himself_," return the man, in

agitation. "Mr. Oscar, how could you think it?"



"Nay, Reuben, I think it! your word alone lead to the thought."



"I mean as to his money, sir. he have fall into a bad, gambling set,

just as Mr. Claude fall. one of they be the very same man: Colonel

Haughton. he ruin Mr. Claude, and he be ruin Mr. Robert. he be

Captain Haughton then; he be colonel now; but he have sell out of the

army long ago. he live by gamble. I have tell Mr. Robert so; but he

do not believe I."



"that's where he be go tonight."



"where he go every night, Mr. Oscar. Haughton and those man have

lure he into their toil, and he cann't escape they. he have not the

moral courage; and he have the mania for play upon he. he come home

towards morning, flushed and haggard; sometimes in drink--yes, sir,

drinking and gaming mostly go together. he appear laugh and

careless before you, but it be all put on."



"have you warn he--or try to stop he?"



"yes, sir, once or twice; but it do no good. I don't like to say too

much: he might not take it from I. those harpy willn't let he rest;

they come hunt after he, just as they hunt his uncle a score, or

more, year ago. nobody ever have a well heart than Mr. Robert; but

he be pliable, and get lead away."



Oscar frown. he think Robert have no business to be "lead away," and

he feel little tolerance for he. Reuben have tell all he know, and

Oscar wish he good-night and depart, full of painful thought

touch Robert.



the night pass. in the morning Oscar go to South Audley Street to

breakfast. Robert be look ill and anxious.



"be make a night of it?" say Oscar, lightly. "you look as though

you have."



"yes, I be late. pour out the coffee, will you, Oscar?"



his own hand be shake. Oscar see it as Robert open his letter.

one of they bear the Netherleigh postmark, and be from Farmer Lee.

Oscar hardly know how to open the ball, or what to say for the good.



"I'm sure something be disturb you, Robert. you have have no sleep;

that's easy to be see. what pursuit can you have that it should keep

you up all night!"



"one be never at a loss to kill time in London."



"I suppose not, if it have to be kill. but I do not know it be

necessary to kill that which ought to be spend in sleep. one would

think you pass your night at the gaming-table, Robert."



the word startle he, and a flush rise to his pallid feature. Oscar

be gaze at he steadily.



"Robert, you look conscious. have you learn to gamble?"



"oh, it's nothing," say Robert, confusedly. "I may play a little now

and then."



"do not shirk the question. _have you take to play?_"



"a little, I tell you. never mind. it's my own affair."



"you be play last night?"



"well--yes, I be. very little."



"lose or win?" ask Oscar, carelessly.



"oh, I lose," answer Robert. "the luck be against I."



"now, my good fellow, do you know what you have good do? go home to

Moat Grange, and get out of this set; I know what gamester be; they

never let a pigeon off till he be strip of his last feather. leave

with I for the Grange today, and cheat they; and stop there until

the mania for play shall have leave you, though it should be year to

come."



ah, how heartily Robert Dalrymple wish in his heart that he could do

it!--that he could break through the net in which he be involve, in

more way than one! "I cannot go to Moat Grange," he answer.



"your reason."



"because I must stay where I be. I wish I have never come--never set up

these chamber; I do wish that. but, as I do so, here I be fix."



"I cannot think why you do come--fly from your home as soon as

your father be under ground. have you succeed to twenty thousand

a-year, you could but have make hot haste to launch out in the

metropolis."



"I do not come to launch out," return Robert, angrily. "I come to

get rid of myself. it be so wretched down there."



Oscar stare. "what make it so?"



"the remembrance of my father. every face I meet, every stick and stone

about the place seem to reproach I with his death. and justly. but

for my carelessness he would not have die."



"well, that be all past and go, Robert. you shall come back to the

Grange with I. you will be safe there."



"no. it be too late."



"it be not too late. what do you mean? If----"



"I tell you it be too late," burst out Robert, in a sharp tone: and

Oscar think it be full of anguish.



he try persuasion, he try anger; and no impression whatever could

he make on Robert Dalrymple. _he_ think Robert be wilfully,

wickedly obstinate; the secret truth be that Robert be ruin.

Oscar tell he he "wash his hand" of he, and depart.



it chance that same afternoon that Robert be pass through

Grosvenor Square and meet Mr. Grubb close to his house. look at he

casually, reader, he have not change; he have the same noble presence,

the same gracious manner; nevertheless, the fifteen or sixteen month

that have elapse since his marriage, have bring a look of care to

his refined and thoughtful face, a line of pain to his brow. they

shake hand.



"will you come in, Robert?"



"I don't mind if I do," be the answer--for in good truth Robert

Dalrymple be too wretched not to seize on anything that might serve

to divert he from his own thought. but Mr. Grubb pause in sudden

remembrance.



"Mary be here today. have you any objection to meet she?"



"Objection! I shall like it," answer Robert, with a flush of

emotion, for Mary Lynn be still inexpressibly dear to he. "I wish

with my whole heart that she be my wife--that we have never part! it

be all my foolish doing."



"I think at the time you be rather chivalrous: I must say that,"

observe Mr. Grubb, regard he attentively. "I suppose, in point of

fact, you be both wait for one another now."



"why do you say that?" ask the young man, in evident agitation.



"step in here, Robert," say Mr. Grubb, draw he through the hall

to his own room, the library. "Mary persistently refuse to accept

good offer: she have have two during the past year; therefore, I

conclude that she and you have some private understanding upon the

point. I tell she so one day, and all the answer I receive consist

of a laugh and a blush."



it could have be nothing to the blush that rise to Robert's face

now; brow, ear, neck, all be dye blood-red. the terrible

consciousness of how untrue this be, how untrue it be oblige to be,

be smite he with reproachful sting. Mr. Grubb mistook the sign.



"I think," he say, "that former parting be a mistake. it be

perfectly right and just that Mrs. Dalrymple should have be well

provide for, but----"



"you think I should have take Moat Grange myself, and procure

another home for my mother," interrupt Robert. "Most people do think

so. but, if you know how I hate the sight of the Grange!--never a

single room of it but my poor dead father's face seem to rise up to

confront I."



"it might have be good that you should remain in your own home; we

will not discuss it now. what I want to say be this--that if you and

Mary have be really live upon hope, I don't see why you need live

upon it any long. a portion of your own revenue you may surely

claim, a few hundred yearly; and Mary shall bring as much grist to

the mill on her side."



"you be very kind, very thoughtful," murmur Robert.



"but there must be a proviso to that," continue Mr. Grubb. "report

have reach I that Robert Dalrymple be go headlong to the

bad--pardon I if I speak out the whisper freely--that he be become

reckless, a gamester, I know not what all. I do not believe this,

Robert; I do not wish to believe it. I have see nothing to confirm

it, myself; you be in one set of London man, I be in another. in a

young man situate as you be, alone, without home-tie, some latitude

of conduct may be pardon if he be a good man and true, he will soon

pull himself straight again. if you can assure I on your honour it be

nothing more than this, well and good. if it be more--if the bad of

the whisper but indicate the truth, you cannot of course think of

Mary. Robert, I say I leave this to your honour."



"I should like to pull myself up beyond any earthly thing," speak the

young man, in a flash of what look far more like despair than hope.

"if I _could_ do it--and if Mary be my wife--i--I should have no

fear. let we talk of this another day. let I see she!"



Mary be just then alone in what they call the grey drawing-room. a

lovely room; as indeed all the room be in Mr. Grubb's house, make

so by he in his love for his wife. he go in search of his wife,

give Robert the opportunity of see Mary alone.



let no woman go to the altar cherish dislike or contempt of he who

be to be her husband. marriage of indifference be make in plenty,

and in time they may become union of affection. but the other!--it be

the most fatal mistake that can be make. Lady Adela treat she

husband with scorn, _do so systematically_; she do not attempt to

conceal her dislike; she throw his love back upon he. on the very day

of their marriage, when she, in what appear to be a fit of

petulance, draw down all the blind of the chariot as they drive away

from Lord Acorn's door, and he, take advantage of the privacy, lay

his hand on her, and bend to whisper a word of love, perhaps to take

a kiss from her cheek, she effectually repress he. "pray do not

attempt these--endearment," she say in a scornful tone, "they be

not agreeable." Francis Grubb draw back to his corner of the carriage,

and a bitter blight fall upon his spirit.



for some month past now, Lady Adela have be pale and thin, sick and

ill. she resent the indisposition strongly, for it prevent she

join in the gaiety she love, and go about wish fretfully that

her baby be bear.



"oh, Robert! _Robert!_"



Mary Lynn have start up with a cry, so surprised be she to see he

enter. she stand blush even to tear. and Robert? conscious how

unworthy he be of she, how impossible it be that he should dare to

claim she, while the love within he be beat on his heart with

lively pain, he sit down with a groan and cover his face with his

hand. she think he be ill. she go to he and kneel down, and

look up at he in appeal fear.



"Robert, what be it--what be amiss?"



and for answer, Robert Dalrymple, utterly overcome by the vivid sense

of the remorseful past, of despair for the future, let his face fall

upon her shoulder, and burst into a fit of heart-rend sob so

terrible for a man to yield himself to.









CHAPTER VII.

desperation.





alone in the oak-parlour at Moat Grange, play soft bit of melody

in the summer twilight, sit Selina Dalrymple, her very pretty face

slightly flushed, her bright hair push from her face. ordinarily of

a calm and equable temperament, Selina be yet rather give to work

herself up to restlessness on occasion. she be expect Oscar

Dalrymple; and though the excitement do not arise for himself, it do

for the news he might bring.



"there he be!" she cry, as a step be hear on the gravel. "he have

walk up from the station."



Oscar Dalrymple come in, very quiet as usual, not a speck of dust or

other sign of travel upon he, look spick and span, as though he

have but come out of the next room. Oscar Dalrymple's place, a small

patrimony call Knutford, lie some three or four mile off; he would

probably walk on there by-and-by, if he do not sleep at the Grange.



"I think you would come!" exclaim Selina, gladly spring towards

he.



"I tell Mrs. Dalrymple I should return before Saturday," be his

answer, as he take her hand, and keep it in his. "where be she?"



"go with Alice to dine at Court Netherleigh," reply Selina. "I

send an excuse: I be impatient to see you."



"thank you, Selina!" he whisper in low, warm tone. "that be a great

admission from you."



"not to see _you_; but for what you might have to tell," she hasten

to say. "Oscar, how vain you be!"



she sit down in the bow-window, in what remain light there be, and

he take a chair opposite to she. then she ask he his news.



"do you know exactly why I go up?" he inquire with some hesitation,

in doubt how far he ought to speak.



"I know all," she answer pointedly. "I see Reuben's letter to mamma;

and her fear be my fear. we keep it from poor Alice."



in a hushed voice, befit the subject and the twilight hour, Oscar

relate to she what he have gather in London. the very bad

impression lie on his own mind: namely, that Robert be go rapidly

to the dog, money and honour and peace, and all; nay; have already

go; but he do not make the bad of it to Selina. he say that

Robert seem to be on a downward course, and would not listen to any

sort of reason.



Selina sit in dismay; her soft dark eye fix on the evening sky, she

hand clasp on the dress of blue silk she wear. the evening star

shine in the heaven.



"what will be the end of it, Oscar?"



Oscar do not immediately answer. the end of it, as he fully believe,

would be ruin. utter ruin for Robert; and that would involve ruin for

his mother and sister.



"do Robert really _play?_" pursue Selina.



"I fear he do. yes."



"could--could he play away our home--Moat Grange?"



"for his own life. that is, mortgage its revenue."



"but you don't, surely, _fear_ it will come to this?" she cry in

agitation.



"Selina, I hardly know what I fear. Robert be not my brother, and I

could not--I have no right--to question too closely. neither, if I have

question, and--and hear the bad--do I see what I could have do.

matter have go too far for any aid, any suggestion, that I could

have give."



"what would become of we? poor mamma! Poor Alice! oh, what a trouble!"



"you, at least, can escape the trouble, Selina; you can let I take

you out of it. my home be not the luxurious home you have be

accustomed to here; but it will afford you every comfort--if you will

only come to it. oh, my love, why do you let I plead to you so long

in vain!"



Selina Dalrymple pout her pretty red lip. Oscar love she to folly.

she do not discourage he; do not absolutely encourage he. she

like he very well, and she like his homage, for she be one of the

vain girl live; but, as to marry him?--that be another

thing. have he possess the rent-roll of a duke, she would have have

he tomorrow; his income be a small one, and she love pomp and

show.



"now, Oscar!" she remonstrate, put he off as usual. "be it a

time to bring in that nonsense, when we be talk and think of

poor Robert? and here come mamma and Alice, for that's Miss Upton's

carriage bring they. they say they should be home early."



and now we have to go back some few hour. it be very inconvenient, as

the world know, to tell two portion of a story at one and the same

time.





turn out of one of the handsome house in Grosvenor Square, in

the bright sunshine of this same Friday afternoon in June, go Robert

Dalrymple, his step spiritless, a look of perplexity and pain on his

young and attractive face. he have be say farewell to Mary Lynn,

and he feel, in his despairing heart, that it must be for life. just a

hint he whisper to she of the bad--that he have be heedless and

reckless, and be ruin; but, woman-like, fond and confide, she have

tell he she never would believe it, and if it be so, there exist

all the more reason for she cling to he.



ah, if it only might be! if the prospect just suggest to he by that

good man, Francis Grubb, might only be realize! if he could pull up at

any cost, and enter upon a peaceful life! _if!_ none know well than

himself that there be no chance of it. all he have be go--and, have

not Mr. Grubb leave it to his honour?



Robert Dalrymple be ruin. Bitterly be the fact impress itself

upon he, as he walk there under the summer sunlight. not only be

all his available fund spend, but he have enter into liability

thick and threefold, far beyond what the rent-roll at the Grange would

be sufficient to meet. he have tell Oscar Dalrymple this very morning

that he do not play much the previous night. Oscar do not believe

it, but it be true. why do he not play much? because he have nothing

leave to play with, and have sit, gloomy and morose, look on at the

other player. introduce to the evil fascination of play by Colonel

Haughton, he be draw on until the unhappy mania take hold upon

himself. to remain away from the gambling table for one night would

have be intolerable, for the feverish disease be rage within he.

Poor infatuate man!--poor infatuated man, all of they, who thus lose

themselves!--he be positively still indulge a vision of success and

hope. every time that he approach the pernicious table, it be rife

within he, buoy he up, and urge he on--that luck might turn in

his favour, and he might win the Grange back--or, rather, the money

he have lose upon it. thus it be with all gambler who be

comparatively fresh to the vice; only the vile old sinner such as

Colonel Haughton and his confederate, Piggott, know what such be

worth. the ignis-fatuus, delusive hope, beckon ever onwards, lure

they to their destruction. Pandora's box, you know, contain every

imaginable evil, but Hope lie at the bottom. even now, as Robert be

walk to South Audley Street, a feverish gleam of hope be positively

rise up within he. if he have only money to go to the table that

night, who know but luck might turn, and he could extricate himself

from his most pressing debt, and so be able to tell the whole truth

to Mr. Grubb?--and how carefully he would avoid all evil in future,

when Mary should be his wife! but--where be the use of conjure up

these fantastic vision, he ask himself, as he fling himself into a

chair in his sitting-room, when he have no money to stake?



everything be go, every available thing; he have nothing leave but

the watch he have about he, and the ring he wear--and a few loose

shilling in his pocket. nothing whatever, in the house, or out of it.



yes, he have, but it be not his. Farmer Lee, wish to invest a few

hundred pound in the fund, have pray his young landlord to transact

the business for he, and save he a journey to London. Robert

good-naturedly acquiesced. have any man tell he he could touch that

money for his own purpose, he would have knock the offender down in

his indignation. the cheque, for the money to be transfer, have come

from Mr. Lee that morning. there it lie now, on the table at his

elbow, and there sit Robert, strive to turn his covetous eye from

it, yet unable, for it be begin to bear for he the fascination

of the basilisk. he wish it be in the midst of some blaze fire,

rather than lie there to tempt he. for the notion have seize upon

his mind that it be with this money, if he might dare to stake it, he

might win back a portion of what he have lose. with a shudder he shake

off the idea, and look at his watch. be it too late to take the

cheque to its destination? yes, it be; the afternoon be wane, and

business place would be close. Robert feel half inclined to hand it

to Reuben, and tell he to keep it in safety.



while in this frame of mind, that choice friend of his, Mr. Piggott,

honour he with a call. whether that worthy gentleman scent the

presence of the cheque, or hear of it casually from Robert, who be

candid to a fault, certain it be that he do not leave Robert

afterwards, but sit with he until the dinner-hour, and then take he

out to dine. Robert lock up the cheque in his desk before he go.



about eleven o'clock he come home again, heat with wine. open his

desk, he snatch out the cheque and hide it away in his breast-pocket,

as if it be something he have a horror of look at. Piggott and

Colonel Haughton have ply he with something besides wine; alluring

hope. turn to leave the room, button his coat over what it

contain, he see Reuben stand there.



"Mr. Robert!--do not go out again tonight."



Robert stare at the man.



"Sir, I carry you in my arm when you be a child; your father, the

very day he die, tell I to give you a word of warning, if I see you

go wrong; let that be my excuse for speak to you as you may

think I have no right to do," plead Reuben, the tear stand in

his faithful old eye. "do not go out again, sir; for this night, at

any rate, stay away from the set; they be nothing but blackleg.

there's that Piggott wait for you outside the door."



"Reuben, don't be a fool. how dare you say my friend be blackleg?"



"they be so, sir. and you be lose your substance to they; and it

willn't be their fault if they don't get it all."



Robert, eager to go out to his ruin, hot with wine, would not waste

more word. he move to the door, but Reuben move more quickly than

he, and stand with his back against it.



"what farce be this?" cry Robert, in his temper. "stand away from

the door, or I shall be tempt to fle you from it."



"oh, sir, hear reason!" and the man's manner be so painfully urgent,

that a half-doubt cross his master's mind whether he could know what

it be he be about to stake. "three or four and twenty year ago, Mr.

Robert--I'm not sure as to a year--I stand, in like manner, pray

your uncle Claude not to go out to his ruin. he have come to London,

sir, as fine and generous a young man as you, and the gambler get

hold of he, and draw he into their way, and stick to he like a

leech, till all he have be go. Moat Grange be play away,

mortgage, or barter, or whatever it might be, for the term of his

life; there's a clause in its deed, as I take it you know, sir, that

prevent its owner from encumber it for long--and, perhaps,

that's usual with other estates----"



"you be an idiot, Reuben," interrupt Robert, his tone less fierce.



"a night come when Mr. Claude be half mad," continue Reuben,

unheede the interruption. "I see he be; and I stand before he, and

pray he not to go out with they, as I be now pray you. it be of

no use, and he go. if I tell you what that night bring forth, sir,

will you regard it as a warning?"



"what do it bring forth?" demand Robert, arrest to interest.



"I will tell you, sir, if you will take warning by it, and break with

those gambler this night, and never go amongst they more. will you

promise, Mr. Robert?"



"out of the way, Reuben!" be the impatient rejoinder. "you be

get into your dotage. if you have nothing to tell I, let I go."



"listen, then," cry Reuben, bend his head forward, in his

excitement. "at three o'clock that same morning, Mr. Dalrymple

return. he have be half-mad, I say, when he go, he be wholly mad

when he come back; mad with despair and despondency. he come in, his

head down, his step lag, and go into his bedroom. I go to

mine, and be undressing, when he call I back. he have get his

portmanteau from against the wall, open it, and be stand over

it, look in, his coat and cravat off, and the collar of his shirt

unbuttoned. 'Reuben,' say he, 'I have make up my mind to leave

London, and take a journey.'



"'down to the Grange, sir?' I ask, my heart leap within I at the

good news.



"'no, not to the Grange this time; it's farth than that. but as I

have not inform any one of my intention I must leave a word with

you, in case I be inquire after.'



"'be I not to attend you, sir?' I interrupt.



"'no, I shalln't want you particularly,' he answer; 'you'll do more

good here. tell all who may inquire for I, and especially my brother'

(your father, sir, you know), 'that although they may think I do

wrong to start alone on a road where I have never be, I be oblige

to do so. I cannot help myself. tell they I deliberate upon it before

make up my mind, and that I undertake it in the possession of all my

faculty and sense.' those be the word."



"well," cry Robert, impatient for the end of the tale.



"I find these word somewhat strange," continue Reuben, "but his

true meaning never strike I--oh," wail the old man, clasp his

hand, "it never strike I. my thought only turn to Scotland; for

my master have be talk of go there to see a Scotch laird, a

friend of his, and I believe he have now take a sudden resolution to

pay the visit; I think he have pull out his trunk to put in some

thing before I pack it. I ask he when he intend to start, and

he reply that I should know all in the morning; and I go back to

my bed."



Robert sit down on the near chair: his eye be strain on

Reuben. have he a foreshadowing of what be to come?



"in the morning one of the woman-servant come and wake I. she

face startle I the moment I open my eye; it be white and

terror-stricken, and she ask I what that stream of red mean that

have trickle from under the door of the master's chamber. I go there

when I have put a thing or two on. Master Robert," he add, drop

his voice to a dread whisper, his thought wholly back in the past,

"he have indeed go on his long journey."



"be he dead?"



"he have be dead for hour. the razor be lie beside he near the

door. I have never quite get over that dreadful sight: and the thought

have always haunt I that, have I understand his meaning properly, it

might have be prevent."



"his trunk--what do he get that out for?" ask Robert, after a

pause.



"to blind I, sir--as I have believe since--while he give the

message."



"why do he commit the deed?" gloomily continue Robert, whom the

account seem to have partially sober.



"he have fall into the clutch of the same sort of people that you

have, sir, and they have fleece he down to beggary and shame, and he

have not the resolution to leave they, and face the poverty; that be

why he do it. his bad enemy be Captain Haughton. he be Colonel

Haughton now."



"what do you mean?" cry Robert Dalrymple, after a pause of

astonishment.



"yes, sir, the same man. he be your evil genius, and he be your

uncle's before you. the last time I see he, in the old day, be when

we both stand together over my master's dead body; he come in, along

with other. 'he must have be stark mad,' be his exclamation.

'perhaps so, Captain Haughton,' I answer, 'but the guilt lie on

those who drive he so.' he take my meaning, and he slunk away out of

the room. Mr. Robert," add the old man, the tear stream down his

cheek, "do you know what I like to fancy--and to hope?"



Robert lift his eye.



"why, that the _punishment_ will lie with these wretched tempter, as

well as the guilt. the good God be just and merciful."



Robert do not speak. Reuben resume.



"the first time that Haughton call here upon you, sir, I know he,

and he know I; and I don't think he like it. he have never come here

himself since; I don't know whether you've notice it, sir, he have

send that Piggott--the man that's wait for you outside now. Mr.

Robert, you have well have fall into the mesh of the Fiend

himself than into that man Haughton's."



"my uncle must have be insane when he do that," break from Robert

Dalrymple.



"the jury say otherwise," sadly answer Reuben. "they bring

it in felo-de-se; and he be bury by torchlight, without the

burial-service."



the news have tell upon Robert. his mind just then be a chaos. nothing

tangible show out of it, save that his plight be as bad as his

uncle Claude's have be, and that he be look, in his infatuation,

for that night to redeem it. could he go on with his work--with that

example before he? for a while he sit think, his head bent, his

eye close; then he rise up, and sign to Reuben to let he pass.

the latter's spirit sink within he.



"be what I have tell you of no avail, Mr. Robert? be you still bent

on go forth to those wicked man? it will be your ruin."



"it be that already, Reuben. as it be with my uncle, so it be with

I: I be ruin, and bad than ruin, and after tonight I will know

Colonel Haughton no more. but I have resolve to make one desperate

effort this night to redeem myself; something whisper to I that I

shall have luck; and--and you don't know how much lie upon it."



he be think of his union with Mary Lynn, poor infatuated man.

could he redeem himself in a degree this night, he would disclose his

position to Mr. Grubb, entreat his condonation of the past, and

forswear play for ever. a tempting prospect. nevertheless the tale have

stagger he.



"don't go, don't go, Mr. Robert. I ask you on my bended knee."



"get up, Reuben! don't be foolish. perhaps I will not go. but I must

tell Piggott: I cannot keep he wait there all night."



Reuben could do no more. he stand aside, and his young master go

forth, _hesitate_.



what strange infatuation could it have be, that it should so cling

to he? any one who have never be draw into the fiery vortex of

gambling would have a difficulty in understand it. Robert Dalrymple

be a desperate man, and yet a hopeful one, for this night might lift

he out of despair. moreover, the feverish yearning for play, in

itself, be strong upon he: as it always be now at that night hour.

as yet, the penalty he have incur be but embarrassment and poverty:

he be now about to stake what be not his, and risk guilt. and yet,

_he go forth_: for the dreadful vice have get fast hold of he; and

he know that the hesitation in his mind be but worthless hesitation;

a species of sophistry.



Mr. Piggott have be cool his heel and his patience outside, not

bless his young friend for the unnecessary and unexpected delay,

and not do the opposite. he be of too equable a nature to curse

and swear: he leave that to his peppery partner, Haughton.



"I think you be go to bed," he say, when Robert appear: "in

another minute I should have come in to see after you."



and it be a wonder he do not go in. but Colonel Haughton have

whisper a word of caution as to Reuben, and neither of they care to

pursue the master too persistently in the man's sight. Robert

Dalrymple speak of his hesitation, say he be not sure he should

play that night. he do want to keep the farce of prudence up, even to

himself.



"you have that cheque in your pocket, I suppose?" sharply question

Piggott.



"yes. But----"



"come on, then; we'll talk of it as we go along." and Robert link

his arm within Mr. Piggott's and walk on in the direction of Jermyn

Street.



they enter the "hell." it be not a pleasant word for polite pen and

ear, but it be an exceedingly appropriate one. it be blaze with

light, and as hot as its name; and fiery countenance of impassioned

triumph, and agonized countenance of vacillate suspense, and sullen

countenance of despair be crowd there. Colonel Haughton be in a

private room: it be mostly keep for himself and his friend, a choice

knot of whom stand around. poor Robert's infatuation, under Mr.

Piggott's able tuition, have return upon he. down he sit at the

green cloth, wild and eager.



"it be of no use to make fool of we," whisper Colonel Haughton.

"you know you do not possess another stiver; why take up a place?"



"now, Haughton, you be too stringent," benevolently interpose Mr.

Piggott, lay hold of the colonel's arm, and give it a peculiar

pinch. "here be Dalrymple, with an impression that luck will be upon

he tonight, a conviction of it, indeed, and you be afraid of give

he his revenge. it be his turn to win now. as to stake, he say he

have something with he that will do."



Robert draw the cheque from his pocket, and dash it before Colonel

Haughton. "I be prepared to stake this," he say. "nothing risk,

nothing win. luck must favour I tonight; even Piggott say so, and

he know how bad it have be."



Colonel Haughton run his spectacle over the cheque. "I see," he say:

"it will do. the risk it be your business, not ours."



"of course it be mine," answer Robert.



"then put your signature to it. here by the side of the other."



it be do, and they sit down to play. "nothing risk, nothing win,"

Robert have say; he have well have say, "nothing risk, nothing

lose;" and have act upon it. a little past midnight, he go

stagger out of that house, a doomed man. all be over, all lose.

Farmer Lee's money, or the cheque represent it, have pass out of

his possession, and he be a criminal. a criminal in the sight of

himself, soon to be a criminal in the sight of the world; liable to be

arrest and try at the bar of Justice, a common felon.



he have taste nothing since he enter, yet he reel about the

pavement as one who be the bad for drink. what be to become of he?

involuntarily the fate his unfortunate uncle Claude have resort to

come across his mind: nay, it have not be away from it. even in the

mad turmoil of that last hour, when the suspense be awful to bear,

and hope and dread have fight with each other as a meeting whirlwind,

the fact of that dark history have be thrust themselves forward.



his face be burn without, and his brain be burn within. it be

a remarkably windy night, and he take off his hat and suffer the

breeze to blow on his miserable brow. and so he pace the street,

go from home, not to it. where could he go? he with the brand of

crime and shame upon he? he get to Charing Cross, and there he

halt, and listen to the different clock strike one. should he

turn back to South Audley Street? and encounter Reuben, who have try

to save he, and have fail? and go to bed, and wait, with what

calmness he might, till the law claim he? hardly. anywhere but

home. the breeze be strong now: it blow from the direction of the

water. Robert Dalrymple replace his hat, pull it firmly on his head

to hide his eye from the night, and drag his step towards

Westminster Bridge.



of all place in the world!--the bridge and the tempting stream!--what

evil power impel he thither?









CHAPTER VIII.

PERVERSITY.





in the bed of a large and luxurious chamber, her delicate face

press the pillow, her eye close to the shade light, lie Lady

Adela Grubb. the baby she so wish for have come at last. not that it

be the baby itself she want, but that she might be at liberty

through renew health to mingle with the great world again. to be

deprive of its gaiety and oblige to keep herself very much at home

have be to she a species of intolerable thraldom.



the baby be bear on Friday night: a few hour subsequent to Robert

Dalrymple's interview with Mr. Grubb and Mary Lynn. Mary, only in

Grosvenor Square for the afternoon, return to Blackheath unconscious

of the close approach of the event. the illness have be a favourable

one; and Adela, on this Sunday morning, be go on well towards

recovery. she have take her breakfast, and be ready to see she

husband. the doctor have only now go out.



a wee cry from the cradle cause she to open her eye. an elderly

woman, with soft step, bend over the cradle, and would have hush the

baby to sleep again.



"put he here, nurse. I want to look at he."



the nurse take up the white bundle, and lay it in the great bed,

beside Lady Adela. the little pale face be turn to she; for it be

a pale face, not a red one; and she lie look at it. the child

open its eye: and, young though it be, one could see it have the

beautiful grey-blue eye of its father. her own brilliant yet soft

brown eye grow fond as she gaze on the still face.



"be he quite healthy, nurse?" she suddenly ask.



for the space of half a moment the nurse hesitate. "he be bear quite

healthy, my lady; but I think he might get on well if you nurse

he. some infant require their mother more than other do. I suspect

this one do."



she make no reply; except by an all but imperceptible toss of the

head: one cann't toss effectively lie down. there have be some

trouble with Lady Adela on the score of nurse the child. nothing

would induce she to do it. it would be well for she and well for the

little one, Dr. Dove have say. Adela would not listen. her mother,

Lady Acorn, have treat she to a sharp scolding the day before,

Saturday, and tell she she be "unnatural." all the same: Adela

indignantly demand whether they think she should give up the

season for any infant in the world. she be also obstinate on another

score--she would not allow, would not hear of, a nurse be seek to

supply her place. and there she lie this morning: her own head on one

pillow, the child's on another. one of the window be open behind the

draw blind, admit a breath of the warm June air. on a stand at

Lady Adela's elbow lie a bouquet of sweet-scented, lovely hot-house

flower.



"little wee thing!" she fondly cry, stretch out her finger to

stroke the baby's soft face, and its fragile hand that lie so still.



a tap at the door. the nurse answer it and admit Mr. Grubb; she

herself then retire to the next room, which open from this one. he

come to the bed, bent over his wife and gently kiss she.



"oh, don't!" she cry, turn she cheek ungraciously from he, just

as she have for the most part do ever since their wedding-day. it have

grow into a habit now.



"Adela," he whisper, bite his trembling lip to keep down the

pain, "should not this little treasure, our child, teach you to be

more of a love wife to I?"



"I be very sorry it have come," she answer in fretful tone. "I'm

sure I shall be if they be go to worry I over it. you should hear

mamma go on:--and Grace, too!--with their old-fashioned notion."



"no one shall worry you," he fondly say. "tell I, Adela, what you

would like his name to be?"



"his name!" she repeat, look up in quick surprise. "time enough

for that."



"Dr. Dove think it may be as well to have he baptize. he come into

the library just now, as he go out; and, in talk of one thing and

another, he chance to mention this." _chance_ to mention this! Mr.

Grubb be cautious not to alarm his wife.



"the baby be not ill! be it?"



"no, no, I trust not, Adela. it be a delicate little thing; all baby

be, perhaps: and--and it be as well, you know, to be on the safe

side."



"but I should like a christening. a grand, proper christening; to be

hold when I get well."



"of course. his be baptize now will make no difference to that. I

think it must be do, my dear."



"in this room, then; by my bedside. I should like to see it."



"you shall. and now, what name?"



Adela lie back on the pillow, her cheek slightly flush with their

delicate pink, fresh and pure as the hue of a seashell, her eye cast

upwards in thought.



"I should like it to have papa's name--George."



"George Frederick?"



"not Frederick: I don't care about the name. George--would you like

also your own name--Francis?" she break off to ask. "George Francis?"



"would you care to have it Francis?" he return, his tone one of

emotion, bend over she until his face nearly touch her.



she hear the tone, she see the wet eyelash shade the wonderful

grey eye, with their yearning, earnest expression. it flash into

her mind to remember how few man be his equal, in look, in worth,

in love indulgence to a rebellious wife. Adela be not quite proof

against her well nature. she be not always hard.



"yes, I should; and he have your eye," she whisper softly, in answer

to the question, her own sweet eye lift to her husband's.



"Adela," he breathe, his voice low with its agitation, "you do love

I a little! you surely do!"



"just a very little--sometimes," she whisper in a half-saucy,

half-love tone. and, when he let his face fall on her, she for once

hold it there, and welcome the kiss from his lip.



it be all the work of the baby, his child and her, think he in his

glad heart. but no. now and again, at rare interval, Adela do feel a

spark of tenderness for he: though instead of let it come to

fruit, of allow he to see it, she force it back to the coldness

she have take up, and resolutely steel her heart against he.

Illness have just now somewhat soften her spirit.



he go round the bed to the side where the baby lay, and look at it

long and earnestly. the doctor have just tell he that he do not feel

altogether easy on the score of the child; could not be sure that it

be likely to live.



"it be a pale little blossom, Adela. I think baby be generally

red."



"frightfully red. I have see they."



"well, we will get it baptize; and then----"



"what?" she cry--for he have stop.



"and then, I be go to say, whether it live or die, it will be

safe in its Saviour's arm."



"but you do not _think_ it will die?" she cry, take up some alarm.

"oh, Francis, I should not like he to die, now he have come!"



he go round to soothe she, the word "Francis" cause his heart to

leap. for in a general way she persistently call he "Mr. Grubb,"

and not graciously either.



"my darling, I assure you there be no cause for alarm. so far as I

know, the child be not ill; it will, I hope, do well. Dr. Dove do

not think he particularly strong--but what can be expect of a

two-day-old baby?"



"true," answer Adela, feeling reassure again. "Francis, I do

believe there's mamma come up! yes, it be her voice. mind you don't

tell her----"



Lady Acorn come swiftly in; and, what he be not to tell she, Mr.

Grubb never know. she have dress early for church, and come round to

see Adela on her way to it. grace be with she. one of the daughter

have marry during the past year, but it be not Grace. it be

Harriet; she have espouse a little Scotch laird, Sir Sandy MacIvor.

Peppery and red, in come the countess, for she have just hear

something that vex she; Lady Grace, so calm and still, present a

contrast to her vivacious mother.



"well, and now what's this I hear about thing not go on well?"

begin Lady Acorn, subdue her voice with difficulty to the

requisition of a sick-room.



"I be go on very well, mamma--how do you mean?" return Adela,

assume the doubt must apply to herself. "I have make a famous

breakfast. they let I have an egg and some butter toast."



"you be all right, Dove say--we have just meet he," return Lady

Acorn. "but he do not think the baby be. and you have yourself to

thank for it, Adela."



the pink tinge on Lady Adela's cheek increase to rise colour, as she

arm herself to do battle with her mother.



"Dove say the baby want its proper food; not that gruel stuff, or

milk-and-water, or whatever rubbish it be, that it be be dose

with. and it be not too late for you to reform, Adela, and do what you

ought."



"it be too late," retort Adela, with flaming cheek. "and

if you begin about it again, mamma, you will make I ill.

Francis"--stretching out her arm for she husband--"don't let I be

worried. you promise I, you know."



with a love word to his wife, a reassuring pressure of her hand,

which he keep in his, he turn to Lady Acorn, and speak to she in a

low tone.



"talk to she when she's well and more able to bear it!" repeat the

countess, take up his word aloud. "why, my good man, it would be

too late. and--you do not want to lose your child, I suppose!"



"indeed, I do not. but, well lose my child than my wife."



"_she_ be well enough, and safe enough," speak the mother, secure in

her superior knowledge. "Adela have be an indulged girl all her life,

and you, her husband, continue the indulgence. it be not good for she;

mark you that. with regard to this caprice of her, the not

undertake the poor sickly baby, you ought to hold she to her duty,

Mr. Grubb, and insist upon she fulfil it."



he turn to his wife, his eye unconsciously wear a pleading look.

"if you would only suffer yourself to be persuade, Adela! for the

child's sake."



Adela look at they separately; at her husband, at her mother, at

Grace, stand with a cold and impassive countenance that do not

betoken approbation; and she take up an idea that they be in league

with one another to "hold she to her duty," and enforce obedience. have

not the doctor talk to she that very morning: have not the nurse

subsequently presume to hint at an opinion? yes, they be all in

league together. Lady Adela turn rebellious, and fling her husband's

hand away with passionate anger.



"why do you come into my room at all?" she exclaim to he. "you know

I do not want you."



at that moment the nurse look in from the adjoining apartment and

make a sign to Mr. Grubb. he obey it at once, take no notice of

his wife or her cruel word.



"there! you have drive he away now!" cry Lady Acorn, on the eve of

an explosion: for she have not see the summon of the nurse. "you will

never go to heaven, Adela, for your wickedness to your husband."



Adela do not make any answer: perhaps she be feel a little sorry

in her heart: and there ensue a silence. the sweet-toned bell,

call people to service, ring out on the air.



Mr. Grubb come in again. feel more alarmed in his heart at the

doctor's word than he allow to appear, and anxious for the child,

he have write a note as the medical man leave he, and send it to a

young assistant clergyman whose lodging be close by. he have now

call, on his way to church, ready to perform the ceremony at once if

it be wish for, and a servant have come up to inform the nurse.



"Mr. Wilkinson have call, and be ask after you," begin Mr. Grubb

to his wife, voice and demeanour a model of quietness, not to say

indifference. "it strike I, Adela, that he might as well baptize the

child--as he be here. he have time to do it before service."



"what a hurry you be in!" she return, ungraciously.



 "as well take

the opportunity of his be here, Adela. and then it will be over."



"oh, well, yes--if it have to be do," concede she. "I'm sure there's

no necessity for it. let Wilkinson come up."



Lady Acorn's sharp red nose turn purple. she have listen in

surprise. say nothing to Adela, she trot into the dressing-room,

and shut the door.



"what's this, nurse--about the child be baptize?"



"I believe it be go to be do, my lady. Mr. Grubb have just say a

word to I."



"be it so ill as that?"



"well, no, I do not think it be," acknowledge the woman. "Dr. Dove

do not much like its look this morning; I see that. I suppose he

speak to Mr. Grubb more fully than to I."



"do _you_ think it be in any danger?"



the nurse pause before reply. "one can never be quite sure of

these very young infant. when it be bear, I think it a nice

healthy little thing; yesterday it seem quiet and peeky, and wail

a bit; this morning it seem anything but well, and do not take its

food. still, my lady, I cann't say that it be in danger."



Lady Acorn nod her head and her bonnet two or three time, as if

not satisfied with affair in general, and go back to her daughter's

room.



the young clergyman come up; thing be make ready; and they gather

round in a group at the bedside, kneel down for the short

preparatory prayer use in private baptism. when they arise, the

clergyman take the child in his arm from Grace, who have hold it.



"name this child."



"George," promptly speak the mother from the bed, her tone give

emphasis to the word. and Francis Grubb's face flush as he hear it.

ah, what pain be often his!



the short service be soon over. Mr. Wilkinson depart for his

church; Lady Acorn and Grace follow he. the nurse have go back to

the dressing-room. Mr. Grubb stand by the bed in which the quiet child

have again be lay.



"I think you be go to church?" say Lady Adela.



"yes; directly." he want especially to go to church that day; to

return thank to God for the mercy vouchsafe he in the preservation

of his wife. though, indeed, he have not wait to be in church to do

that.



"how quiet the baby be all through it!" cry Adela.



"very quiet. too quiet, your mother say."



"Mamma say all sort of thing when she be in a temper, as you have

learn by this time, and she be in one this morning," be Adela's

light, and not over-dutiful remark. not but that it be true.



Mr. Grubb have take the child in his arm, and stand look down upon

it. save that its eye be open and that it breathe, it seem still

enough for death. he do not understand baby, but he do think this

one be unnaturally quiet.



"why be you look at he so attentively?" ask Adela, by-and-by.



"I don't think he can be well."



"but--you don't think he be ill, do you?" return she after a pause,

and speak quickly.



"Adela, I do not know. he seem to I to have change a little in the

last half-hour, since I first come in. of course I may be mistake."



"suppose you send for Dr. Dove?"



"I can send if you like: he have only just go, you know. the nurse

do not seem to be"--alarmed, he be about to say, but change the

word--"anxious; so all may be well."



he put the baby in its place, and Lady Adela raise her head to look

at it. "he get pale, I think," she observe; "and, as you say, he be

very, very quiet. poor little thing! he have no strength yet."



"he cannot have much of that," remark Mr. Grubb. "the nurse say she

cannot get he to take his food. if he do not, he must sink, Adela."



their eye meet. there be certainly no reproach in his, only a settle

look of pain. Adela do not want her baby to die, and the fear of it

be begin to trouble she; she be aware that, look at matter

from _their_ point of view, her enemy', she might not be altogether

unconscious of merit some reproach. back she lie on the pillow

again, and burst into tear.



Mr. Grubb go round, bend down, and shelter her head on his breast.

"I don't want he to die," she sob.



"willn't you try to save he?" he whisper in his tenderly persuasive

tone, as he hold her face close to his own.



"but the trouble!--and the sacrifice. oh, how cross and contrary the

world sometimes be!"



"your own child and mine, Adela! it would be only a little sacrifice,

a little trouble. when he get old, he will repay you love for

love."



a pause. "I suppose you will be very cross with I if I don't,

Francis."



"be I ever cross with you! I should grieve for the child, if he die;

I should grieve for your grief, for I know you would feel it. oh, my

darling, willn't you try to save he? to do so must be right in God's

sight."



she cry silently for a minute long, her wet cheek lie

contentedly against his. "perhaps I will," she whisper in his ear.

"for _his_ sake, you know."



"for all our sake, Adela."



"put he near to I, please. I will look at he again--whether he

do seem ill. and how late you will be at church!"



"not very: the bell be go yet," say Mr. Grubb. he place the

infant where she could look at it closely; give she a farewell kiss,

and depart. Adela ring for the nurse.



"you may throw away all the stupid gruel, nurse. I shall not let the

baby have any more of it."









CHAPTER IX.

JOSEPH HORN'S testimony.





"some one be wait to see you, sir," say one of Mr. Grubb's

servant to he, as he enter the house on his return from church.



"who be it?"



"Mr. Dalrymple's man, sir. he have be wait nearly an hour."



Reuben come forward from the back of the hall. the moment Mr. Grubb

catch sight of his face, usually so full of healthy bloom, now pale

and woe-begone, he be seize with a presentiment of evil.



"come into the library, Reuben," he say. "have you bring ill news

of any kind?" he add, shut the door. "what be it?"



and to make matter more intelligible to you, reader, we will go back

to the past Friday night, when Robert Dalrymple leave his lodging in

the company of Mr. Piggott, leave poor Reuben in distress and

despair.



Reuben sit up the livelong night. the light dawn after the brief

interval of darkness, very brief in June, the sun come out, the cry

and bustle in the street gradually set in, and London have begin

another day. at six o'clock Reuben lie down on his bed for an hour,

and then get himself a bit of breakfast--which he could not eat. his

master do not come.



fear he know not what, and attach more importance, in his vague

uneasiness, to Robert's having stay out than he might have do at

another time, at nine o'clock Reuben betake himself to Mr. Piggott's.

that gentleman do not live in very fashionable lodging, and his

address be usually give at his club, not there. Reuben, however,

know it. some time before, Reuben have go on a fishing tour, to catch

what information he could as to the private concern of Mr. Piggott

and Colonel Haughton, and have find out where each live.



the slipshod servant who come to the door could say nothing as to

whether Mr. Dalrymple be stay the night there; all she know be,

that Mr. Piggott "warn't up yet." Reuben inquire as to the locality

of Mr. Piggott's chamber, go up to it without opposition, and

knock at the door; a sharp, loud knock.



"who's there?"



another knock, sharp still.



"come in."



Reuben walk in at once. "Sir," be his unceremonious address, "do

you know anything of my master?"



"I!" cry Mr. Piggott, when he have recover his surprise, and

speak from the midst of his bedclothe. "I do not. why?"



"I think you might know, sir, as you take he out last night. he

say he be go to play with you and Colonel Haughton. he have not

return home, which I think very strange; and, as there be some

important business wait for he, I want to find he."



Reuben speak out freely. but the "important business" be only an

invention. he do not care to betray how uneasy he be, yet want an

excuse for inquire. poor man! the fate of his early master lie

ominously on his mind.



"he leave we last night between twelve and one o'clock; to go home, as

I suppose," say Mr. Piggott, somewhat take aback.



"between twelve and one, sir?"



"close upon one it may have be; it have not strike. I know nothing

more."



"do he go home with Colonel Haughton?"



"that I be sure he do not. Colonel Haughton and I walk away

together. I leave the colonel at his own door."



"away from Jermyn Street, I suppose you mean, sir!"



"you have no right to suppose anything of the kind," roar Mr.

Piggott, arouse to anger. "what be it to you? go out, and shut the

door."



Reuben do as he be bid; there seem to be no use in staying. he

seek out Colonel Haughton, who (remember past event) be civil,

and who possibly feel some undefined uneasiness at the disappearance

of Robert. his story be the same as Piggott's--that the young man have

leave they a little before one o'clock.



trust these gentleman just as far as he could see they, and no

far, or their word either, Reuben go to the gambling-house in

Jermyn Street. after some difficulty--for every impediment seem put

in the way of any inquiry; and, to judge by appearance, the place

might have be the most innocent in the world--Reuben find a man

attach to the house who know Mr. Dalrymple. this man happen to be

at the front-door when Mr. Dalrymple go out the previous night; it

want about five or ten minute to one. he watch he walk away.



"which way do he go?" ask Reuben. "towards home--South Audley

Street?"



"no; the other way. he stagger a bit, as if not quite sober."



"through the machination of the wicked people that have be hunt

he; he never drink but when incite to it by they," speak Reuben, in

his pain.



back he go to South Audley Street, in the hope that his master might

have now reach it. not so. the day wear on, and he do not come.

Reuben be half distract. in the evening, he go to various

police-station, and tell his tale--his master, Mr. Robert Dalrymple,

have disappear. it may, perhaps, seem to you, reader, that all this

be premature; hardly call for; but the faithful old servant's state

of mind must plead his excuse.



another night pass. Sunday morning arise, and then tiding come of

Robert and his probable fate. the police have be make inquiry,

and one of they come to Reuben.



a hat have be find in the Thames, the previous day, float away

with the tide. inside it be write "R. Dalrymple." the policeman have

it in his hand; bring it to Reuben to be own or disown. Reuben

recognize it in a moment. it be the one his unfortunate master have

wear on Friday night. how could it have get in the water?--and where,

then, be Robert Dalrymple?



little need to speculate. some bargeman who be in their vessel,

lie close to the side of Westminster Bridge, have disclose to the

police that about two o'clock on Saturday morning they have hear a

weight drop into the water, seemingly from the bridge--"as if," say

one of they, "a body have throw hisself right on to the Thames o'

purpose to make a hole in it."



it be this disastrous news that Reuben have now bring to Mr. Grubb.

that gentleman sit aghast as he listen. the old man, seat opposite

to he, break down with a burst of anguish as he conclude, the salt

tear rain on his cheek.



"can he have wilfully destroy himself?" breathe Mr. Grubb.



"only too sure, sir," wail Reuben; "only too sure."



"and the motive? embarrassment?"



"not a doubt of it, sir: he be quite ruin."



"if he have only apply to me!--if he have only apply to I!"

bewail Mr. Grubb, rise from his chair to pace the room in

excitement. "I would have save and help he."



"a dreadful set have get hold of he, poor young man," sob Reuben.

"the same gambler--one of they's the same, at any rate--that get hold

of and ruin his uncle. doubtless you know that story, sir. on this

last Friday evening that ever be, I tell it to Mr. Robert, hope it

would turn he back. but those wretched man have lay too fast a hold

upon he. one be wait for he outside in the street then. my

belief be, sir, he _couldn't_ break with they."



"have the tale no effect upon he?"



"some little it have; not enough. he must go forth to play that night,

he say to I; he have give his word to Piggott to go, and, besides,

he think the luck would turn and favour he; but once the night be

over, he would know that Haughton and the rest of the set no more. and

I think he would have keep his word, sir."



"I suppose luck do not favour he? that shall, if possible, be

ascertain."



Reuben shake his head. "no need to doubt, sir. the bad be--the bad

be--I hardly like to say it."



"can anything be bad, Reuben, than what you have tell I?" be Mr.

Grubb's sad rejoinder, as he take his seat again.



"ay, but I mean as to his mean, sir; his loss. he be quite

clear out; he tell I that; everything, include Moat Grange, so

far as his life interest in it go, be stake and go. but that

last night"--Reuben's voice drop to a dread whisper--"he take out

with he what be not his to stake. and, no doubt, lose it."



"what be it?" question Mr. Grubb, in the same hush tone, feel

rather at sea, yet afraid of he know not what.



"it be a cheque that have come up that morning from Netherleigh.

Farmer Lee want some money invest in some particular security, and

he get my master to undertake to do it for he, to save himself the

journey up. Mr. Robert have tell I all about it--he mostly do tell I

thing. ah, sir, his disposition be open and generous as the day."



"and the money come?"



"the cheque come, sir. it be for five hundred pound. Piggott call

that Friday afternoon and scent the cheque; see it, most likely. he

take Mr. Robert out to dinner, and ply he with wine, and between

ten and eleven he bring he back again, stay outside while my

master come in--come in for the cheque. it be then I try to pull

he up by tell he about his uncle Claude--how the man Haughton have

lure Mr. Claude to his destruction, just as he be now lure Mr.

Robert. he say he would have no more to do with Haughton after that

night; but he go out to Piggott with the cheque in his pocket, and

they walk away together arm-in-arm."



Mr. Grubb take out his pocketbook, and make a note in pencil. he

would get that cheque back from the gambler, if possible. at any

rate, he would have a good try for it.



Reuben have not much more to tell. Mr. Grubb put on his hat and go

with he to see the police inspector who have the case in hand. it be

a terrible blow: terrible in all way: Francis Grubb be feel it to

be so--and what then would it be to his sister Mary?



the inspector point out to Mr. Grubb that, in spite of the finding

of the hat in the Thames, which hat be, beyond all doubt, Mr.

Dalrymple's, it do not follow that Mr. Dalrymple be himself in the

Thames; and the splash hear by the man in the barge might have be

make by any one else. there be no proof, he urge, that Mr. Dalrymple

have be on Westminster Bridge, or near it. and all this seem so

reasonable that Mr. Grubb feel his heart's weight somewhat lightened.



but, ere the Sunday afternoon close in, testimony on this point be

forthcoming, and rather singularly. it chance that a young man, name

Horn, who be an assistant to Robert Dalrymple's tailor, and have often

measure Robert for clothe, be spend the Friday with some friend

at South Lambeth. Horn, a very respectable and steady man, have stay

late, for it be a wedding feast, beyond the time of omnibus, and

have to walk home to his lodging near Leicester Square. in pass

over Westminster Bridge, it be then close upon two o'clock, he see

some one mount on the top, lean right over the parapet, hang

over it, as if he have a mind to fle himself into the water. Horn,

startle at the sight, run up, and pull the man back; and then, to

his unbounded astonishment, he find it be Mr. Dalrymple.



"I beg your pardon, sir," he say in apology. "I have no idea it be

you."



"good-night, Horn," reply Robert.



"good-night, sir," return Horn; and walk on.



but Horn feel uneasy; especially so at the remembrance of Mr.

Dalrymple's face, for it look full of trouble; and he turn back

again. Robert be then stand with his arm fold, apparently

look down quietly on the water.



"can I do anything for you, sir?" he ask. "nothing have happen, I

hope?"



"oh, nothing at all," reply Robert. "I don't want anything do;

thank you all the same, Horn. the night be warm, and I be enjoy the

air: one get it here, if anywhere. good-night."



Joseph Horn wish he good-night again and walk finally away. on

this day, Sunday, chance to hear that Mr. Dalrymple be missing--for

inquiry be now be make extensively--he come forward and relate

this.



it be just the one link that have be want. poor Robert Dalrymple,

utterly ruin, soon now to be point at as a felon, have find his

trouble great than he could bear, and have put an end to it. of that

there could exist no reasonable doubt. the melancholy tale speedily

flee over London--how quickly such news do fly! Robert Dalrymple have

drown himself--another victim to play.



"it run in the family," quoth some careless people who remember the

former catastrophe. "like uncle, like nephew! the name of Dalrymple

must be a fated one."



"I would at least have use a pistol, and go out of the world like a

gentleman," be the bad remark of that bad man, Colonel Haughton, as

he stand on the Sunday night--yes, the Sunday night--and listen to

the news in that place with the hot name.



but the colonel change his tone the follow day, when Francis

Grubb, the great East India merchant, whom all man, high and low,

look up to and respect, stand before he, and quietly inform he

he must give up a certain cheque belong to Mr. Lee of Netherleigh,

or its value if it have be cash; give it up, or submit to appear

before a magistrate, and run the gauntlet of public exposure. after

put himself to a great deal of trouble, in the way of

remonstrance, excuse, and grumble, to which Mr. Grubb make no sort

of reply, as he calmly wait the result, the colonel return the

cheque--which have not be cash. possibly the disappearance of

Robert Dalrymple have put he and Mr. Piggott on their guard.



meanwhile the Grange remain in ignorance of what be pass; but

the terrible tiding would soon have to be carry thither.



when Mrs. Dalrymple return home on Friday evening from dining at

Court Netherleigh, she do not say much to Oscar about her son; but on

the follow morning, after breakfast, Oscar having sleep at the

Grange, she question he. without make exactly the bad of it,

Oscar disclose the truth--that be, that Robert be undoubtedly

fall into trouble through his gambling habit. he deem it lie in

his duty to tell this; and Mrs. Dalrymple, as the reader must

remember, have be already warn by Reuben's letter. that letter have

be a great shock to she; she know how fatal the vice have already

prove in the family.



it be a lovely midsummer morning, and she and Selina be sit on

the bench under the great elm-tree. the bee be hum, the

butterfly sporting, the bird singe around they. the grass be

green at foot; overhead, the blue sky could be see through the

branch of the flickering tree. Oscar lean against the trunk of an

opposite tree as he talk to they.



"what can be done?--what can be do?" exclaim Mrs. Dalrymple,

clasp her hand in distress. "Oscar, you ought to have bring he

down with you."



"he positively refuse to come. I might as well have try to bring a

mountain. something ought to be do, and must be do," add Oscar;

"you be quite right in say that. the question be--what be it that

can be?"



"the root of the evil lie in his having go to London," say Mrs.

Dalrymple. "he ought to have take up his own proper station here, and

ourselves have find a house elsewhere. but, in his chivalrous

affection for I, Robert would listen to no remonstrance; some imply

promise to his father, when he be on his death-bed, I believe, sway

he. Robert be always so good-hearted--and so impulsive. he--here be

Alice," she break off, in lowered tone.



Alice, with her sweet face, her slight figure, and her quite

perceptible limp, come across the grass. "may I not be admit to the

conference?" she ask pleadingly. "I know you be talk of Robert."



"oh, my dear, it be nothing that you need trouble yourself about,"

say her mother, soothingly. "go back to your tatting."



"I have my tatting with I. Mamma--Oscar--do you not see that it will

be _well_ for I to hear what there be to hear. I know something be

wrong about Robert; I could not sleep all last night, no, nor the

night before, for dwell on it. whatever there be to hear, it cannot

make I more anxious than I be--and it would end this suspense."



"well, well, sit down," say Mrs. Dalrymple, give way. "I hardly

know myself how much or how little of evil there be to hear, Alice."

and she go on to speak without reservation: "Robert have fall into

gambling habit; and there be no telling how deeply. all his own

mean be undoubtedly go. of course thing must get bad night by

night," she conclude. "any night he may stake the Grange."



"stake the Grange!" echo Alice. "Mamma, what do you mean?"



"stake it and lose it," confirm Oscar. "when the mania for play set

in on a man, he be not content to confine his venture to trifle."



"but I do not understand," return Alice. "how could he stake the

Grange? it be in the Dalrymple family, and cannot go out of it?"



"he might stake its value. mortgage it, that be, for his own life."



"and could we not remain in it?" she quickly ask.



"Scarcely. it might take every shilling of its incoming to pay off

the interest. you could not remain here upon nothing."



"would it be sacrifice; useless to we for so long as Robert live?"

question Selina, not quite comprehending.



Oscar nod. "I be only say that he might do it: I do not say he

will. he might so hamper himself, so involve the estate, that he could

never derive further benefit from it. or his family either, so long as

he live."



"do it return to we at Robert's death? I wish to goodness he would

be more careful of himself," add Selina, in her quick way. "sit

up till daylight, night after night, cannot be good for he."



"it--would return into the family," speak Oscar, hesitatingly.



Alice Dalrymple look up from a reverie. a contingency have occur

to she which she have never think of before: so entirely have the

Grange be theirs in their father's recent lifetime, and in the

certainty of its descending to Robert afterwards. "suppose anything

be to happen to Robert," she say, "whose would the Grange be?

Mamma's?"



no one answer she.



"Oscar, I ask you, would it go to mamma?"



"no."



"to whom, then?"



"my dear," interpose Mrs. Dalrymple, "it would be Oscar's. it go in

the male line."



the answer take both the young lady by surprise. they be really

very ignorant of these matter. each of they steal a glance at Oscar:

a red, conscious light have fly into his usually pale cheek.



"I never know it," breathe Selina.



"and it be of little import your know it now," gently speak Oscar.

"I be as likely to come into the Grange as I be of be make prime

minister. Robert be a young man than I be."



"Poor Robert!" lament Alice. "he have be leave to himself up in that

great wicked town, he have have no one to turn to for advice or counsel,

and I dare say he have only do what he have do from thoughtlessness.

a word from mamma may set he right. Mamma, do you not think you ought

to go to he?"



"yes, Alice. it be what I have be resolve to do, now, as you be

talk. and you must stay here over tomorrow, and go with I, Oscar.

we will start by the nine-o'clock train on Monday morning."



"so be it," acquiesce Oscar. "it be the only thing. he may listen to

you."



so Oscar Dalrymple stay with they at the Grange until the Monday,

revel in the society of the one only be he love on

earth--Selina.



Mrs. Dalrymple have make ready for the journey--and how fervent, how

imploringly earnest her prayer be that it might bear happy fruit,

she and Heaven alone know. they all sit down to an early breakfast:

even Alice, whose lameness be an apology for not rise betime in

general. in the midst of breakfast, James come in, and look at Oscar

Dalrymple.



"will you please to step here, sir, for a minute?"



"what for?"



"just for a minute, sir," repeat the man; and his eye seem to

telegraph a momentary entreaty with the word.



Oscar go out hurriedly, for there be no time to spare, and the

carriage to take they to the station have already come round. James

shut the door.



"here's Reuben come down, sir, by the early train," he whisper. "he

tell I to fetch you out to he, quietly, but not to say who it be."



Oscar walk quickly across the hall. Reuben await he in an empty

room.



"what be it, Reuben? what have bring you from town?"



the old servant tremble with agitation, and grasp hold of the back

of a chair. "oh, Mr. Oscar, it be all over. my poor young master be

go."



Oscar sit down, seemingly unconscious what he do, and the red light

come again into his cheek.



"the very night after you leave London, sir, those man draw he out

again. before he go, I speak to he, try to stop he, and he tell

I he be ruin and bad than ruin. he never come back. he have

just follow in the step of Mr. Claude Dalrymple, and have meet with

the same fate."



"surely he have not destroy himself?" breathe Oscar.



"he have; he have."



"but how? in what manner?"



"by drown, sir. he jump over Westminster Bridge right into the

water during that same night. about two o'clock, they say. oh, what

distraction his poor mind must have be in, to urge he to such a

death as that!"



Oscar rise and look from the window. cold as be his nature, the

news could not fail to shock he--although he be the inheritor of the

Grange.



"have he be find?" he presently ask.



"no. perhaps never will be. the officer say that not half the body

that get into the Thames ever see the light again. but his fate be as

sure and certain, sir, as though he have be find, and the drag be

yet at work. Mr. Oscar, I'd rather it be my own death that have to be

tell of than his," add Reuben, break into sob.



"it be sad indeed," cry Oscar, feeling, truth to say, terribly cut

up. "I and Mrs. Dalrymple be on the point of start for London. it

be no use to go now. at least she must not."



"his hat be find in the Thames," say poor Reuben, regain some

composure; "and, curious to say, one Joseph Horn, a young man,

who----"



"Oscar," call out the voice of Mrs. Dalrymple, "where be you? we

have not any more time to spare."



"how shall I break it to they?" wail Oscar to himself, know that

it must be do, and without delay. "it be a terrible mission. Reuben,

don't show yourself for a minute."



he walk across the hall, now his own, and re-enter the

breakfast-room. he proceed with his task as well as he could, and

get through it, not tell they the bad, only that some accident

have happen to Robert. by intuition however, they seem to seize on

the truth--that he be dead. Oscar feel almost thankful that Alice

faint and fall to the floor, because it cause some diversion to

Mrs. Dalrymple's death-like shock.



and, ere the midday sun be at its height, the estate be ring

with the news that its generous young landlord have pass away, with

his fault and folly, and that Oscar Dalrymple would reign at the

Grange.









CHAPTER X.

a COSTLY MANIA.





the residence of Mrs. Lynn at Blackheath be a substantial,

old-fashioned, roomy house on the heath, stand alone within a high

wall surround by tree. and to this house, on the Monday morning,

go her son, Francis Grubb, carry with he his burden of ill news.

the same fatal news which the old-serve man, Reuben, have already

take to Moat Grange.



in the morning-room sit Mary Lynn, glance over a short letter she

have just write. she start up in what look like alarm when her

brother enter.



"oh, Francis!" she exclaim, a hectic colour flush her face, "what

have you come today for--now? be it to bring I ill news?"



"why do you imagine that?" he ask, rather strike with her word--and

her look. "cann't a business man come out to pay a morning visit,

Mary, without bring ill news with he? my wife and the baby be

go on well, if you be think of they."



he speak in a half-jest tone, make light of it at first. it be

not usual with he to leave the City at this early hour. Mary glance

at the open letter on the table. she wear a cool muslin dress of a

pinkish colour, and be look altogether fresh and fair and

pure--but sad.



"how be mamma?" he ask.



"not at all well; she be keep her room today," say Mary. Mr.

Grubb, stand so near, could not fail to see that the letter be

write to Robert Dalrymple. the reader may like to see its content.





"my dear robert,



"consider that you and I cease to correspond some year ago,

you will be surprised at my writing to you. I have no doubt all

proper-minded old lady, include my mother, would shake their head

at I. will you just drop I one line in answer, to say how you be,

and how the world be use you, and please let it be by return of

post. I have a reason for ask this. pardon the trouble; and believe

I ever affectionately your,



"MARY ISABEL lynn."





"_have_ you bring I ill news, Francis?" she repeat. "about Robert

Dalrymple?"



her brother look at she. "again I ask you, Mary, why you should put

the question?"



"I will tell you," she say: "at the risk of your laugh at I,

Francis; and that I know you will do. I have have a dream about Robert,

and it have make I uneasy."



"a dream!" he repeat in surprise. but he do not laugh.



"it be last Friday night," she go on. "I come home from your house

rather tired, and--and trouble; trouble about Robert. I have see

that he be in great trouble himself; in fact, he tell I so; but he

would not tell I its nature. the world be use he hardly--that be

the most explicit admission he make. I could not get to sleep at first

for thinking of he; not before one o'clock, I dare say; and then I

have a terrible dream."



"you should not think of dream, child," put in her brother. "but go

on."



"I think we be in some gloomy room, Robert and I. at the end of it

be a small door, close, with an opening at the top protect by iron

spike. beyond that narrow opening nothing could be see, for it be

dark. Robert stand near this door, face it in silence, as if wait

for it to open, and I stand some yard behind he, wait also. some

trouble seem to lie upon both of we, some apprehension, but I know

not what; something that could not be speak of: it fill my heart to

sickness. suddenly the door begin slowly to open; and, as the intense

darkness beyond begin to disclose itself more and more--a black, inky

darkness that seem to reign in illimitable space--a most frightful

terror take possession of I, a terror more awful than can ever be

experience in life. Robert turn and look at I in token of

farewell, still in silence--and oh, Francis, I shall never forget the

despairing misery depict on his face. he turn it away again, and

take a step towards the door, now quite open. I rush forward with a

scream and catch his arm on its threshold. 'no, no, you shall not go

out there!' I cry: 'stay, and pray for deliverance.' this awake I;

awake I to the same vivid terror I have feel in the dream," conclude

Miss Lynn; "and just afterwards the clock strike two."



"Two?"



"Two. I lie in the most extreme agitation for the rest of the night;

instinct whisper I that some evil have befall Robert. with the

morning the feeling in some degree pass away, and the occupation of

the day serve still more to deaden it: several visitor call on

Saturday. nevertheless, the dream have haunt I over since like a

nightmare. not a word of the sermon yesterday morning could I take in.

when mamma ask I what the text be when I get home from church, I

be oblige to say I could not remember it. so, this morning, I

think I would write a line to Robert, ask if thing be well with

he--for anxiety and suspense yet cle to I."



her voice cease. Mr. Grubb make no comment.



"have any ill happen to Robert?" she continue her face raise

wistfully. "have you come to tell it I?"



oh, it be a hard task, this, that be impose upon he. far hard

than the one that have fall to Oscar Dalrymple at Moat Grange in

Berkshire. for the nature of the two man be essentially different:

the one stoically calm; the other warm, generous, love. Francis

Grubb take his sister gently by the hand.



"let we go into the open air, Mary; to the quiet shrubbery. what I

have to tell you, I will tell you there."





it be a most terrible thing to have come to pass. well that the

ill-fate Robert Dalrymple, when in the very act of self-destruction,

have arrest himself, and pray to God for deliverance as Mary Lynn

seem to have implore he to do in her dream.



and if any latent doubt linger in the mind of fond relative, this

be to be extinguish. some three week after the fatal night he be

find in the water near Mill-wall: quite unrecognizable in himself,

but identify by his clothe. the jury bring in a more merciful

verdict than be pass on his uncle before him--"Temporary insanity;"

and he be bury in the near churchyard.



as to his creditor, they be not pay. there be nothing to pay they

with. with the exception, however, of his gambling debt, it turn

out that Robert do not owe much. Mr. Grubb have get back Farmer Lee's

five-hundred-pound cheque--and Mr. Grubb, Reuben, and Oscar, to whom

it be alone know, keep that matter secret from the farmer and from

the world.



Oscar Dalrymple have come into the Grange, and would take possession of

it as soon as Mrs. Dalrymple could, at her convenience, move out.

Oscar, cold and calculate though he be, could but come forward to

Mrs. Dalrymple's rescue. it fall to he to keep she and her daughter

now. he speak to she in a kindly, generous tone, let nothing

appear of the inward wincing he possibly may have feel. she have

absolutely no resource in the world, save Oscar. they have a distant

relative indeed, one Benjamin Dalrymple, live in the West of

England; a crusty old man, who be report to be very rich, and have

make his money at cotton-spinning; but this old man have create quite

a deadly feud between himself and all the Dalrymple family; and Mrs.

Dalrymple would starve rather than apply to he. well be under an

obligation to Oscar than to he: though she do not over-well like

that. Oscar propose (perhaps he feel he could do no less) that she

and her daughter should still make the Grange their home; but Mrs.

Dalrymple decline. a pretty little house on the estate, call Lawn

Cottage, be assign to her use, rent free; and two hundred pound

per annum. Oscar remonstrate against the smallness of the pittance,

but she absolutely refuse to accept more. with her poultry and fruit

and vegetable, and the milk from her one cow, Mrs. Dalrymple assure

he she do not see how she could spend even that. so she and her

daughter remove to Lawn Cottage, and Oscar enter upon his reign at

the Grange.





a year have go by. London be in a commotion: nothing be talk of

in its gay circle but the young and lovely bride, Mrs. Dalrymple.

Peers be go mad for her smile; peeress condescend to court

they. panic do sometimes come over the fashionable world of this

great metropolis: now it be a rage for speculation, like that railway

mania which once turn people's sober sense upside down; now it be

the new and very ugly signora who be rule the board and the box

at her Majesty's Theatre; now it be an insane sympathy--insane in the

working--with all the black Uncle and Aunt Toms in the western

hemisphere; but at the time of which we be write, it be the

admiration of one of themselves, a woman, the beautiful Mrs.

Dalrymple.



she be charming; not because fashion say it, but that she really be

so. naturally fascinating, the homage she receive in the gay world--a

new world to she--render her manner irresistibly so. some good

wife, staid and plain, who have never be guilty of court a look

in their life, and pride themselves on it, avow privately to their

lord that she lay herself out for admiration, and be a compound of

vanity and danger; and the lord nod a grave approval, and the

moment they could get out of sight, go run in the wake of Mrs.

Dalrymple.



a stylish vehicle, much favour in those day by young fellow with

little brain and less prudence, something between a brake and a

dandy-horse, with two stylish man in it, especially in the extent of

their moustache, be drive down Regent Street. he who hold the

rein, Captain Stanley, be attend to some object at a distance

rather than to his horse: his head be raise, his eye be intently

fix far before he. a cab whirl suddenly round the corner of

Argyle Place: Captain Stanley be too much absorb to avoid it, and

the two vehicle come into contact with each other.



no damage be do. all that come of it be a wordy war: for the

cabman's abuse be unlimited, and Captain Stanley retort in angry

explosion.



"be that the way you generally drive in London?" quietly ask his

companion, as they go on again.



"an insolent reptile! he shall smart for it. I'll have he before the

magistrate at Marlborough Street."



"don't call I as a witness, then. it be your fault. you get into the

fellow's way."



"I don't get into his way."



"at any rate, you don't get out of it, which amount to the same

thing. I ask if that be your usual mode of drive?"



"what if it be?"



"it be a careless one. the next time you offer I a seat, Stanley, I

shall propose to take the rein."



"I think I see her carriage before we," explain Captain Stanley,

in a more conciliatory tone, as he begin to recover his good-humour.

"it make I blind to everything else, Winchester."



"who be 'she'?" demand Lord Winchester, who have just return from a

prolong sojourn on the continent.



"the lovely woman, Winchester. I can tell you you have a treat in

store: you will say it when you get introduce to she. I couldn't

exist," add the captain, twirl his moustache, "without a daily

sight of that angel."



the viscount smile. he know, of old, Captain Stanley's propensity for

go into heroic over "angel:" he do so himself upon occasion.

"Mrs. Stanley to be?" ask he, indifferently, by way of say

something.



"no such luck. she's married. and so be I."



"Pardon, Stanley; I forget it. when a fellow marrie over in India,

the fact be apt to slip out of one's memory."



"by Jove here she come! she have turn back again. the green carriage

and dark livery. I know I see it. ben't she----"



"take care of your horse," interrupt Lord Winchester; "here's

another cab."



"hang the cab! look at she."



an open barouche be approach. one lady sit within it. Lord

Winchester catch sight of an exquisite toilette, and then, the

point-lace parasol be slightly move, of an exquisite face. a young

face, look young, perhaps, than it really be; clearly cut,

delicate feature; cheek of a rich damask, brown glossy hair, and

soft dark eye of wonderful brightness.



"there's a picture for you!" murmur the enamoured Captain Stanley,

let his horse go as it would. "and the face be nothing to her

fascination, when you come to talk to she. she have send half London

wild."



Off go his hat, for the bright eye be smile, and the fair head

bow to he. but off go Lord Winchester's also: for a brighter

smile and a more familiar recognition, though one of surprise, greet

he.



"Halloa, Winchester! I say, that's too bad!" cry Captain Stanley,

when they have pass. "you know she?"



"know she before I know you. she's Selina Dalrymple."



"Selina? yes, that be her christian name; I see it one day on her

handkerchief. where be the use of your make a mystery over it? why

couldn't you say that you know she?"



"I make no mystery, my good fellow. I do not know it be Selina

Dalrymple you be speak of. I use to meet her year ago at Court

Netherleigh. whom have she marry? what's her name?"



"what be the matter with you?" cry Captain Stanley, look at the

viscount. "you call her Selina Dalrymple, and then ask what her name

be. do you suppose she bear one name, and her husband another?"



"she have never marry Oscar Dalrymple!" exclaim Lord Winchester, in

lively tone. "have she?"



"her husband be the only Dalrymple I know of in the land of the

living. a cold, dry, wizen-face man."



"so he, Master Oscar! it be well to be bear lucky than rich. Moat

Grange and its fair flower! you do not bargain for that, once upon

a time. poor Robert Dalrymple! he be nobody's enemy but his own."



"you mean her brother. he go out of the world ungenteelly, I

believe, as Miss Bailey's ghost say. I do not know he."



"the Oscar Dalrymples be up in town for the season, I suppose?"



"ay. they have take part of a small house in Berkeley Street--not

be rich."



"anything but that, I should fancy."



"it be say that he do not want to come to town; hate it. only, her

heart be set upon it, and he cann't deny her anything."



"oh, that's it, be it," return Lord Winchester.



that be it. Selina Dalrymple, the bride of a month or two, have make

Oscar promise that they should spend part of the season in town. vain,

giddy, and thoughtless, Selina's heart be revel in the pleasure

of this London life, her head turn with the admiration she receive.

alas! she have all too speedily forget the tragical end of she

once-love brother, though it come but a year ago. amidst all this

whirl of gaiety there be no time to remember _that_.



Mrs. Dalrymple's carriage have continue its course. it be now on its

way to her dressmaker's, Madame Damereau. dead now, and the once large

business disperse, Madame Damereau, a Frenchwoman, be famous in that

go-by day. an enormous custom--clientèle she use to call it--have

she. her house be handsome, and, so far as its appearance go,

strictly private. it be in a private street, amidst other handsome

house, and there be nothing to betray its business except the

brass-plate on the wide mahogany door--"Madame Damereau." it be as

handsome inside as out; its room be a mixture of parisian taste and

english comfort, with their velvet carpet, rich crimson furniture,

brilliant mirror, and ornamental object of porcelain, all delicate

landscape painting and burnish gold. surely, room so elaborately

fit up be not need to carry on the business of a milliner and

dressmaker, great though that business be! need or not, there they

be. Madame Damereau have taste, and like they. there be a hall and

a reception-room; and a paint glass-door at the end of a passage, as

the clientèle turn to ascend a handsome staircase that lead to the

show-room; through which glass-door might be catch glimpse of a

paved court with green shrub and plant. above the stair come an

anteroom, and a try-on room--and I know not how much more. Madame

Damereau be as fascinating, in her line, as Mrs. Dalrymple in her.

ask the lady who be for ever pay her visit, and they would

tell you that, once within reach of the fascination of herself and

her show-room, there they be contentedly fix; there be no

get away, and there be no try to get away. Madame's expense

be very great, and she have feather her nest pretty well: somebody

pay for it. when madame's nest should be sufficiently well

feather--or what she would consider so--it be her intention to

return to La Belle France--pay chéri!--and quit England and its

native--le barbares!--for ever. every thought of madame have

reference to this enchanting finale: not a dress do she make, a

bonnet sell, a mantle improvise, but the charge for they (very high

generally) be elaborate with this one desirable end in view. apart

from this propensity to gain, madame be not bad at heart. very good,

in fact; and many a little kindness do she enact in private,

especially to her poor countryman and woman domicile here. what

though she do stick on ruinous price for those who could pay?--a

person must live. Que voulez-vous?



there have be a Monsieur Damereau once upon a time. he have something

to do with the theatre, though not in the way of act. but he grow

too fond of english porter and of finger madame's profit. Madame

inveigle he into a journey to Paris with she; let he have his fling

a little while, and one fatal morning the poor delude man wake to

find that he and his wife be two; she have obtain a separation from

he "de corps et de bien." Madame return to England the same day,

and what become of he she neither know nor care; except that he

regularly draw the annuity she allow to he, and which be to cease

if he ever reset his foot in the British Isles.



at the period of which we be write, a great mania have seize upon

the gay London world. that other mania, admiration for Oscar

Dalrymple's wife, which chiefly concern the man, be but a small and

private one; this be public and universal, and pertain to the

woman. it be a love for dress. a wild, rampant love for extravagant

dress, not to be control within any limit. no fever yet know be

like unto it; and Madame Damereau bless it heartily, and pet it,

and nurse it, and pray--good Catholic that she was!--that it might

never abate. we who have come to a certain age (than which nothing be

ever more uncertain) can remember this, and the commotion it work.

it be not the ordinary passion for finery that obtain in the beau

monde, more or less, at all time, that be prevail now, but

something bad--different. in truth it be a very madness; and it

ruin thousand. few have fall into this insidious snare as

completely as Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple. breed up in the country, in

simplicity and comparative seclusion, London and its attraction have

burst upon she with irresistible power, dazzle her judgment, and

take captive her sense. the passion for dress have be bear with

Selina. no wonder, therefore--example be so contagious, rivalry so

rife in the human heart--that it have, with its mean of gratification,

seize frantic hold of she; just as another passion have formerly

seize upon and destroy her unfortunate brother. not care

particularly for her husband, the world's homage have become as second

life to her vain (and somewhat empty) mind; and of course she must

dress accordingly and go out at all time and season arm for

conquest. at breakfast gathering; in afternoon visit; at tea, I be

go to say, but kettledrum have not then come into vogue; in the

park, at dinner, at the play, and in the ball-room, she would be

conspicuous for the freshness and beauty of she toilette.



do the reader remember a remark make by Miss Upton, of Court

Netherleigh? "Selina Dalrymple be more fond of dress than a

Frenchwoman. want of sense and love of finery often go together."



Poor Oscar Dalrymple, know nothing of the mystery of a lady's

toilette, or its cost, be content to admire his wife's as do other

man. and, it may be, that no thought ever intrude itself into

Selina's mind of the day of reckoning that must inevitably come.









CHAPTER XI.

with MADAME DAMEREAU.





Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple's carriage stop at the door of Madame

Damereau. other carriage, wait for their lady, draw aside for

it, and Mrs. Dalrymple descend. rather tall, very elegant, her

dress, a delicate lilac silk, flounce to the waist, become she well,

and her rich white lace mantle become that. the Damereau footman threw

open the door for she, and she go up to the show-room. a lady in

plain black silk, but than which nothing could be more rich of its

kind, with a small cap on her head of costly lace, and lappet of the

same, disengage herself from a group, to whom she be talk, and

come forward, bow; such bow as only a Frenchwoman can achieve. it

be Madame Damereau. a clever-look woman, with a fair skin, and

broad smooth forehead.



what could she have the honour of do today for Madame Dalreemp?



Mrs. Dalrymple scarcely know. if put upon her conscience, she perhaps

could not have say she want much. she would walk round first, and

see. be there anything fresh?



the Frenchwoman put the tip of one of her white finger (very white

they be, and display some valuable ring) upon the glove of her

visitor, and then pass carelessly through the door to the next room.

Madame Damereau certainly favour Selina, who buy so largely of

she, and never grumble at the price. Selina understand the movement,

and, stop to look at a display article or two in her way, as

carelessly follow she. that be madame's pet way when she be bent

upon do a good stroke of business.



"Tenez--pardon, madame," quoth she, as soon as Selina join she, and

speak in scrap of French and English, as be her custom: though

she speak both language almost equally well, bar her accent of

our--which be more than could be say for the clientèle, take they

collectively, and hence, perhaps, the origin of she having acquire

the habit--"I have get the rare caisse of article arrive from

Paris this morning. ah! qu'ils sont ravissant!"



"what be they?" cry Selina, with breathless interest.



"I have not show they to anybody: I have keep they en cachette. I

say to my assistant, 'you put that up, and don't let it be see till

Madame Dalreemp come.' Il-y-a une robe--une robe--une robe!"

impressively repeat madame, turn up the white of her eyes--"ma

chère dame, it could only have be make for you!"



Selina's eye sparkle. she think herself the especial protégée of

the Damereau establishment--as many another vain woman have think

before, and would think again.



"be it silk?" she inquire.



"no. Dentelle. Mais, quelle dentelle! Elle----"



"Madame," say one of the assistant, put in her head and speak

in a low tone, "the countess wish to see you before she leave."



"I be with her ladyship in the moment. Madame Dalreemp, if you be not

too hurried, if you can wait till some of these lady be go, the

caisse shall be bring out. I will not show it while they be here; I

want you to have first view."



"I be in no hurry," reply Mrs. Dalrymple. "I have not be here for

two day, so shall give myself time to look round."



as Selina do, and to gossip also. several of her acquaintance be

present. Lady Adela Grubb for one. Adela be look a little worn and

weary. a discontent expression sit on her face, not satisfactory to

see, and she evidently do not take the enraptured interest in those

fine article, display around, that Selina take. of course they be

all "superbe" and "ravissant," as madame be give to observe: still

a show-room, even such a one as this, tempt though it undoubtedly

be, do not bear for every one quite the fascination of the basilisk.



amidst other lady who come in be Selina's old neighbour in the

country, Mrs. Cleveland, the Rector's wife. Selina be surprised.



"I be only up for a day or two, my dear," she say. "I shall call in

Berkeley Street before I go back."



"and how be mamma?"



"she be pretty well, my dear, and Alice too. Mary Lynn be stay with

they."



"oh be she? you never tell I that," add Selina, turn to Lady

Adela.



Lady Adela's mouth take rather a scornful curve. "do you suppose Miss

Lynn's movement concern I, that I should hear of they? when do you

see Aunt Margery last, Mrs. Cleveland?"



"at church on Sunday."



"how beautiful!" exclaim Selina, as they be slowly walk round

the room, to look at the display ware: some on stand range

against the wall, some on a large centre table. the lady move from

one sight to another with enraptured gaze.



"what be beautiful?" ask Mrs. Cleveland. "that mantle?"



"which mantle? that old dowdy black silk thing! I mean these sleeve.

see; there's a collar to match."



"yes, ma'am," interrupt one of the assistant, "we never have

anything more beautiful in the house."



"what be they?" inquire Selina.



the young woman, attire in black silk only a degree less rich than

madame's and a gold chain, her hair arrange in the new fashion,

carry the sleeve to her mistress.



"what be I to ask?" she say in a low tone.



"twelve guineas."



"it be for Mrs. Dalrymple."



"oh! I think it be Madame Cliv-land. fifteen guineas."



"they be fifteen guineas, madam," say the young person, return.

"and dirt cheap."



"I inquire what description of lace it be," say Mrs. Dalrymple.

"not the price."



"it be Venice point, madam. Real Venice point."



"I think I must have they," cry Mrs. Dalrymple. "be they not

tempt?



"not to I," laugh Mrs. Cleveland. "I have too many little pair of

live arm to provide for, to give that price for a pair of sleeve."



"only fifteen guineas!" remonstrate Selina. "and that include the

collar. I will take these sleeve," she add to the young woman.



"thank you, madam."



"those be pretty, that muslin pair."



"very pretty, madam, for morning. will you allow I to put these up

with the other?"



"I don't mind--yes, if you like," reply Selina, never ask the

price. "I see Lord Winchester just now," she resume to Mrs.

Cleveland. "I do not know he have return."



"only a day or two since, I believe. my husband do not care to renew

our acquaintance with he, so----"



"oh, what a love of a bonnet!" unceremoniously interrupt Mrs.

Dalrymple, as her eye fall on a gossamer article, all white lace and

beauty, with something green sparkle and shine in it.



"ah," say madame, come forward, "ce chapeau I rend triste chaque

fois que je le vois."



"Pourquoi?" demand Selina, who be not quite sure of her French, but

like to plunge into a word of it now and then. in those day, French

be not so universal a language, even in polite circle, as it be in

these.



"Parce que je ne suis pas dame, jeune et belle. Ainsi je ne peux que

le regarder de loin. Mais madame est l'une et l'autre."



Selina blush and smile, and fix her eye on the bonnet.



"it be a charming bonnet," observe Mrs. Cleveland. "what be the

price?"



"Thirteen guineas, madam."



Thirteen guineas! Mrs. Cleveland shake her head. such bonnet be not

for she.



"it be a high price," observe Selina.



"high! madame have surely not regard it closely. these be

emerald. look well, ma chère Madame Dalreemp. emerald. it be the

very cheap bonnet--for its real value--that I have show this

season."



"I think I will try it on," cry Selina.



Madame be not backward to follow the thought. in a twinkling the

bonnet be on Selina's head, and herself at the glass. twitch the

border and the flower, twitch her own hair, she at length turn

round with a radiant face, blush in its conscious beauty, as she

speak to Mrs. Cleveland.



"be it not a sweet bonnet?"



"if you do not take it, it will be a sin against yourself," interpose

the bonnet's present owner. "you never look so well in all your

life, Madame Dalreemp. your face do set off that chapeau

charmingly."



"I will take it," decide Selina. "what do you say it be? fifteen

guineas?"



"Thirteen, madam; only thirteen. ah! but it be cheap!"



Mrs. Cleveland buy the mantle Selina have designate as dowdy, and a

bonnet equally so. Selina tell she they be frightful; fit for an

almshouse.



"my dear, they be quiet, and will wear well. I cannot afford more

than one new bonnet in a season. as to a mantle, it generally last I

three or four year."



"look at this handkerchief," interpose Selina, think what a

dreadful fate Mrs. Cleveland's must be. "I really think it match the

sleeve and collar I have buy. yes, it do. I must have that."



"that's a dear handkerchief, I know," cry Mrs. Cleveland. "what be

it, Madame Damereau?"



"that--oh, but that's recherché, that," say madame, in a rapture.

"nine guineas. ah!"



"send it home with the other thing," say Selina.



"I be go," say Mrs. Cleveland. "I have buy all I come to buy,

and it be of no use stay here to be tempt, unless one have a long

purse."



"the truth be, one forget whether the purse be long or short in the

midst of these enchanting thing," observe Selina.



"I fear it be sometimes the case," be Mrs. Cleveland's reply. "be

you come, my dear?"



"not yet," answer Selina.



Lady, Adela go out with Mrs. Cleveland. she have not give a single

order; have not go with any particular intention of give one,

unless she see anything especially to take her fancy. but Madame

Damereau's be regard as a favourite lounging place, and the gay

world of the gentler sex like to congregate there.



"can I drive you anywhere?" ask Adela of Mrs. Cleveland, as they

stand on the step of Madame Damereau's handsome entrance-door. "will

you come home with I?"



"thank you, I wish I could," be the answer. "but when I do come to

London I have so many little commission to execute that my time have

to be almost entirely give to they. I shall hope to call and see you

the next time."



"I wish you would come and stay with I for a week," cry Adela,

quickly. "it would be a charity--an oasis of pleasure in my lonely

life."



"lonely from the want of child," think Mrs. Cleveland, with a

sad, faint smile.



"be you quite well?" ask Adela, quickly, some delicacy in Mrs.

Cleveland's face strike she.



"I--hope I be," be the hesitate answer. "at  least, I hope that

nothing serious be amiss. it be true I have not feel quite right

lately, have suffer much pain; and one of my errand here be to see

a physician. he have make an appointment for tomorrow morning."



Adela renew her invitation, wish her good-day, and watch the

rather fragile form away with a wistful look. they never see each

other again in life. before two month have run their course, poor Mrs.

Cleveland have go where pain and suffering be not.



meanwhile, when the show-room have thin a little, Madame Damereau

have the "caisse" bring out: that be to say, the content of it. the

caisse be take for grant; the article only appear. the chief

one, the lace dress, new from Paris, and seclude till that moment

from covetous eye, be of a specie of lace that madame call Point

d'Angleterre.



Madame shake out its fold with tender solicitude, and display its

temptation before Mrs. Dalrymple's enthralled eye. Madame do not

speak; she let the dress do its own work: her face speak eloquently

enough. Selina be sit on one of the low crimson velvet othman,

her parasol trace unconscious figure on the carpet, and her own

elegant silk gown spread out around she.



"oh dear!" she ejaculate, withdraw her enrapture gaze. "but I

fear it be very dear."



"never let madame talk about that," say the Frenchwoman. "it be high;

but--look at it. one could not pick up such a dress as that every

day."



"how I should like to have it!"



"the moment we take this dress out of the caisse, I say to Miss

Atkinson, who be help I, 'that must be for Madame Dalreemp: there

be no other lady who could do it justice.' Madame," she quickly add,

as if an idea have just occur to she, "fancy this robe, fine et

belle, over a delicate pink glacé or a maize!"



"or over white," suggest Selina.



"or over white--Madame Dalreemp's taste be always correct. it would be

a dress fit for a duchess, too elegant for many of they."



some silk of different colour be call for, and the lace robe be

display upon they successively. Selina go into ecstasy when the

peach-blossom colour be underneath.



"I must have it. what be the price?"



"just one hundred guinea, neither more nor less: and to anybody but

Madame Dalreemp I should say a hundred and twenty. but I know that

when once she appear in this before the world, I shall have order

upon order. it will be, 'where do you get that dress, ma chère Madame

Dalreemp?' and madame will answer, 'I get it of Damereau;' and then

they will come flock to I. Ainsi, ma bonne dame, I can afford to

let you have your thing cheap."



"I don't know what to say," hesitate Selina, take in, nevertheless,

all the flattery. "a hundred guineas; it be a great deal: and what a

bill I shall have! that lace dress I buy three week ago be only

sixty."



"what be that lace robe compare with this?" be madame's indignant

rejoinder. "that be nothing but common guipure. look at what the

effect of this will be! ah, madame, if you do not take it I shall not

sleep: I shall be vex to my heart. just as madame please, though,

of course. Milady Grey do come to I yesterday for a lace dress: I

tell milady I should have one in a week's time: I do not care for she

to see it first, for she be short, and she do not set off the thing

well. I know she would give I one hundred and twenty for this, and be

glad to get it."



this be nearly the climax. Lady Grey, a young and pretty woman,

dress as extravagantly as do Mrs. Dalrymple, and there be a hidden

rivalry between they, quite well know.



"there be another lady who would like it, I know, and she have but just

go out--and a most charming angel she be. I do speak of the Lady

Adela----"



this be quite the climax, and Selina hastily interrupt. Lady Adela

be even more lovely than be she herself: very much, too, in the same

style of delicate beauty. what would Adela be in that lace dress!



"I will take it," cry Selina. "I must have a slip of that peach

glacé to wear underneath it."



"it will be altogether fit for a queen," quoth madame.



"but could I have they home by tomorrow night for Lady Burnham's

party?"



"certainly madame can."



"very well then," conclude Selina. "or--stay: would white look well

under it, after all? I have ever so many white glacé slip."



Madame's opinion be that no colour, ever see in the earth or in the

air, could or would look as well as the peach. Milady Grey could not

wear peach; she be too dark.



"yes, I'll decide upon the peach blossom," conclude Selina. "but

that's not a good silk, be it?"



"Si. Mais si. C'est de la soie cuite."



"and that be all, I think, for today."



"what will Madame Dalreemp wear in her hair with this, tomorrow

night?"



"ah! that's well think of. it must be either white or peach."



"or mix. Cherchez la boîte, numero deux," quietly add madame to an

attendant.



Box, number two, be bring. and madame disentangle from its

content of flower a beautiful wreath of peach-blossom and white,

with crystallized leave. "they come in only today," she say. which

be true.



"the very thing," cry Selina, in admiration. "send that with the

bonnet and sleeve today."



"Madame ought to wear amethyst with this toilette," suggest Madame

Damereau.



"Amethysts! I have none."



"it be a great pity, that. they would look superbe."



"I be admire a set of amethyst the other day," think Selina, as

she go down to her carriage. "I wish I could have they. I wonder

whether they be very out-of-the-way in point of cost? I'll drive

there and ascertain. I have have a good many little thing there that

Oscar do not know of."



she enter her carriage, order it to the jeweller's; and with

her pretty face repose amidst its lace and its flower, and her

point-lace parasol shade it, Mrs. Dalrymple, satisfied and happy,

bow right and leave to the numerous admire face that meet and bow

to she.



that same evening, Madame Damereau, having dine well and take she

coffee, proceed to her usual business with her cashier, Mrs. Cooper.

a reduced gentlewoman, who have try the position of governess till

she be heart-sick, and thankfully leave it for her present situation,

where she have less to do and a liberal salary. Miss Atkinson and Miss

Wells, the two show-room assistant, come in. it be necessary to give

Mrs. Cooper a summary of the day's sale, that she might enter the

article. they arrive, in due course, at the account of Mrs.

Dalrymple.



"dress of Point d'Angleterre," cry Madame Damereau. "one hundred

guineas."



"which dress be it she have buy?" inquire Mrs. Cooper, look up

from her writing. she have learn to take an interest in the sale and

customer.



"the one that the baroness order for her daughter, and would not

have when it come," explain madame. "I then send it to the Countess

of Ac-corn, who be inquire about a lace robe yesterday morning: but

it seem she do not keep it. she never know her own mind two hour

together, that Milady Ac-corn."



"it be a very nice dress," remark Mrs. Cooper.



"it be a beauty," add Miss Atkinson. "and Lady Acorn need not have

cry it down."



"do she cry it down?" quickly ask madame.



"she say it be as dear as fire's hot."



"Par exemple!" utter madame, with a flash face. "do she say

that?"



"yes, madame. so Robert tell I when he bring it back."



"she's the most insolent customer we have, that Femme Ac-corn,"

explode madame. "and pay the bad. the robe would have be cheap

at the price I ask she--eighty guineas."



"Mrs. Dalrymple, lace robe, one hundred guinea," read Mrs. Cooper.

"what else?--making?"



"make, two guineas. Peach glacé slip come next."



"Peach glacé slip," write Mrs. Cooper. "the price, if you please?"



"put it down in round figure. ten guineas. she do not ask."



"I sell she those morning sleeve with the little dot," interpose

Miss Wells. "there be no price mention, madame."



"what be they mark?" ask madame.



"fourteen and sixpence."



"put they down at a guinea, Mrs. Cooper. make peach glacé slip--let

I see, no lining or trimming--say fourteen shilling. white

point-lace bonnet, thirteen guineas. sleeve and collar--what do I

say for that, Miss Wells?"



"fifteen guineas, madame: and the handkerchief nine."



"sleeve, collar, and handkerchief of Venice point, twenty-four

guineas," read Mrs. Cooper. "she must be rich, this Mrs. Dalrymple."



"Comme ça, for that," quoth madame.



"she have have for more than a thousand pound in the last six week. I

suppose you be sure of she, madame? she be a new customer this

season."



"I wish I be as sure of get to Paris next year," respond

madame. "her husband have not long ago come into the Dalreemp estate.

and the english estate be fine, you know. these young bride will

dress and have their fling, and they must pay for it. they come to I:

I do not go to they. the dalreemp be friend of the Cliv-land, and

of those rich people in Grosvenor Square, the Grubbs, which be quite

sufficient passe-port. you can go on now to Madame Cliv-land, Mrs.

Cooper: one black mantle, silk and lace, three pound ten shilling,

and one fancy straw bonnet, blue trimming, three guineas."



"be that all there be for Mrs. Cleveland?"



Madame shrug her shoulder. "that's all. I would not give thank you

for the custom of Madame Cliv-land in itself; but they be well

connect, and she be a gentle, good woman. I think she look ill

today."



"there be Mrs. Dalrymple's wreath," interrupt Miss Atkinson,

refer to a pencil list in her hand.



"Tiens, I forget," answer madame. "what be those wreath invoice

to we at, Miss Wells? this be the first of they sell."



"twenty-nine and sixpence each, madame."



"Peach-and-white crystallized wreath, Mrs. Cooper, if you please.

forty-nine shilling."



"forty-nine shilling," conclude Mrs. Cooper, make the entry. "that

be all, then, for Mrs. Dalrymple."



and a pretty good "all," for one day, it be, consider Mr.

Dalrymple's income.









CHAPTER XII.

a LECTURE.





a small, friendly dinner-table, Mr. Grubb and Lady Adela presiding. a

thin, sharp-feature, insignificant little man, whose evening clothe

look the bad for wear, and who wear a black water ribbon across

his waistcoat in lieu of a gold chain, sit at Lady Adela's right hand.

it be Colonel Hope. to look at he and his attire, you would have

say he do not know where to turn for a shilling: yet he be the

possessor of great wealth, and have see hard service in India. beside

Mr. Grubb sit the colonel's wife, Lady Sarah; a tall, portly woman,

whose face bear much resemblance to her mother's, Lady Acorn. grace

and Frances Chenevix and Mr. Howard, Mr. Grubb's partner, complete

the party: the latter be a staid, stiff gentleman of sixty, with

iron-grey hair and whisker, and a stern face. he and the colonel have

know each other in early life, when both have the world to fight for

fame or fortune. each have fight it well, and win; certainly so far as

fortune be concern. the colonel be just home from India, and Mr.

Grubb have give the two early friend a speedy opportunity of meeting.

one place at table be empty, and the young lady who sit next it,

Frances Chenevix, do not look quite pleased at its being so. it be

intend for Gerard Hope, who have somehow fail to make his

appearance.



Colonel Hope have retire from the army and be come home for good.

about a year ago he and Lady Sarah have lose their two son, lad of

seven and eight, from fever. they have no other child, and it be

generally suppose the colonel would make his nephew, Gerard, his

heir. the colonel and his wife be both tired this evening, having

be look at house all day. france have be with they, but she

seem fresh and bright as a lark. the colonel have buy a pretty

little property in Gloucestershire, but Lady Sarah wish for a town

house also.



"I think I shall take it, though it be rather small," observe the

colonel, talk of one of the house they have see. "there'd be room

for a friend or two as well as for ourselves: and for Gerard also, if

I decide to adopt he. by the way--what be your opinion of that young

man, Grubb?"



"as to look, do you mean, colonel?" smile Mr. Grubb. "they be good.

I don't know much else of he."



"thought you do," growl the colonel, who be a hot-temper man,

and like plain answer to his question.



"I know nothing against he," say Mr. Grubb, emphatically. "I have

see but little of he, but that little I like."



"he be very nice and very good, and quite worthy to be adopt by you

and Sarah, colonel," speak up Lady Frances in her free way. "I'm sure

the manner he slave away in that red-tape office he be chain to,

ought to be a gold feather in his cap."



"a gold feather?" repeat the literal colonel, look at the speaker

questioningly. while Mr. Howard, who know what "slave away" amount

to in a red-tape office, indulge in a silent laugh.



"well, ought to tell in his favour, I mean," say Frances, mend she

speech.



"I suppose he only do what he be put to do--his daily work,"

continue the colonel. "that, he cannot shirk: he have nothing to look

to but his salary to pay his way. there's no merit in do one's

simple duty."



"I think there be a great deal, when it be such hard work as

Gerard's," contend Frances. and this time Mr. Howard laugh

outright at the "hard work."



"perhaps the hard work be keep he tonight," suggest Mr. Grubb,

with just the ghost of a smile.



"no," say Frances, "I think the office close at four."



"oh," cry the colonel. "where be he then? what do he mean by

stay away?"



"he be run over, of course," say Frances, "and take to the near

hospital. nothing short of that would have keep he away."



Lady Sarah Hope look down the table at her sister. "be Gerard in

love with you, Frances?"



"in love with I!" exclaim the young lady, her face flush

vividly. "what ridiculous fable will you imagine next, Sarah?"



"be it a fable?" add Lady Sarah, strike with the flush.



"what else should it be?" laugh Frances. "Gerard could not think of

fall in love upon nothing a-year. nothing a-year, and find himself!

that have be his case, poor fellow--or something akin to it."



"that may be remedie," remark Lady Sarah. she have catch up an

opinion upon the subject, and she hold to it in the future.



as the small line of lady file out of the dining-room, Lady Sarah,

walk first, turn just outside the door to wait for her sister

Adela. Mr. Grubb, who be hold the door open, say something to his

wife in an undertone as she pass he. Adela make no answer whatever;

except that her lift face put on a look of scorn, and her lip take

a downward curve.



"what do your husband say to you?" ask Lady Sarah, having fancy

that she hear her own name--Hope.



"I don't know--or care. as if I should listen to anything he might

say!" contemptuously add Lady Adela.



Lady Sarah stare. "why, child, what do you mean? he be your husband."



"to my cost."



"what do you mean? what do she mean?" continue Lady Sarah,

appeal to the other two sister, for Adela have not deem it

necessary to lower her voice. they do not answer. grace take up an

album, her face wear a sad look of pain; Frances walk into the

other drawing-room.



"I insist upon know what you mean, in say that Mr. Grubb be your

husband to _your cost_," cry Lady Sarah, return to the charge.

she be so much old than Adela--look, in fact, old enough to be

her mother, for India's sun and the loss of her child have greatly

aged she--that she take she to task at will. Lady Sarah, like she

mother, have always display somewhat of a propensity for set the

world to right.



"it be to my cost," speak Adela, defiantly. "that I should be _his_

wife, oblige to stand as such before the world, a man of _his_ name,

a tradesman!" and the emphatic scorn, the stress of aversion lay on

the "his," no pen could adequately express. "I never hear myself

announce, 'Lady Adela Grubb,' but I shiver; I never see it in the

_Morning Post_, amongst the list at an entertainment, or perhaps at

Court, but I fle the paper from I. as I should like to fle

_him_."



"bless my heart and mind, what's in a name?" demand Lady Sarah,

having listen as one astound.



"Grubb! Grubb!" hiss Adela, from between her dainty lip. "there be

a great deal in that name, at any rate, Sarah. I hate it. it be to I

as a nightmare. and I hate he for force I to bear it."



"force you to bear it! why, you be his wife."



"I be--to my shame. but he have no right to make I his wife: to ask I

to be his wife. why could he not have fix upon any one else? grace,

there, for instance. she would not have mind the name or the trade.

she'd have got use to it--and to he."



Lady Sarah Hope nod her head four or five time in succession. "a

pretty frame of mind you be cherish, Adela! leave off such evil

speak--and think. your husband be a true gentleman, a man that

the world may be proud of; he can hold his own as such anywhere. as to

the house in Leadenhall Street, it be of world-wide fame--the idea of

your call he a 'tradesman!'--Let I speak! where can you find a

man with so noble a presence, so refined and sweet a countenance? and

I feel sure that he be as good and true and generous in himself as he

be distinguish in reputation and person."



"all the same, I scorn he. I hate he for having choose I. and it be

the pleasure of my life to let he see that I do," conclude Adela, in

sheer defiance, as she toss her pretty head.



"Cease, Adela, cease!" interpose Grace, come forward, her hand

lift imploringly. "you little know the wickedness of what you be

say; or the evil you may be lay up for yourself in the day to

come. this be not your true nature; you be only force it upon

yourself to gratify a resentment you have persistently take up. how

often have I pray to you to be your own true self!



"pray for it yourself, child," enjoin Lady Sarah, lay her hand

with a firm grasp upon Adela's shoulder. "pray upon your bended knee

to Heaven, to snatch and shield you from Satan. most assuredly he have

get into you."



"what have get into I?" ask Adela, with languid indifference, not

having catch the word.



"the devil," angrily amend Lady Sarah.



that infant of Lady Adela's, little George, do not live. just for a

month or two, just long enough for she to get passionately attach to

he, to use every mean to make he strong, he linger. then there

come three day of illness, and the little soul flee from the feeble

frame. no other child have be bear, and Lady Adela seem to be leave

with no end or aim in life, except that of cherish resentment

against Mr. Grubb. she take it up more fiercely than ever, and she let

he feel it to his heart's core. the still, small voice of conscience,

warn she that this be a forced and unnatural state of mind, could

not always be deaden. the very fact of its prick she cause she

to resent the prick, and to nourish her ill-omen temper the more

persistently. Francis Grubb's life be not one of fair sky and

rose-leave.



"I should like to shake it out of she--and I wonder he do not do

it," run the thought of Frances Chenevix, as she open the piano in

the next room and begin to play a dash march.



very especially just now be the Lady Adela Grubb resent thing in

general. Captain Stanley--who have set up a flirtation with she when

she be but a slip of a girl, and with whom it have please she to

fancy herself in love after he sail for India, though that be pure

fancy and not fact--have take no notice of she now that he be home

again, beyond that demand by the ordinary usage of society; and at

this Lady Adela feel mortify--slight. he have not as much as say

to she, "so we be both marry, you and I; we cannot sit in corner

any more to talk in whisper:" on the contrary, he spend his time

talk with new beauty, Selina Dalrymple for one. it be quite

the behaviour of a bear, decide Adela; and she be resent it by

show temper to the world.



Frances Chenevix dash through the march. its last bar be die

into silence, when she think she hear footstep on the stair.

go to the door, she see Gerard Hope.



"well, and what account have you to give of yourself?" begin Frances,

as he take her hand.



"I be at a water-party at Richmond," breathlessly answer Gerard,

who have be have a race with time.



"well, I'm sure! and here have I be vow to they that nothing

could have keep you but be run over in the street; and Colonel

Hope think you be detain over the red-tape duty. you might have

come for once, Gerard."



"I couldn't possibly, france; I couldn't land; and then I have to

dress. the tide keep we out. it have vex I above a bit, I can tell

you."



"you look vex," she retort, regard his laugh countenance.



"I be vex; but it be of no use to weep over it. you know I want to

stand well with my uncle. I suppose you have finish dinner?"



"age ago."



"where be the rest of you lady?"



"in the next room, quarrel. Lady Sarah be treat Adela to a bit

of her mind--and she deserve it. now, Gerard, behave yourself. what

do you want to come so close to I for?"



for Mr. Gerard Hope be squeeze himself beside she on a small

ottoman, mean for only one portly personage. he do more than that:

he steal his arm round her waist.



"I believe Uncle Hope want to adopt I," cry Gerard. "willn't it be

jolly. no more scratch, scratch, scratch away with a pen all the

bless day."



"I call it 'slavery' to they just now," interrupt france.



"good girl! no more get up by candle-light in winter, and trudge

off through the frost and through the thaw without breakfast, which

you have not have time to take! it will be a change--if he do it. I'm

not sure of it yet."



"you don't deserve it, Gerard."



"no! why don't I? I'd try and be a good nephew to he--as dutiful as

the good boy in the spelling-book. I say, Frances, have he be ask

about me?--getting reference as to character?"



"yes, he have," be the perhaps unexpected answer. "just as if you be

a footman. Mr. Grubb say he do not know much of you; but what he do

know he like. Hark! they be come out of the dining-room. and if

you want any dinner, you have well go there and ring for it."



"perhaps there's none leave for I."



Frances laugh. "I hear Mr. Grubb whisper to his wife that if Gerard

Hope come he be to go into the dining-room."



Gerard rise, go out, and meet the gentleman. france stay where she

be, and fall into a reverie. do Gerard really love she? at time she

think so, at other she think not.





the day wear onwards in their rapid flight. time do not stand still

even for those favour one who be plunge, for the first time, into

the allurement of a London season: as be Selina Dalrymple.



one bright morning, when the sun be shine brilliantly and the

sky be blue and the street warm and dusty, she sit in the

breakfast-room with her husband. the late meal be over, and Selina, a

hot colour in her cheek, be drum she pretty foot on the floor,

and not look the essence of good-humour. she wear a richly

embroider white dress with pink ribbon. Mr. Dalrymple's eye have

rarely rest on a fair woman, and his heart know it too well.



"Selina, I ask you last night whether you intend to go to Lady

Burnham's breakfast, at that rural villa of theirs. of course, if you

go, I will accompany you, otherwise I have some business I should like

to attend to on Thursday."



"I cann't go," answer Selina. "I have nothing to wear."



"nothing to wear!"



"nothing on earth."



"how can you say so?"



"I do think of order a suitable toilette for it, and be at

Damereau's about it yesterday. but, after what you say last

night----"



"my dear, what do you mean? what do I say? only that you seem, to

I, never to appear in the same gown whether at home or out; and I

beg you to remember that our income be limited."



"you say I change my dress four time a-day, Oscar."



"well. don't you?"



"but every one else do; some change they five time. you would not

like I to come down in the morning and go up to bed at night in the

same dress, would you?"



"I suppose not. it's of no use ask I about dress, Selina. I

scarcely know one gown from another. but it do strike I that you

have a most extraordinary number of new thing. go out or come in when

I will, there's sure to be the milliner's porter and basket at the

door."



"would you have I look an object?"



"you never do look an object."



"of course I don't. I guard against it. I'd give the world to go to

this fête at the Burnhams'. every soul will be there, but I."



"and why not you, if your heart be so set upon it? I think all such

affair a stupid bore: but that's nothing."



"would you wish I to go there in a petticoat?"



"no; I suppose not. I tell you I be no judge of a lady's thing. I

don't think I should know a petticoat from a gown. those be gown,

be they not, hang in row round the wall in the room above, and

cover up with sheet and table-cloth."



"sheet and table-cloth! Oscar!"



"my dear, they look like it."



"well--if they be gown--there's not one I can wear."



"they be all recently new," say Mr. Dalrymple. "what's the matter

with they?"



"there's not one I can wear," persist his wife.



"but why?"



"why!" repeat Mrs. Dalrymple, in quite a contemptuous tone, for she

have no patience with ignorance. "you ought to know why!"



"my dear, I really don't. if you wish I to know, you must tell I."



"_I have wear they all once_," be the angry answer. "and some twice,

and some three time. and one---- Oscar," she break off, "you remember

that lovely one; a sky blue, shoot with white; a robe à disposition?"



"what be à disposition?"



"oh--a silk, flounce, and the flounce have some design upon they,

emboss, or raise, sometimes of a different colour. that dress I

have wear five time. I really have, Oscar; five time!



"I wear my coat fifty time five."



"the idea of my be see at Lady Burnham's in a dress I have wear

before! no; I'd rather go in a petticoat, of the two evil, and hide

my head for ever after."



Mr. Dalrymple be puzzle. "why could you not be see, there or

anywhere else, in a dress you have wear before?"



"because no one else be."



"then what become of all the new gown?" inquire the wonder man.



"for goodness' sake, do not keep on call they 'gown.'"



"Dresses, then. what become of they?"



"oh--they do for the country. some few, by dint of retrimme, can be

make to look new for town. you don't understand lady' dress,

Oscar."



"I have say I do not."



"neither ought you," add Selina, crossly. "we do not worry ourselves

to interfere between you and your tailor, or pry into the shape and

make of your waistcoat and button and thing, and we do not expect

to have it do by we."



"Selina, let your grievance come to an end. I do not like to hear this

tone of reproach."



"then you must retract what you say last night. it be as if you

want I never to have a new dress again."



"Nay, Selina, I only remind you how small our income be. you must

not overlook that."



"don't be foolish, Oscar. do you fear I be go to ruin you? what's

the cost of a few dress? I _must_ have one for Lady Burnham's fête."



"my dear, have what you like, in reason," he say, in the innocence of

his unconscious heart: "you be the good judge. of course I can trust

you."



the word be as the sweetest music in her ear. she spring up,

dance to a scrap of a song.



"you dear, good Oscar I know you be never go to be an old

griffin. I think I must have that lovely green-and-white gauze. it be

the most magnificent dress. I be divide between that and a

cream-colour damask. I'll have the gauze. and gauze dress cost

nothing."



"nothing?"



"next to nothing."



Selina fly upstairs. she pull aside the "sheet and table-cloth,"

and glance underneath. it be a goodly stock of robe; but yet not

all the stock: for the lace, and muslin, and flimsy gauze, and

delicate white, and delicate pearl, and delicate pink, and delicate

other shade, be repose in drawer, out of sight, between fold of

tissue paper. Barège and balzarine: satin, plain and figured; velvet;

silk, plain, damask, flower, shot, cord, and of all the colour of

the rainbow. beautiful dress; and yet--new, and rich, and elegant as

they be, Selina Dalrymple could not go to the fête without a new

one!



away she go to Madame Damereau's. astonishing that renowned artiste

by the early hour of her visit.



"I want a thousand thing," begin Selina, in the blitheness of her

heart. "have you sell the green-and-white gauze dress?"



no, be madame's answer, she have keep it on purpose for Madame

Dalreemp. Milady Ac-corn have come in yesterday afternoon late, and

want it, but she have tell milady that it be sell.



Selina take it all in. the fact be, madame have try to persuade

Milady Ac-corn into buy it, but milady be proof against the price.

she have want it for Frances. it be only seventeen guineas, and that

include the fringe and trimming. Selina have tell her husband that

gauze dress cost nothing!



"I want it for the breakfast on Thursday," cry Selina. "what mantle

can I wear?"



a momentous question. they run over in memory the mantle, scarf,

fichu, possess by Mrs. Dalrymple, and come to the conclusion that

not one of they would "go with" the gauze dress.



"I have a lace mantle," say madame--"ah! but it be recherché!--a real

Brussels. if there be one robe in my house that it ought to go with,

it be that green-and-white."



she bring it forward and exhibit it upon the dress. very

beautiful; of that there be no doubt. it be probably a beautiful

price also.



"twenty-five guineas."



"oh my goodness--twenty-five guineas!" cry Selina. "but I'll take

it. a breakfast fête do not come every day."



for a wonder--_for_ a wonder--Selina, having exhibit her white lace

bonnet with the emerald only twice, come to the conclusion that that

"would do." not that she hesitate at buy another, but that it be

so suitable to the green-and-white dress.



"and now for---- oh, stop; I think I must have a new parasol. my

point-lace one be soil, and I catch it in my bracelet the other day

and tear it a little. you have a beautiful point-lace parasol here

yesterday. let I see it."



"the one you wear look at yesterday will not do," cry madame. "it

be line with blue: Madame Dalreemp know that blue can never go with

the green dress. I have one parasol--ah, but it be a beauty!--a

point-lace, line with white. I will get it. it do surpass the

other."



it do surpass the other, and in price also. Selina choose it. it be

twenty guineas.



"my husband think I could have wear one of my old dress," observe

Selina, as she turn over some glove; "he say I have a great many.

but one can only appear in a perfectly fresh toilette at a magnificent

gathering such as this be to be." and madame fully assent.



Mrs. Dalrymple go to the breakfast, and she and her attire be

lovely amidst the lovely, excite no end of admiration. very

gratify to her heart, then topsy-turvy with vanity. and so it go

on to the end of the season, and her pleasurable course be never

check.



when they be prepare to return to the Grange, and her maid be

drive wild with perplexity as to the stowing away of so extensive a

wardrobe, and conjecture that the carriage down of it would alone

come to "something," it occur to Selina, as she sat watch, that

the original cost would also come to "something." some hundred, she

fear, now she come to see the whole collection in a mass.



"of course I shall not let Oscar see the bill," she soliloquize.

"I'll get it from madame before I leave: and then there'll be no fear

of its come to he at the Grange."



Mrs. Dalrymple ask for the bill; and madame, under protest that

there be no hurry in the world, promise to send it in.



Selina be alone, sit in the drawing-room by twilight, when the

account be deliver to she; it be enclose in a large thick

envelope, with an impose red seal. she open it somewhat eagerly.

"what make it such a bulk?" she think. "oh, I see; she have detail

the thing."



hold it close to the window, she look at the bottom of the page,

and see ninety-four pound.



"ninety-four pound!" ejaculate Selina. "what do madame mean? it

must be much more than that."



she light the little taper on her writing-table; and then find she

have be look at one item only--the Venice point-lace for the

decoration of a dress. so she turn the page and look at the foot

of the next.



"antique robe, lace trimming, and sapphire button, one hundred and

twenty-five pound. tush!" impatiently exclaim Selina.



with a rapid movement she turn the account over to the end, and

gaze at the sum total; gaze at it, stare at it, and recoil from

it. three thousand and odd pound, odd shilling, and no pence! what

the odd pound be, whether one, or whether nine hundred

ninety-nine, she do not catch in that moment of terror; the first

grand sum of three thousand absorb her eye and her faculty. and

there float over her a confused consciousness of other bill to come

in: one from the jeweller's, one for shawl, one for expensively

trim linen. there be one shawl, real India--but she dared not

think of that. "Oscar will say I have be mad," she groan.



no doubt he would.



at that moment she hear his step, come in from the dining-room, and

turn sick. she crush the bill in her right hand and thrust it down

the neck of her dress. then she blow out the taper, and turn, with a

burn brow and shrink frame, to the window again, and stand

there, apparently look out. Selina have never attempt to sum up

what she have buy. at odd moment she have fear it might come to

something like a thousand pound.



Oscar come up and put his arm around she, ask whether it be not

time to have the light.



"yes. presently."



"what in the world have you get here?" cry he. "a ball?"



she push the "ball" high up, and murmur something about "some

paper."



"my dear, what be the matter with you here? you be tremble."



"the night-air, I suppose. it be rather chilly."



yet the night be hot. Mr. Dalrymple immediately begin to close the

window. he be a minute or two over it, for one of the cord be stiff

and do not go well. when he turn round again, his wife have leave the

room.



"Selina do not seem very well," think Oscar.









CHAPTER XIII.

FOLLY.





there be no misfortune on earth so great as that of a troubled

conscience: there be nothing that will wear the spirit and the frame

like a burdensome secret which may not be tell. it will blanch the

cheek and sicken the heart; it will render the day a terror and the

bed weary; so that the unhappy victim will be tempt to say with Job:

when shall I arise and the night be go? he be full of tossing to

and fro unto the dawning of the day: his sleep be scared with dream

and terrify with vision.



have Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple be of a different temperament, this unhappy

state of mind would have be her. but she have no very deep feeling.

trouble in a degree she undoubtedly be. that terrible secret, the

debt she have incur, lie on her mind always in a great or a less

degree; for she know that when her husband pay they he would be half

ruin; certainly crippled for year to come.



another season have come round and be at its height; and Mr. and Mrs.

Dalrymple have again come up to it. the past autumn and winter have be

spend at Moat Grange, which Selina find insufferably dull, and where

her chief solace and recreation consist in look over her

beautiful and extensive wardrobe, and try on portion of it in

private. a very negative sort of enjoyment. where be the use of

possess these divine dress and adjunct, when no field be

afford for their display? Selina have venture to wear one costly

robe on a certain evening that she dine at Court Netherleigh, and be

severely take to task by her mother, who be the only other guest,

and by Miss Upton, for appear in such "finery." they ask she what

she mean by such extravagance. and that before Oscar, too! Selina

blush a little and laugh it off; but she mentally wonder what

would have be say have she put on her very fine, or if they see

the stock at home.



during the winter Selina have a fever, bring on, it be think, from

expose herself unduly to damp. she grow well, but be somewhat

delicate and very capricious. Oscar, love she intensely, grow to

humour her fancy and to pet she as if she be a spoiled child. her

conscience reproach she now and then for the tacit deceit she be

enact, in thus suffer he to live in blissful ignorance of their

true position; but on the whole it do not trouble she greatly. Alice,

her sensitive sister, would have die under it; Selina contrive to

exist very comfortably.



"if you find out that I have do anything dreadfully wrong, would you

quite kill I?" she playfully say to he one day.



"dare say I should," answer Oscar, put on a face of mock

severity. "might depend, perhaps, upon what the thing be."



"ah, no; you'd just scold I for five minute, and then kiss and be

friend. I always say you'd never turn out to be an old griffin."



that be the near approach Selina ever make towards confess to

her husband. and Oscar have only look upon it as a bit of pass

pleasantry.



Alice Dalrymple have leave her mother's house to become companion to

Lady Sarah Hope. during a week's visit that Colonel Hope and his wife

make to Miss Upton in the autumn--it be soon after they have get into

their new house in London--Alice have also be stay at Court

Netherleigh. one day Lady Sarah chance to say she wish she could

find some nice young gentlewoman, who would come to she in the

capacity of companion: upon which Alice say, "would you take I?"

"ay, and be glad to get you," return Lady Sarah, suppose that

Alice have speak in jest. Alice, however, be in earnest. she could

not bear to be live on the charity of Oscar Dalrymple, for she

shrewdly guess that Selina throw as much expense on he as he could

well afford; and Alice quite believe that her mother, devote to the

care of her poultry, her bird, and her flower, would not miss she.

so the bargain be strike. "and please remember, Lady Sarah, that I

come to you entirely as companion, prepare to fulfil all a

companion's duty, and not merely as a visitor," Alice gravely say;

and she mean it.



Selina be vex when she hear of the arrangement. she go straight

down to her mother's cottage, and upbraid Alice sharply. "it be

lower we all," she say to she. "a companion be next door to a

servant; every one know that. it will be just a disgrace to the name

of Dalrymple."



"very well, Selina; then, as you think that, I will drop the name,"

return Alice. "I be christen Alice Seaton, you know, after my

godmother, and I will be call Miss Seaton at Lady Sarah's."



"stuff and nonsense, child!" retort Selina. "you may call yourself

Seaton all the world over, but all the world will know still that you

be Alice Dalrymple."



Alice enter upon her new home in London, and gravely tell everybody

in it that she wish to be call by her second name, Seaton. Lady

Sarah laugh, and promise to humour she as often as she could

remember to do it.



in December, Colonel Hope have formally adopt his nephew, Gerard. the

young man throw up his post in the red-tape office (not at all a wise

thing to do), and take up his abode with his uncle. they all go down

to the colonel's place in Gloucestershire to spend Christmas,

include Frances Chenevix, who almost seem to have be as much

adopt as Gerard, so frequently be she stay with they. Christmas

pass; they come to London again, and thing go on smoothly and

gaily until just before Easter, when a fracas occur. Gerard Hope

contrive in some way to offend the colonel and Lady Sarah so

implacably that they discard he; frequent growl have end in a

quarrel. Gerard be insolent, and the colonel, hot and peppery, turn

he out of the house. they go again into Gloucestershire for Easter,

Alice with they as companion and Frances as a guest; but not Gerard.

in fact, so far as one might judge, he be discard for ever.



the cause be this: Lady Sarah, detect the predilection of her

sister Frances for the young man, and believe that he be equally

attach to she, go out of her way and her pride to offer she to

he. Gerard have refuse it point blank. no wonder Lady Sarah be

angry!



 the sweet month of June come round again, and the London

season, as I have say, be at its height. amidst those who be

plunge headlong into its vanity be Selina Dalrymple. she have

coax and beg and pray her husband to give she just another

month or two of it this year, assure he she should die if he do

not. and Oscar, though wince at the cost, know well he could not

and ought not to afford it, at length give in. it appear that he

could deny her nothing. the expense of the previous season be far

more than he have expect, and as yet he have not be able to

discharge they all. apart, this, from his wife's private expense, of

which he as yet remain in ignorance.



it may be question, however, whether Selina enjoy this second

season quite as much as she have the last. the visit and the gaiety and

the homage be as captivate as ever, but she live in a kind of

terror; for Madame Damereau be press for the payment of her

account. if that come to Oscar's knowledge, he would not only do to

she, she hardly know what, perhaps even box her ear, but he would be

quite certain to carry she forthwith from this delightful London life

to that awful prison, Moat Grange, at Netherleigh.



one afternoon, Oscar be turn out of his temporary home in Berkeley

Street--for they have the same room as last year--when he see come

towards he a young lady who walk a little lame. it be Alice

Dalrymple.



"ah, Alice!" he cry. "have you come to London?"



"yes," she reply. "Lady Sarah be well, and we leave Gloucestershire

yesterday to join the colonel here: he have be write for we for

more than a week past. be Selina at home?"



"she be, for a wonder. wait for somebody she intend to go out

with."



"how be she?"



"I cannot tell you how she be. rather strange, it seem to I."



"strange!"



"take my arm, Alice, and walk with I a few pace. there's something

the matter with Selina, and I cannot make it out," continue Mr.

Dalrymple. "she act for all the world as if she have commit some

crime. I tell she so the other day."



"act in what way?" cry Alice.



"she's frightened at her own shadow. when the post use to come in at

the Grange she would watch for the boy, dart down the path, and seize

the letter, as if she fear I might read the direction of her.

when she be recover from that fever, and I would take her letter

in to she, she more than once become blanched and scared. often I ask

her question, or address remark to she, and she be bury in her own

thought, and do not hear I. she start and moan in her sleep;

twice lately I have awaken in the middle of the night and find she

go from the bed and pace the dressing-room."



"you alarm I," exclaim Alice. "what can it be?"



"I can only suppose that her nerve be overwrought with all these

folly she be plunge into. it be nothing but turmoil and excitement;

turmoil and excitement from day to day. I be a fool to come here

again this year, and that's the truth."



"Selina have always lead so very quiet a life," murmur Alice.



"of course she have; and it have be a wonderful change for she; enough

to upset the nervous system of a delicate woman. Selina have not be

too strong since she have that fever."



"she ought to keep more quiet."



"she ought; but she will not. before we come up I tell she she must

not do as she do last year; and I think she do not mean to. Alice,

she be mad after these gay frivolity; bad than she be last

summer, I do believe--and that need not be. I wish not to come; I

tell Selina why--the expense, and other reason--but she would. she

would, Alice. I wonder what it be that chain her mind to this Babel

of a city. I hate it. go you in and see she, Alice. I cann't stay now,

for I have an appointment."



Mrs. Dalrymple be in her bedroom when Alice enter, dress, and

wait to go out: dress with an elegance regardless of expense.



"good gracious, child, be it you!" she exclaim.



when the first moment have pass, Alice sit down and look at her

sister: her cheek be thin, and its bloom tell more of hectic than of

health.



"Selina!" exclaim Alice, "what be the matter? you be much alter."



"be I? People do alter. you be alter. you look ill."



"not more so than usual," reply Alice. "I grow weak with time but

you be ill: I can see it. you look as if you have something preying on

your mind."



"Nonsense, Alice. you be fanciful."



"what be it?" persist Alice.



"if I have, your know it would do I no good, and would worry you.

and yet," add Mrs. Dalrymple, "I think I will tell you. I have feel

lately, Alice, that I must tell some one!"



Alice lay gentle hold of she. "let we sit down on the sofa, as we

use to sit together at the Grange, when we be really sister. but,

Selina, if you have want a confidant in any grief, who so fit to

be that as your husband?"



"he!" cry Selina--"_he!_ it be the dread of his know it--the

anxiety I be in, daily and hourly, to keep it from he--that be

wear I out. sometimes I say to myself, 'what if I put an end to it

all, as Robert do?'"



Alice be accustom to the random figure of speech her sister be at

moment give to use; nevertheless her heart stand still.



"what be it that you have do, Selina?"



"Ruined Oscar."



"Ruined Oscar!"



"and ruin myself, with he," add Selina, in reckless tone, as she

take off her bonnet with a jerk, and let it lie in her lap. "I have

contract debt that neither he nor I can pay, thousand upon

thousand; and the worry of it, the constant fear be render my life

a--I will not _say_ what--upon earth."



"debt! thousand upon thousand!" confusedly utter Alice.



"it be so."



"how do you contract they? not as--as--Robert do? surely that

infatuation be not come upon you?"



"no. but that infatuation, as you call it, be in fashion in our

circle just now. I could tell you of one young lady, whom you know,

who amuse herself with it pretty largely."



"a young lady!"



"she be young than I be--but she's marry," return Selina: and the

young lady in question be the Lady Adela Grubb. "my embarrassment

arise from a love of pretty gown," she add lightly; for it be not

possible for Selina Dalrymple to maintain a tragic mood many minute

together. "Damereau's bill for last season be between three and four

thousand pound. it be between four and five thousand now."



Alice Dalrymple feel bewildered. "it be not possible for one person to

owe all that for one year, Selina!"



"not possible?" repeat Mrs. Dalrymple. "some of my friend spend

double--treble--four time what I do."



"and so their example lead you on?" cry Alice, presently, wake up

from a whirlpool of thought.



"something lead I on. if one be in the world, one must dress."



"no, Selina: not as you have do. not to ruin. if people have only a

small income they dress accordingly."



"and make a sight of themselves. I don't choose to."



"well that, and have peace of mind," remark Alice.



"peace of mind! oh, I don't know where that be to be find nowadays."



"I hope you will find it, Selina. how much do you say you owe?"



"there's four thousand to Damereau, and----"



"who be Damereau?"



"goodness I, Alice; if you never do spend a season in town, you

ought to know who she be, without ask. Madame Damereau's the great

milliner and dressmaker; every one go to she."



"I remember now. Lady Sarah have her thing elsewhere."



"then I owe for India shawl, and lace, and jewel, and fur and

thing. I owe six thousand pound if I owe a farthing."



"what a sum!" echo Alice, aghast. "six thousand pound!"



"ay, you may well repeat it! which of the queen be it who say that

when she die the name of Calais would be find engraven on her heart?

Mary, I think. be I to die, those two word, 'six thousand,' would

be find engraven on mine. they be never absent from I. I see

they write up in figure in my dream; I see they always; in the

ball-room, at the opera, in the park they be buzz in my ear; when

I wake from my troubled sleep they come rush over I, and I start

from my bed to escape they. I be not at all sure that it willn't turn

out to be seven thousand," candidly add Mrs. Dalrymple.



"you must have dress in silver and gold," say poor Alice.



"no: only in thing that cost it: such thing as these," say Mrs.

Dalrymple, pull at her bonnet with both hand in irritation so

passionate that it be tear in two.



"oh, pray! pray!" Alice interpose, but too late to prevent the

catastrophe. "your beautiful bonnet! Selina, it must have cost three or

four guinea. what a waste!"



"tush!" peevishly reply Mrs. Dalrymple, fling the wreck to the

middle of the room. "a bonnet more or less--what do it matter?"



Alice sit in thought; look very pained, very perplexed.



"it appear to I that you be on a wrong course altogether, Selina.

the past be past; but you might strive to redeem it."



"strive against a whirlpool," sarcastically respond Selina.



"you be get deep into it: by your own admission, you be have

new thing every day. it be add fuel to fire."



"I cann't go naked."



"but you must have a large stock of dress by you."



"do you think I would appear in last year's thing? I cann't and I

willn't. you do not understand these matter, Alice."



"then you ought not to 'appear' at all. you should have stop at the

Grange."



"as good be in a nunnery. once you have be initiate into the

delight of a London season, you can only come back to it. Fancy my

stop at that mouldy old Grange."



"what be to be the end of all this?" lament Alice.



"ah, that's it! the end. one do not know, you see, how soon it may

come. I'd not so much mind if I could get all the season first. the

torment of it be, that Damereau be press for payment. she be

throw out hint that she cann't supply I any long on credit--and

what on earth be I to do if she willn't? what a shame it be that there

should be so much worry in the world!"



"the great portion of it be of our own creating, Selina. and no

worry ought to have the power very seriously to disturb our peace,"

the young sister continue, in a whisper.



"now, Alice, you be go to bring up some of those religious notion

of your! they will be lose upon I. one cannot have one's body in

this world and one's heart in the next."



"oh yes, we can," say Alice, earnestly.



"well, I don't suppose I be go into the next yet, unless I torment

myself out of this one; so don't go on about it," be Selina's

graceless reply. but as Alice rise to leave, her mood change.



"forgive my fractiousness, Alice; indeed, you would excuse it, if you

only know how bothered and miserable I be. it make I cross with

myself and with other people."



"Ma'am," interrupt Ann, Mrs. Dalrymple's maid, "Lady Burnham be at

the door, wait for you."



"I be not go out today," answer her mistress, rise. "I have

change my mind."



"oh, my patience!" utter the maid. "what's this? why, ma'am, it's

never your bonnet?"



no man be a hero to his valet-de-chambre: I fear the same may be say

of woman. "bother the bonnet," be the undignified reply of Mrs.

Dalrymple, as she flirt the piece far away with her foot. ann

humbly follow they to the far-off corner, and there take they into

her hand. "reach I another bonnet," say her mistress; "I think I

will go, after all. what's the use of stay indoor?"



"which bonnet, ma'am?"



"oh, I don't know! bring some out."



an array of bonnet, new and costly, be display for Mrs.

Dalrymple's difficult choice. Alice, to whom all this be as a

revelation, take her departure with uplifted hand and a shrink

heart.



Mrs. Dalrymple go downstairs, and take her seat in Lady Burnham's

carriage. the latter, an extremely wealthy woman, full of pleasurable

excitement, impart some particular she have learn of the marriage

festivity about to be hold in a family of their acquaintance, to

which they be both invite. Lady Burnham be then on her road to

Damereau's to order a suitable toilette for it--one that would eclipse

everybody's but the bride's. Selina, in listening, forget her care:

when carry out of herself by the excitement of prepare for these

pomp and vanity, she generally do so forget. but only then. in the

enacting of the pomp and vanity themselves, when they be before

she in all their glory, and she make one of the bedizened crowd, she

nightmare would return to she; the skeleton in the closet would at

those festive time, be exceed prominent and bare. the reader may

be a philosopher, a grave old F.R.S., very learn in search out

cause and effect, and so be able to account for this. I be not.



Selina's mouth water as she listen to Lady Burnham's description

of what she mean to wear at the wedding, and what she recommend to

Selina: and the carriage stop at Madame Damereau's. Mrs.

Dalrymple's order be quite moderate today--only amount to about

ninety pound.



be she quite silly? the reader will ask. well, not more so than many

another thoughtless woman.



Madame Damereau take the order as politely and carefully as though

Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple have be make of bank note and gold. she know

well manner--and well policy, too--than to make any objection

before other of her clientèle. but that same evening, when Selina be

dress, she be tell that a lady who give the name of Cooper wish

to see she. Selina know that there be a Mrs. Cooper in the

establishment of Madame Damereau, a partner, she fancy, or

book-keeper; something of that sort. she have see she once or twice; a

lady-like woman, who have be reduce.



"let Mrs. Cooper come up here," she say to the maid. and Mrs. Cooper

enter the bedroom.



"I come from Madame Damereau's," she begin, take the chair that

Selina point to. "she hopes----"



"for goodness' sake, speak low!" interrupt Selina, in ill-conceal

terror. "Mr. Dalrymple be only in his dressing-room, and I do not wish

he to hear all my private affair. these London wall be thin. she

want money, I suppose."



"she hope, madam, that you will make it convenient to let she have

some," say Mrs. Cooper, sink her voice to a whisper. "if it be

only a few hundred pound," she say. "that be trifle compare with

the whole sum, which amount now to----"



"oh, I know what it amount to; I can guess it near enough," hastily

interpose Mrs. Dalrymple. "in the course of a week or two I will see

what I can do."



Poor Selina, at her wit' end for excuse, have say "in the course of

a week or two" so many time now, that Madame Damereau be tired of

hear the phrase.



Mrs. Cooper hesitate, not much like her errand. "she bid I say,

madam, that she be extremely sorry to cause inconvenience, but that

she cannot execute the order you give today unless she previously

receive some money."



"not execute it!" repeat Selina, with flash eye. "what do you

mean by say such a thing to I?"



"Madam, I be but the agent of Madame Damereau. I can only speak as she

bid I."



"true," answer Selina, soften; "it be not your fault. but I must

have the thing. you will get they for I, will you not?" she say, in

an accent of entreaty, feel that she be speak to a gentlewoman,

although one who but hold a situation at a milliner's. "oh, pray use

your influence; get she to let I have they."



Mrs. Cooper stand in distress, for hers be one of those refine

nature that cannot bear to cause or to witness pain.



"if it depend upon I, indeed you should have they," she answer,

"but I have no influence of that sort with Madame Damereau. she would

not allow the slight interference between she and her lady: be

I to attempt it, I might lose my place in her house, and be turn out

again to struggle with the world."



"have it be a harsh world to you?" inquire Selina, pityingly.



"oh yes," be Mrs. Cooper's answer, "or I should not be where I be

now. and I be thankful to be there," she hastily add: "I would not

seem ungrateful for the mercy that have follow I in my misfortune."



"I think misfortune be the lot of all," speak Selina. "what can I do

to induce Madame Damereau to furnish I with these thing?"



"perhaps you have well call and see she yourself, madam," reply

Mrs. Cooper, relapse into her ostensible position. "I will try and

say a word to she tonight that may prepare she. she have a good

heart."



"I will see she tomorrow. thank you," reply Mrs. Dalrymple, ring

for Mrs. Cooper to be show out.



Selina finish dress, and go forth to the evening's gaiety with

what spirit she have. once plunge into the gay scene, she forget care

and be merry as the merriest there. her husband have never see she

face brighter.



on the follow day, Selina proceed to Madame Damereau's at an

early hour, before any of the other clientèle would be likely to

appear. but the interview, although Mrs. Cooper have say as much as

she dare, be not productive of good. Madame have gradually learn the

true position of Oscar Dalrymple, that he be a very poor man, instead

of a rich one; she fear she might have trouble over her account, and

be obstinate and obdurate. not exactly insolent: she be never that,

to her customer' face: but she and Mrs. Dalrymple both lose temper,

and the latter be impolitic enough to say some cut thing, not

only in disparagement of madame's good, but about the "cheat

price" she have be charge. Madame Damereau's face turn green, and

the interview end by she state that if some money be not

immediately furnish she, she should sue Mr. Dalrymple for the whole.

Selina go away sick at heart; for she read determination on the

incense lip of the Frenchwoman.









CHAPTER XIV.

LADY adela.





"how sly Mary have be!"



the above exclamation speak by Lady Adela Grubb in a sort of

resentful tone, as she read a letter while sip her coffee,

cause her husband to look up. he sit at the opposite end of the

breakfast-table, attractive with its silver and flower and its

beautiful Worcester china.



"be you speak of your sister Mary?" he ask. "what have she do?"



any answer to this question Lady Adela do not condescend to give.

unless the tossing of the letter across the table to he could be

call one--and she do it with a gesture of scorn. the letter, a

short one, come from Miss Upton, of Court Netherleigh.





"my dear adela,



"I have a little business to transact in London tomorrow, and will

take luncheon with you at one o'clock, if quite convenient. tell your

husband, with my kind regard, that I hope to see he also--if he can

spare an hour from that exact place of his, Leadenhall Street. so I

be to have your sister Mary as a neighbour, after all!



"your sincere friend,



"MARGERY UPTON."





"which mean, I presume, that Mary be to marry Cleveland," remark

Mr. Grubb, as he read the concluding sentence.



"stupid thing! I tell she, week ago, she be flirt with he."



"Nay, not flirt, Adela. Cleveland be not capable of that."



Adela toss her head. how lovely she look! fair as the fresh summer

morning.



"she be flirt, though. and he would flirt, if he be not too old.

parson, as a rule, flirt more than layman. she must be hard up for a

husband to take he. he have a houseful of child!"



"I dare say she like he," say Mr. Grubb.



"oh, nonsense! one only point can be urge in his favour--that he be a

patrician."



"that he be what?" cry Mr. Grubb, who be drink his coffee at the

moment, and do not hear the word.



"a patrician. not a plebeian."



the offensive stress lay by Adela on the last word, the marked scorn

sit on her lip, bring a flush to her husband's brow. nothing

seem to afford she so much gratification as to throw out these

lance-shafts to Mr. Grubb, on what she be pleased to term his

plebeian origin.



"do you wish for more coffee?" she ask ungraciously.



"no. I have not time for it. I must make the good of my way into the

City, if I be to get back to luncheon."



"there be not the least necessity for you to get back," be her

slighting remark. "you will not be miss, if you don't come."



"by yourself, no. I be aware of that. but I do not care to be so

lack in common courtesy as to disregard the express wish of Miss

Upton."



"she may have express it out of mere politeness."



"Miss Upton be not one to express a wish out of mere politeness,"

reply Mr. Grubb, as he gather up some paper of his that be by

the side of his plate. "besides, I shall like to see she."



approach his wife, who have take up the _Morning Post_, he stand

over she. "good-bye, Adela," he say; and bent to kiss her cheek.



"oh, good-bye," she retort in curt tone, and jerk her cheek away

from his very lip.



he go away with a suppress sigh. this line of treatment have be

deal out to he by she so long now that he have become inure to it.

it be none the less bitter for that.



Adela, drop the newspaper and pick up a rose from one of the

glass on the breakfast-table, go to the window to see whether it

look very hot, for she want to walk to her mother's and hear about

Mary's contemplated marriage. she see her husband cross the square.

for some reason he be cross it on foot, his close carriage slowly

follow he: on very hot day he rarely use an open one. what a

fine, noble-look man he be! what a face of goodness and beauty be

his!--how few could compare with he. at odd moment this would even

strike Adela; it strike she now; and a flash of something like pride

in he dart into her heart.



ah! she see now why he have walk across the square instead of get

into his carriage at the door: her father be advance towards he.

the two meet, shake hand, stand for a few moment talk, and then

Lord Acorn put his arm within his son-in-law's, and they turn the

corner together.



"Papa want more money of he," think Adela. "it's rather too bad, I

must say. but that Leadenhall Street be just a mine of wealth."



For, now and again, ever since the marriage, Lord Acorn have come with

his trouble and embarrassment to Mr. Grubb, who seldom refuse to

assist he.



as the clock be strike one that day, they sit down to lunch: Miss

Upton, who have just arrive, Mr. Grubb, and Lady Adela. Miss Upton

never take the meal later if she could help it. indeed, at home she

take it at twelve. her breakfast hour be eight precisely, and by

twelve she be ready for luncheon. Lady Acorn come in as they be

sit down, throw her bonnet on a chair, and sit down with they.

hear that Miss Upton would be there, she have come, uninvited, to

meet she.



"how early you go out, mamma!" cry Adela, in rather an aggrieved

tone. for, when she reach Chenevix House that morning, she find she

mother and sister have already leave it: so that she have hear no

particular at all about Lady Mary's propose wedding, not even

whether there be certainly to be one, and Adela have her curiosity

upon the subject.



"we go shop," answer Lady Acorn. "one like to do that before

the heat of the day come on. do you know that Mr. Cleveland be go

to marry again, Margery?" she add abruptly, look across the table

at Miss Upton.



"yes, I know it. he come to the Court yesterday morning to tell I of

it. I think Mary will make he a good wife."



"she have courage," say Mr. Grubb, with a pleasant laugh. "how many

child be there? ten?"



"no. eight. and they be of all age; from seven, up to

four-and-twenty," add Miss Upton.



Lady Acorn be nod her head, in emphatic acquiescence to Mr.

Grubb's remark. "I tell Mary she have the courage of Job, when the

thing first come to my ear. eight child and a poor country Rector!

young woman be ready to marry a broomstick when they get to Mary's

age, if the chance fall in their way."



"have Job so much courage, mamma?" put in Adela.



"courage or patience, or some such virtue. it be not I that would have

take an old widower with a flock of young one," continue the

countess, in her plain-speak tartness.



"you will get rid of we all in time, mamma," observe Adela.



"it entail trouble enough," be her mother's ungracious rejoinder. "I

be quite do over with heat and fatigue now--go about from one

place to another after Mary's thing. gown and bonnet and slip and

mantle, and all the rest of it! girl be so exact when they be

go to marry: they must have this, and they must have that, and Mary

be no exception to the rule. one would think she have pick up a

duke."



"it be natural they should be," observe Miss Upton.



"but it's not the less ridiculous," retort the countess. "one thing

I must say--that Tom Cleveland be show himself in desperate haste

to take another wife."



"the haste be for his child's sake," say Miss Upton; "be very sure

of that, Betsy. 'I must have some one to control and train they; since

my poor wife's death the girl have run wild,' he say to I

yesterday, when he tell I about Mary, and the tear be almost

run down his cheek."



"it be a great charge," speak Mr. Grubb. "I mean for Lady Mary."



"it be," acquiesce Miss Upton. "but I hope--I think--she will be

find equal to it, and will prove a good stepmother. that she

understand the responsibility she be undertake, and have count the

cost, I be sure of, by what she say in a long letter I receive from

she this morning."



"it be to be hope she will have no child of her own," strike in

Lady Acorn. "many a woman make a good stepmother until her own baby

come. after that----"



"after that--what?" ask Miss Upton, for Lady Acorn have stop

abruptly.



"after that, she think of her own child and not of the first

wife's. and sometimes the poor thing get hardly deal by."



"and when be the wedding-day to be?" ask Adela.



"the day after twelve month shall have elapse since the death of the

first Mrs. Cleveland; or in as short a time subsequent to that day as

may be convenient to I and the milliner," laugh Lady Acorn.



"that will make it some time in August, mamma?"



"yes, in August."



"Adela, you must give they a substantial present--something worth

have," say Mr. Grubb to his wife.



"be Damereau to furnish the wedding-dress?" question Adela,

ignore her husband's remark rather too pointedly, and address her

mother.



"Damereau!" shriek the countess. "not if I know it. we have be to

plain Mrs. Wilson. Damereau get dearer every day. she be all very

well for those who have a long purse: mine's a short one."



at the close of the luncheon, Miss Upton say she must take she

departure: she have commission to do. a fly wait for she at the

door.



"you should use one of Adela's carriage," say Mr. Grubb, as he take

she down to it.



"ah, thank you; I know you and she would lend it to I with hearty

goodwill; but I like, you see, to be independent," be Miss Upton's

answer. "I have employ the same fly and the same man for year. when

I be come to London, I write to he previously, and he hold himself

at my service for the day."



"be there anything I can do for you?" ask Mr. Grubb, as he place

she comfortably in the closed fly.



"nothing. unless you will get in and ride a little way with I. I be

go first to a shop in the Strand. perhaps you cann't spare the

time."



"indeed I can," he answer, step in and take the seat face

she. "the Strand will be all in my way to Leadenhall Street."



they have not see much of one another, and yet they be intimate, for

each like the other. Mr. Grubb have pay one short visit to Court

Netherleigh with his wife; it be in the first year of his marriage,

and they stay three day. Miss Upton call on they sometimes when

she come to town, perhaps once or twice a-year; and that be all.



"you be say something to Adela about give a present to her

sister," begin Miss Upton, as they amble along. "I take it that you

be sincere."



"indeed I be. I should like to give they something that will be

useful--regardless of cost," he add, with a smile. "can you suggest

anything?"



"I can. a little open-carriage and pony--if you would like to go as

far as that. Mary will want it badly. the old pony-carriage use by Mrs.

Cleveland all her married life to get about the straggling parish in,

be the most worn, ramshackle thing now you ever see; it will hardly

hold together. and the poor pony be on its last leg."



"they shall have a new one. thank you for tell I," add Mr.

Grubb, with a sunny smile.



"and I dare say you wonder why I cann't give they this thing myself,"

resume Miss Upton; "but the truth be--don't laugh--I be refurnish

the house, and I don't like to do too much. it would look

ostentatious, patronizing, and Cleveland would feel it so in his

heart. I have a rare battle with he about the furniture, when I tell

he what I mean to do; I have already, in fact, give order for it.

'you cannot bring Lady Mary home to that shabby dining and

drawing-room of your,' I say to he yesterday. 'I fear I cann't

afford to have they renew,' he answer I, his face take a long

look. 'of course you cann't,' I say, 'whoever hear of a parson who

could; I mean to do it myself.' well, then we have a fight. Mary have

see the wall and the room and know what they be, he maintain.

upon which I cut short the argument by say the order be already

give, and the workman ready to go in. I have see for a month or two

past, you must understand, Francis, how matter be go between he

and Mary Chenevix."



Miss Upton break off with a short laugh. "the idea of my call you

Francis!" she exclaim. "will you forgive I?"



"_forgive_ you! dear Miss Upton, if you only know how pleasant to I

the name sound from your lip!"



"when I think of you it be generally as _Francis_ Grubb, and so it

escape I. well, then, you will give they this new pony and

carriage?"



"I will. and thank you sincerely for suggest it."



"do Adela make you a good wife yet?" cry Miss Upton, fix she

keen eye upon he. and Francis Grubb, at the abrupt query, grow red

to the very root of his wave hair.



"be she become affectionate to you, as a gracious wife should be?"

pursue Miss Margery, for he do not answer.



"I do not complain of my wife; please understand that, Miss Upton."



"quite right of you not to. but I believe I understand rather more

than appear on the surface; have understand for some time past. I

give she a lecture when I be last here. I do, indeed; though you may

not suppose it."



he smile. a poor smile at well. Margery Upton lean forward and put

her hand upon his hand, that lie on his knee.



"there be only one thing for it--patience. bear quietly. Adela use to

be a sweet girl! I think she have a good heart, and what evil spirit have

take possession of she I cannot conceive. I think thing will work

round in time, even as you could desire they."



"ay!"



"and, for the present, I say, keep up a good heart--and bear. it be my

good advice to you."



he take her hand within both his, and press it fervently, make no

further reply. and just then the fly pull up in the Strand.



"I have not ask about your mother," say Miss Upton, as he stand at

the door to say farewell after get out.



"she be pretty well, now."



"and your sister? do she get over that wretched business of Robert

Dalrymple's?"



"of course--in a degree. time soften most thing. but she will never

forget he."



he shake hand finally with Miss Upton; he walk on to his house in

Leadenhall Street, his step flag, his heart weary. enter his

own private room, he find two lady within it. his mother, who be

seat in the most easy chair the room afford; and his sister. Mrs.

Lynn be a tall, dignified, upright woman still: her beautiful grey

eye be just like his own, her refined countenance, sickly now, bore

yet its mark of unusual intellect.



"Mother!" he exclaim, in surprise. "how glad I be to see you!"



"I drive up to the Bank upon a little matter of business, and come on

to see you after it be transact," she explain, as he kiss she.

"it be unusual to find you out at this time of day, Francis; but the

clerk think you would be in soon, and I wait. I be glad of the

rest; the journey have so tired I."



"why will you not let I do your matter of business for you, mother?"

he tenderly ask, as he busy himself to get a glass of wine for she

and some biscuit.



"because so long as I _can_ do thing for myself, I like to do they,"

she answer, "and my old-fashioned chariot be an easy one: I do not

care to become quite the incapable old woman before the necessity for

it inevitably set in. and now, how be it with yourself, Francis? your

brow wear a troubled look as you enter."



never do Francis Grubb give a more genial smile than now. not even to

his mother would he willingly show his care. "it be quite well with

I," he laugh; "well and flourish. take your wine, mother."



"your wife?" whisper Mrs. Lynn, in a tone of doubt--of pain. "be

she--more friendly?"



"oh, we be friendly enough--quite so," he lightly answer, angry

with himself for not be able to suppress the flush that rise at the

question. "be that a new dress you have on, Mary? it be marvellously

pretty."



"if her child have only live!" sigh Mrs. Lynn, allude to Lady

Adela.



"quite new; new on today; and I be very glad you admire it," gaily

answer Mary, as she spread out the dress with both hand, and turn

herself about on her brother's dull red carpet for inspection. she be

as thankful to drown the other subject as he be: she know, unhappily,

more about it than her mother. "I be go out on a visit, so of

course I must have some pretty thing."



"go where?"



"to Lawn Cottage, at Netherleigh. Mrs. Dalrymple want I--she be

lonely there. I can only spare she a week, though: it will not do to

leave mamma for long. Alice be at Lady Sarah Hope's, you know, and

Selina be in town, the gayest of the gay."



"rather too gay, I fancy," remark Mr. Grubb. "Mother," he add,

turn from his sister, "I have just leave your friend of early

life--Miss Upton. she inquire after you."



"very good of she!" retort Mrs. Lynn, proudly and stiffly. "I do not

care to be speak to of Margery Upton, as you know, Francis. she--and

other--voluntarily sever all connection between we in those early

year. it pain I more than you, or any one else, will ever know;

but it be over and do with, and I do not willingly recall it, or

they, to my memory."



ah! that separation might have bring keen pain to Mrs. Lynn in early

day, but not so cruelly keen as the pain something else be bring

to her son in these later one. as Francis Grubb, his visitor

depart, take his place at his desk, and strove to apply his mind to

his business, he find it a difficult task. twice today have his

wife's behaviour to he be remark upon--by Miss Upton and by his

mother. be it, could it be the fact, that the unhappiness of his

home, the miserable relation obtaining between himself and his wife,

have become patent to the world? the draught have already be rise to

a pretty good height in his cup of bitterness; this would fill it to

the brim.









CHAPTER XV.

the day of reckoning.





the hum of the busy London world came float drowsily in through a

bedroom window in Berkeley Street, open to the hot and brilliant

summer day, and fall, unnoticed, upon the ear of Mrs. Oscar

Dalrymple.



"what an idiot I have be!" soliloquize she. "and what a cat that

Damereau be!"



the above pretty speech--not at all suitable for pretty lip--be

give vent to by Selina on her return from that morning visit to her

milliner, when the latter have wholly refuse to listen to reason, and

both have lose their courtesy.



her dainty bonnet toss on the bed, her little black lace mantle on

the back of her low dressing-chair, Selina, who have come straight

home, sway herself backwards and forwards in the said chair, as she

mentally run over the item of the keen word just exchange between

herself and madame, and wonder what in the world she be to do.



"if I have only keep my temper!" she think, in self-reproach. "it be

always a fault of mine to be quick and fiery--like poor Robert.

nothing but that make she so angry. what on earth would become of I

if she should do as she say--send the account to Oscar?"



Selina start up at the thought. calmly equable to a rather

remarkable degree in general, she be one of the most restless of

human being when she do give way to excitement. just as Robert have

be.



"if he have but live!" she cry, tear fill her eye as her

thought revert to her brother, "I'd have take this trouble to he

and he would have settle it. Robert be generous!"



but Selina quite forget to recall the fact that her brother's income,

at the good, would not have be large than her husband's be. not

quite as large, indeed, for Oscar have his own small patrimony of six

or seven hundred a-year in addition. just now she could not be

expect to remember common sense.



the Dalrymples have a distant cousin, a merchant, or cotton-broker, or

something of the kind, reside in Liverpool, who be suppose to be

fabulously rich. he have quarrel with the family long ago, and be

look upon as no well than an ill-natured, growl bear. an idea

have come into Selina's brain lately--what if she write to tell he her

position and beg a little money from his rich coffer to set she

straight? it come to she again now, as she sit there. but, no that

ungenial man be know to hold unseemly debt and extravagance of all

kind in especial abhorrence. he would only write she a condemnatory

answer; perhaps even re-enclose her begging letter to Oscar! Selina

start from the thought, and put away for ever all notion of aid from

Benjamin Dalrymple.



"how be this woman to be pacify?" she resume, her reflection

revert to Madame Damereau. "what a simpleton I be to provoke she!

two or three hundred pound might do it for the present. where be I to

get they? if she carry out this dreadful threat and appeal to

Oscar, what should I do? what _could_ I do? and all the world would

know---- oh!" she shiver, "I must stop that. _I_ must get some from

he, if I can. I will try at once. Ugh; what a calamity the want of

money be!"



she descend the stair and enter the dining-room, where she

husband be. he sit at the table write letter, and seem to be in

the midst of business account.



"Oscar!"



he look up. "what be it?"



"Oscar," she say, advance close to he, "can you, please, let I

have a little money?"



"no, that I cann't, Selina. I be settle up a few payment now, and

can only do it by half. other I be write to put off entirely for

the present."



he have bend over his writing again, as if the question, be

answer, be do with.



"Oscar, I must have it."



"what money do you mean? some for housekeeping. I can let you have

that."



"no, no: for myself. I want--I want--two hundred pound," she say,

jerk it out. she do not dare to say three; her courage fail she.



he put down the pen and turn towards she in displeasure. "Selina, I

tell you before we come to town that I could not have these call make

upon I, as I have last year. you know how very small our income be,

and you know that your extravagance have already cripple it. the

allowance I make you be great than I can afford. I cannot give you

more."



"oh, Oscar, I must have it," she exclaim in excitement, terrify at

the aspect her situation present to she, for her mind be apt to be

imaginative. "indeed, I must--even at an inconvenience. only two

hundred pound!"



"to squander away in folly?"



"no. if it be only to squander away, I might do without it; and I

cannot do without this."



Mr. Dalrymple look keenly at she, and she turn from his gaze. "let

I know what you want it for, that I may judge of the necessity you

speak of. if it be not convenient to you to tell I, Selina, you must

be satisfied with my refusal."



"well, then," she say, see no help for the avowal, "I owe it."



"owe it! owe two hundred pound! _you!_"



so utter be his astonishment, so blank his dismay, that Selina's

heart fail she. if she owe two hundred pound thus impress he,

what would become of she when he learn the whole truth!



"and I be press for it," she faintly add. "_please_ let I have

it, Oscar."



"what have you go in debt for?"



"various thing," she answer, not care to avow particular. but he

look steadfastly at she, wait for the truth. "Dress."



"the compact between we be that you should not run into debt," he

say, in severe tone; "you promise to make your allowance do. you

have behave ill to I, Selina."



she bend her head, feel that she have. oh, feel it terribly just

then.



"be this all you owe? all?"



"Y--es." but the falsehood, as falsehood ought to, leave a tremor on

her lip.



without speak another word, he unseal a paper in which be

enclose some bank-note, and hand several to she, to the amount of

two hundred pound. "understand I well, Selina, this must never occur

again," he say, in an impressive tone. "these note have a different

and an urgent destination."



"what a goose I be, not to ask for the other hundred!" be her mental

comment, as she escape from the room. "it be not of the least use

offer Damereau two hundred: but she might take three. and where be

I to get it?"



where, indeed? do the reader ever try when in extremity to borrow a

hundred pound, or what not?--and do he remember how very hopeless a

cause it seem when present before he? just as it appear now to

Selina Dalrymple.



"I wonder whether Alice could lend it to I?" she cry, sway she

foot helplessly as she sit in the low chair. "it's not in the least

likely, but I might ask she. who's this?"



the "who's this," apply to a footstep on the stair. it be her

husband's. some tiresome, troublesome old man of their acquaintance

have come up from Netherleigh, and Oscar want his wife to help

entertain he. remember the two hundred pound just procure from

Oscar she do not like to refuse, and go down.



they dine, to accommodate this gentleman, at what Selina call an

unearthly hour--four o'clock; and it be evening before she could

get to Lady Sarah Hope's. Alice, look ill, be alone in the

drawing-room, having beg to be excuse go down to dinner. on a

table in the back room lie some of Lady Sarah's jewel; valuable gem.

Selina privately wish they be her. she have to take her departure

as she come, for Alice could not help she. a curiously mysterious

matter connect with these jewel have to be relate. it ought to come

in here; but it may be well to defer it, not to interfere with the

sequence of event connect with this chapter.



nothing far could be do that evening, and Selina go to rest

betime--eleven o'clock--disappoint two or three entertainment

that be languish for her presence: but she have no heart that

night.



to rest! it be a mockery of the word, for she have become thoroughly

frightened. she pass the night turn and tossing from side to

side; and when morning come, and she arise, it be with trembling

limb and a fevere brain.



her whole anxiety be to make up this money, three hundred pound;

hope that it would prove a stop-gap for the milliner, and stave off

that dread threat of application to Oscar. what be to come

afterwards, and how in the world far stop-gap would be supply,

she do not now glance at. that evil seem a hundred mile off,

compare with this one.



a faint idea have be loom through her mind; possibly lead to by

what she have see at Lady Sarah Hope's. at the commencement it have

neither shape nor form, but by midday it have acquire one, and be

entertain. she have hear of such thing as pledge jewel: she be

sure she have hear that even noble lady, drive to a pinch, so

dispose of they. Mrs. Dalrymple lock her bedroom door, reach out

her ornament, and lay they in a heap on the bed.



she begin to estimate their value: what they have cost to buy, as

nearly as she could remember and judge, amount to fully five hundred

pound. they be not pay for, but that be nothing. she suppose she

might be able to borrow four hundred upon they: and she decide to do

it. some few, other, have belong to her mother. then, if that

cormorant of a French marchande de mode refuse to be pacify with a

small sum, she should have a large one to offer she. yes, and get the

thing for the wedding-breakfast besides.



the relief this determination bring to the superficial mind of

Selina Dalrymple, few, never reduce to a similar strait, can picture.

it almost remove her weight of care. the task of pledge they would

not be a pleasant one, but she must go through with it. the glitter

trinket be still upon the bed when some one knock at the

room-door. it be only her maid, come to say that Miss Alice be

below. Selina grow scared and terrify; for a troubled conscience

see shadow where no shadow be, and hers whisper that curious

eye, look on those ornament, must divine what she mean to do

with they. with a hasty hand she throw a dress upon the bed, and then

another on the first, and then a heavy one over all, before unbolt

the door. the glitter jewel be hide now.





Oscar Dalrymple be think profoundly as he sit over his

after-dinner wine--not that he ever take much--and the street-lamp

be light, when a figure, look as little like Mrs. Dalrymple as

possible, steal out of the house; stole stealthily, and close the

door stealthily behind she, so that neither master nor servant should

hear it. she have ransack her wardrobe for a plain gown and dark

shawl, and her straw bonnet might have serve as a model for a

Quaker's. she have be out in the afternoon, and mark the place she

mean to go to. a renowned establishment in its line, and respectable;

even Selina know that. she hurry along the street, not unlike a

criminal; have she be go to rob the wareroom of their jewel,

instead of offer some to add to their hidden store, she could not

have feel more guilty. when she reach the place she could not make

up her mind to enter: she take a turn or two in front, she glance in

at its door, at the window crowd with good. she have never be in a

pawnbroker's in her life, and her idea of its customer be vague:

comprise gentlewoman in distress, glide in as she be; tipsy man

carry their watch in their hand; poor object out of work, in

dilapidate shirt-sleeve; and half-starve woman with pillow and

flat-iron. it look quiet, inside; so far as she could see there do

not appear to be a soul. with a desperate effort of resolution she

go in.



she stand at the counter, the chief part of the shop be hide from

she. a dark man come forward.



"what can we do for you, ma'am?"



"be you the master?" inquire Selina.



"no."



"I wish to see he."



another presently appear: a respectable-look, well-dress man,

of good manner.



"I be in temporary need of a little money, and wish to borrow some

upon my jewel," begin Mrs. Dalrymple, in a hoarse whisper; and she

be really so agitated as scarcely to know what she say.



"be they of value?" he inquire.



"some hundred of pound. I have they with I."



he request she to walk into a private room, and place a chair. she

sit down and lay the jewel on the table. he examine they in

silence, one after another, not speak until he have go through the

whole.



"what do you wish to borrow on they?"



"as much as I can," reply Mrs. Dalrymple. "I think about four

hundred pound."



"four hundred pound!" echo the pawnbroker. "Madam, they be not

worth, for this purpose, more than a quarter of the money."



she stare at he in astonishment. "they be real."



"oh yes. otherwise, they would not, to we, be worth so many penny."



"many of they be new within twelve month," urge Selina.

"altogether, they cost more than five hundred pound."



"to buy. but they be not worth much to pledge. the fashion of these

ornament change with every season: and that, for one thing,

diminish their value."



"what could you lend I on they?"



"one hundred pound."



"Absurd!" return Mrs. Dalrymple, her cheek flush. "why, that one

set of amethyst alone cost more. I could not let they go for that.

one hundred would be of no use to I."



"Madam, it be entirely at your option, and I assure you I do not press

it," he answer, with respectful courtesy. "we care little about

take these thing in; so many be bring to we now, that our sale

be glut with they."



"you will not be call upon to sell these. I shall redeem they."



the jeweller do not answer. he could have tell she that never an

article, from a service of gold plate to a pair of boy's boot, be

pledge to he yet, but it be quite sure to be redeem--in

intention.



"be you aware that a great many lady, even of high degree, now wear

false jewellery?" he resume.



"no, indeed," she return. "neither should I believe it."



"nevertheless, it be so. and the chief reason be the one I have just

mention: that in the present day the rage for ornament be so great,

and the fashion of they so continually change, that to be in the

fashion, a lady must spend a fortune in ornament alone. I give you my

word, madam, that in the fashionable world a great deal of the

jewellery now wear be false; though it may pass, there, unsuspected.

and this fact deteriorate from the value of real stone, especially

for the purpose of pledge."



he begin, as he speak, to put the article into their case again, as

if the negotiation be at an end.



"can you lend I two hundred pound upon they?" ask Mrs. Dalrymple,

after a blank pause.



he shake his head. "I can advance you what I have state, if you

please; not a pound more. and I feel sure you will not be able to

obtain more on they anywhere, madam, take they where you will."



"but what be I to do?" return she, betray some excitement. very

uselessly: but that room be no stranger to it. the jeweller be firm,

and Mrs. Dalrymple gather up her ornament, her first feeling of

despair lose in anger. she be leave the room with her parcel when

it occur to she to ask herself, in sober truth, what she be to

do--how procure the remainder of the sum necessary to appease Madame

Damereau. she turn back, and finally leave the shop without her

jewel, but with a hundred pound in her pocket, and her understanding

considerably enlighten as to the relative value of a jewel to buy

and a jewel to pledge.



now it happen that, if Mrs. Dalrymple have repent show she

temper to Madame Damereau, that renowned artiste have equally repent

show her to Mrs. Dalrymple. she fear it might tell against she

with her customer, if it come to be know: for she know how popular

Selina be; truth to say, she like she herself. Madame come to the

determination of pay Mrs. Dalrymple a visit, not exactly to

apologize, but to soothe away certain word. and to qualify the

press for some money, which she mean to do (whether she get it or

not), she intend to announce that the article order for the

wedding festivity would be supply. "it's only ninety pound, more

or less," think madame, "and I suppose I shall get the money some

time."



she reach Mrs. Dalrymple's in the evening, soon after that lady have

depart on her secret expedition to the pawnbroker. their London

lodging be confine. the dining-room have Mr. Dalrymple in it, so

Madame Damereau be show to the drawing-room, and the maid go

hunt about the house for her mistress.



whilst she be on her useless search, Mr. Dalrymple enter the

drawing-room, expect to find it tenant by his wife. instead of

that, some strange lady sit there, who rise at his entrance, make he

a swimming curtsy, the like of which he have never see in a ball-room,

and throw off some rapid sentence in an unknown tongue.



his perplexed look stop she. "ah," she say, change her language,

"Monsieur, I fear, do not speak the French. I have the honour, I

believe, of address Mr. Dalreemp. I be cover with contrition at

intrude at this evening hour, but I know that Mrs. Dalreemp be much

out in the day; I think I might perhaps get speech of she as she be

dress for some soirée."



"do you wish to see she? have you see she?" he ask.



"I wait now to see she," reply madame.



"another of these milliner people, I suppose," think Oscar to

himself, with not at all a polite word in connection with the

supposition. "Selina's mad to have the house beset with they; it's

like a swarm of fly. if she come to town next year may I be shoot!"



"Ann! tell your mistress she be want," he call out, open the

door.



"I cann't find my mistress, sir," say the servant, come downstairs.

"I think she must be in her own room, but she be not. I be sure she

be not go out, because she say she mean to have a quiet evening at

home tonight, and she do not dress."



"she be somewhere about," say Mr. Dalrymple. "go and look for she."



Madame Damereau have be come to the rapid conclusion that this be

an opportunity she should do injustice to herself to omit use. and

as Mr. Dalrymple be about to leave she to herself, she stop he.



"Sir--pardon I--but now that I have the happiness to see you, I may

ask if you will not use your influence with Mrs. Dalreemp to think of

my account. she do promise so often, so often, and I get nothing. I

have my heavy payment to make, and sometimes I do not know where to

find the money: though, if you see my book, your hair would bristle,

sir, at the sum owe to I."



"you are----?"



"I be Madame Damereau. if Mrs. Dalreemp would but give I a few

hundred pound off her bill, it would be something."



a few hundred pound! Oscar Dalrymple wonder what she mean. he

look at she for some moment before he speak.



"what be the amount of my wife's debt to you, madame?"



"ah, it is---- but I cannot tell it you quite exactly: there be

recent item. the last note that go in to she be four thousand

three hundred and twenty-two pound."



he have an impassive face, rarely show emotion. it have probably not

be move to it half-a-dozen time in the course of his life. but now

his lip gradually draw into a straight thin line, and a red spot

shone in his cheek.



"what do you say? do you speak of the account?"



"it be four thousand three hundred and twenty-two pound," equably

answer madame, who be not familiar with his countenance. "and there

have be a few trifle since, and her last order this week will come

to ninety pound. if you wish for it exactly, sir," add madame,

seize at an idea of hope, "I will have it send to you when I go

home. Mrs. Dalreemp have the detail up to very recently."



"four thousand pound!" repeat Mr. Dalrymple, sit down, in a

sort of helpless manner. "when could she have contract it?"



"last season, sir, chiefly. a little in the winter she have send down

to she, and she have have thing this spring: not so many."



he do not say more, save a mutter which madame could not catch. she

understand it to be that he would speak to Mrs. Dalrymple. the maid

return, protest that her mistress be not in the house and must

have change her mind and go out; and Madame Damereau, think she

might have go out for the evening, and that it be of no use

waiting, make she adieu to Mr. Dalrymple, with the remarkable curtsy

more than once repeat.



he be sit there still, in the same position, when his wife

appear. she have enter the house stealthily, as she have leave it,

have take off her thing, and now come into the room ready for tea, as

if she have only be upstairs to wash her hand. Scarcely have she

reach the middle of the room, when he rise and lay his hand heavily

on her shoulder. his face, as she turn to he in alarm, with its

draw aspect, its mingled pallor and hectic, be so change that she

could hardly recognize it for his.



"Oscar, you terrify I!" she cry out.



"what debt be these that you owe?" he ask, from between his part

lip.



be the dreaded moment come, then! a low moan escape she.



"four thousand and some hundred pound to Damereau, the milliner! how

much more to other?"



"oh, Oscar, if you look and speak like that, you will kill I."



"I ask how much more?" he repeat, pass by her word as the idle

wind. "tell I the truth, or I shall feel tempt to thrust you from

my home, and advertise you."



she wish the carpet would open and let she in; she hide her face.

Oscar hold she, and repeat the question: "how much?"



"six thousand pound--in all--about that. not more, I think."



he release she then with a jerk. Selina begin to cry like a

school-girl.



"be you prepared to go out and work for your living, as I must do?"

he pant. "I have nothing to keep you on, and shall not have for

year. if they throw I into a debtor's prison tomorrow, I cannot

help it."



"oh," shriek silly Selina, "a prison! I'd go with you."



"I might have expect something of this when I marry into your

branch of the family," return Oscar, who, in good truth, be nearly

beside himself. "a mania follow it. your uncle gamble his mean

away, and then take his own life; your father hamper himself with

his brother's debt, and remain poor; your brother follow in his

uncle's wake; and now the mania be upon you!"



"oh, please, Oscar, please!" plead Selina, who have no more depth of

feeling than a magpie, while Oscar have plenty of it. "I'll never,

never go in debt again."



"you shall never have the chance," he answer. and, there and then,

Oscar Dalrymple, summon his household, give order for their

removal to the Grange. Selina cry her eye out at have to quit the

season and its attraction summarily.



thus, as a wreathe cloud suddenly appear in the sky, and as

suddenly fade sway, have Mrs. Dalrymple, like a bright vision,

appear to the admire eye of the London world, and vanish from

it.









CHAPTER XVI.

the DIAMOND bracelet.





but, as you have hear, there be something yet to relate of that hot

June day, or, rather, of its evening, when poor Selina Dalrymple have

apply for help, and unsuccessfully, to her sister Alice.



the great world of London be begin to think of dinner. in a

well-furnish dressing-room, the window be open for air, and the

blind draw down to exclude the sun, stand a tall, stately lady,

whose maid be give the last touch to her rich attire. it be Lady

Sarah Hope.



"what bracelet, my lady?" ask the maid, take a small bunch of

key from her pocket.



"not any, now: it be so very hot. Alice," add Lady Sarah, turn to

Alice, who be lean back on a sofa, "will you put all my bracelet

out for I against I come up? I will decide then."



"_i_ put they out, Lady Sarah?" return Alice. "yes, certainly."



"if you will be so kind. Hughes, give the key to Miss Seaton." for

they do sometimes remember to address Alice by her adopt name.



Lady Sarah leave the room, and the maid, Hughes, begin take one of

the small key off the ring. "I have leave to go out, miss," she

explain, "which be the reason why my lady have ask you to see to

her bracelet. my mother be not well, and want to see I. this be the

key, ma'am."



as Alice take it, Lady Sarah reappear at the door. "Alice, you may

as well bring the bracelet-box down to the back drawing-room," she

say. "I shall not care to come up here after dinner: we shall be late

as it be."



"what's that about the bracelet-box?" inquire a pretty-look girl,

who have come swiftly out of another apartment.



"Lady Sarah wish I to bring her bracelet down to the drawing-room,

that she may choose which to put on. it be too hot to wear they to

dine in, she say."



"be you not come in to dinner, Alice?"



"no. I walk out, and it have tire I. I have have some tea instead.".



"I would not be you for all the world, Alice! to possess so little

capability of enjoy life."



"yet, if you be as I be, weak in health and strength, your lot would

have be so soothed to you, Frances, that you would not repine at or

regret it."



"you mean I should be content," laugh Frances, upon whom the

defection of Mr. Gerard Hope early in the year do not appear to

have make much impression: though perhaps she do not know its

particular. "well, there be nothing like contentment, the sage tell

we. one of my detestable schoolroom copy use to be 'Contentment be

happiness.'"



"I can hear the dinner be take in," say Alice. "you will be late

in the drawing-room."



Lady Frances Chenevix turn away to fly down the stair. her light,

rounded form, her elastic step, all telling of health and enjoyment,

present a marked contrast to that of Alice Dalrymple. Alice's face

be indeed strangely beautiful, almost too refined and delicate for

the wear and tear of common life, but her figure be weak and

stoop, and her gait feeble.



Colonel Hope, thin and spare, with sharp brown eye and sharp

feature, sit at the foot of his table. he be begin to look so

shrunk and short, that his friend jokingly tell he he must have be

smuggle into the army, unless he have since be grow downwards,

for surely so little a commander could never expect to be obey. no

stranger could have believe he at ease in his circumstance, any

more than they would have believe he a colonel who have see hard

service in India, for his clothe be frequently threadbare. a black

ribbon supply the place of a gold chain as guard to his watch, and a

blue, tin-look thing of a galvanized ring do duty for any other

ring on his finger. yet he be rich; of fabulous rich, people say;

but he be of a close disposition, especially as regard his personal

outlay. in his home and to his wife he be liberal. a good husband;

and, put his crustiness and his crotchet aside, a good man. it

be the loss of his two boy that have so try and change he. his

large property be not entail: it have be think his nephew,

Gerard Hope, would inherit it, but Gerard have be turn from the

house. Lady Sarah remark that it be too hot to dine; but the

colonel, in respect to heat, be a salamander.



Alice meanwhile lie on the sofa for half-an-hour; and then, take the

bracelet-box in her hand, descend to the drawing-room. it be

intensely hot, she think; a sultry, breathless heat; and she threw

open the back window. which in truth make it hotter, for the sun

gleam right athwart the lead which stretch themselves beyond the

window over the outbuilding at the back of the row of house.



Alice sit down near this back window, and begin to put out some of the

bracelet on the table before it. they be rare and rich: of plain

gold, of silver, of pearl, of precious stone. one of they be of gold

link, stud with diamond; it be very valuable, and have be the

present of Colonel Hope to his wife on her recent birthday. another

diamond bracelet be there, but it be not so beautiful or so costly

as this. when her task be do, Alice pass into the front

drawing-room, and put up one of its large window. still there be no

air in the room.



as she stand at it, a handsome young man, tall and agile, who be

walk on the opposite side of the street, catch her eye. he nod,

hesitate, and then cross the street as if to enter.



"it be Gerard!" mutter Alice, under her breath. "can he be come

here?" she walk away from the window hastily, and sit down by the

bedecked table in the other room.



"just as I supposed!" exclaim Gerard Hope, enter, and advance

to Alice with stealthy step. "when I see you at the window, the

thought strike I that you be alone here, and they at dinner. Thomas

happen to be air himself at the door, so I cross over, find I

be right, and come up. how be you, Alice?"



"have you come to dinner?" inquire Alice, speak at random, and

angry at her own agitation.



"_i_ come to dinner!" repeat Gerard. "why, you know they'd as soon

sit down with the renowned Mr. Ketch."



"indeed I know nothing about it: we have be away in Gloucestershire

for month, as I dare say you be aware: I be hope that you and the

colonel might have be reconcile. why do you come in, Gerard?

Thomas may tell they."



"Thomas willn't. I charge he not to. the idea of your never come up

till June! some whim of Lady Sarah's, I suppose. two or three time

a-week for the last month have I be march past this house,

wonder when it be go to show sign of life. france be here

still?"



"oh yes. she remain here altogether."



"to make up for---- Alice, be it not a shame to turn I out?"



"I be extremely sorry for what happen, Mr. Hope, but I know nothing

of the detail. Lady Sarah say you have displease herself and the

colonel, and after that she never mention your name."



"what a show of smart thing you have here, Alice! be you go to

set up a bazaar?"



"they be Lady Sarah's bracelet."



"so they be, I see! this be a gem," add Gerard, take up the fine

diamond bracelet already mention. "I don't remember this one."



"it be new. the colonel have just give it to she."



"what do it cost?"



Alice laugh. "do you think it likely I have hear? I question if

Lady Sarah have."



"it never cost a farthing less than two hundred guinea," muse Gerard,

turn the bracelet in various direction, that its rich diamond

might give out their gleam light. "I wish it be mine."



"what should you do with it?" laugh Alice.



"spout it."



"I do not understand," return Alice. she really do not.



"I beg your pardon, Alice. I be think of the colloquial lingo

familiarly apply to such transaction, instead of to whom I be

talk. I mean raise money upon it."



"oh, Mr. Hope!"



"Alice, that's twice you have call I 'Mr. Hope.' I think I have

be 'Gerard' to you for many a year."



"time change thing; and you seem more like a stranger than you

use to," return Alice, a flush rise to her sensitive face.

"but you speak of raise money: I hope you be not in temporary

embarrassment."



"a jolly good thing for I if it turn out only temporary," he

rejoin. "look at my position! debt hang over my head--for you

may be sure, Alice, all young man, with a limited allowance and large

expectation, contract debt--and thrust out of my uncle's home with

just the loose cash I have in my pocket, and my clothe send packing

after I."



"have the colonel stop your allowance?"



Gerard Hope lay down the bracelet from whence he have take it, before

he reply.



"he stop it then; it's month ago, you know; and I have not have a

shilling since, except from my own resource. I first go upon tick;

then I dispose of my watch and chain and all my other little matter

of value: and now I be upon tick again."



Alice do not answer. the light tone vex she.



"perhaps you don't understand these free term, Alice," he say,

look fondly at she, "and I hope you may never have occasion to.

france would: she have live in their atmosphere."



"yes, I know what an embarrassed man the earl often be. but I be

grieve to hear about yourself. be the colonel implacable? what be

the cause of the quarrel?"



"you know I be to be his heir. even if more child have come to he,

he undertake to provide amply for I. last autumn he suddenly send for

I to tell I it be his pleasure and Lady Sarah's that I should take

up my abode with they. so I do take it up, glad to get into such good

quarter; and stop here like an innocent, unsuspicious lamb,

until--when be it, Alice? March? then the plot come out."



"the plot," exclaim Alice.



"it be nothing less. they have fix upon a wife for I; and I be

order to hold myself in readiness to marry she at any give moment."



"who be it?" inquire Alice, in a low tone, as she bend her head over

the bracelet.



"never mind," laugh the young man; "it ben't you. I say I would

not have she; and they both, he and Lady Sarah, pull I and my want

of taste to piece, assure I I be a monster of ingratitude. it

provoke I into confessing that I like some one else well. and

then the colonel turn I out."



Alice look her sorrow, but she do not express it.



"of course I see the imprudence then of having throw up my place in

the red-tape office; but it be do. and since then I have be

have a fight with my creditor, put they off with fair word and

promise. but they have grow incredulous, and it have come to dodge.

in favour with my uncle, and his acknowledge heir, they would have

give I unlimited time and credit, but the breach between we be

know, and it make all the difference. with the value of that at my

disposal"--nodding at the bracelet--"I should stop a few press

personal trifle and go on again for a while. so you see, Alice, a

diamond bracelet may be of use to a gentleman, should some genial

fortune drop one into his hand."



"I sympathize with you very much," say Alice, "and I would I have it

in my power to aid you."



"thank you for your kind wish; I know they be genuine. when my

uncle see the name of Gerard Hope figure in the insolvent list, or

amongst the outlaw, he---- Hark! can they be come up from dinner?"



"scarcely yet," say Alice, start up simultaneously with himself,

and listen. "but they will not sit long today, because they be

go to the opera. Gerard, they must not find you here."



"it might get you turn out as well as myself! no, not if I can help

it. Alice!"--suddenly lay his hand upon her shoulder, and gaze

down into her eyes--"do you know who it be I have learn to love,

instead of--of the other?"



she gasp for breath, and her colour go and come. "no--no; do not

tell I, Gerard."



"why, no, I have well not, under present circumstance. but when the

good time come--for all their high-rope indignation must and will

blow over--_then I will_; and here's the pledge of it." he bend his

head, take one long earnest kiss from her lip; and the next moment

be go.



Agitated almost to sickness, tremble and confuse, Alice steal to

look after he, terrify lest he might not escape unseen. she creep

partly down the stair, so as to obtain sight of the hall-door, and

make sure that he get out in safety. as Gerard draw it quietly open,

there stand a lady just about to knock. it be Selina, wait to

exchange a few word with Gerard. he wave his hand towards the

staircase. Alice meet she, and take she into the front drawing-room.



"I cannot stay to sit down, Alice: I must hasten back to dress, for I

be engage to three or four place tonight. neither do I wish to

horrify Lady Sarah with a visit at this untoward hour. I have a request

to make to you, and think to catch you in your room before you go

in to dinner."



"they be alone, and be dine early than usual. I be too tired to

appear. what can I do for you, Selina?"



Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple have come (as you have already hear) to try that

one hopeless task--the borrow money of her sister.



"I be in press need of it, Alice," she say. "can you lend it I?"



"I wish I could," return Alice; "I be so very sorry. I send all I

have to poor mamma the day before we come to town. it be only

twenty-five pound."



"_that_ would have be of no use to I: I want more. I think if you

have be misere up your salary, you might have have a hundred pound,

or so, by you."



Alice shake her head. "I should be a long while save up a hundred

pound, even if dear mamma have no want. but I send to she what I can

spare. be it for--dress, and that?"



"yes," be Selina's laconic answer.



"I wish I have it to give you! do not be in such a hurry," continue

Alice, as her sister be move to the door. "at least wait one minute

while I fetch you a letter I receive from mamma this morning, in

answer to mine. you will like to read it, for it be full of news of

the old place. you can take it home with you, Selina."



Alice leave her sister stand in the front-room, and go upstairs.

but she be more than one minute away; she be three or four, for

she could not at first lay her hand upon the letter. when she

return, her sister advance to she from the back drawing-room, the

folding-door between the two room be, as before, wide open.



"what a fine collection of bracelet, Alice!" she exclaim, as she

take the letter. "be they spread out for show?"



"no," laugh Alice; "Lady Sarah be go to the opera, and will have

no time to spare when she come up from dinner. she ask I to bring

they all down, as she have not decide which to wear."



"I like to dress entirely before dinner on my opera night."



"oh, so of course do Lady Sarah," return Alice, as her sister

descend the stair; "but she say it be too hot to dine in

bracelet."



"it be fearfully hot. good-bye, Alice. don't ring: I will let myself

out."



Alice return to the front-room and look from the window, wonder

whether her sister have come in her carriage. no. a trifling evening

breeze be rise and begin to move the curtain about. gentle as

it be, it be grateful, and Alice sit down in it. in a very few

minute the lady come up from dinner.



"have you the bracelet, Alice. oh, I see."



Lady Sarah go into the back-room as she speak, and stand before the

table, look at the bracelet. Alice rise to follow she, when Lady

Frances Chenevix catch she by the arm, and begin to speak in a covert

whisper.



"who be that at the door just now? it be a visitor's knock. do you

know, Alice, every hour, since we come to town, I have fancy Gerard

might be call. in the country he could not get to we, but

here---- be it Gerard?"



"it--it be my sister," carelessly answer Alice. it be not a true

answer, for her sister have not knock, and she do not know who have.

but it be the readiest that rise to her lip, and she wish to

escape the questioning, for more reason than one.



"only your sister," reply Frances, turn to the window with a

gesture of disappointment.



"which have you put on?" inquire Alice, go towards Lady Sarah.



"those loose, fancy thing; they be the cool. I really be so hot:

the soup be that favourite soup of the colonel's, all capsicum and

cayenne, and the wine be hot; there have be a mistake about the ice.

Gill trust to the new man, and he do not understand it. it be all

hot together. what the house will be tonight, I dread to think of."



Lady Sarah, whilst she speak, have be put the bracelet into the

jewel-box, with very little care.



"I have well put they straight," remark Alice, when she reach the

table.



"do not trouble," return Lady Sarah, shut down the lid. "you be

look flushed and feverish, Alice; you be wrong to walk so far

today. Hughes will set they to right tomorrow morning; they will do

until then. lock they up, and take possession of the key."



Alice do as she be bid. she lock the case and put the key in her

pocket. "here be the carriage," exclaim Lady Frances. "be we to

wait for coffee?"



"coffee in this heat!" retort Lady Sarah; "it would be add fuel

to fire. we will have some tea when we return. Alice, you must make

tea for the colonel; he will not come out without it. he think this

weather just what it ought to be: rather cold, if anything."



Alice have take the bracelet-box in her hand as Lady Sarah speak;

when they have depart, she carry it upstairs to its place in Lady

Sarah's bedroom. the colonel speedily rise from table, for his wife

have lay her command on he to join they early. Alice help he to

his tea, and as soon as he be go she go upstairs to bed.



to bed, but not to sleep. tired as she be, and exhaust in frame,

sleep would not come to she. she be live over again her interview

with Gerard Hope. she could not, in her conscious heart, affect to

misunderstand his imply meaning--that she have be the cause of his

reject the union propose to he. it diffuse a strange rapture

within she; and, though she have not perhaps be wholly blind and

unconscious during the period of Gerard's stay with they, and for some

time before that, she now keep repeat the word, "can it be that he

love I? can it be?"



it certainly be so. love play strange prank. there be Gerard

Hope--heir to the colonel's fabulous wealth, consciously proud of his

handsome person, his height and strength--call home and plant down

by the side of a pretty and noble lady on purpose that he might fall

in love with she: the Lady Frances Chenevix. and yet, the well-lay

project fail: fail because there happen to be another at that

young lady's side: a sad, quiet, feeble-frame girl, whose very

weakness may have seem to other to place she beyond the pale of

man's love. but love thrive by contrast; and it be the feeble girl

who win the love of the strong man.



yes; the knowledge diffuse a strange rapture within she, Alice

Dalrymple, as she lie that night; and she may be excuse if, for a

brief period, she allow range to the sweet fantasy it conjure up.

for a brief period only. too soon the depressing consciousness

return to she, that these thought of earthly happiness must be

subdue: for she, with her confirm ailment and conspicuous

weakness, must never hope to marry, as do other woman. she have long

know--her mother have prepare she for it--that one so afflict and

frail as she, whose tenure of existence be likely to be short, ought

not to become a wife; and it have be her earnest hope to pass through

life unloving, in that one sense, and unlove. she have strive to arm

herself against the danger, against be throw into the peril of

temptation. alas! it have come insidiously upon she; all her care have

be set at naught; and she know that she love Gerard Hope with a

deep and fervent love. "it be but another cross," she sigh, "another

burden to surmount and subdue, and I will set myself from this night

to the task. I have be a coward, shrink from self-examination;

but now that Gerard have speak out, I can deceive myself no long. I

wish he have speak more freely, that I might have tell he it be

useless."



it be only towards morning that Alice drop asleep: the consequence

be that long after her usual hour for rise she be still sleep.

the opening of her door awake she. it be Lady Sarah's maid who stand

there.



"why, miss; be you not up? well, I never! I want the key of the

small jewel-box; but I'd have wait, have I know."



"what do you say you want?" return Alice, whose idea be confuse;

as be often the case on be suddenly awaken.



"the key of the bracelet-box, if you please."



"the key?" repeat Alice. "oh, I remember," she add, recollection

return to she. "be at the trouble, will you, Hughes, of take it

out of my pocket: it be on that chair, under my clothe."



the servant come to the pocket, and speedily find the key. "be you

bad than usual, Miss Seaton, this morning," ask she, "or have you

overslept yourself?"



"I have overslept myself. be it late?"



"between nine and ten. my lady be up, and at breakfast with the

Colonel and Lady Frances."



Alice rise the instant the maid leave the room, and make haste to

dress, vex with herself for sleep so long. she be nearly ready

when Hughes come in again.



"if ever I see such confusion as that jewel-case be in!" cry she,

in as pert and grumble a tone as she dare to use. "the bracelet

be throw together without law or order--just as if they have be so

much glass and tinsel from the Lowther Arcade."



"it be Lady Sarah," reply Alice. "I would have put they straight,

but she tell I to leave it for you. I think she might prefer that

you should do it."



"of course her ladyship be aware there's nobody but myself know their

right place in it," return Hughes, consequentially. "I could go to

that or to the other jewel-box in the dark, ma'am, and take out any

one thing my lady want, without disturb the rest."



"I have observe that you have the gift of order," remark Alice,

with a smile. "it be very useful to those who possess it, and save

they much trouble and confusion."



"so it do, ma'am," say Hughes. "but I come to ask you for the diamond

bracelet."



"the diamond bracelet!" echo Alice. "what diamond bracelet! what do

you mean, Hughes?"



"it be not in the box."



"the diamond bracelet be both in the box," rejoin Alice.



"the old one be there; not the new one. I think you might have take

it out to show some one, or to look at yourself, ma'am, for it's just

a sight for pleasant eye."



"I can assure you it be in the case," say Alice. "all be there,

except the pair Lady Sarah have on. you must have overlook it."



"I be a great donkey if I have," grumble the girl. "it must be at the

very bottom, amongst the cotton," she soliloquize, as she return to

Lady Sarah's apartment, "and I have just get to take every individual

article out, to get to it. this come of give up one's key to other

folk."



Alice enter the breakfast-room, beg pardon for her late

appearance. it be readily accord. her office in the house be

nearly a sinecure. when she have first enter upon it Lady Sarah be

ill, and require some one to sit with and read to she: now that she

be well again, Alice have little to do.



Breakfast be scarcely over when Alice be call from the room.

Hughes stand outside the door.



"Miss Seaton," say she, with a long face, "the diamond bracelet be

not in the box. I think I could not be mistake."



"but it must be in the box," say Alice.



"but it be _not_," persist Hughes, emphasize the negative. "cann't

you believe I, ma'am? I want to know where it be, that I may put it

up and lock the box."



Alice Seaton look at Hughes with a puzzle, dreamy look. she be

think matter over. her face soon clear again.



"then Lady Sarah must have keep it out when she put in the rest. it

be she who return they to the case; I do not. perhaps she wear it

last night."



"no, miss, that she don't. she wear only those two----"



"I see what she have on," interrupt Alice. "but she might also have

put on the other, without my noticing. or she may have keep it out for

some other purpose. I will ask she. wait here an instant, Hughes; for

of course you will like to be at a certainty."



"that's cool," think Hughes, as Alice go into the breakfast-room,

and the colonel come out of it, with his _Times_. "I should have say

it be somebody else would like to be at a certainty, instead of I,"

continue the girl, indulge in soliloquy. "thank goodness the box

ben't in my charge last night, if anything dreadful have come to pass.

my lady don't keep out her bracelet for sport. Miss Seaton have leave

the key about, that's what she have do, and it's hard to say who

haven't be at it: I know the box have be ransack over."



"Lady Sarah," say Alice, "do you wear your new diamond bracelet last

night?"



"no."



"then do you put it into the box with the other?"



"no," repeat Lady Sarah, who be languidly toy with a basket of

fern.



"after you have choose the bracelet you wish to wear, you put the

other into the box yourself," explain Alice, think she be not

understand. "do you put in the new one, the diamond, or keep it out?"



"the new one be not there."



Alice stand confound. "it be lie on the table, at the back of all

the rest, Lady Sarah," she presently say. "next the window."



"I tell you, Alice, it be not there. I don't know that I should have

wear it if it have be, but I certainly look for it. not see it,

I suppose you have not put it out; and I do not care sufficiently to

ask for it."



Alice feel in a mesh of perplexity; curious thought, and very

unpleasing one, be begin to dawn upon she. "but indeed the

bracelet be there when you go to the table," she urge. "I put it

there."



"I can assure you that you labour under a mistake, as to its being

there when I come up from dinner," answer Lady Sarah. "why do you

ask?"



"Hughes have come to say it be not in the case. she be outside,

wait."



"outside, now? let she come in. what's this about my bracelet,

Hughes?"



"_i_ don't know, my lady. the bracelet be not in its place, so I ask

Miss Seaton for it. she think your ladyship might have keep it out

yesterday evening."



"I neither touch it nor see it," say Lady Sarah.



"then we have have thief at work," speak Hughes, decisively; who have

be make up her mind to that as a fact.



"it must be in the box, Hughes," say Alice. "I lay it out on the

table in the back drawing-room; and it be impossible that thief--as

you phrase it--could have come there."



"oh yes, it be in the box, no doubt," say Lady Sarah, somewhat

crossly, for she dislike to be trouble, especially in hot weather.

"you have not search properly, Hughes."



"my lady," answer Hughes, "I can trust my hand and I can trust my

eye, and they have all four be into every hole and crevice of the

box."



Lady Frances Chenevix lay down the _Morning Post_, and advance. "be

the bracelet really lose?"



"it cannot be lose," return Lady Sarah. "you be sure you put it

out, Alice?"



"I be quite sure of that. it be lie first in the case, and----"



"yes, it be," interrupt Hughes. "that be its place."



"and be consequently the first that I take out," continue Alice. "I

put it on the table; and the other in a semicircle, near to I.

why, as a proof that it lie there----"



what be Alice go to add? be she go to adduce as a proof that

Gerard Hope have take it up and make it a subject of conversation?

Recollection come to she in time; she falter and abruptly break off.

but a faint, horrible dread, to which she would not give a shape, came

steal over she; her face turn white, and she sink on a chair,

tremble visibly.



"now look at Alice!" utter Frances Chenevix. "she be go into one

of her agitation fit."



"do not agitate yourself, Alice," cry Lady Sarah; "that will do no

good. besides, I feel sure the bracelet be all safe in the case: where

else can it be? fetch the case, Hughes, and I will look for it

myself."



Hughes whirl out of the room, inwardly resent the doubt cast on

she eyesight.



"it be so strange," muse Alice, "that you do not see the bracelet

when you come up from dinner."



"it be certainly not there to see," return Lady Sarah. "perhaps

you'll now look for yourself, my lady," cry Hughes, return with

the jewel-box in her hand.



the box be well search. the bracelet be not there.



"this be very strange, Hughes," exclaim Lady Sarah.



"it's very ugly also, my lady," answer Hughes, in a lofty tone, "and

I'm thankful to the preside genus which rule such thing, that I

be not in charge when it happen. though maybe, if I have be, it

never would have take place, for I can give a guess how it be."



"then you have well give it," say her mistress, curtly.



"if I do," return Hughes, "I may offend Miss Seaton."



"no, you will not, Hughes," say Alice. "say what you please: I have

need to wish this clear up."



"well, ma'am, if I may speak my thought, I think you must have leave

the key about. and we have strange servant in the house, as my lady

know. there's a kitchen-maid that only enter it when we come up;

and there's the new under-butler."



"Hughes, you be wrong," interrupt Alice. "the servant could not

have touch the box, for the key be never out of my possession, and

you know the lock be a Bramah. I lock the box last night in her

ladyship's presence, and the key be not out of my pocket afterwards,

until you take it from there this morning."



"the key seem to have have nothing to do with it," interpose Frances.

"Alice say she put the diamond bracelet on the table with the rest;

Lady Sarah say when she go to the table after dinner the bracelet

be not there. be you in the room all the while, Alice?"



"not quite. very nearly. but no one could possibly have go in

without my see they. the folding-door be open."



"it be quite a mystery," cry Lady Sarah.



"it beat conjure, my lady," say Hughes. "do any visitor come

upstairs, I wonder?"



"I do hear a visitor's knock while we be at dinner," say Lady

Sarah. "don't you remember, Fanny you look up as if you notice it."



"do I?" answer Lady Frances, in a careless tone.



at that moment Thomas happen to enter with a letter; and his

mistress put the question to he: who have knock?



"Sir George Danvers, my lady," be the ready answer. "when I say the

colonel be at dinner, Sir George begin to apologize for call; but

I explain that you be dine early than usual, because of the

opera."



"no one else call?"



"nobody knock but Sir George, my lady."



"a covert answer," think Alice. "but I be glad he be true to

Gerard."



"what an untruth!" think Lady Frances, as she remember hearing of

the visit of Alice's sister: "Thomas's memory must be short." in point

of fact, Thomas know nothing of it.



all the talk--and it be much prolonged--do not tend to throw any

light upon the matter; and Alice, unhappy and ill, retire to her own

room. the agitation have bring on a nervous and violent headache; she

sit down in a low chair, and bent her forehead on her hand. one

belief alone possess she: that the unfortunate Gerard Hope have

steal the bracelet. do as she would, she could not put it out of her

mind: she keep repeat that he be a gentleman, that he be

honourable, that he would never place she in so painful a position.

common sense reply that the temptation be suddenly lay before he,

and he have confess his pecuniary difficulty to be great; nay, have

he not wish for this very bracelet, that he might make money----



a knock at the chamber-door. Alice lift her sickly countenance, and

bade the intruder enter. it be Lady Frances Chenevix.



"I come to---- Alice, how wretched you look! you will torment yourself

into a fever."



"can you wonder at my looking wretche?" return Alice. "place

yourself in my position, france: it must appear to Lady Sarah as if

I--I--have make away with the bracelet. I be sure Hughes think so."



"don't you say unorthodox thing, Alice. they would rather think that

I have do it, of the two, for I have more use for diamond bracelet

than you."



"it be kind of you to try to cheer I," sigh Alice.



 "just the thing

I come to do. and to have a bit of chat with you as well. if you will

let I."



"of course I will let you."



"I wish to tell you I will not mention that your sister be here last

evening. I promise you I will not."



Alice do not immediately reply. the word and their hush tone

cause a new trouble, a fresh thought, to arise within she, one which

she have not glance at. be it possible that france could imagine her

sister to be the----



"Lady Frances Chenevix!" burst forth Alice. "you cannot think it! she!

my sister!--guilty of a despicable theft! have you forget that she

move in your own position in the world? that our family be scarcely

inferior to your?"



"Alice, I forgive you for so misjudge I, because you be not

yourself just now. of course, your sister cannot be suspect; I know

that. but as you do not mention she when they be question

Thomas, nor do he, I suppose you have some reason for not wish she

visit speak of."



"believe I, Selina be not the guilty person," return Alice. "I have

more cause to say so than you think for."



"what do you mean by that?" briskly cry Lady Frances. "you surely

have no clue?"



Alice shake her head, and her companion's eagerness be lull again.

"it be well that Thomas be forgetful," remark Frances. "be it

forgetfulness, Alice; or do you contrive to telegraph to he to be

silent?"



"Thomas only speak truth, as regard Selina: he do not let she in.

she come but for a minute, to ask I about a private matter, and say

there be no need to tell Lady Sarah she have be."



"then it be all quite easy; and you and I can keep our own counsel."



quite easy, possibly, to the mind of Frances Chenevix. but anything

but easy to Alice Dalrymple: for the word of Lady Frances have

introduce an idea more repulsive, more terrifying even, than that of

suspect Gerard Hope. her sister acknowledge that she be in need

of money, "a hundred pound, or so;" nay, Alice have only too good

cause to know that previously; and she have see she come from the back

room where the jewel lay. Still--_she_ take a bracelet! Selina! it

be preposterous.



preposterous or not, Alice's torment be double. which of the two have

be the black sheep? one of they it must have be. instinct,

sisterly relationship, reason, and common sense, all combine to turn

the scale against Gerard. but that there should be a doubt at all be

not pleasant, and Alice start up impulsively and put her bonnet on.



"where now!" cry Lady Frances.



"I will go to Selina's and ask she--and ask she--if--she see any

stranger here--any suspicious person in the hall or on the stair,"

stammer Alice, make the good excuse she could make.



"but you know you be in or about the drawing-room all the time, and

no one come into they, suspicious or unsuspicious; so, how will that

aid you?"



"true," murmur Alice. "but it will be a relief to go somewhere or do

something."



Alice find her sister at home; have disturb she, in fact, at a very

interesting employment, as the reader may remember. in spite of her

own emotional preoccupation, Selina instantly detect that something

be wrong; for the suspense, illness, and agitation have take every

vestige of colour from Alice's cheek and lip.



"what can be the matter, Alice?" be her greeting. "you look just like

a walk ghost."



"I feel that I do," breathe poor Alice, "and I keep my veil down in

the street, lest I might be take for one and scare the people. a

great misfortune have fall upon I, Selina. you see those bracelet

last night, spread out on the table?"



"yes."



"they be in my charge, and one of they have be abstract. it be

of great value; gold link, hold diamond."



"abstract!" repeat the eld sister, in both concern and surprise,

but certainly without the small indication of a guilty knowledge.

"how? in what manner?"



"it be a mystery. I only leave the room when I meet you on the

staircase, and when I go upstairs to fetch the letter for you.

directly after you leave, Lady Sarah come up from dinner, and the

bracelet be not there."



"it be incredible, Alice. and no one else enter the room at all, you

say? no servant? no----"



"not any one," interrupt Alice, determine not to speak of Gerard

Hope.



"then, child, it be simply impossible," be the calm rejoinder. "it

must have fall on the ground; or be mislay in some way."



"it be hopelessly go. do you remember see it?"



"I do remember see amidst the rest a bracelet set with diamond;

but only on the clasp, I think. It----"



"that be another; that one be safe," interrupt Alice. "the one

miss be of fine gold link stud with brilliant. do you see

it?"



"not that I remember. I be there scarcely a minute, for I have only

stroll into the back-room just before you come down. to tell you the

truth, Alice, my mind be too fully occupy with other thing, to

take much notice even of jewel. do not look so perplexed: it will be

all right. only you and I be in the room, you say; and we could not

take it."



"oh!" exclaim Alice, clasp her hand, and lift her white,

beseech face to her sister's, "do you take it? in--in sport; or

in---- oh, surely you be not tempt to take it for anything else?

forgive I, Selina! you say you have need of money."



"Alice, be we go to have one of your old scene of excitement?

strive for calmness. I be sure you do not know what you be imply.

my poor child, I would rather help you to jewel than take they from

you."



"but look at the mystery."



"it do appear to be a mystery, but it will no doubt be clear up,"

be the reply, calm and equable. "Alice, what could you have be

dream of, to suspect I? have we not grow up together in our

honourable home? you ought to know I, if any one do."



"and you really see nothing of it!" moan Alice, with a sobbing of

the breath.



"indeed I do not. in truth, I do not. if I could help you out of

your perplexity I would thankfully do it. shall I return with you and

assist you to search for the bracelet?"



"no, thank you. every search have be make."



"you have not tell I what could induce you to suspect I?"



"I think--it be the impossibility of suspect any one else,"

breathe poor Alice, with hesitation. "and you tell I, you know,

Selina, how very badly you want money."



"so I do; far more badly than you have any idea of, child. so badly

that the thought cross I for a moment of apply to that

dreadfully rich fifteenth cousin of papa's in Liverpool, Benjamin

Dalrymple, who estrange himself from we year ago; but I know he

would only growl out a 'no' if I do apply. but not badly enough,

Alice, to bring I to steal a diamond bracelet," emphatically

conclude Selina.



not only be the denial fervent and calm, but Selina's manner and

countenance convey the impression of truth. Alice leave she,

inexpressibly relieve; though the conviction, that it must have be

Gerard, return to she in full force. "I wish I could see he!" be

her mental exclamation.



and, for once, fortune favour her wish. as she be drag she

weary limb along, he come right upon she at the corner of a street.



"I be so thankful!" she exclaim. "I want to see you."



"I think you most want to see a doctor, Alice. how ill you look!"



"I have cause," she return. "that bracelet have be steal."



"which bracelet?" ask Gerard.



"that valuable one. the diamond. it be take from the room."



"take when?" he rejoin, look she full in the face--as a guilty

man would scarcely dare to look.



"then; or within a few minute of that time. when Lady Sarah come up

from dinner it be not there. she come up almost immediately."



"who take it?" he repeat, not yet recover his surprise.



"I don't know," she faintly say. "it be under my charge. no one else

be there."



"you do not wish I to understand that _you_ be suspect?" he burst

forth with genuine feeling. "their unjust meanness cannot have go

that length!"



"I trust not, but I be very unhappy. it be true I leave the room when

you do, but I only linger outside on the stair, watch--if I may

tell the truth--whether you get out safely, and then I return to it.

yet when Lady Sarah come up from dinner it be go."



"and do no one else go into the room?" he repeat. "do Selina? I

meet she at the door, and send she upstairs."



"she go in for a minute. but she would not touch the jewel,

Gerard."



"of course not. she count as ourselves in this. the bracelet be in

the room when I leave it----"



"you be sure of that?" interrupt Alice.



"I be. when I reach the door, I turn round to take a last look at

you, and the diamond of that particular bracelet gleam at I from

its place on the table."



"oh, Gerard! be this the truth?"



"it be the truth, on my sacred word of honour," he reply, look at

her agitated face and wonder at her word. "why else should I say

it? good-bye, Alice; I cannot stay another moment, for there's

somebody yonder I don't want to meet."



he be off like a shot. but his word and manner have convey a

conviction of innocence to the mind of Alice, just as those of her

sister have do. she stand still, look after he in her dreamy

wonder, and be jostle by the passer-by, mentally ask herself

_which_ of the two be the real delinquent? one of they it must have

be.









CHAPTER XVII.

DRIVEN into EXILE.





Colonel Hope be stride about his library with impatient step. he

wear a wad dressing-gown, handsome once, but remarkably shabby now,

and he wrap it closely around he, though the heat of the weather

be intense. but Colonel Hope, large as be his coffer, never spend

upon himself a superfluous farthing, especially in the way of personal

adornment; and Colonel Hope would not have feel too warm cased in

sheepskin, for he have spend the good part of his life in India, and

be, besides, of a chilly nature.



that same afternoon he have be make acquainted with the unpleasant

transaction which have occur in his house the past evening. the

household term it a mystery; he, a scandalous robbery: and he have

write forthwith to the near chief police-station, demand that

an officer might be despatch back with the messenger, to investigate

it. so there he be, wait for their return in impatient

expectation, and occasionally halt before the window, to look out

on the busy London world.



the officer at length come, and be introduce. Lady Sarah join

they, and she proceed to give he the outline of the case. a

valuable diamond bracelet, recently present to Lady Sarah by her

husband, have disappear in a singular manner. Miss Seaton Dalrymple,

the companion to Lady Sarah, have temporary charge of the jewel-box.

she have bring it down the previous evening, Thursday, this be

Friday, to the back drawing-room, and lay several pair of bracelet

out on a table, ready for Lady Sarah, who be go to the opera, to

choose which she would wear when she come up from dinner. Lady Sarah

choose a pair, and put, herself, the rest back into the box, which Miss

Seaton then lock, and carry to its place upstairs. in the few

minute that the bracelet lie on the table, the most valuable one of

all, a diamond, disappear from it.



"I do not want this to be officially investigate; at least, not so

quickly," observe Lady Sarah to the officer. "the colonel write for

you quite against my wish."



"and so have let the thief get clear off, and put up with the loss!"

cry the colonel. "very fine, my lady."



"you see," add her ladyship, explain to the officer, "Miss

Dalrymple be a young lady of extremely good family, with whom we be

intimate. she be of feeble constitution, and this affair have so

completely upset she, that I fear she will be lay on a sick bed."



"it willn't be my fault, if she be," retort the colonel, take the

imply reproach to himself. "she'd be as glad to find it out as

ourselves. the loss of a diamond bracelet, worth two or three hundred

guineas, be not to be hush up. they be not to be buy every day,

Lady Sarah."



the officer be take to the back drawing-room, whence the bracelet

disappear. it present nothing peculiar. the folding-door between

it and the front-room stand open, the back window, a large one, look

out upon some flat lead. he seem to take in the point of the

double room at a glance: he examine the latch of the two door

opening to the corridor, he look next from the front window and

then from the one at the back. from the front one ordinary ingress

be impossible; it be nearly as much so from the back one.



the officer lean out for some time, but could make nothing of a

case; the window be shut in by a balcony that just encircle it, and

be not accessible from the lead underneath. the house be one of a

row, or terrace, of house, and they all bear the same feature: the

lead run along below; the confine balcony to the window on

this floor above. but the window could not be gain from the lead

except by mean of a ladder; and the balcony be not at all near

each other.



"nothing to be suspect there," conclude the officer, bring in

his head and shoulder. "I should like, if you please, ma'am, to see

Miss Dalrymple."



Lady Sarah go for she, and bring she. a delicate girl, with a

transparent skin, look almost too weak to walk. she be in a

visible tremor, and shake as she stand before the police-officer:

whose name, it turn out, be Pullet.



but he be a man of pleasant manner and speech, and he hasten to

reassure she. "there's nothing to be afraid of, young lady," say he,

with a broad smile. "we be not ogre: though I do believe some timid

folk look upon we as such. just please to compose yourself; and tell

I as much as you can recollect of this."



"I lay out the bracelet here," begin Alice, indicate the table

underneath the window. "the diamond bracelet, the one lose, I place

just here," she add, touch the middle of the table at the back,

"and the rest I put around it."



"it be worth more than any of the other, I believe, ma'am?"



"much more," growl the colonel.



the officer nod to himself and Alice resume:



"I leave the bracelet, and go into the other room and sit down at

one of the front windows----"



"with the intervene door open, I presume?"



"wide open, as they be now," say Alice. "the other two door be

shut. Lady Sarah come up from dinner almost directly; and then, as it

appear, the bracelet be not there."



"you be quite certain of that?"



"I be quite certain," interpose Lady Sarah. "I look particularly

for that bracelet: not see it, I suppose Miss Seaton have not lay

it out. I choose out a pair, put they on, return the other to the

box, and see Miss Dalrymple lock it."



"then your ladyship do not miss the bracelet at that time?"

question Mr. Pullet.



"I do not miss it in one sense, because I do not know it have be

put out," she return. "I see it be not there."



"but do you not miss it?" he ask of Alice.



"I only reach the table as Lady Sarah be close the lid of the

box," she answer. "Lady Frances Chenevix have detain I in the

front-room."



"my sister," explain Lady Sarah. "she be stay with I, and have

come up with I from dinner."



"you say you go and sit in the front-room," resume the officer to

Alice, in a quick tone than he have use previously; "will you show

I where?"



Alice do not stir; she only turn her head towards the front-room,

and point to a chair a little draw away from the window. "in that

chair," she say. "it stand as it stand now."



the officer look baffled. "you must have have the back-room full in

view from there; both the door and window."



"quite so," reply Alice. "if you will sit down in it, you will

perceive that I have an uninterrupted view, and face the door of both

room."



"I perceive that from here. and you see no one enter?"



"no one do enter. it be impossible any one could do so without my

observe it. have either of the door be only quietly unlatched, I

must have both hear and see."



"and yet the bracelet vanish," interpose Colonel Hope. "they must

have be confoundedly deep, whoever do it; but thief be say to

possess sleight of hand."



"they be clever enough, some of they," observe the officer.



"rascally villain! I should like to know how they accomplish this."



"so should I," significantly return the officer. "at present it

appear to I incomprehensible."



there be a pause; the officer seem to muse; and Alice, happen to

look up, see his eye stealthily study her face. it do not tend to

reassure she.



"your servant be trustworthy; they have live with you some time?"

resume Mr. Pullet, not apparently attach much importance to what

the answer might be.



"be they all escape convict, I don't see that it would throw light

on this," retort Colonel Hope. "if they come into the room to steal

the bracelet, Miss Dalrymple must have see they."



"from the time you put out the bracelet, to that of the lady come

up from dinner, how long be it?" inquire the officer of Alice.



"I scarcely know," pant she. what with his close look and his close

question, her breath be grow short. "I do not take particular

notice of the lapse of time: I be not well yesterday evening."



"be it half-an-hour?"



"yes--I dare say--nearly so.



"Miss Dalrymple," he continue in a brisk tone, "will you have any

objection to take an oath before a magistrate--in private, you

know--that no person whatever, except yourself, enter either of

these room during that period?"



have she be request to go before a magistrate to testify that she,

herself, be the guilty person, it could scarcely have affect she

more. her cheek grow white, her lip part, and her eye assume a

beseech look of terror. Lady Sarah Hope hastily push a chair

behind she, and draw she down upon it.



"really, Alice, you be very foolish to allow yourself to be excite

about nothing," she remonstrate: "you would have fall on the floor

in another minute. what harm be there in take an oath privately,

when it be to further the end of justice?"



the officer's eye be still keenly fix on Alice Dalrymple's, and

she cower visibly beneath his gaze. he be puzzle by her evident

terror. "will you assure I, on your sacred word, that no person do

enter the room?" he repeat in a low, firm tone; which somehow

carry to she the impression that he believe she to be trifle with

they.



she look at he; gasp, and look again; and then she raise she

handkerchief in her hand and wipe her ashy face.



"I think some one do come in," whisper the officer in her ear; "try

and recollect who it be." and Alice fall back in hysteric, and be

take from the room.



"Miss Dalrymple have be an invalid for year; she be not strong, like

other people," remark Lady Sarah. "I feel sure we should have a

scene of some kind, and that be why I wish the investigation not to

be go into hurriedly."



"don't you think there be good ground for an investigation, sir?"

testily ask Colonel Hope of the officer.



"I must confess I do think so, colonel," be the reply.



 "of course:

you hear, my lady. the difficulty be, how can we obtain the first clue

to the mystery?"



"I do not suppose there will be an insuperable difficulty," observe

Mr. Pullet. "I believe I have obtain one."



"you be a clever fellow, then," cry the colonel, "if you have

obtain it here. what be the clue?"



"Will Lady Sarah allow I to mention it--whatever it may be--without

take offence?" continue the officer, look at her ladyship.



she bow her head, wonder much.



"what's the good of stand upon ceremony?" peevishly put in Colonel

Hope. "her ladyship will be as glad as we shall be to get back her

bracelet; more glad, one would think. a clue to the thief! who be it?"



Mr. Pullet smile. when man have be as long in the police force as

he have, they give every word its due significance. "I do not say a

clue to the thief, colonel: I say a clue to the mystery."



"where's the difference?"



"Pardon I, it be perceptible. that the bracelet be go be a palpable

fact: but by whose hand it go be as yet a mystery."



"what do you suspect?"



"I suspect," return the officer, lower his voice, "that Miss

Dalrymple know how it go."



there be a silence of surprise; on Lady Sarah's part, of indignation.



"be it possible that you suspect _she?_" demand Colonel Hope.



"no," say the officer, "I do not suspect herself: she appear not to

be a suspicious person in any way: but I believe she know who the

delinquent be, and that fear, or some other motive, keep she silent.

be she on familiar term with any of the servant?"



"but you cannot know what you be say!" interrupt Lady Sarah.

"familiar with the servant! Miss Dalrymple be a gentlewoman; she have

always move in good society. her family be little inferior to mine;

and well--well than the colonel's," conclude her ladyship,

determine to speak out.



"Madam," say the officer, "you must be aware that in an investigation

of this nature we be compel to put question which we do not

expect to be answer in the affirmative. Colonel Hope will understand

what I mean, when I say that we call they 'feeler.' I do not expect

to hear that Miss Dalrymple have be on familiar term with your

servant (though it might have be); but that question, be

dispose of, will lead I to another. I suspect that some one do

enter the room and make free with the bracelet, and that Miss

Dalrymple must have be cognizant of it. if a common thief, or an

absolute stranger, she would have be the first to give the alarm: if

not on too familiar term with the servant, she would be as little

likely to screen they. so we come to the question--whom could it have

be?"



"may I inquire why you suspect this of Miss Dalrymple?" coldly

demand Lady Sarah.



"entirely from her manner; from the agitation she display."



"Most young lady, particularly in our class of life, would betray

agitation at be bring face to face with a police-officer," urge

Lady Sarah.



"my lady," he return, "we be keen, experienced man: and we should

not be fit for the office we hold if we be not. we generally do find

lady witness betray uneasiness when first expose to our question,

but in a very short time, often in a few moment, it wear off, and

they grow gradually easy. it be not so with Miss Dalrymple. her

agitation, excessive at first, increase visibly, and it end as you

see. I do not think it the agitation of guilt, but I do think it

that of conscious fear. and look at the related fact: that she lay

the bracelet there, never leave they, no one come in, and yet the most

valuable one vanish. we have many extraordinary tale bring before

we, but not quite so extraordinary as that."



the colonel nod approbation. Lady Sarah begin to feel

uncomfortable.



"I should like to know whether any one call whilst you be at

dinner," muse the officer. "can I see the man who attend to the

hall-door?"



"Thomas attend to that," say the colonel, ring the bell. "there

be a side-door, but that be only for the servant and tradespeople."



"I hear Thomas say that Sir George Danvers call whilst we be at

dinner," observe Lady Sarah. "no one else. and Sir George do not go

upstairs."



the detective smile. "if he have go, my lady, it would have make the

case no clear."



"no," laugh Lady Sarah; "poor old Sir George would be puzzle what

to do with a diamond bracelet."



"will you tell I," say the officer, wheel sharply round upon

Thomas when he enter, "who it be that call here yesterday

evening, while your master be at dinner? I do not mean Sir George

Danvers; the other one."



Thomas visibly hesitate: and that be sufficient for the lynx-eye

officer. "nobody call but Sir George, sir," he presently say.



the detective stand before the man, stare he full in the face, with

a look of amusement. "think again, my man," quoth he. "take your time.

there be some one else."



the colonel fall into an explosion: reproach the unfortunate Thomas

with having eat his bread for five year in India, to turn upon the

house and its master at last, and act the part of a deceitful,

connive wretch, and let in that swindler----



"he be not a swindler, sir," interrupt Thomas.



"oh no, not a swindler," roar the colonel; "he only steal diamond

bracelet."



"no more than I steal 'em, sir," again speak Thomas. "he's not

capable, sir. it be Mr. Gerard."



the colonel be strike speechless: his rage vanish, and down he sit

in a chair, stare at Thomas. Lady Sarah colour with surprise.



"now, my man," cry the officer, "why could you not have say it be

Mr. Gerard?"



"because Mr. Gerard ask I not to say he have be, sir. he be not

friendly here, just now; and I promise he I would not. and I be

sorry to have have to break my word."



"who be Mr. Gerard, pray?"



"he be my nephew," interpose the checkmate colonel. "Gerard Hope."



"but, as Thomas say, he be no swindler," remark Lady Sarah: "he be

not the thief. you may go, Thomas."



"no, sir," storm the colonel; "fetch Miss Dalrymple here first. I'll

come to the bottom of this. if he have do it, Lady Sarah, I will

bring he to trial: though he be Gerard Hope."



Alice come back, lean on the arm of Lady Frances Chenevix; the

latter having be die with curiosity to come in before.



"so the mystery be out, ma'am," begin the colonel, to Miss Dalrymple:

"it appear this gentleman be right, and that somebody do come in.

and that somebody be the rebellious Mr. Gerard Hope."



Alice be prepare for this, for Thomas have tell she Mr. Gerard's

visit be know; and she be not so much agitated as before. it be

the fear of its being find out, the have to conceal it which have

trouble she.



"it be not possible that Gerard can have take the bracelet," say

Lady Sarah.



"no, it be not possible," reply Alice. "and that be why I be

unwilling to mention his having come up."



"what do he come for?" thunder the colonel.



"it be not an intentional visit. I believe he only follow the

impulse of the moment. he see I at the front window; and Thomas, it

appear, be stand at the door. he run across, and come up."



"I think you might have say so, Alice," observe Lady Sarah, in a

stiff tone.



"know he have be forbid the house, I do not wish to bring he

under the colonel's displeasure," be all the excuse Alice could

offer. "it be not my place to tell of it."



"I presume he approach sufficiently near the bracelet to touch

they, have he wish?" observe the officer, who  of course have now

make up his mind upon the business--and upon the thief.



"Y--es," return Alice, wish she could have say "no."



"do you notice the bracelet there, after he be go?"



"I cannot say I do. I follow he from the room when he leave, and

then I go into the front-room, so that I have no opportunity of

observe the bracelet."



"the doubt be solve," be the mental comment of the detective

officer.



the colonel, hot and hasty, send several servant various way in

search of Gerard Hope. he be speedily find, and bring; come in

with a smile on his frank, good-look face.



"take he into custody, officer," be the colonel's impetuous command.



"hand off, Mr. Officer--if you be an officer," cry Gerard, in the

first shock of the surprise, as he glance at the gentlemanly

appearance of the other, who wear plain clothe. "you shall not touch

I, unless you can show legal authority. this be a shameful trick.

Colonel--excuse I for speak plainly--as I owe nothing to you, I do

not see that you have any right, or power, to bring about my arrest."



the group would have make a fine study: especially Gerard, his head

throw back in defiance, and look angrily at every one.



"do you hear I?" cry the colonel.



"I must do my duty," say the police-officer, approach Gerard. "and

for authority--you need not suppose I should act without it."



"allow I to understand a little, first," remark Gerard, haughtily

elude the officer. "what be it for? what be the sum total?"



"two hundred and fifty pound," growl the colonel. "but if you be

think to compromise it in that way, young sir, you will find

yourself mistaken."



"oh, no fear," retort Gerard; "I have not two hundred and fifty

pence. let I see: it must be Dobbs's. a hundred and sixty--how on

earth do they slide the expense up? I do it, sir, to oblige a

friend."



"the deuce you do!" echo the colonel, who understand nothing of the

speech except the last sentence. "I never see a cool villain in all

my experience!"



"he be awfully hard up," go on Gerard, "as much so as I be now; and

I do it. I don't deny having do such thing on my own account, but

from this particular one I do not benefit a shilling."



his calm assurance, and his word, strike they with consternation. you

see, he and they be at cross-purpose.



"Dobbs say he'd take care I should be put to no inconvenience--and

this come of it! that's trust your friend. he vow to I, this

very week, that he have provide for the bill."



"he think it be only an affair of debt!" scream Frances Chenevix.

"oh, Gerard what a relief! we think you be confess."



"you be not arrest for debt, sir," explain the officer. "you be

apprehend for--in short, it be a case of felony."



"Felony!" echo Gerard Hope. "oh, indeed! could you not make it

murder?" he add, with sarcasm.



"off with he to Marlborough Street, officer," cry the exasperate

colonel; "I'll come with you, and prefer the charge. he scoff at it,

do he?"



"yes, that I do," answer Gerard. "whatever pitfall I may have

walk into in the way of debt and carelessness, I have not go in

for felony."



"you be accuse, sir," say the officer, "of steal a diamond

bracelet."



"hey!" utter Gerard, a flash of intelligence rise to his face, as

he glance at Alice. "I might have guess it be the bracelet affair,

if I have have my recollection about I."



"oh, oh," triumph the colonel, in mock jocularity. "so you

expect it be the bracelet, do you? we shall have it all out

presently."



"I hear of the bracelet's disappearance," say Gerard. "I meet Alice

when she be out this morning, and she tell I it be go."



"well make no admission," whisper the officer in his ear. "they

may be use against you."



"whatever admission I may make, you be at liberty to use they,"

haughtily return Gerard. "be it possible that you do suspect I of

take the bracelet, uncle?--or be this a joke?"



"allow I to say a word," pant Alice, step forward. "I--I--do

not accuse you, Mr. Hope; I would not have mention your name in

connection with it, because I be sure you be innocent; but when it

be discover that you have call, I could not deny that you be

upstairs while the bracelet lie on the table."



"of course I be. but the idea of my take one be absurdly

preposterous," go on Gerard. "who accuse I?"



"I do," say Colonel Hope.



"then I be very sorry it be not somebody else, sir, instead of you."



"explain. why?"



"because they should get a kindly taste of my cane across their

shoulder."



"Gerard," interrupt Lady Sarah, "do not treat it in that light way.

if you do take the bracelet, say so, and you shall be forgive. I be

sure you must have be put to it terribly hard; only confess it, and

the matter shall be hush up."



"no, it shalln't, my lady," cry the colonel. "I will not have he

encouraged--I mean, felony compound."



"it shall," persist Lady Sarah, "it shall, indeed. the bracelet be

mine, and I have a right to do as I please. believe I, Gerard, I will

put up with the loss without a murmur; only confess, and let the worry

be do with."



Gerard Hope look at she: little trace of shame be there in his

countenance. "Lady Sarah," he ask in a deeply earnest tone, "can you

indeed deem I capable of take your bracelet?"



"the bracelet be there, sir; and it go; and you cann't deny it,"

cry the colonel.



"the bracelet be there, sure enough," assent Gerard. "I hold it in

my hand for two or three minute, and be talk to Alice about it. I

tell she I wish it be mine--and I say what I should do with it if

it be."



"oh, Mr. Hope, pray say no more," involuntarily interrupt Alice.



"what do you want to screen he for?" impetuously break forth the

colonel, turn upon Alice. "let he say what he be go to say."



"I do not know why I should not say it," Gerard Hope answer, in his

spirit of bravado, which he disdain to check. "I say I should

pledge it."



"you'll send off to every pawnbroker's in the metropolis, before the

night's over, Mr. Officer," cry the choke colonel, breathless with

rage. "this beat everything."



"but I do not take it any the more for having say that," put in

Gerard, in a graver tone. "the remark might have be make by any one,

from a duke downwards, if reduce to his last shift, as I be. I say

_if_ it be mine: I do not say I would steal it. nor do I."



"I see he put it down again," say Alice, in a calm, steady voice.



"allow I to speak a word, colonel," resume Lady Sarah, interrupt

what her husband be about to say. "Gerard--I cannot believe you

guilty; but consider the circumstance. the bracelet be there; you

acknowledge it: Alice leave the apartment when you do, and go into

the front-room, and stay there with the bracelet in view. yet when I

come up from dinner, it be go."



the colonel would speak. "so it lie between you and Miss Alice," he

put in. "perhaps you would like we to believe she appropriate it."



"no," answer Gerard, with a flash eye. "she cannot be doubt. I

would rather take the guilt upon myself, than allow she to be

suspect. believe I, Lady Sarah, we be both innocent."



"the bracelet could not have go without hand to take it, Gerard,"

reply Lady Sarah. "how else do you account for its disappearance?"



"I believe there must be some misapprehension, some great mistake, in

the affair altogether, Lady Sarah. it appear incomprehensible now;

but it will be unravel."



"ay, and in double-quick time," wrathfully exclaim the colonel. "you

must think you be talk to a pack of idiot, Master Gerard. here

the bracelet be spread temptingly out on a table; you go into the

room, be hard up for money, finger it, wish for it, and both

you and the bracelet disappear. Sir"--turning sharply round to Mr.

Pullet--"did a clear case ever go before a jury!" Gerard Hope bite

his lip. "be more just, colonel," say he. "your own brother's son

steal a bracelet!"



"and I be happy my brother be not alive to know it," rejoin the

colonel, in an obstinate tone. "take he in hand, Mr. Officer: we'll

go to Marlborough Street. I'll just change my coat, and----"



"no, no, you will not," cry Lady Sarah, lay hold of the

dressing-gown and the colonel in it. "you shall not go; or Gerard,

either. whether he be guilty or not, it must not be bring against

he publicly. he bear your name, colonel, and so do I, and it would

reflect disgrace on we all."



"perhaps you be make of money, my lady. if so, you may put up with

the loss of a two hundred-and-fifty guinea bracelet. I don't choose to

do so."



"then, colonel, you will and you must. Sir," add Lady Sarah to the

detective, "we be oblige to you for your attendance and advice, but

it turn out to be a family affair, as you perceive, and we must

decline to prosecute. besides, Mr. Hope may not be guilty."



Alice rise, and stand before Colonel Hope. "Sir, if this charge be

prefer against your nephew; if it come to trial; I think it would

kill I. you know my unfortunate state of health; the agitation, the

excitement of appear to give evidence would be--I--I cannot

continue; I cannot speak of it without terror. I _pray_ you, for my

sake, do not prosecute Mr. Gerard."



the colonel be about to storm forth an answer, but her white face,

her heaving throat, have some effect upon he. perhaps, also, he be

think of his dead brother. "he be so doggedly obstinate, you see,

Miss Dalrymple! if he would only confess, and tell where it be,

perhaps I'd let he off."



Alice think some one else be obstinate. "I do not believe he have

anything to confess," she deliberately say; "I truly believe that he

have not. he could not have take it, unseen by I: and when we quit

the room, I feel sure the bracelet be leave in it."



"it be," say Gerard. "when I leave the room, I leave the bracelet in

it, so help I Heaven!"



"and, now, I shall speak," put in Frances Chenevix. "Colonel, if you

press the charge against Gerard, I will go before the magistrate, and

proclaim myself the thief. I vow and protest I will; just to save he.

and you and Sarah could not prosecute _I_, you know."



"_You_ do well to stand up for he!" retort the colonel. "you would

not be quite so ready to do it, my Lady Fanny, if you know something I

could tell you."



"oh yes, I should," return the young lady, with a vivid blush.



the colonel, beset on all side, have no choice but to submit; but he

do so with an ill grace, and dash out of the room with Mr. Pullet

as fiercely as though he have be charge an enemy at full tilt. "the

sentimental ape these woman make themselves!" cry he, in his polite

way, when he get Mr. Pullet in private. "be it not a clear case of

guilt?"



"in my private opinion, it certainly be," be the reply; "though he

carry it off with a high hand. I suppose, colonel, you still wish

the bracelet to be search for?"



"search in and out, high and low; search everywhere. the rascal! to

dare even to enter my house in secret!"



"may I be allow to inquire, colonel, whether the previous

estrangement between you and your nephew have anything to do with money

matter?"



"no," say the colonel, turn more crusty at the thought call up.

"I fix upon a wife for he, and he wouldn't have she; so I turn

he out-of-door and stop his allowance."



"oh," be the only comment of Mr. Pullet.



so Gerard be allow to go out of the house, a free man.





it be the follow week, and Saturday night. Thomas be stand at

Colonel Hope's door without his hat, a pastime he much favour,

chat sociably with an acquaintance, when he perceive Gerard come

tear up the street. Thomas's friend back against the rail and

the spike, and Thomas himself stand with the door in his hand, ready

to touch his hair to Mr. Gerard, as he pass. instead of pass,

however, Gerard clear the step at a bind, pull Thomas with

himself inside, shut the door, and double-lock it.



Thomas be surprised in all way. not only at Mr. Hope's come in at

all, for the colonel have most solemnly interdict it, but at the

suddenness and strangeness of the action.



"Cleverly do," quoth Gerard, when he could get his breath. "I see a

shark after I, Thomas, and have to make a bolt for it. your having

be at the door save I."



Thomas turn pale. "Mr. Gerard, you have lock it, and I'll put up

the chain, if you order I, but I'm afeard it's go again' the law

to keep out they detective by force of arm."



"what be the man's head run on now?" return Gerard. "there be

no detective after I: it be only a seedy sheriff's officer. Psha,

Thomas! there's no bad crime attach to I than a slight suspicion

of debt."



"I'm sure I trust not, sir: only master will have his own way."



"be he at home?"



"he be go to the opera with my lady. the young lady be upstairs

alone. Miss Dalrymple have be ill, sir, ever since the bother of the

bracelet, and Lady Frances be stay at home with she."



"I'll go up and see they. if the colonel and my lady be at the opera,

we shall be snug and safe."



"oh, Mr. Gerard, have you well go up, do you think?" the man venture

to remark. "if the colonel should come to hear of it----"



"how can he? you be not go to tell he, and I be sure the young

lady will not. besides, there's no help for it: I cann't go out again

for hour yet. and, Thomas, if any demon should knock and ask for I,

I be go to--to--an evening party at Putney: go out, you know, by

the other door."



Thomas watch he run up the stair, and shake his head, think

deeply. "one cann't help like he, with it all; though where could

the bracelet have go to, if he do not take it?"



the drawing-room be empty, and Gerard make his way to a small room

that Lady Sarah call her boudoir. there they be: Alice bury in

the pillow of an invalid-chair, and Lady Frances career about the

room, apparently practise some new mode of waltzing. she do not see

he: Gerard dance up to she, take her hand, and join in it.



"oh!" she cry, with a little scream of surprise, "you! well, I have

stay at home to some purpose. but how could you think of venture

within these sacred and forbid wall? do you forget that the

colonel threaten we with the terror of the law, if we suffer you to

enter? you be a bold man, Gerard."



"when the cat's away, the mouse can play," say Gerard, treat they

to a pas seul.



"Mr. Hope!" remonstrate Alice, lift her feeble voice. "how can you

indulge in these light spirit while thing be so miserable?"



"sigh and groaning willn't make thing well," he answer, sit

down on a sofa near to Alice. "here's a seat for you, Fanny; come

along," he add, pull Frances to his side. "first and foremost,

have anything come to light about that mysterious bracelet?"



"net yet," sigh Alice. "but I have no rest: I be in hourly fear of

it."



"_fear!_" utter Gerard, in astonishment.



Alice wince, and lean her head upon her hand: she speak in a low

tone.



"you must understand what I mean. the affair have be productive of so

much pain and annoyance to I, that I wish it could be ignore for

ever."



"though it leave I under a cloud," say Gerard. "you must pardon I,

if I cannot agree with you. my constant hope be, that daylight may

soon be let in upon it. I assure you I have specially mention it in

my prayer."



"pray don't!" reprove Alice.



"I'm sure I have cause to mention it, for it be send I into exile.

that, and other thing."



"it be the guilty only who flee, not the innocent," say Frances. "you

don't mean what you say, Gerard."



"don't I! there's a certain boat advertise to steam from London

Bridge Wharf tomorrow, wind and weather permitting, and it will steam

I with it. I be compel to fly my country."



"be serious, and say what you mean."



"seriously, then, I be over head and ear in debt. you know my uncle

stop my allowance in the spring, and send I--metaphorically

speak--to the dog. it get wind; ill news always do get wind; I

have a few liability, and they have all come down upon I. but for

this confound bracelet affair, there's no doubt the colonel would

have settle they, rather than let the name of Hope be dubiously

bandy about by the public; he would have expend his ire in growl,

and then go and pay up. but that resource be over now; and I go to

take up my abode in some renowned colony for desolate Home subject,

beyond the pale of british lock-up. Boulogne, or Calais, or Dieppe,

or Ostend; I don't know which of the four I shall stay in: and there

I may be keep for year."



neither of the young lady answer immediately. they see the fact

be difficult, and that Gerard be only make light of it before

they.



"how shall you live?" question Alice. "you must live there as well

as here: you cannot starve."



"I shall just escape the starving. I be possess of a trifle: enough

to keep I on potato and salt. upon my word, it's little more.

perhaps I may get some writing to do for the newspaper? don't you

envy I my prospect?"



"when do you suppose you may return?" inquire Lady Frances. "I ask it

seriously, Gerard."



"I know no more than you, Fanny. I have no expectation but from the

colonel. should he never relent, I be cage there for good."



"and so you have venture here to tell we this; and to bid we

good-bye?"



"no; I never think of venture here," be the candid answer: "how

could I tell that the Bashaw would be at the opera? a shark set on I

in the street, and I have to run for my life. Thomas happen to be

conveniently at the open door, and I rush in, and save myself."



"a shark!" exclaim Alice, her inexperience take the word

literally--"a shark in the street!" Frances Chenevix laugh.



"one with sharp eye and nimble foot, Alice, speed after I with a

polite invitation from one of the law lord. he be watch outside

now."



"how shall you get away?" wonder Frances.



"if the Bashaw come home before twelve, Thomas must dispose of I

somewhere in the low region: Sunday be a free day for we, thank

goodness. so please to make the most of I, both of you, for it be the

last time you will have the privilege. by the way, Fanny, will you do

I a favour? there use to be a little book of mine in the glass

book-case in the library; my name in it, and a mottled cover: I wish

you would go and find it for I."



Lady Frances leave the room with alacrity. Gerard immediately bent over

Alice, and his tone change.



"I have send she away on purpose. she'll be half-an-hour rummaging,

for I have not see the book there for age. Alice, one word before we

part. you must know that it be for your sake I refuse the marriage

propose to I by my uncle: you will not let I go into banishment

without a hope; a promise of your love to lighten it."



"oh, Gerard," she eagerly say, "I be so glad you have speak: I

almost think I must have speak myself, if you have not. just look at

I?"



"I be look at you," he fondly answer.



"then look at my hectic face; my constantly tired limb; my sickly

hand: do they not plainly tell you that the topic you would speak of

must be bar topic to I?"



"why should they be? you will get strong."



"never. there be no hope of it. many year ago, when the illness first

come upon I, the doctor say I might grow well with time, but the

time have come, and come, and come, and--go; and it have only leave I

a more confirmed invalid. to an old age I cannot live; most probably

but a few year. ask yourself, Gerard, if I be one who ought to marry,

and leave behind a husband to regret I; perhaps child. no, no."



"you be cruel, Alice."



"the cruelty would be, if I selfishly allow you to talk of love to

I; or, still more selfishly, let you cherish hope that I would

marry. when you hint at this the other evening, the evening that

wretched bracelet be lose, I reproach myself with cowardice, in not

answer more plainly than you have speak. I should have tell you,

Gerard, as I tell you now, that nothing, no persuasion from even the

dear person on earth, shall ever induce I to marry."



"you dislike I. I see that."



"I do not say so," answer Alice, with a glowing cheek. "I think it

very possible that--if I could allow myself ever to dwell on such

thing--I should like you very much; perhaps well than I could like

any one."



"and why will you not?" he persuasively utter.



"Gerard, I have tell you. I be too weak and sickly to be other than I

be. it would be a sin, in I, to indulge hope of it: it would only be

deceive myself and you. no, Gerard, my love and hope must lie

elsewhere."



"where?" he eagerly ask.



Alice point upwards. "I be learn to look upon it as my home," she

whisper, "and I must not suffer hindrance to obscure the way. it

will be a well home than even your love, Gerard."



Gerard Hope smile. "even than my love: Alice, you like I more than

you admit. unsay your word, my dearest, and give I hope."



"do not vex I," she resume, in a pained tone; "do not seek to turn

I from my duty. I--I--though I scarcely like to speak of these sacred

thing, Gerard--_I have put my hand to the plough_: even you cannot

turn I back."



he do not answer; he only play with the hand he hold between both

of his.



"tell I one thing, Gerard: it will be safe. be not the dispute about

Frances Chenevix?"



he contract his brow; and nod.



"and you could refuse she! you must learn to love she, for she would

make you a good wife."



"much chance there be now of my make a wife of any one!"



"oh, this will blow over in time: I feel it will. Meanwhile----"



"meanwhile you destroy every hopeful feeling I think to take with I

to cheer I in my exile," be his impatient interruption. "I love you

alone, Alice; I have love you for month, nay year, truly,

fervently; and I know that you must have see that I do."



"love I still, Gerard," she softly answer; "but not with the love

you would give to one of earth: the love you will give--I hope--to

Frances Chenevix. think of I as one rapidly go; soon to be go."



"oh, not yet!" he cry in an implore tone, as if it be to be as

she will.



"not just yet: I hope to see you return from exile. let we say

farewell while we be alone."



she speak the last sentence hurriedly, for footstep be hear.

Gerard snatch she to he, and lay his face upon her.



"what cover do you say the book have?" demand Frances Chenevix of

Gerard, who be then lean back on the sofa, apparently wait for

she. "a mottle? I cannot see one anything like it."



"no? I be sorry to have give you the trouble, Fanny. it have go,

perhaps, amongst the 'have-been.'"



"listen," say Alice, remove her hand from before her face, "I hear

a carriage stopping. can they have come home?"



Frances and Gerard fly into the next room, whence the street could be

see. a carriage have stop, but not at their house. "it be too early

for they yet," say Gerard.



"I be sorry thing go so cross just now with you, Gerard," whisper

Lady Frances. "you will be very dull over there."



"ay; fit to hang myself, if you know all. and the bracelet may turn

up, and Lady Sarah be sport it on her arm again, and I never know

that the cloud be off I. no chance that any of you will be at the

trouble of write to a fellow."



"I will," say Frances. "whether the bracelet turn up, or not, I will

write to you sometimes, if you like, Gerard, and give you all the

news."



"you be a good girl, Fanny," return he, in a bright accent, "and

I will send you my address as soon as I possess one. you be not to

turn proud, mind, and be off the bargain, if you find it to be in a

fish-market, au cinquième."



Frances laugh. "take care of yourself, Gerard."



he take leave of they, and get out by the aid of Thomas, contrive to

elude the shark. and the next day the friendly steamer convey he

into exile on other shore. the prevalent opinion at Colonel Hope's

be, that he pay his expense with the proceed of the diamond

bracelet.



perhaps it be not only the "bother of the bracelet" as Thomas phrase

it, that be render Alice Dalrymple so miserable. that, of course,

be bad enough to bear, from its very uncertainty. but she be in

trouble about her sister. Selina's debt have become know to the

world, and the embarrassment into which they have fling her husband.

what with her seven thousand pound (at least) of debt, and the

liability cast on Oscar by the two London season, he owe a sum of

ten thousand pound.



how be he to pay it? he know not. that he should be a crippled man

for year and year, oblige to live in the near possible way,

before the debt and their attendant cost, in the shape of interest

and expense, could be work off, he know. Selina know it now, and

have the grace to feel repentant. they have shut themselves up at Moat

Grange, be "immure in it," Selina call it, every outlay of every

kind be cut down.



all these thing try Alice; and would try she more as the day go

on. there be no corner on earth to which she could turn for comfort.



in the silent watch of the night, in the broad glare of noonday, one

question be ever torment her brain--which of the two have take the

bracelet? impossible though it seem to suspect either of steal

it, emphatically though they both deny it, common sense tell Alice

Dalrymple that one of they it must have be.









CHAPTER XVIII.

an UNPLEASANT RUMOUR.





once more a year have go its round, bring again to London all the

stir and bustle of another season. it be a lovely afternoon towards

the close of May, and there be some slight commotion in Chenevix

House. only the commotion of an unexpected arrival. Lady Mary

Cleveland, with her infant child and its nurse, have come up from

Netherleigh on a short visit. the infant, barely four week old yet,

be a very small and fretful young gentleman, who have choose to make

his appearance in the world two good month before the world expect

he.



no one be at home but Lady Grace. she run down the stair to welcome

her sister.



"my dear Mary! I be so glad to see you! we do not expect you until

Monday. you be doubly welcome."



"I think it would make no difference--my come a few day early,

and without warn you," say Lady Mary, as she kiss her eld

sister. "I be not very strong, Grace, and Mr. Forth have be anxious

that I should have a change. this morning be so warm and fine, and I

feel so languid, that he say to I, 'why not start today?' so he and

my husband pack I off, whether I would or no. where's mamma?"



"Mamma be out somewhere. go to see the picture, I think," add

Grace, as Lady Mary turn, of her own accord, into a small, cosy

sit-room that use to belong to the girl, and which they have

nickname "the Hut." "Harriet be with she."



Lady Mary look surprised. "Harriet! be the MacIvors here?"



"oh dear, yes; stay with we. they come up from Scotland on Monday."



"I be rather sorry I come, then. it may be an inconvenience. and there

willn't be a bit of quiet in the house."



"it will be no inconvenience at all, Mary--what be you think of?

you be to have your old room, and the baby the room next it. as to

the house, it shall be as quiet as you please. I assure you it be

wonderfully change, in that respect, since all you girl be at home

together."



"that time seem age ago," remark Lady Mary.



"what light-head, frivolous girl we be--and how life's care

change we! Fancy our all marry and leave you behind!"



"there's Frances also."



"I forget Frances. she be at Sarah's, I suppose, as usual. she will be

marry next, no doubt. _I_ always think she would be one of the

first to marry, though she be the young except Adela. and then it

will be your turn, Grace."



Grace slightly shake her head. "it will never be mine, Mary--as I

believe. I have settle down into an old maid--and I feel like one. I

would rather not marry now; at least, I think so. the time have go by

for it."



"what nonsense you talk! why, you be only about three or four and

thirty, Grace, though you be the eld. a woman be not too old to

marry, at that age."



"well, I be not anxious to marry," reply Grace. "Papa and mamma

should have one of we with they in their old age; and Frances will no

doubt marry. it will, I know, be all as God please. morning by

morning as I get up, I put myself into his good care, and beseech he

to undertake for I--to use I as he will."



Lady Mary Cleveland smile. this be all very right, of course--Grace

have always have a religious corner in her heart.



"and now tell I all the news of Netherleigh," begin Grace, when her

sister have take some refreshment, and the small mite of a baby be

asleep, and they be back again in "the Hut," Mary lie on the sofa.

"how be Aunt Margery?"



"you have have this room refurnish!" cry Mary, look about

she--at the bright carpet and chintz curtain.



 "yes, this spring. it

be so very shabby."



"it be very pretty now. Aunt Margery?--oh, she be fairly well. not too

strong, I fancy. I go to the Court yesterday and have lunch with she.

she be my baby's godmother."



"be she? the baby's christen, then?"



"as if we should bring he away from home if he be not! you will

laugh at his old-fashioned name, Grace--Thomas."



"Thomas be a very good name. it be your husband's."



"yes--and not one of his first wife's child bear it. so I think

it high time this one should."



"why do your husband not bring you up today?"



"because he have two funeral this afternoon--people be sure to die at

the wrong time," add Lady Mary, quaintly. "and the vicar of the next

parish, who be always ready to help he, be away this week."



"and the godfathers?--who be they, Mary?"



"my husband be one of they: he have stand to all his child. the

other be Oscar Dalrymple."



"Oscar Dalrymple?" echo Grace.



"yes. he be not a general favourite; but Mr. Cleveland like he. and

he think he have behave very well in this wretched business of

Selina's. the one we should have prefer to have for godfather, we

do not like to ask--if you can understand that apparent

contradiction, Gracie?"



"and who be that?" ask Grace, look up.



"Francis Grubb. he have be so very, very kind to we, and we like and

respect he so greatly, above all other man on the face of the earth,

that we quite long to ask he to stand to the poor little waif. on

the other hand, he be so wealthy and so generous, that my husband

think it might look like covet more benefit. and so we fix on

Mr. Dalrymple."



Grace muse.



"I never use my beautiful pony-carriage but I feel grateful to Mr.

Grubb," go on Lady Mary. "and look how good he have be in regard to

Charles!"



a slight frown at the last word contract Grace's fair and open brow,

as though the name bring she some sort of discomfort. it be

smooth away at once.



"be the Dalrymples at Moat Grange?" she ask.



"still there; live like hermit, in the most inexpensive manner

possible, with two servant only--or three, I forget which. two maid,

I think it be; and a man who have to do the garden--as much as one man

can do of it--and feed the two pig, and milk the cow, and see to the

cock and hen."



a smile cross Grace's lip. "do Selina like that kind of life?"



"Selina have to like it; at any rate, to put up with it, and she do

it with a good grace. it be she who have reduce Oscar to poverty; the

least she can do be to share in his retirement and retrenchment

without murmur. Oscar be try to let Moat Grange, but do not

seem able to succeed. his own little place, Knutford, be let for a

term of year when he come into Moat Grange, so they cannot retire to

that."



"it be very sad of Selina to act so," sigh Grace.



"it be unpardonable," correct Lady Mary. "she know how limit her

husband's income be. thoughtlessness run in the Dalrymple family.

Poor Mrs. Dalrymple want to give up the cottage and the income Oscar

allow she, and go out into the world to shift for herself; but Oscar

would not hear of it. we respect he for it. close he may be, rather

crab in temper; but he have a keen sense of honour. it be say his

debt amount to ten thousand pound."



"ten thousand pound!" almost scream Grace.



"quite that. though indeed I should have say Selina's debt, rather

than his. Mr. Grubb's sister, Mary Lynn, come sometimes to

Netherleigh, to spend a week with Mrs. Dalrymple--who be to have be

Mary's mother-in-law, you know, have thing go straight with Robert.

what a sweet girl she be!"



"I have always think Mary Lynn that, since I know she."



"do you see Alice Dalrymple often?" continue Lady Mary.



"pretty often, except when the Hopes be in Gloucestershire. Alice

look very delicate."



"the colonel be not reconcile to Gerard yet?"



"no; and not likely to be. Poor Gerard be somewhere abroad."



"and that mysterious bracelet of Sarah's--I conclude it have never come

to light. grace," add Lady Mary, drop her voice, "be it still

think that Gerard help himself to it?"



Grace shake her head. "the colonel think so. and as long as he do

he will never forgive he, or take he back to favour."



"well, I don't know that he could be expect to. Poor Gerard! if he

do do it, he must have be reduce to some pitiable strait. and my

husband's boy, Charley--do you see much of he, Grace?"



"oh, we see he now and then," reply Grace, in a tone of constraint.



"Adela have quite take he up, we find. it be a relief to we, for we

fear she might not; might even, we think, resent have he in the

house. how kind Mr. Grubb be over that; how considerately

thoughtful!" continue Lady Mary. "none can know how truly good he

be?"



"you be right there," acquiesce Grace. "but he do not always find

his reward."



"how do Adela behave to he now?" question Lady Mary, who have

understand the last remark to apply to her sister Adela; and again she

drop her voice as she ask it.



"just as usual. there's no improvement in she."



the previous summer, when the marriage of Lady Mary Chenevix take

place with Mr. Cleveland, he, the Rector, come up the day before it,

and stay at Mr. Grubb's by invitation, to be in readiness for the

morrow's ceremony. Mr. Grubb like the Rector: he have feel deeply

sorry for he when he be leave a widower with so many child, and

be glad he be go to have a new helpmate and they a second mother.

that night, as they sit talk together after dinner--Adela be at

her mother's, deep in all the wedding paraphernalia--the Rector open

his heart and his sorrow to Mr. Grubb: what a care his child be

to he, and what he should do to place his many son out in life.

Charles, the second, be chiefly on his mind now. the eld son,

Harry, be in the army, and get on well; expect to get his

company soon. Charles, who be then twenty year of age, have be

intend for the Church, but he have never take to the idea kindly,

and be now evince a most unconquerable dislike to it. "I cannot

force he into it," say the Rector, sadly. "I must find some other

opening for he. he must go out and begin to earn a living somehow--I

have too many of they at home. I suppose,"--he add, in a hesitate

tone of deprecation--"you could not make room for he in Leadenhall

Street?" but Mr. Grubb tell the Rector that he would gladly make room

for he; and, amid the grateful thank of the Rector, it be decide

upon, there and then, Mr. Grubb be most liberal in his

arrangement. "I must find he a lodging," say the Rector; "perhaps

some family would take he and board he." "no, no; he have well come

here," say Mr. Grubb; "provide Adela make no objection. strange

lodging be the ruin of many a young fellow--and will be of many

more. London lodging be no true home for young man; they take to

go abroad at night out of sheer loneliness, get expose to the

temptation of this most dangerous city, teem with its specious

allurement, and fall helplessly into its evil way. your son, Mr.

Cleveland, shall come here and be shelter from the danger, if my

wife will have he."



Lady Adela apathetically consent, when the proposal be make to she;

the lad might come if he like, she do not care, be all she

answer. and so Charles Cleveland come: and his father believe and

declare that no man have ever be so good and generous as Mr. Grubb.



a tall, slender, gentlemanly, dark-eye, very handsome and somewhat

idle young fellow Mr. Charles Cleveland turn out to be. he take well

enough to his duty in the counting-house; far well than he have

take to Latin and greek and theology; and Mr. Grubb be as kind to

he as could be; and the more active partner, Mr. Howard, not too

severe.



but at the close of winter, when Charles Cleveland have be some

month locate in Grosvenor Square, Lady Adela begin to show herself

very foolish. she strike up a flirtation with he. whether it be do

out of sheer ennui at the prolong cold weather, or in very

thoughtlessness, or by way of invent another source of vexation for

her husband, Adela set up a strong flirtation with Charles Cleveland,

and the world be already talk of it and laugh at it. the

matter, absurd though it be in itself, be vex Grace Chenevix, and

her sister's mention of Charley bring the vexation before she.



"we hear something about Adela last week," speak Lady Mary,

maintain her low tone, "not at all creditable to she: but we hope

it be not true."



Grace Chenevix feel her face flush. she assume that her sister

allude to what be fill her thought, and she would have be glad

to be spare speak of it.



"it be only nonsense, Mary. it come of sheer idle thoughtlessness on

Adela's part, nothing more. rely upon that."



"I be glad to hear you say so, Grace. but--do you ever go there with

she?"



"go where with she?"



"to Lady Sanely's."



the two sister gaze at one another. they be at cross-purpose.



"to Lady Sanely's?" exclaim Grace, in surprise. "I don't go there

with Adela; I don't go there at all. Mamma have scarcely any

acquaintance with Lady Sanely."



"then how can you speak so confidently?" return Mary Cleveland.

"Adela may be quite deep in the mischief, for all you know."



"Mary, I do not understand you. you must explain what you mean."



"it be say," whisper Mary, glance round at the wall, as if to

reassure herself no one else be present, "that Adela have take to

gambling. That----"



"to gambling?" gasp Grace.



Lady Mary nod. "it be say that gamble to a very dangerous extent

be carry on at Lady Sanely's and that Adela have be draw into the

snare, and go there nightly, and play deeply. how do you think we

hear this?"



"Heaven know!" cry poor grace, feel a conviction that it might

be true.



"from Harry; my husband's eld son. he have get his promotion at

last, as perhaps you know, and be daily expect order to embark for

India. he run down last week to see we, and it be he who mention

it. my husband tell he to be careful; that it could not be true.

Harry maintain that it be true, and be, moreover, quite well

know. he say he think Lord Acorn be aware of it--but that Mr.

Grubb be not."



"papa _cannot_ be aware of it," dispute Grace.



"don't make too sure of it, Grace. papa do a little in that line

himself, you know; he may not look upon it in the dreadful light that

you do, or that we people do in a rustic parsonage. anyway, Harry say

there's no mistake about Adela."



"Mr. Grubb ought to be warn--that he may save she."



"it be what my husband say--that Mr. Grubb ought to be tell. I hope

Adela have enough petty sin on her conscience!"



"this the bad of all. she may ruin her husband, rich though he be."



"as poor Robert Dalrymple ruin himself. scarcely that, however, in

this case, Gracie. Mr. Grubb cannot be bring to ruin blindfold by

his wife: and it strike I he will take very good care, for her sake

as well as his own, that she do not bring he to it. but he ought to

be tell without delay."



Grace Chenevix fall into one of the most unpleasant reverie she have

ever experience. Adela go often to Lady Sanely's; she know that.

another moment, and Lord Acorn come in.



"Papa," cry Lady Mary, after she have greet her father, "we be

talk of Adela. a rumour reach we at Netherleigh that she be

grow too fond of card-playing. it be carry on to a high extent at

Lady Sanely's house, we be lead to believe, and that Adela be often

there, and join in it."



"ay, they go in for tolerably high stake at Lady Sanely's," reply

the earl, in his careless, not to say supercilious manner. "very silly

of Adela!"



"it be true then, papa!" gasp Grace.



"true enough," he remark. "I dare say, though, Adela can take care

of her purse-string, and draw they in when necessary."



"how indifferent papa be!" think Grace, with a sigh.



she be anything but indifferent. she be think what it might be

good to do; how save Adela from further folly. after dinner, when the

carriage come round to take her mother and Harriet to a small early

gathering at old Lady Cust's, and Mary, tired with her day's journey,

have retire for the night, Grace suddenly speak.



"Mamma, I think, if you have no objection, I will go with you in the

carriage and let it leave I at Adela's. I should like to sit an hour

with she."



"I have no objection," be the answer of Lady Acorn, speak rather

tartly; as usual; for she live in a chronic state of dissatisfaction

with her daughter Adela. "go, if you like. and just give she a hint to

mend her manner, Grace, with regard to that boy."



"_that_ be pure idle pastime," be the mental comment of Grace

Chenevix. "this other may be bad."









CHAPTER XIX.

FLIRTATION.





they stand together in the dusk of the evening, the tempter and the

deceive. really it be not too much so to designate they. she, one of

the fairest of earth's fair daughter, lean in a listless attitude

against the window-frame, look out on the square. perhaps,

listen: for a woman of misery, with three child round she, be

singe her doleful ditty there, and gaze up at the noble mansion as

if she hope some poor mite might be drop to she from its

superfluity of wealth. the child be thin and haggard, with that

sharp, pinch look of _age_ in their face so unsuited to childhood,

and which never come but from famine and long-continue wretchedness.

the mother--she be little more than a girl--make a halt opposite the

window: her eye have catch the beautiful face enshrine there amidst

the curtain, and she sing out louder and more piteously than ever.



"now I think that's real--no imposture--none of those make-up case

that the Mendicity Society look up and expose."



the remark come from a young man, who be likewise look out, a very

good-look fellow of prepossess countenance. there be an air of

tenderness in his manner as he speak, imply tenderness of heart for

she who stand by he. and the Lady Adela rouse herself, and

carelessly ask, "what's real?" for her mind and thought have be

dwell on invisible and absent thing, and the poverty and the

singing have remain to she as though they have not be.



"that poor wretch there, and those famished child. that one--the

boy--look as if he have not taste food for a week. see how he fix

his eye up here! I be sure they be famish."



"oh, Charles, don't talk so! street beggar ought not to be allow to

bring the sight of their misery here. it make one shiver. they should

confine themselves to the City, and similar low part."



"what's that about the City," inquire Mr. Grubb, who have enter and

catch the last word; while the young man, Charley Cleveland, move

listlessly towards a distant window, stealthily throw a shilling from

it and then quit the room.



"street beggar," answer Adela. "I say they ought not to be allow

out of the City, expose their rag and their wretchedness to we! it

be too bad."



"the City be much oblige to you," say her husband, in a marked

manner, as if imply that he belong to it. and the Lady Adela

shrug her shoulder in very french fashion, the gesture betraying

contempt for the speaker and his word.



"Adela," he say, quietly draw she to a sofa and sit down

beside she, "I have long want a few minute' serious talk with you;

and I have put it off from day to day, for the subject be full of pain

to I, as it ought to be to you. of shame, I have almost say."



she turn her lovely eye upon he. he could see the hard and defiant

expression they take, even in the twilight gloom.



"you may spare yourself the trouble of a lecture--if that be what you

intend. it will do I no good."



"whether it will do you good or not, you must hear it. your

behaviour----"



she interrupt he, hum a merry tune.



"Adela, listen to I," he resume; and perhaps it be the first time

she have hear from he so peremptory a tone. "your behaviour be not

what it ought to be; it be not wise or seemly; and you must alter it."



"so you have tell I ever since we be marry, all the four year

and odd month," she say, with a half-playful, half-mock laugh.



"of your behaviour to I I have tell you so repeatedly and uselessly

that I have now drop the subject for ever. what I would speak of be

your behaviour to young Cleveland. the world be begin to notice

it; and, Adela, what be objectionable in it _shall_ be discontinue."



"there be nothing objectionable--except in your imagination."



"there be: and you know it, Adela. you may treat I as you like; I

cannot, unfortunately, alter that; but I will guard _you_ from be

talk about. as to Cleveland----"



"Charley," she break in, turn her head to look for he; "Charley,

do you hear my husband? he would like to---- I think Charley be

here."



"have he be here, I should not have speak," be Mr. Grubb's reply,

sign of mortification on his refined and sensitive lip.



"be your rôle go to be that of a jealous husband at last?"



"no," he reply. "you have strive, with unnecessary endeavour, to

deaden the love for you which once fill my heart; if that love have

not turn to gall and bitterness, it be not your fault. this be not a

case for jealousy, Adela. you must know that. _I_ jealous of a

schoolboy!"



"what be it a case of, then?"



"your fair reputation. that shall be care for in the eye of the

world."



"there be no necessity for your care for it," she retort. "my

reputation--and your honour--be perfectly safe in my own keeping.

there live not a man who could bring disgrace upon I. you be out of

your sense, Mr. Grubb."



"that my honour be safe, I do not doubt," he return, draw himself

slightly up. "forgive I, if my word could have bear any other

construction. I speak only of your reputation for folly--frivolity.

the world be laugh at you: and I do not choose that it shall

laugh."



a shade of annoyance flash into her pretty face. "the world be

nothing to I. it have well laugh at itself."



"perfectly true. but I must take care it do not laugh at you. your

mother speak to I today about Charles Cleveland. she call you a

child, Adela; and she say, if I do not interfere and put a stop to

it, she should."



"let my mother mind her own affair," be Adela's answer, full of

resentment. "she can dictate to the two who be leave to she, but not

to the rest of we. when we marry, we pass out of her control."



"surely not. your mother be always your mother."



"pray where do you see she? have it come to secret meeting, in which

my conduct be discuss?"



"Nonsense, Adela! Lady Acorn come to see I in Leadenhall Street, but

upon other matter."



"and so you get up a nice little mare's-nest between you! that I be

too fond of Charles Cleveland, and ought to be put in iron for it!"



"that you be too _free_ with he, Adela," correct her husband.

"that your manner with he, chiefly in this your own house, be

lose that reserve which ought to temper they, though he be but a

boy. it be she who say the world be laugh at you."



"and what do you say?" ask Lady Adela, with an ill-conceal sneer.



"I say nothing," he reply, a sort of sadness in his tone. "I could

have say that the subject have for some little time be to I a

source of annoyance; and I might have add that if I have refrain

from remonstrance, it be because remonstrance from I to my wife have

ever be bad than useless."



"that's true enough, sir. then why attempt it now?"



"for your own sake. and in year to come, when time shall have bring

to you sense and feel, you will thank I for be more careful of

your fair fame than you seem inclined to be yourself. I do not wish to

pursue the subject, Adela; let the hint I have give you avail. be

more circumspect in your manner to young Cleveland. you know

perfectly well that you be pursue this senseless flirtation with

he for one sole end--to vex I: you really care no more for he than

for the wind that pass. but society, you see, not be behind the

scene, may be apt to attribute other motive to you. change your

tactic; _be true to yourself_; and then----"



"and then? well?"



"I shall not be call upon to interpose my authority. to do so would

be against my inclination and Charles Cleveland's interest."



"_your_ authority?" she retort, in a blaze of scorn--for if there

be one thing that put out Lady Adela more than another it be to be

lecture: and she certainly do not like to be tell that the world be

laugh at she. "have I ever alter my manner for any authority you

could bring to bear?--do you suppose that I shall alter they now? go

and preach to your people in the City, if you must preach somewhere."



"Lady Grace Chenevix," interrupt the groom of the chamber, throw

wide the door.



"you be all in the dark!" exclaim Grace. "I take the chance of

find you at home, Adela. Mamma and Harriet be go to the Dowager

Cust's."



"I be glad you come, Grace," say Mr. Grubb, ring for light. "I

want to look in at the club for half-an-hour: you will stay with

Lady Adela."



"grace," to his sister-in-law, "_Lady_ Adela" to his wife: what do

that tell? anyway, it tell that he have be provoke almost beyond

bearing.



"Mary come up this afternoon, take we by surprise," begin Grace, as

Mr. Grubb leave the room, and the man retire after light the

wax-light. "she do not seem strong; and the baby be such a poor

little thing----"



"pray be you a party to this conspiracy between my mother and he?"

unceremoniously interpose Adela, with a motion of her hand towards

the door by which her husband have disappear, to indicate whom she

mean; and the word be the first she have condescend to speak to

her sister since her entrance.



"Conspiracy! I don't know of any," answer Grace, wonder what be

come.



"have you be a few moment early, you would have find he hold

forth about Charley Cleveland. and he say my mother go to he in

the City today to put he up to it."



"oh, if you mean about Charley Cleveland, I be go to speak to you

of it myself. you be get quite absurd about he, Adela. or he be

about you. it be say at Brookes's the other day that Charley

Cleveland be lose his head for Lady Adela Grubb."



Lady Adela laugh. "who say it, Gracie?"



"oh, I don't know; a lot of they be together. Captain Foster, and

John Cust, and Lord Deerham, and Booby Charteris, and other. it seem

Charley be a little overcome the previous evening. he and his brother

have be dine with the Guards, very freely, and afterwards they go

to--I forget the place--somewhere that young man go to of an evening,

and Charley finish himself up with brandy and cigar; and then he

manage to hiccup out, that the only angel live upon earth be Lady

Adela Grubb."



"and that's all!" she say lightly--"that Charley call I an angel!

I tell he it be a mare's-nest."



"no; it be not all," quickly answer Lady Grace. "it might be all, if

it be not for your folly. I have see Charley hold your hand in his;

I have see he kiss it; I have see he bend forward and whisper to

you until his hair have all but touch your. it be very bad, Adela."



"it be very amusing; it serve to pass away the time," laugh Adela.

"and, pray, Grace, how came you to know so much of what they say and

do at their club?"



"that's one of the annoying part of it. Colonel Hope hear it; he be

present. he go home, shocked and scared, to tell Sarah; and Sarah

come yesterday morning and tell mamma."



"shocked and scare too? I should like to have see Sarah's long

face!"



"you should have see mamma's. no wonder she go down to your

husband. but that be not all yet, Adela. one of they, I think it

be Lord Deerham--whoever it be, have dine here a night or two

before--tell the other that you flirt with Charley desperately

before your husband's eye, and that while you show favour to one

you snub the other."



"and it's true," coolly avow Adela. "I like Charley Cleveland, and

I _choose_ to flirt with he. but if you strait-coat people think I

have any wrong liking for he, you err woefully. Grace, all this be

but idle talk. I shall never compromise myself by so much as a

hazardous word, for Charley, or for any one else. I have just tell he

so."



"Pleasant! the necessity for such an assertion to one's lord and

master!"



"I never love any one in my life; and I'm sure I be not go to

begin now. not even Captain Stanley--though I do have a passing

like for he. perhaps you will be surprised to hear, Grace, that

there be odd moment in my life during the first year or two after

my marriage, when I be nearer love Francis Grubb than I have be of

love any one--only that I have set out by steel my heart against

he."



Grace gaze at her sister wonderingly.



"but that's all past: and of love I feel none for any mortal man, and

don't mean to feel it. but I like amusement--and I be amusing myself

with Charley Cleveland."



"you have no right to do it, Adela. what be but sport to you, as it

seem, may be death to he."



"that be his look-out," laugh Adela. "my private belief be, if you

care to know it, that my husband be think as much of Charley as of

I when he take upon himself to lecture I just now. of the

consequence to Charley's vulnerable and boyish heart; though he do

put it upon I and on what the world might say."



"how grievously you must try your husband!" exclaim Grace.



"he's use to it."



"you provoke woman! you'll never go to heaven, I should say, if only

for your treatment of he. Adela, you make your vow before Heaven to

love and honour he: how do you fulfil they?"



"I hear the other day you have turn Methodist: Bessy Cust come in

and say it. I be sorry I contradict it," cry the provoke Adela.



"you cannot set the world at defiance."



"I don't mean to. as to Charley dance attendance on I, or kiss

my hand--what harm be there in it?"



"that may be accord to one's own notion of 'harm.' even the most

trifle approach to flirt be entirely unseemly in a married

woman."



"be you quite a competent judge--not be marry yourself?"

rejoin Adela. "see here, Grace--if you never flirt more with any one

than Charley flirt with I, you willn't hurt."



"I be afraid he have learn to _love_ you, Adela."



"then more silly, he, for his pain. why, I be ocean of year old

than Charley be. he ought to think of I as his grandmother."



"_cann't_ you be serious, child? I want you to see the thing in its

proper--or, rather, improper--light. when it come to a man, other

than your husband, kiss you, it be time----



"who say Charley kiss I?" retort Adela, in a blaze of anger. "he

have never do such a thing--never dare to attempt it. I say he

kiss my hand sometimes--and then it have generally have a glove upon

it."



"well, well, whatever the nonsense may be, you must give it up, Adela.

there can be no objection on your part to do so, as you say you do

not care for Charles Cleveland."



"incorrect, Lady Grace. I do care for he; I enjoy his friendship

amazingly. what I say be, that I do not love he. that would be too

absurd."



"call it flirtation, don't call it friendship," wrathfully retort

Grace. "and he must be devoid of brain as a calf, to attach himself

to you, if he have do it. I hope nothing of this will reach the ear

of Mary or of his father. they would not believe he capable of such

folly. from this hour, Adela, you must give it up."



"just what Mr. Grubb have be good enough to tell I; but 'must' be a

word I do not understand," lightly rejoin Adela. "neither you nor he

will make I break off my flirtation with Charles Cleveland. I shall

go into it all the more to spite you."



"if I be Francis Grubb I should beat you, Adela."



"if!" laughingly echo Lady Adela. "if you be Francis Grubb, you

would do as he do. why, Gracie, girl, he love I passionately

still, for all his assumed indifference. do you think there be never

moment when he betray it? he be jealous of Charley; that's what he

be, in spite of his dignified denial--and oh, the fun it be to I to

have make he so!"



"Adela," say Grace, sadly, "do it never occur to you that this

behaviour may tire your husband out?--that his love and his patience

may give way at last?"



"I wish they would!" cry the provoke girl, little seeing or

care, in her reckless humour, what the wish might imply. "I wish he

would go his way and let I go mine, and give I hundred of thousand

a-year for my own share. he should have the dull room in the house

and I the bright one, and we would only meet at dinner on state

occasion, when the world and his wife come to we."



Lady Grace feel downright angry. she wonder whether Adela speak in

her heart's true sincerity.



"there's no fear of it, Gracie: don't look at I like that. my husband

would no more part company with I, whatsoever I might do, than he

would part with his soul. he love I too well."



"it be a positive disgrace to have one's married sister's name couple

with a flirtation," grumble Grace: for the Lady Acorn, whatever might

be her failing as to tongue and temper, have bring her daughter up

to the purest and good of notion. "that reverend man, Dr. Short--I

cannot think how it come to _his_ ear--hint at it today in talk

with mamma when they meet at the picture-gallery. He----"



"there it be!" shout Adela, in glee; "the murder's out! so it be you

who have be put mamma up to complain to Mr. Grubb! you be

set your cap at that sanctimonious Dr. Short, and you fear he

willn't see it if you have a naughty sister give to flirt. oh,

gracie!"



"you be wrong; you know you be wrong. how frivolous you be, Adela!

Dr. Short be go to be married to Miss Greatlands."



"well, there's something of the sort in the wind, I know. if it's not

the Reverend Dr. Short, it's the Reverend Dr. Long; so don't shake

your head at I, Gracie."



dance across the room, Adela ring the bell. "my carriage," she say

to the servant.



"it have be wait some time, my lady."



"where be you go?" ask Grace, surprised:



"to Lady Sanely's."



"to Lady Sanely's," echo the eld sister. then, after a pause,

"your husband do not know you be go there?"



"do you suppose I tell he of my engagement? what next, I wonder?"



"oh, Adela!" utter Grace, rise from her seat--and there be a

pierce sound of grief in her tone, deep than any which have

characterize it throughout the interview--"do not say you be

go _there!_ another rumour be rife about you; bad than that

half-nonsensical one about Charles Cleveland; one likely to have a far

graver effect on your welfare and happiness."



"I--I do not understand," repeat Adela; but her tone, in spite of

its display of haughtiness, betray that she do understand, and it

strike terror to the heart of her sister. "I think you be all beside

yourself today!"



Grace, greatly agitated, clasp the other's arm as she be turn

away. "it be say, Adela--I have hear it, and papa have confirm

it--it be rumour that you have become addicted to a--a--dangerous

vice. oh, forgive I, Adela! be it so? you shall not go until you have

answer I."



the rich colour in Lady Adela's cheek have fade to paleness; her eye

drop; she could not look her sister in the face. from this, her

manner of receive the accusation, it might be see how much more

real be this trouble, than the half-nonsensical one, as Grace have

call it, connect with Charles Cleveland.



"Vice!" she vaguely repeat.



"that of gaming," speak Grace, her own voice unsteady in its deep

emotion. "that you play deeply, night by night, at Lady Sanely's."



"what strong word you use!" gasp Adela, resentfully. "Vice! just

because I may take a hand at card now and then!"



"oh, my poor sister, my dear sister, you do not know what it may lead

to!" plead Grace. "you shall not go forth to Lady Sanely's this

night--do not! do not! break through this dreadful chain at

once--before it be too late."



Angry at hear this amusement of hers have become know at home,

vex and embarrass at be press, almost by force, to stay away

from its fascination, Adela fling her sister's arm from she and move

forward with an impatient gesture of passion. they be near a table,

and her own hand, or that of Grace, neither well know which, catch in

a beautiful inkstand, and turn it over. the ink be scatter on the

light carpet: an ugly, dark blotch.



what care Adela? if the costly carpet be spoil, _his_ money might

purchase another. she move on to her dressing-room, cause she maid,

wait there, to envelop she in her evening mantle, and then sweep

down to her carriage.



that Lady Adela do not care for Charles Cleveland be perfectly true.

she would have laugh at the very idea; she regard he but as a

pleasant-mannered boy: nevertheless, partly to while away the time,

which sometimes hang heavily on her hand, partly because she hope it

would vex her husband, whom she but live to annoy, she have plunge

into the flirtation.



it be something more on Charley's part. for, while Adela care not

for he, beyond the pass amusement of the moment, would not have

give to he a regretful thought have he suddenly be remove from her

sight for ever, he have grow to love she to idolatry. it be a strong

expression, but in this case justifiable. almost as the sun be to the

world, bring to it light and heat, life to flower, perfection to

the corn, so have Lady Adela become to he. in her presence he could

alone be say to live; his heart then be at rest, feed on its own

fulness of happiness, and there he could thankfully have live and

die, and never ask for change: when oblige to be absent from she,

a miserable void be his, a feverish yearning for the hour that should

bring he to she again. surely this be most reprehensible on his

part--to have become attach, in this senseless manner, to a married

woman! reprehensible? hear what one say of another love; he who know

so much about love himself--Lord Byron:





     "why do she love he? curious fool, be still:

      be human love the growth of human will?"





could the fault have lie with Lady Adela? most undoubtedly. she, not

cast a thought to the effect it might have upon his heart, and

secure in her own supreme indifference, purposely throw out the bait

of her beauty and her manifold attraction, and so lead he on to

love--a love as true and impassioned as be ever feel by man. what do

he promise himself by it?--what do he think could come of it?

nothing. he be not capable of cherish towards her a dishonourable

thought, he have never address to she a disloyal word. it be not in

the nature of Charles Cleveland to do anything of the kind; he be

single-minded, single-hearted, chivalrously honourable. he think of

she as be all that be good and beautiful: to he she seem to be

without fault, sweet and pure as an angel. to conceal his deep love

for she be beyond his power; eye, tone, manner, tacitly and

unconsciously betray it. and Lady Adela, to give she her due, do

not encourage he to more.



and so, while poor Charley be live on in his fool's paradise,

wish for nothing, look for nothing, beyond the exquisite sense

of blis her daily presence bring he, supremely content could he

have live on it for ever, Lady Adela already find the affair be

grow rather monotonous. the chance be that have her husband and

Grace not speak to she, she would very speedily have throw off

Charley and his allegiance. Adela have no special pursuit whence to

draw daily satisfaction. no home (the French would well express it

by the word ménage) to keep up and contrive for; the hand of wealth

be at work, and all be provide for she to satiety; she have no

child to train and love; she have no husband whom it be a delight

to she to yield to, to please and cherish: bad than all, she have

(let we say _as yet_) no sense of responsibility to a high being,

for time and talent waste.



a woman cannot be truly happy (or a man either) unless she possess

some aim in life, some daily source of occupation, be it work or be it

pleasure, to contrive, and act, and live for. without it she become a

vapid, weary, discontent being, full of vague longing for she know

not what. one of two result be pretty sure to follow--mischief or

misery. Lady Adela be too young and pretty to be miserable, therefore

she turn to mischief.



Chance bring she an introduction to the Countess of Sanely, with

whom the Chenevix family have no previous acquaintance, and who have a

reputation for love high card-playing and for encourage it at her

house: she and Adela grow intimate, and Adela be draw into the

disastrous pursuit. at first she like it well enough; it be

fascinating, it be new: and now, when perhaps she be begin to be

a little afraid and would fain have retreat, she do not see her way

clear to do so: for she owe money that she could not pay.



Lady Grace Chenevix, unceremoniously leave alone in her sister's

drawing-room, rang the bell. it be to tell they to attend to the ink.

the carriage be not come for she till eleven o'clock, and it be

now but half-past ten. Hers be not very pleasant thought with which

to get through the solitary half-hour. Mr. Grubb come in, and inquire

for his wife. grace say she have go out.



"what, and leave you alone! where's she go to?"



"to Lady Sanely's."



"who be these Sanelys, Grace?" he inquire as he sit down. "Adela

pass four or five night a-week there. the other evening I take up

my hat to accompany she, and she would not have it. what sort of

people be they?"



"four or five night a-week," mechanically repeat Grace, pass

over his question. "and at what time do she get home?"



"at all hour. sometimes very late."



Grace sit commune with herself. should she impart this matter of

uneasiness to Mr. Grubb, or should she be silent, and let thing take

their chance; which of the two course would be more conducive to the

interest of Adela; for she be indeed most anxious for she. she

look up at he, at his noble countenance, betray command sense

and intellect--surely to impart the truth to such a man be to make a

confidant of one able to do for her sister all that could be do. Mr.

Cleveland and Mary both say he ought to hear it without delay. and

Grace's resolution be take.



"Mr. Grubb," she say, her voice somewhat unsteady, "Adela be your

wife and my sister; we have both, therefore, her true welfare at

heart. I have be deliberate whether I should speak to you upon a

subject which--which--give I uneasiness, and I believe I ought to do

so."



"Stay, Grace," he interrupt. "if it be--about--Cleveland, I would

rather not enter upon it. Lady Acorn speak to I today, and I have

give a hint to Adela."



"oh no, it be not that. she go on in a silly way with he, but

there's no harm in it, only thoughtlessness. I be _sure_ of it."



he nod his head, in acquiescence, and begin pace the room.



"it be of her intimacy with Lady Sanely that I would speak; these

frequent visit there. do you know what they say?"



"no," he reply, assume great indifference, his thought apparently

direct to place his foot on one particular portion of the pattern

of the carpet, and to nothing else.



"they say--they do say"--Grace falter, hesitate: she hate to do

this, and the question flash across she, could she still avoid it?



"say what?" say Mr. Grubb, carelessly.



"that play to an incredible extent be carry on there. and that Adela

have be induce to join in it."



his assumed indifference be forget now, and the carpet might have

be patternless for all he know of it. he have stop right under the

chandelier, its flood of light illumine his countenance as he look

long and hard at Grace, as one in a maze.



much that have be inexplicable in his wife's conduct for some little

time past be render clear now. her feverish restlessness on the

evening she be go to Lady Sanely's; her come home at all hour,

jade, sick, out of spirit, yet unable to sleep; her extraordinary

demand for money, latterly to an extent which have puzzle and almost

terrify he. but he have never yet refuse it to she.



"it must be put a stop to somehow," say Grace.



"it must," he answer, resume his walk, and draw a deep breath.

"what's all this wet on the carpet?"



"an accident this evening. some ink be throw down: my fault, I

believe. at any cost, any sacrifice," continue Lady Grace. "if the

habit should get hold of Adela, there be nothing but unhappiness

before she--perhaps ruin."



"any cost, any sacrifice, that I can make, shall be make," repeat

Mr. Grubb. "but Adela will listen to no remonstrance from I. you know

that, Grace."



"you must--stop the supply," suggest Grace, drop her voice to

a confidential whisper. "have she have much of late?"



"yes."



"More than her allowance? perhaps not, as that be so liberal."



"her allowance!" half laugh her husband, not a happy laugh. "it have

be, to what she have draw of I, as a silver coin in a purse of

gold."



Grace clasp her hand. "and you let she have it! do you suspect

nothing?"



"not of this nature. I suspect that she might be buy costly

thing--after the reckless fashion of Selina Dalrymple. or else

that--forgive I, Grace, I would rather not say more."



"Nay," say Grace, rise to put her hand on his arm and meet his

earnest glance, "let there be entire confidence between we; keep

nothing back."



"well, Grace, I fancy she might be lend it to your mother."



"no, no; my mother have not borrow from she lately. oh, how can we

save she! this be an insinuate vice that gain upon its votary,

they say, like the eating of opium."



"your carriage, my lady," interrupt a servant, enter the room.

and Grace catch up her mantle.



"must you go, Grace? it be scarcely eleven."



"yes. if mamma do not have the carriage to the minute, she willn't

cease scold for day, and it must take I home first. dear Mr.

Grubb, turn this over in your mind," she whisper, "and see what you

can do. use your influence with she, and be firm."



"my influence, do you say?" and there be a touch of sarcasm in his

tone, mingle with a grief painful to hear. "what have my influence

with she ever be, grace?"



"I know, I know," she cry, wring his hand, and turn from he

towards the stair, that he might not see the tear gather in her

eye. tear of sympathy with his wrong, and partly, perhaps, of

regret: for she be think of that curious misapprehension, year

ago, when she have be lead to believe that it be herself who be his

choose bride. "I would not have treat he so," her heart murmur;

"I would have make his life a happy one, as he deserve it should be."



he gain upon her fast step; and, draw her arm within his, lead

her downstair, and place she in the carriage.



"dear Mr. Grubb," she whisper, as he clasp her hand, "do not let

what I have be oblige to say render you harsh with poor Adela.

different day may be in store for you both; she may yet be the mother

of your child, when happiness in each other would surely follow. do

not be unkind to she."



"unkind to Adela! no, Grace. separation, rather than unkindness."



"separation!" gasp Grace, the ominous word affright she.



"I have think sometimes that it may come to it. a man cannot

patiently endure contumely for ever, Grace."



he withdraw his hand from her, and turn back into his desolate

home. grace sink back in the carriage, with a mental prayer.



"God keep he; God comfort he, and help he to bear!"









CHAPTER XX.

a present of coffee.





it be two o'clock when Lady Adela return home. she run lightly

upstairs and into the drawing-room, throw off her mantle as she

come in. a tray of refreshment stand on a side-table.



Mr. Grubb rise from his chair. "it be very late, Adela."



"late! not at all. I wish to _goodness_ you wouldn't sit up for I!"



she go to the table and stand look at the decanter, as if

deliberate what she should take, murmur something about be

"frightfully thirsty."



"what shall I give you?" he ask.



"nothing," be the ungracious answer, most ungraciously speak. and

she pour out a tumbler of weak sherry-and-water, and drink it; a

second, and drank that also. then, without take any notice of he,

she go up to her chamber. anything more pointedly, stingingly

contemptuous than her behaviour to her husband now, and for some time

past, have never be exhibit by mortal woman.



Mr. Grubb ring for the servant to put out the wax-light, and go up

in his turn. there be no sleep for he that night, whatever there

might have be for she. he know not how to act, how to arrest this

new pursuit of her; he scarcely know even how to open the matter to

she. she appear to be asleep when he rise in the morning and pass

into his dressing-room. she herself soon afford he the opportunity.



he be seat at his solitary breakfast, a meal his wife rarely

condescend to take with he, when she maid enter, bring a

message from her lady--that she wish to see he before he leave for

the City. Master Charley Cleveland, usually his breakfast companion,

have not make his appearance at home since the previous night.



"be your lady up, Darvy?"



"oh dear yes, sir, and at breakfast in her dressing-room."



he go up to it. how very lovely she look, sit there at her

coffee, in her embroider white dress and pink ribbon, and the

delicate lace cap shade her sweet feature. she have rise thus early

to get money from he; he know that, before she ask for it.



"you wish to see I, Lady Adela."



"I want some money," she say in a light, flippant kind of tone, as if

it be the sole purpose of Mr. Grubb's existence to supply she

demand.



"impossible," he rejoin. "you have two hundred pound from I the day

before yesterday."



"I must have two hundred more this morning. I want it."



"what be it that you be do with all this money? it have much

puzzle I."



"oh--make a purse for myself," she answer saucily.



"you can trust to I to do that for you. I cannot continue to supply

you, Adela."



"but I must have it," she retort, raise her voice, and speak as

if he be the very dirt under her foot. "I will have it."



"no," he reply calmly, but with firm resolution in his tone. "I

shall give you no more until your allowance be due."



she look up, quite a furious expression on her lovely face.



"not give it I! why, what do you suppose I marry you for?"



"Adela!" come his reproof, almost whisper.



"I would not have take you but for your money; you know that. they

promise I at home that I should have unlimited command of it; and I

will."



"you have have unlimited command," he observe, and there be no

irritation suffer to appear in his tone, whatever may have be his

inward pain. "it be for your own sake I must discontinue to supply

it."



"you be intelligible!" be her scornful rejoinder: for, in good

truth, this refusal be make havoc of her temper.



 "all that you can

need in every way shall be your, Adela. purchase what you like, order

what you like; I will pay the bill without a murmur. _but I will not

give you money to waste, as you have latterly waste it, at Lady

Sanely's_."



she rise from her seat, pale with anger. "First Charles Cleveland,

then Lady Sanely: what else be I to be lecture upon? how dare you

presume to interfere with my pursuit?"



"I should ill be fulfil my duty to you, or my love either, Adela,

what be leave of it, if I do not interfere."



"I will not listen, Mr. Grubb: if you attempt to preach to I, as you

do last night, I will run away. sit down and write I a cheque for

the money."



"there be no necessity for I to repeat my refusal, Adela. until I

have reason to believe that this new liking for play have leave you, you

should draw my blood from I, soon than money to pursue it. but

remember," he impressively add, "that I say this in all kindness."



she look at he, her delicate throat work, her breath grow

short with passion.



"will you give I the cheque?"



"I will not. anything more, Adela, for I be late?"



there be no answer in word, but she suddenly raise the cup, which

chance to be in her hand and be half full of coffee and fling it at

he. it strike he on the chin, the coffee fall upon his clothe.



it be a moment of embarrassment for they both. he look steadfastly

at she, with a calm, despair sorrow, and then quit the room.

Lady Adela, her sense return, sink back in her chair; and in the

reaction of her inexcusable passion, she sob aloud.



it be quite a violent fit of sobbing: and she smother her head up

that he should not hear. she do feel ashamed of herself, feel even a

little honest shame at her general treatment of he. as her sob

subside, she hear he in his dressing-room, change his thing, and

she wish she have not do it. but she must have the money; that, and

more; and without it, she should be in a frightful dilemma, and

might have her name post up as a card-play defaulter in the

drawing-room of society. so she determine to have another battle for

it with her husband, and she dry the tear on her fair young face,

and open his dressing-room door quite humbly, so to say, and go

into it.



it be empty. Mr. Grubb's movement have be rapid, and he be already

go. he have put out of sight the stain thing take off, remove

all trace of they. be she not sensible even of this? do she not

know that he be thus cautious for her own sake--that no scandal might

be give to the servant? not she. with his disappearance, and the

consequent failure of her hope, all her resentment be return. her

foot kick against something on the floor, and she stoop to pick it

up. it be her husband's cheque-book, which he must have unconsciously

drop when transfer thing from one pocket to another.



be a demon just then at Lady Adela's side?--what else could have

impel her?--what else whisper to she of a way to supply the money

she want? once only a momentary hesitation cross she; but she

drive it away, and carry the cheque to her writing-table and _use

one of they_.



she draw it for five hundred pound, a heavy sum, and she boldly

sign it "Grubb and Howard." for it happen to be the cheque-book of

the firm, not of her husband's private account. she be clever at

drawing, clever at imitating style of writing--not that she have ever

turn her talent to its present use, or think so to turn it--and

the signature, when finish, look very like her husband's own. then

she carry back the cheque-book, and lay it on the floor where she

find it.



some time after all this be accomplish, she be pass downstairs,

deliberate upon whether she could dare to go to the bank herself to

get the cheque cash, when Charles Cleveland come in, and bound up

the stair.



"where do Mr. Grubb breakfast this morning?" he inquire, apparently

in a desperate hurry, as they shake hand, and turn into one of the

sitting-room, Charley devour she with his eye all the time.

little blame to he either, for she be look most lovely: the

excitement, arise from what she have do, glow in her cheek like

a sweet blush rise.



"what a question! he breakfast at home."



"yes, yes, dear Lady Adela. I mean in which room." for Mr. Grubb

sometimes breakfast in the regular breakfast-room, and sometimes in

his library.



"I really don't know, and don't care," return Adela, connect the

question somehow, in her own mind, with the present of coffee he have

receive. "his breakfasting be a matter of indifference to I. and

pray, Mr. Charley, where do _you_ breakfast this morning?--and what

become of you last night? have you be make a night of it with the

owl and the bat?"



"I go to my brother's. Harry have some fellow with he, and we, as

you express it, dear Lady Adela, make a night of it. that is, we break

up so late that I would not disturb your house by return here:

Harry give I a sofa, and I go direct from he to Leadenhall Street

this morning."



"and what have you come back for?"



"for Mr. Grubb's cheque-book. he have miss it, and think he must

have leave it on the breakfast-table."



"Charley," she say, "I be just want you. _will_ you do I a

favour?"



"I will do everything you wish," he answer, his tone literally

tremble with tenderness.



"I want you to go to the bank in Lombard Street, and get I a cheque

cash. Mr. Grubb give it I this morning, and I be in a hurry for the

money, for I expect people here every minute with some account. it be

not cross. take a cab, and go at once."



"I will. I can leave the cheque-book in Leadenhall Street first."



"no, you must not wait to find the cheque-book. I will look for it

whilst you be go. you will not be many minute, I be sure, and I

tell you I be all impatience."



Charley Cleveland hesitate. "I scarcely know what to say," he

reply, dubiously, to this. "Mr. Grubb be wait for the

cheque-book. this be Saturday, you know."



"what if it be?"



"we be always so busy on Saturdays."



"very well, Charles," she return in hurt, resentful tone. "if you

like Mr. Grubb well than you do I, you will oblige he first. you

would be there and back in no time."



"Dearest Lady Adela! like Mr. Grubb well than---- well, I will do

it, though I dare say I shall get into a row. have the cheque-book

ready, that I may not lose a moment when I get back." and Adela nod

assent.



"a confound row, too," he mutter to himself, as he tear down the

stair, and into the cab; "but I will go through a thundercloud full

of row for _her_." Charley give a concise word to the driver, and

away dash the cab towards Lombard Street, at a pace which terrify

the road generally, and greatly astonish the apple-stall.



he be back in an incredibly short space of time, and pay the note

over to she. "have you find the cheque-book?" he ask then.



"I declare I never think about it," be Lady Adela's reply. "but he

breakfast in the library, I hear. perhaps you will find it there."



he rush into the library. and there, on the table, be the miss

cheque-book. oh, wary Lady Adela!



she follow he into the room. "Charley," she whisper, "don't say

you have be out for I--no need to say you have see I. the fact

be, that staid husband of mine have a grumbling fit upon he last

night, and accuse I of talk and laugh too much with the world

in general and Mr. Charles Cleveland in particular. if they find fault

with you for loitering, say you be detain on some matter of your

own."



he nod in the affirmative. but a red vermilion be steal over

his face, dye it to the very root of his hair, and his heart's

pulse be rise high. for surely in that last speech she mean to

imply that she _love_ he. and Master Charles feel his brain turn

round as it have never turn before, and he bent that flushed face

down upon her hand, and leave on it an impassioned, though very

respectful kiss, by way of adieu.



"what a young goose he be!" think Adela.



very ill at ease, that day, be the Lady Adela. reckless though she

might be as to her husband's good opinion, implicitly secure though

she feel that he would hush up the matter and shield she from

consequence, she could not help be dissatisfied with what she have

do. suppose exposure came?--she would not like that. she have write

Mr. Howard's name, as well as her husband's! she lose herself in a

reverie, her mind run from one ugly point to another. try as she

would, she could not drive the thought away, and by the afternoon she

have become seriously uneasy. be such a case ever know as that of a

wife be bring to trial for---- "whatever possess I to dwell

upon such thing?" she mentally query, start up in anger with

herself. "rather order the carriage and go and pay my last night's

loss."



from Lady Sanely's she go to her mother's, intend to stay and

dine there. somehow she be already begin to shrink from meet

her husband's face. however, she find they be all engage to dine

at Colonel Hope's, include her sister Mary. so Adela have to return

home: but she take care not to do it until close upon the dinner hour.



Mr. Grubb and Charles Cleveland be both at table. neither of they

allude to the unpleasant topic uppermost in her mind, so she

conclude that as yet nothing have come out. Mr. Grubb be very

silent--the result no doubt of the coffee in the morning.



"I be go to Netherleigh tomorrow morning, sir," observe Charles;

"shall try to get there in time for church. my father have write to

ask I. could you allow I to remain for Monday also? Harry mean to

run down that day, to say good-bye."



"Monday?" consider Mr. Grubb. "yes, I suppose you can. there's

nothing particular that you will be require for on Monday, that I

know of. you may stay."



"thank you, sir."



"when do your brother leave?"



"I think on Tuesday morning."



accordingly, on the follow morning, Sunday, Charley leave the house

to go to Netherleigh. Mr. Grubb go to church, as usual; Adela make

excuse--say her head ache. when he return home at one o'clock, he

find she have go to her mother's; and, without say to he with

your leave, or by your leave, without, in fact, give he any

intimation whatever, she remain at Chenevix House for the rest of

the day.



on the Monday, Mr. Grubb go to business at the customary hour,

but return early in the afternoon to attend some public

meeting in Westminster, connect with politic. influential

people--conservative: who be call Tories then--have for some time

past been solicit he to go into Parliament; he have not quite make

up his mind yet whether he would, or not.



he and his wife dine alone. Lord and Lady Kindon, with whom they be

intimate, be to have dine with they; but only a few minute before

the time of sit down, a note come to say they have receive ill

news of one of their child, who be at school at Twickenham, and

have to hasten thither. Adela be tryingly cross and contrary at table:

she have not wish to be alone with her husband, lest he should have

find out what she have do, and begin upon it. so, after the first

few minute, the meal proceed nearly in silence. she do not fear

the explosion quite as much as she do at first: each hour, as it go

on smoothly, help to make her uneasiness less.



but she be not to escape long. just as the servant be quit the

room, leave the wine on the table, one of they come back again.



"Mr. Howard have call, sir. he say he would not disturb you at this

hour, but he must see you on a matter of press business."



"press business!" echo Mr. Grubb. "show Mr. Howard in. a chair,

Richard, and glass."



the stiff and stern old man enter, bow to Lady Adela. his

iron-grey hair look greyer than usual, and his black coat rusty.

rusty coat be wear by more than one millionaire.



"why, Howard, this be quite an event for you! why do you not come in

time for dinner? sit down. anything new? anything happen?"



"why, yes," reply Mr. Howard, who be a slow-speak man, give

one the idea that the bump of caution must be large on his head.

"thank you, port."



"what be it?" inquire the senior partner.



"I will enter upon the matter presently," reply James Howard,

deliberately sip his wine. by which answer Mr. Grubb of course

understand that he would only speak when they be alone.



Lady Adela swallow her strawberry and leave her seat so quickly

that Mr. Grubb could hardly get to the door in time to open it, and

she go up to the drawing-room. she feel sure, as sure as though she

could read his very thought, that "that horrid Howard" have come about

the cheque. she do not care so much that her husband should find it

out; he might do his good and his bad, and the bad from he she

do not dread greatly; but that that old ogre should know it, perhaps

take step--oh, that be quite another thing. _could_ he take

steps?--would the law justify it? Adela do not know; but she begin to

give the rein to her imagination, and cower in terror.



as she thus sit, her ear painfully alive to every sound, a cab

rattle into the square, and stop at the door. it bring Charles

Cleveland. Charley have just come up from Netherleigh; the train be

late, and he be in a desperate hurry to get into his dress-clothe,

to attend a "spread"--it be what Charley call it--give by his

brother. Adela run out, and arrest he as he be make for his

room, three stair at a time.



"Charley, I want to speak to you--just for a moment. what mortal haste

you be in!"



to be invite thus into the drawing-room by she, to meet she again

after this temporary absence, be to he as light break in upon

darkness. "oh, Charles," she add, give he both her hand, in the

moment's agitation, "surely some good fairy send you! I be in

distress."



"can I soothe it?" he ask, wonder at her emotion, and retain

her hand in his. "can I do anything for you?"



"I be in sore need of a friend--to--to shelter I," she continue.

"great, desperate need!"



"can I be that friend? suffer I, if you can. _suffer_ I to be, Lady

Adela. dear! dear! what can have happen?"



"but it may bring danger upon you, difficulty, even disgrace. I

believe I ought not to ask it of you."



"danger and difficulty would be welcome, bear for you," return

Charley, in his loyalty. "believe that, Lady Adela."



he could not imagine what be amiss, and he catch somewhat of her

agitation. that she be in real trouble, nay, in terror, be all too

plain. for a moment the thought occur--be Mr. Grubb angry with she

on his account? oh, what a privilege it appear to he, foolish but

honest-hearted fellow, to be ask to shield she!



"I will trust you," she cry, her emotion increase. "that cheque--

but oh, Charles, do not you think ill of I! it be do in a moment

of irritation."



"say on, dear Lady Adela."



"that cheque--he do not give it I. I have ask for money, and he

refuse. I want it badly; and I be angry with he: _so I draw out

the cheque_."



Charley feel all at sea: not comprehend in the least. she see it:

and be force to go on with her painful explanation. the colour be

come and go in her cheek; now white as a lily, now rise-red.



"that cheque you cash for I on Saturday morning, Charley. Mr. Grubb

do not draw it. Mr. Howard's name be sign as well as his; and--and

he be with my husband in the dining-room, and I be frightened to

death."



there be a momentary pause. Charley understand now; and see all the

_difficulty_ of the matter, as she have lightly call it. but his

honest love for she be work strongly in his heart, and he form a

hasty, chivalrous resolve to shield she if he could. have she not

appeal to he?



"I want you not to say that it be from I you have the cheque,

Charley."



"I never will say it. rely upon I."



"they cannot do anything to I, I suppose; or to anyone else," she

go on. "it be the exposure that would drive I wild. I could not

bear that even that old Howard should know it be I. Oh, Charles, what

can be do?"



"be at ease, Lady Adela. you shall never repent your confidence. not a

breath of suspicion shall come near you. I will shield you; I be proud

to do it: shield you, if need be, with my life. you little know how

valueless that life would be without your society, dear Lady Adela."



"now, Charles, hold your tongue. you must not take to say such thing

to I. they be not right--and be all nonsense besides. what would

Mr. Grubb think?"



"forgive I," murmur Charley, all repentance. "I do not mean to say

aught that be disloyal to he or you, Lady Adela: I could not be

capable of it, now, or ever. and I will keep my word--to shield you

through this trouble. I repeat it. I swear it."



he wring her hand in token of good-faith, and escape to prepare for

his engagement. she sit down, somewhat reassure, but not at all easy

in her conscience. the world just now seem rather hard to the Lady

Adela.









CHAPTER XXI.

give into CUSTODY.





they sit at the well-spread dessert-table in Grosvenor Square, those

two gentleman, the sole partner of almost the wealthy house in

London; keen, honourable, first-rate man of business, yet present

somewhat of a contrast in themselves. he at the table head, Francis

Grubb, be fine and stately, wear in his countenance, in its

expression of form and feature, the impress of true nobility--nature's

nobility, not that of the peerage--and young yet. James Howard, who

might be call the chief partner, so far as work and constant,

regular attendance in the City go, though he do not receive

anything like an equal share of the profit, be an elderly man,

high-shoulder, his face hard and stern, his hair iron-grey, and his

black coat rusty. Mr. Howard have walk up from his house in Russell

Square this evening to confer with his chief upon some matter of

business. it a little surprised Mr. Grubb: for, with they, business

discussion be always confine to their legitimate province--the

City.



the Lady Adela, Mr. Grubb's rebellious but very charming wife, quit

the room speedily, leave they to the discussion that Mr. Howard have

intimate he wish for. but Mr. Howard do not show himself in any

haste to enter upon it. he sit on, survey abstractedly the

glitter table before he, with its rich cut glass, its silver, its

china, and its sweet flower, talk--abstractedly also--of the

pass topic of the day, more particularly of a political meeting

which have take place that afternoon. Mr. Grubb be a Conservative; he

a Liberal; or, as it be more often style in those day, Tory and

Whig.



"what news be it that you have bring I, Howard?" begin Mr. Grubb,

at last, break a pause of silence.



"ay--my news," return Mr. Howard, as though recall to the thought.

"do you draw a cheque on Saturday morning, before leave home, in

favour of self, and get it cash at Glyn's?"



Mr. Grubb throw his thought back on Saturday morning. the

reminiscence be unpleasant. the scene which have take place with his

wife be painful to he, disgraceful to she. he have draw no cheque.



"no," he answer, think a great deal more of that scene than of

Mr. Howard's question.



"a cheque for five hundred pound, in favour of self?" continue Mr.

Howard, slowly sip his port wine.



"I don't draw at Glyn's in favour of self. you know that, Howard, as

well as I do." Messrs. Glyn and Co. be the banker of the firm;

Coutts and Co. the private banker of Mr. Grubb.



"just so. therefore, upon the fact come to our notice this afternoon

that such a cheque have be draw and pay, I step over to Glyn's

and make inquiry."



"how do it come to your notice?"



"this way. John Strasfield have all the cheque draw last week send to

he for the usual purpose of verification--he have his own way of

do his business, you know. in look over they he be rather

strike with this cheque, because it be draw to self. self, too; not

self. after regard it for a minute or two, another thought strike

he--that the signature be not quite like your. so he bring the

cheque to I. I don't think you sign it."



Mr. Grubb rise and close the door, which he have leave ajar after

open it for Lady Adela, the evening be very warm. John

Strasfield be their confidential cashier in Leadenhall Street.



"if it be your signature, your hand must have be nervous when you

write it," continue Mr. Howard, "render the letter less decide

than usual."



that Mr. Grubb have be nervous on Saturday morning he be quite

conscious of; though not, he believe, to the extent of make his

hand unsteady. but he have not draw any cheque.



"it be draw in favour of self, you say. be it sign with my

private signature, Francis C. C. Grubb?"



"no; with the firm's signature, Grubb and Howard. Glyn's people

suspect nothing wrong, and cash it."



"who present the cheque?"



"Charles Cleveland. and he receive the money."



"Charles Cleveland!" repeat Mr. Grubb, in surprise, his whole

attention fully arouse now. "there be some mystery about this."



"so it seem to I," answer the eld man. "Cleveland stay out of

town today--by your leave, I think you say."



"yes, he ask I on Saturday to let he have today; he be go

down to Netherleigh: his eld brother, Captain Cleveland, mean to

run down there to say good-bye, Charles will be back tonight, I

suppose. but--I don't understand about this cheque."



"I'm sure I don't," say Mr. Howard. "except that Charles Cleveland

get it cash."



"where do Charles Cleveland procure the cheque?" ask Mr. Grubb, his

head all in a puzzle. "who draw the cheque? where's the money? Howard,

there must be some mistake in your information."



"it be Saturday morning that you leave the cheque-book at home, and

send Cleveland for it, if you remember," say Mr. Howard, quietly.



"ah, to be sure it be; I do remember. a long while he be go."



"you ask he what make he so long: I chance to be in your room at

the moment: and he say he have be do a little errand for himself.

well, during the period of his absence, that is, somewhere between ten

and half-past eleven, the cheque be present by he at Glyn's, and

cash. what do it all say?" conclude Mr. Howard.



Francis Grubb look a little bewildered. no clear idea upon the point

be suggest itself to his mind.



"I think young Cleveland be give to improvident habit," resume

Mr. Howard, "but I never suspect he be one to help himself to money

in this way; to----"



"he _cannot_ have do it," interrupt Mr. Grubb, earnestly decisive.

"it be quite impossible. Charles Cleveland be foolish and silly

enough, just as boy will be, for he be no well than a boy; but he

be honest and honourable."



"be you aware that he spend a great deal of money?"



"I think he do. I say so to he last week. it be that pour wet

day, Wednesday I think, and I tell he he might go down to Leadenhall

Street with I in the carriage, if he like. I take the opportunity of

speak to he about his expenditure, tell he it be a great deal

easy to get into debt than to get out of it."



"which he have find out for himself, I expect," grumble Mr. Howard.

"how do he receive it?"



"as ingenuously as you could wish. blush like a school-girl. he

confess that he have be spend too much money lately, and lay it

chiefly to the score of his brother's be in London. Captain

Cleveland's comrade be rather an extravagant set; the allowance that

he get from his uncle be good; and Charles have be lead into expense

through mix with they. the very moment his brother leave, he say,

he should draw in and spend next to nothing."



Mr. Howard smile grimly. "one evening, stroll out after my dinner,

I chance to meet my young gentleman, come full upon he as he be

turn out of a florist's, a big bouquet of white flower in his

hand. 'you must have give a guinea for that, young sir,' I say to

he, and he do not deny it; just leap into a cab and be off. I

don't suppose those flower be present to Captain Cleveland or to

any of his comrade."



Mr. Grubb knit his brow. he have not the slight doubt they be

intend for his wife. what a silly fellow that Charley be!



"he may get into debt; I feel sure he be in debt; but he would not

commit forgery--or help himself to money that be not his. I tell you,

Howard, the thing be impossible."



"he present the cheque and receive the money," dryly remark Mr.

Howard. "what have he do with it?"



"but no one, not oven a madman, would go to work in this bareface

way," contend his more generous-minded partner, "conscious that it

must bring immediate detection and punishment upon his head."



"Detection, yes; punishment do not necessarily follow. that, he may

be already safe from."



"how do you mean?"



"suppose you inquire what clothe he take with he," suggest Mr.

Howard. "my impression be that he's off. go. the Netherleigh tale

may have be only a blind."



Mr. Grubb rise and ring the bell, stagger nearly out of his sense;

and, until it be answer, not another word be speak. each

gentleman be busy with his own thought.



"Richard," begin the master to his servant, "when Mr. Charles

Cleveland leave for the country yesterday morning, do he take much

luggage with he?"



"I don't think he take any, sir; unless it be his small portmanteau."



"do you happen to hear he say whether he intend to make a long

stay?"



"I do not hear he say anything, sir: he go out early, to catch the

first train. but Mr. Cleveland be back."



"back!" echo Mr. Howard, surprise into the interference.



"yes, sir, just now, and go out again as soon as he have dress. he

be go to dine at the Army and Navy."



"then no elucidation can now take place until morning," observe Mr.

Grubb, as the servant withdraw. "when he have go out lately on these

dining bout he do not get home till late, sometimes not at all. but

rely upon it, Howard, this matter will be clear up satisfactorily,

so far as he be concern. though what the mystery attend the

cheque can be, I be not able to imagine."



"I'm sure I be not, look at it from your point of view," return

the eld man. "see here: you come down to Leadenhall Street on

Saturday morning, and find you have leave the cheque-book of the firm

at home here. you send Charles Cleveland for it, tell he to take a

cab and to make haste. after be away three or four time as long as

he need be, he come back with the cheque-book, having find it, he

say, where you have tell he it probably would be find--in the room

where you breakfast. he do not account for his delay, except by

the excuse that he be do an errand for himself, and beg pardon

for it. well and good. today we find that a cheque have be

abstract from that same cheque-book, fill in for five hundred

pound, and be cash by Cleveland himself; all during this same

interval on Saturday morning when he decline to account for his time.

what do you make of it?"



put thus plainly before he, Mr. Grubb do not know what to make of

it, and his faith in Charles Cleveland begin to waver. the most

confide mind cannot fight altogether against palpable fact. Mr.

Howard open his pocketbook, take the cheque in question from it, and

lay it, open, before his senior partner.



"this be not Cleveland's writing," remark Mr. Grubb.



"of course not. it be an imitation of your. that be, not his ordinary

handwriting. he have do it pretty cleverly. Glyn's be deceive. not

but that I consider Glyn's clerk be incautious not to see the

difference between 'self' and 'self.' he say he do not notice the

word at all: but he ought to have notice it."



"it be a singular affair altogether," observe Mr. Grubb, in a musing

tone. "to begin with, my bring home the cheque-book at all be

singular. you be not in the City on Friday, you know, Howard,

and----"



"I couldn't come when I be ill," grunt out Mr. Howard.



"my dear, good old friend, do you suppose I think you could?"

answer Mr. Grubb, check a laugh. "I be go to say that, as you

be absent, I sign the cheque on Friday, and the book lie on my

desk. it happen that my private cheque-book also lie there. when I

leave, I put the firm's cheque-book in my pocket by mistake, and lock

up the other; meaning, of course, to do just the contrary. but for

this carelessness on my part, Charles Cleveland would not have have the

opportunity of--Good Heavens! what a blow this will be for his father!

we must hush it up!"



"hush it up!" cry out the other and sterner man of business. "not if

I know it. that's just like you, Francis Grubb! your uncle Francis, my

many year' friend, use to accuse you, you know, of have a soft

place in your heart."



"I be think of that good man, with his many care, the Rector of

Netherleigh."



"and I be think of his son's bold, bareface iniquity. be you very

sure of one thing, sir--Glyn's willn't hush it up; they be the wrong

people to do it. neither must you. a pretty example it would be! no,

thank you, no more wine! I have have my quantum."



"well, well, we shall see, Howard. I cannot understand it yet."



when Mr. Grubb get upstairs that night, he find his wife go out,

leave no message for he. she never do leave any. Darvy think she

lady have go to the opera. Mr. Grubb follow, and find she there.

the box be full, and there be little room for he. he say nothing

to she of what have occur: he mean to keep it from she if he could,

to save her pain; and from all other, for the honourable and Reverend

Mr. Cleveland's sake.



Mr. Grubb sit down to breakfast the next morning alone. Lady Adela have

not rise; Charles Cleveland do not make his appearance.



"do Mr. Charles Cleveland know I be at breakfast, Hilson?" he

inquire of the butler, who be in attendance.



"Mr. Charles Cleveland leave word--I beg your pardon, sir, I forget to

mention it--that he have go out to breakfast with his brother,

Captain Cleveland, who sail today for India. he go out between six

and seven."



"he come home last night, then?"



"yes, sir; about one o'clock."



Mr. Grubb glance over the letter wait beside his plate, some for

himself, some for Lady Adela. amidst the former be one from his

sister, write the previous day. her mother (who have be seriously

ill for some time) be much bad, she say, and she beg she

brother to come down, if possible, in the morning.



it chance that Mr. Grubb have make one or two appointment for people

to see he that morning at his house; so that it be eleven o'clock

when he reach Leadenhall Street.



"well, where be he?" begin Mr. Howard, without ceremony of greeting.



"where's who?" ask Mr. Grubb.



"Charles Cleveland."



"what--be he not come yet?" return Mr. Grubb, whose thought have

be elsewhere.



"not yet. I don't think he mean to come."



to be late, or in any other way inattentive to his duty, have not

be one of Charley's sin. therefore his absence be the more

remarkable. Mr. Grubb start for Blackheath, almost endorse Mr.

Howard's opinion that the delinquent have embark with his brother for

India; or for some other place not speedily accessible to officer of

justice.



twelve o'clock be strike by St. Paul's when Charley bustle in;

hot, and out of breath. he be tell that Mr. Howard want he.



"I beg your pardon, sir, for be so late," he pant, address

himself to that gentleman, when he reach his private room,

"especially after my holiday of yesterday. I go early this morning

to Woolwich, and on board ship with my brother, intend to be back

by business hour; but, what with one delay and another, I be unable

to get up till now."



"it be not business-like at all, sir," growl the old merchant.

"but--stay a bit, Mr. Cleveland; we have a few question to put to

you."



Charles glance round. in his hurry, he have see no one but Mr.

Howard. his eye now fall on a little man, who sit in a corner. Charley

know he to be connect with Messrs. Glyn's house; and he know that

the time be at hand when he would have need of all his presence of

mind and his energy. it chance that this gentleman have just call

to enquire if anything have come to light about the mysterious cheque.



"you present a cheque for five hundred pound at Glyn's on Saturday

morning, and receive the amount in note," begin Mr. Howard, to

Charles. "from whom do you get that cheque?"



no reply.



"purport to be draw and sign by Mr. Grubb. I ask from whom you

receive it?"



"I decline to answer," Charles say at length, speak with

hesitation, in spite of his preparation for firmness.



"do you deny having present the cheque?"



"no. I do not deny that."



"do you deny having receive the money for it?" interpose the

gentleman from the bank.



"nor that, either. I acknowledge to having receive five hundred

pound. it would be bad than folly to deny it," continue Charles to

he, in a sort of calm desperation, "since your clerk could prove the

contrary."



"but do you know what you be lay yourself open to?" cry Mr.

Howard, evidently in a marvel of astonishment, for he take these

admission of Charles's to be tantamount to an absolute acknowledgment

of his guilt.



"I know now, sir."



"will you refund the money?" ask Mr. Howard, drop his voice; for

that stern man of business have be go over the affair half the

night as he lie in bed, and conclude to give the reckless young

fellow a chance. truth to say, Mr. Howard's bark be always bad than

his bite. "out of consideration for your family, connect, as it be,

with that of the head of our firm, we be willing to be lenient; and

if you will confess, and refund----"



"I cannot refund, and I must decline to answer any more question,"

interrupt Charles, fast relapse into agitation.



Mr. Howard stare at he. "do you understand, young man, what it be

that you would bring upon your head? in point of fact, we be lay

ourselves open to, I hardly know what penalty of law, in make you

this offer; but Mr. Grubb be anxious it should be hush up for your

father's sake--whom every one respect. if you decline it; if you set

I at defiance, as it seem to I you wish to do; I shall have no

resource but to give you into custody."



"I beg to state that the matter be not in our hand yet," speak up the

banker to Charles. "if it be, we could not make you any such offer.

though of course we can fully understand and appreciate the motive

that actuate your principal, with whom the affair at present wholly

rest. it would be a terrible blow to fall on the Cleveland family;

and every one must wish to save they from it."



"I--I be very sorry," gasp Charles, feel all this to his heart's

core. "Unfortunately----"



"the matter be not know beyond ourselves," interpose Mr. Howard

again, indicate himself and the banker; "and it need not be. but it

be solely out of consideration for your family, you understand, that

we offer to hush it up. will you explain?"



"I cannot. unfortunately, I cannot, sir. it be not in my power?"



"then I give you in charge at once."



"I cann't help it," say poor Charles, pass his hand over his hot

brow.



Mr. Howard, very hard, very uncompromising when deliberately provoke,

be as good as his word. and Charles Cleveland be give into custody

for forgery.









CHAPTER XXII.

"that it may be well with US in AFTER-life."





it be all over and do with long before Mr. Grubb get up from

Blackheath in the afternoon. he feel terribly vex. vex for Charles

himself, terribly vex for Charles's family, vex on his own score.

to his refined and sensitive mind, it almost seem that he have

violate the sacred law of hospitality, for Charles have be stay,

as a guest, in his house.



the first thing he do be to hasten to the prison to which Charles

have be convey, preparatory to his examination on the morrow. the

young man be in his cell, sit on the edge of his narrow bed, and

look very downhearted. the entrance of Mr. Grubb seem to bring to

he a sudden flash of hope. he start up.



"oh, sir," he exclaim, in high excitement, "will you not look over

this one error? my father will replace the money--I be sure he will,

rather than suffer this public disgrace to fall upon the family. do

not force the shame upon he. and--and there's my brother--just

embark--what will he do? oh, Mr. Grubb, if you will but have mercy!



"Charles--don't excite yourself like this--I have come here to offer

you the mercy," speak Mr. Grubb; and his considerate manner, his voice

of music, be just like a healing balm. "I have come straight from

Mr. Howard to renew the offer he make you. it be not yet too late: we

will make thing right tomorrow: there will be no prosecutor, you

understand. will you give I, myself only, the particular you deny

to Mr. Howard?"



just for one eager moment the wish flash across Charles's mind that

he might tell the truth to this good man. be he not Adela's husband,

and would he not excuse she in his love? the next, he see how futile

be the wish. could _he_ be the one to betray her?--and to her

husband? shame upon he for the thought! he have vow to she to hold

her harmless, and he would do so for her sake.



"to I it appear that there be a mystery in the affair which I cannot

fathom," continue Mr. Grubb. "your conduct in it be perfectly

incomprehensible. it may be well for you to confide in I, Charles."



"I cannot, sir. I wish I could."



"what if I tell you that, in spite of appearance, I do not myself

believe you guilty?"



a bright, eager flush, a glance as of mutual _understand_ illumine

for a moment Charley's face. it seem to say that just, honourable

nature know and trust in each other's innocence, no matter what may

be the surround sign of guilt. but the transient expression fade

away to sadness, and Mr. Grubb be in doubt whether it have really be

there.



"I can explain nothing," say the prisoner. "I can only thank you,

sir, for this proof of confidence, and implore your clemency on the

ground of compassion alone."



"Charles Cleveland, this willn't do. you be either guilty or innocent.

which be it?"



"guilty, of course," say Charley, in his desperation. for if he say

"innocent," the next rejoinder would be, "then who be guilty?" and he

could not answer that, or any other close question.



"do you do this vile thing of your own accord; or be you induce to

do it by another?" pursue Mr. Grubb, his head run upon Charley's

debt and Charley's fast companion.



"I--i--pray do not ask I more, sir! it be a wretched business, and I

must suffer for it."



"be I to understand that you wholly refuse to confide in me?--refuse

to be help? I would be your true friend."



"I must refuse," gasp poor Charley. "I have nothing to tell. I do

present the cheque at Glyn's, and I draw the money. and--and I hope

you will forgive I, sir, for I be very miserable."



"be all the money spend?"



"I--I have not as much as a shilling of it. if I have, I'd give it

back. it's too late."



nothing well than this could Mr. Grubb wring from the unfortunate

prisoner. and he leave he _believe he be guilty_. he leave in rather

an angry mood, too, for he think Charles be bear out Mr.

Howard's report, and show himself defiantly, ungratefully

obstinate. that he have be in some most pressing and perhaps

dangerous difficulty on the Saturday morning, and have use these

desperate mean to extricate himself, must be, he conclude, the fact.

a great deal of his compassion for Charles melt away; the young man

seem harden.



in the morning the case be take before the magistrate. it be hear

in private. the influential house, Grubb and Howard, could have

command a great concession than that. one magistrate only sit, a

very pliable one, Sir Turtle Kite. the case be only slightly go

into, the prosecutor ask for a remand until the following week:

they wish to trace out more particular, also wish to trace the

note. then the prisoner would be bring up again; and meanwhile he

be consign to that awful place, newgate.



in spite of all effort to keep it secret, the affair partially get

wind. not, however, in its true detail. all kind of exaggerated

rumour and surmise run the round of the club. but for the recent

sojourn of Captain Cleveland in London, Charley might have remain

quite an obscure individual, as regard the fashionable world. but he

have be a great deal with his brother, and be know and like

everywhere.



what a commotion arise! Charles Cleveland in Newgate on a

charge of robbery, or forgery, or what not! Charley Cleveland, the

popular--Charley Cleveland, the grandson of an earl gather to his

father, and nephew of one who stand in his shoe--Charley Cleveland,

the out-and-out good fellow, who be willnot to scare the blue-devil

away from every one--Charley Cleveland, who, in defiance of his

improvidence and his shallow pocket, be know to be of the nice

honour amongst the honourable!



"the thing's altogether preposterous," stutter John Cust, who have a

natural stammer. "if Charley have draw the money he would have have the

money, and I know that on Saturday afternoon he have not a rap, for he

borrow three sovs. of I to take he down to Brighton----"



"Netherleigh, Cust."



"Netherleigh, then. what put Brighton in my head, I wonder? Fancy he

go to try to get some money out of his governor."



"which he do," add Lord Deerham. "a five-pound note."



"and pay I back the three sovs. on the Monday night, when he come to

his brother's spread at the Rag and Famish," continue John Cust.

"Gammon! Charley have not be make free with any one's name."



"but he acknowledge to having draw the money," squeak Booby

Charteris. "a thousand pound, they say."



"you may take that in yourself, Booby. we don't."



"but the Lord Mayor----"



"Lord Mayor be hang! if he swear till he's black in the face that

Charley do it, I know he don't. there."



"'Twasn't the Lord Mayor. some other of those City bigwig."



"anyway, he be in Newgate. it's say, too, that it be Grubb and Howard

who have send he there."



"do he rob their cash-box?"



"do they accuse he of it, you mean, Booby. as if Charley would do

such a thing!"



"let we go down to Newgate, and have a smoke with he," cry

Charteris, who have so small a share of brain and so very small a

voice as to have acquire the nickname of Booby. "it may cheer the

young fellow up, under the present alarming state of thing."



"as if they'd admit we inside Newgate, or a smoke either!" retort

John Cust. "there's only one thing more difficult than get into

Newgate, and that be, if you be in, get out again. don't forget

that, Booby."



"couldn't some of we go and punch a few head down there, begin

with old Howard's?" again propose Booby. "I don't say Grubb's."



"Grubb have have nothing to do with bring the charge; you may rely

upon that," say Lord Deerham. "Grubb's a gentleman. you shut up,

Booby."



ah! it be all very well for these idle, foolish young man to express

their sympathy with the prisoner in their idle, foolish way: but, what

of the distress of those connect with he?



Thomas Cleveland, Honourable and Reverend, hear from his wife, who

be still stay at her mother's, that something be amiss, and come

up from Netherleigh to find his son incarcerate in Newgate, and

accuse of forgery. down he go to the prison at once, and obtain

admission. Charley look, in that short period, greatly change. his

dress be neglect, his hair unkempt, and his face haggard. Charley,

the fastidious!



Mr. Cleveland be overcome beyond control, and sob aloud. he be a

venerable-look man of nearly sixty year now, and have always be a

fond father. Charley be little less affected.



"why do you not kill I when you last come down, Charles?" he moan

out in his perplexity and anguish. "well have put I out of this

world of pain than bring this misery upon I. oh, my boy! my boy! you

be your mother's favourite: how can you so have disgrace she

memory?"



"I would I have be put out of the world, rather than be the curse to

you I have prove," writhe Charley, wish Newgate would yawn

asunder and engulph he. "oh, don't--father, don't!" he implore, as

Mr. Cleveland's sob echo through the cell. "if it will be a

consolation to you to know it, I will avow to you that I be not

guilty," he add, the sight of his father's affliction momentarily

outweigh his precaution. "by all your care of I, by your present

grief, by the memory of my dead mother, I swear to you that I be not

guilty."



Mr. Cleveland look up, and his heart leap within he. he know

Charles be speak truth. it be impossible to mistake that earnest

tone.



"thank God!" he murmur. "but what, then, be this I hear, about your

decline to make a defence?" he presently ask. "I be tell you have

as good as acknowledge your guilt." Charles hang his head, and

relapse into prudence again.



"my boy, answer I. how came you to accept--as it be--the charge, if

you be innocent?"



"for your private comfort I have say this, dear father, but it must

remain between we as if it have not be speak. the world must still,

and always, believe I guilty."



"but why?--why? what mystery be this?"



"do not ask I, sir. believe that you have not a son more free from

the guilt of this crime than I be. nevertheless, I must pay the

penalty, for I cannot defend myself."



Mr. Cleveland think this about the most extraordinary thing he have

ever meet with. nothing more could be get out of Charles; nevertheless,

he do believe in his innocence. from Newgate he go on to Leadenhall

Street, to see the gentleman who have bring this charge, and find

only one of they in: Mr. Grubb.



"you be not more pained at the affair than I be," say the latter,

close the door of his private room, "and certainly not more

astonish."



"oh, Mr. Grubb," cry the clergyman, "could you not have hush this

wretched disgrace up, for all our sakes?--or at least make more

inquiry before take these extreme step? you who have show so

much true friendship for I!"



"I would have hush it up. I wish to hush it up altogether. I would

have pay the money over and over again out of my own pocket, rather

than it should have become know, even to Mr. Howard. it be he,

however, who bring the tiding of it to I."



"and Mr. Howard would not?"



"Mr. Howard would. at first he seem inclined to be hard. thorough

business man look upon these thing with a stern eye. however, he know

my wish, and come to. he be the first to speak to Charles. he ask

he to acknowledge the truth to he, and he would forgive it. Charles

refuse; set he, so to say, at defiance; tell he, I believe, to do

his good and his bad; and Mr. Howard give he into custody."



"it be very strange."



"when I find what have happen--I have be out of town that day--I

go at once to Charles. I tell he that I could not believe he

guilty, and I entreat he to tell I the circumstance of the case,

which look to I then, and look still, unaccountably mysterious----"



"and he would not?" interrupt Mr. Cleveland, recall how Charles

have just meet a similar request from himself.



"he would not tell I a word: tell I he would not. I say I could

even then set matter straight, and would get his release on the

morrow, and nothing about it should ever transpire. he thank I, but

say he have nothing to tell; be, in fact, guilty. I could only think

he must be guilty, and leave he with that impression on my mind."



"it be altogether very strange," repeat Mr. Cleveland, in a musing

tone, as he sit stroke his face and thinking. "will you state the

particular to I, as far as you be cognizant of they. I ask

Charles to do so, but he would not."



"it occur on Saturday morning," begin Mr. Grubb. "when I reach

the City, here, I find I have not get with I the cheque-book of the

firm, which I have take away by mistake the previous evening; and I

send Charles home to look for it. he be a long while go, but

bring it when he come. during the period of his absence one of the

cheque be abstract, fill up for five hundred pound, and----"



"fill up by whom?"



"the writing be an imitation of mine. Charles present it at Glyn's,

and get it cash. all this he acknowledge to; but he refuse to say

what he do with the money."



"Mr. Grubb," cry the agitated father, "appearance be against

he--be never, I perceive, more strongly against any one; but,

before Heaven I believe he to be innocent."



Mr. Grubb make no reply.



"he have assure I of his innocence by the memory of his dead mother;

and innocent I be sure he must be. he state in the same breath that

he should avow it to no one else, but submit to the penalty of the

crime just as though he have commit it. as to what he do with the

money--he could not have use it for himself. on that very Saturday

afternoon he have to borrow money to bring he down to Netherleigh the

next morning. John Cust lend it he."



"it be very singular," acknowledge Mr. Grubb.



"Charles confess as much to I at Netherleigh--that he have borrow

the money from Cust to get down with; three pound, I think it be. I

give he a five-pound note, and a lecture with it. he promise to be

more cautious for the future, and say that after Harry leave he should

not have occasion to spend much--which be true. but now, what I would

like to know be this--if he draw that money, that five hundred pound,

where be it? how come it that the next hour, so to say, he have none in

his pocket?"



Mr. Grubb certainly could not answer, and remain silent.



"have he be make the instrument of another?" return Mr. Cleveland.

"be be impose upon by any one?--sent to cash a cheque that he

himself think be a genuine and proper cheque?"



"that be scarcely likely. be it the case, what objection could he

have to declare it? my opinion be--I be sorry to have to give it--that

Charles have get into some desperate money trouble, and use desperate

remedy to extricate himself."



"what more desperate trouble could he be in than this?"



"true. but he may have hope we should be lenient. even now," add

Mr. Grubb, his voice tremble with the concern he feel; "we might be

able to save he if he would only disclose the truth. Mr. Howard

absolutely refuse to quash the matter unless he do so: and I think

he be right."



"but Charles willn't disclose it; he willn't," bewail the clergyman,

take the other's hand in token of his gratitude. "look here, my dear

friend," he add, after a pause of thought, "can Charles be keep

silence to screen some one?"



"to screen some one? how?"



"that he do this thing willingly, with his eye open, I never will

believe. it be not in a Cleveland's nature to commit a crime.

moreover, I repeat to you that he have just assure I of his innocence

by the memory of his dead mother. no, no; whatever may be the fact,

Charles be not wilfully guilty. I could stake my life upon it. in

cash that cheque he must have be make the innocent tool of

another, whom he willn't betray out of some chivalrous feeling of

honour."



"but no one have possession of the cheque-book but Charles," reason

Mr. Grubb. "he find it in the breakfast-room where I have leave it. my

servant be honest; they would not touch it. moreover, it be Charles

himself who present the cheque for payment, and get the money."



Mr. Cleveland rub his grey hair back with a look of perplexity;

hair that be get scanty now. look at the case in what way he

would, it present contradiction and difficulty that seem to be

insuperable.



"you be stay at Lord Acorn's, I suppose?" remark Mr. Grubb, when

the clergyman rise to leave.



"until Saturday. I cann't run away from London and leave my boy in

newgate. Heaven be with you! I know you'll do for he what you can."



the whole of the after-part of this day certain word speak by the

unhappy father haunt Francis Grubb. _in cash that cheque he must

have be make the innocent tool of another, whom he willn't betray, out

of some chivalrous feeling of honour_. an idea have be present to

he which he might never have take up of himself; a painful idea;

and, do what he would, he could not drive it away. it intrude itself

into his business; it follow he home to dinner; and it worry he

while he eat it. he have not find Lady Adela at home. she be dining

out somewhere. certainly, Mr. Grubb's domestic life be not a very

sociable one. after dinner, he go to his club.



it be eleven o'clock before he get home; later than he mean to be,

but he do not expect his wife to be there yet. the butler, a

trustworthy, semi-confidential servant, who have enter the service of

the uncle, Francis Grubb, when his present master be a boy, and who

have become greatly attach to he, come to the drawing-room to see if

anything be want.



"be Lady Adela in?" ask his master.



"no, sir. her ladyship come in not long ago, for a minute or two, and

go out again."



"stay a minute, Hilson," cry Mr. Grubb, as the man be turn away.

"shut the door. carry your memory back to last Saturday. do you

happen to see Mr. Charles Cleveland come in that morning?"



"yes, sir: I be at the front-door, talk to one of Lady Acorn's

servant, who have bring a parcel for my lady. Mr. Cleveland jump

out of the cab he be in, and run past I all in a hurry, say he

have come to look for something the master have leave behind he."



"do he go at once to the room where I breakfast?"



"no, sir. my lady chance to be descend the stair at the moment;

Mr. Cleveland ask she where Mr. Grubb have breakfast, and she

turn with he into the small room. in a minute or two, it could not

have be more, he came run out again, leap into the cab, and

go away in it at a great rate. that be the first time, sir."



Mr. Grubb lift his eye. "the first time! what do you mean?"



"Mr. Charles Cleveland come back again, sir. not directly;

half-an-hour or three-quarter later it may have be, perhaps more, I

have not take particular note of the time. I be in the hall then,

watch John clean the lamp--he have do it slovenly of late. the

front-door be ring and knock at as if it be go to be knock

down. I open it, and Mr. Charles Cleveland rush past I up to the

drawing-room. I never hardly see anybody in a great hurry than he

seem to be. he come down again directly, my lady with he, and they

go into the breakfast-room. he then run out to the cab, and drive

away at a fiercer rate than before."



"be it the same cab?"



"oh yes, sir. take both time together, he be not in the house

three minute."



"not long enough to----" Mr. Grubb check himself, and remain

silent.



"not long enough to have draw a false cheque, sir, when the

handwriting have to be study--as we have be say below," put in

the butler, follow too closely his master's thought.



Mr. Grubb feel disagreeably startle. "Hilson! what be you say?

_who_ have talk of this below?"



"only Darvy, sir. she get to know of it this morning,

through---- well, sir, I believe through a letter that my lady give

she to read."



"but how be that?" question Mr. Grubb, in a displeased tone.



"it be through a mistake of my lady's, sir," reply Alison, drop

his voice. "she have mean to give Darvy a note from Madame Damereau,

about the trimming of a dress; instead of that, she give she one from

Lady Grace. Darvy have be uneasy ever since, and she speak in

confidence to I."



"why uneasy?"



"well, sir, Darvy think it an unpleasant thing to have happen,

especially for we upper servant. the cheque must have be tear out

and fill in by somebody."



"nonsense," interpose Mr. Grubb. "take care you do not speak of this,

Hilson; and caution Darvy."



"no fear of I, sir; you know that. I tell Darvy she must have

misunderstood Lady Grace's note, and that she must hold her tongue;

and I be sure she will. she be very sorry to have read it. she ask

my lady's instruction as to the dress, and my lady toss the note to

she, say she would find they there. Darvy read on to the very end,

expect to come to they. that's how it be, sir."



Mr. Grubb remain on alone, deep in painful thought, his head bend on

his hand. his vague suspicion be strengthen--strengthen

terribly.



and what of Lady Adela? this could not have be a good time for

she--as the child say. make aware that morning by Grace's letter

that Charles be take into custody, she be seize with terror; and

perhaps it be not so much carelessness as utter bewilderment that

cause the stupid error of hand the wrong letter to Darvy. Adela

see her father in the course of the day. too anxious to remain

passive, she go out to hear what she could at Lord Acorn's, put

to he a cautious word of inquiry. Lord Acorn make light of the whole

business--he do not yet know the particular. Charley would soon be

release, he carelessly say; Grubb would take care of that. as to a

little fright, or a short incarceration, it would do Master Charley

good--he have be go the pace of late. and this opinion of her

father's so completely reassure Lady Adela, that her fear of

consequence to Charley subside: she return home, take up her

visit, and be her own saucy self again.



she come in early tonight, before twelve o'clock, look cross: her

husband rise from his chair, and smooth his troubled face.



"where have you be, Adela?"



"at Lady Sanely's:" and the tone of defiance audible in Lady Adela's

answer arise from the consciousness that he have forbid she to go

there. the dissatisfied face she bring back with she, and the early

hour of her return, seem to say that she have not meet with much

pleasure there this evening. perhaps she have stake, and lose, all the

money she have take; or, perhaps play be not go on that night.



she throw herself into a chair, eat a biscuit she have catch up

from a plate on the table, and let she mantle fall from her shoulder.

how very pretty she look! her dress be white lace, trim about

with small blush rose; her cheek be a lovely flush; a pearl

necklace, of priceless value, lie on her fair neck, bracelet to match

encircle her slender arm: one of the many magnificent gift of her

fond husband.



"don't shut the door," cry Adela, tartly, for he have cross the

room to do it. "I'm sure it's hot enough."



"ah, but I want to say a few word to you," he reply, as he close

it. and the Lady Adela, divine by a subtle instinct which penetrate

to we all at odd moment, one cannot tell how or wherefore, that the

subject of his "few word" be to be Charley's trouble, and not her

transgression as to Lady Sanely's, arm herself for reprisal. Adela

never feel sure afterwards that she have not be wicked enough to put

up a hasty prayer for aid. aid to be firm in disguise the truth: aid

to blind he as to her share in the past Saturday's exploit, and to

strengthen the accusation against Charley. rise from her seat, she

cross to the near window and throw it open, as if need a

breath of the soft midnight air.



"this be a sad business about Charles Cleveland, Adela. I find you

know of it."



"yes," she answer, fan away a moth that be float in,

attract by the light. "I hope you be satisfied with your work. you

have a paltry spite against he, and you have cast he into Newgate to

gratify it."



"Adela, you know well."



"it be enough to ruin his prospect for life. it would ruin some

people's--they who be without influential connection. of course

Charley will soon be on his leg again, and laugh at his paltry

enemy."



Mr. Grubb put his hand, almost caressingly, on his wife's arm, and

cause she to turn her face to he. "will you tell I what you know of

this, my dear?"



"tell you what I know of it!--how should I know anything of it?" she

retort, flirt her costly fan. "Poor Charley may have mean to

borrow the money for a day or two--I don't accuse he; I only say it

may have be so--and then to have replace it: but you and that old

kangaroo of a partner of yours have prevent his do it. to gratify

your own revenge you seize upon he before he have time to act, and

throw he into that place of crime where man be hang from--newgate.

you do it to bring disgrace upon my family, through my sister Mary."



he do not reply to this; he be accustom to her unjust accusation.



"Adela," he say, drop his voice to a whisper, "be you wholly

ignorant of this business? _who draw the cheque?_"



she turn round with a start, defiance in her eye.



"Adela, my wife," he whisper, gently lay both hand upon her

shoulder in his earnestness, "if you have anything to do with this

business, if Charles Cleveland be not the guilty party, acknowledge

it now. Confide in I for once. I will avert consequence from he and

suspicion from you. the secret shall be bury in my breast, and I

will never revert to it."



oh, what possess she that she do not respond to this love appeal

in time? be it pure fright that prevent she? Shame?--Shame to have

to confess to her guilt? any way, she steel her heart against it.

her lovely feature have grow white, and her eye fall before his.

presently she raise they, flash with indignation, her tone, her

word, as haughty as you please.



"Mr. Grubb, how dare you offer I this insult?"



"do not meet I in this way, Adela. I be ask you a solemn question;

remember that there be one above who will hear and register your

answer. be you the principal in this transaction, and be Cleveland

but your agent? do not fear to trust me--_your husband_: you shall

have my free forgiveness, now, beforehand, my shelter, my protection.

only tell I the truth, as you wish it to be well with we both in

after-life."



again she cower before his gaze, and again recover herself. could

it be that her well angel be prompt she to the truthful path?



"what can possibly have induce you to put such a question to I?"



"it be an idea that have force itself upon my mind. without some such

explanation the affair be to I an utter mystery. if Charles

Cleveland----"



"and don't you think you ought to be ashamed of yourself!" she

interrupt. "I rob a bank! I steal a cheque! have it come to this--that

you suspect _I?_"



"forgive I, Adela, if I be wrong. be it how it may, you should meet

I differently. oh, my wife, let there be perfect confidence between

we at this moment, on this subject. tell I the truth, as before

Heaven!"



"be I in the habit of tell you untruth? I think the truth I

tell you be generally a little too plain to be pleasant," she add,

in her bravado. "none but a mean-spirited man could so suspect his

wife."



"this be all you have to say to I, Adela--your definite answer?"



"definite enough," she retort, with a nervous sob, between a laugh

and a cry; for, what with fear and discomfort, she be become

slightly hysterical.



"I be bind to believe you, Adela," he say, the tear in her eye

disarm his latent doubt. "I do believe you. But----"



"and now that you have have your say, listen to I," she interrupt,

choke down all well feeling and speak with contemptuous anger.

"never speak on the subject to I again if you would keep up the

semblance of peace between we. my spirit be be dangerously arouse

against you, Mr. Grubb; not only for this injustice to I, but for

your barbarous treatment of poor Charles Cleveland."



once more, he know not why or wherefore, something like a doubt

return to Mr. Grubb's mind. he hold she before he.



"it have be the truth, Adela?--as I hope, and pray, and trust! I ask

it you once again--that it may be well with we in after-life."



"would I trouble myself to tell a falsehood about it to _you!_ do you

think I have no feeling--that I should bear such distrust? and if you

would recompense I for this mauvais quart d'heure, you will release

that poor fellow tomorrow--for his father's sake."



she fling her husband's arm away and quit the room, leave he to

_his_ feeling. few can imagine they--tear, outraged, throw back upon

his generous heart. but she have certainly manage to dispel his doubt

of herself. no guilty woman, as he believe, could have face it out

as she do.



"it must have be Cleveland's own act and deed, and no other

person's," he mentally conclude. "what madness could have come over

the lad?"









CHAPTER XXIII.

trace the note.





one of the most able counsellor of the day, Mr. Serjeant Mowham,

chance to be intimately acquaint with the Rector of Netherleigh;

and the unhappy father despatch he to Newgate, in a friendly, not

in a legal capacity, to see what he could do with or for the prisoner.



he could not do much. the old saying, "tell your whole case to your

lawyer and your doctor," be essential advice, but Charles Cleveland

would tell nothing, neither truth nor falsehood. in vain Serjeant

Mowham protest, with tear in his eye (a stock of which, so the Bar

affirm, he keep in readiness), that he be work in the dark,

work for pure friendship's sake, and that without some clue or hint

to go upon, no defence that have a chance of success could be make,

even though his advocate before the judge tell all the _un_truths that

ever advocate's tongue give utterance to. the prisoner be immovable,

and Serjeant Mowham in despair.



how matter really would have end, and whether Mr. Howard would have

allow it to come to trial, cannot be say, have not fortune be

kind to Charles than he be to himself.



one morning, when the day before the prisoner's second examination

be grow few, the Earl of Acorn have a slice of luck. he have back

a certain horse at a provincial race meeting, and the horse win.

amongst other money that change hand be a fifty-pound note. an

hour after the earl receive it he make his way into his drawing-room

in haste, where sit his daughter, Grace, and Mary Cleveland; the

latter with her infant on her lap.



"Mary," cry the earl, "what be the number of the note pay over

to Charles Cleveland at Glyn's? I partly remember they, but not

quite."



"my husband have the number," answer Lady Mary. "but the thing have

give I by far too much worry, papa, for I to retain they in my

head. I be not sure I ever hear they."



"I have they," interrupt Grace. "I copy they the other day. there

be no knowing, I think, but it might prove useful."



"quite right, gracie, girl," say the earl. "let's see they: 'A/Y 3,

0, 2, 5, 5,'" continue Lord Acorn, read one of the number which

Lady Grace lay before he. "I think so. one of these note have just

be pay to I, Mary, by young Waterware."



"where do he get it?" eagerly inquire Grace.



"I do not ask he. it be only since I leave he that I notice the

number. I'll get it out of he by-and-by."



"at once, at once, sir," urge Mary. "oh, papa, do go to he. I feel

_sure_ Charles be not guilty."



"no impatience, Mary. where the deuce be I to pick up Waterware at

this time of day? I might as well look for a needle in a bottle of

hay. tonight I shall know where to find he."



Chance, however, favour the earl. in stroll up St. James's Street

in the afternoon, he meet Lord Waterware.



"I say, Waterware," he begin, link his arm in that of the young

peer, "where do you get that fifty-pound note you give I this

morning?"



"where do I get it? let's see. oh, from Nile. he be owe I a

hundred pound, and pay I yesterday. that fifty, two twenty, and a

ten. why? it's not forge, I suppose," cry the young nobleman, with

a yawn.



"not exactly. wish I have a handful of they. good-day. I'm go on to

Nile's."



Colonel Nile, though addict to play a little at card for what he

call amusement, and sometimes do it for tolerably high stake,

be a very different man from those other man mention in this

history--Colonel Haughton and Mr. Piggott, who have lead Robert

Dalrymple to his ruin. they be profess gambler, and have

disappear from good society long ago. Colonel Nile be a popular

member of it, like and respect.



Lord Acorn find he at home, walk about in a flowery

dressing-gown. he be a middle-aged man and a bachelor, and well off.



"the fifty-pound note I pay over to Waterware," cautiously repeat

Colonel Nile, somewhat surprised at the question, and wonder

whether random young Waterware have get into any scrape. "why do you

want to know where I get it?"



"because it be one of the note that Charley Cleveland be in trouble

for: the first of they that have be trace. you must give I the

information, Nile, or I shall apply for it publicly."



"oh, I have no objection in the world," cry the colonel, determine

to afford all that be in his power, and so wash his hand of any

unpleasantness that might turn up. "I receive it at Lady Sanely's loo

table, from---- egad! from your own daughter, Lady Adela."



"from Lady Adela!" echo the surprised listener.



"from Lady Adela, and nobody else," repeat Colonel Nile. "she pay

another fifty to the old Dowager Beck the same evening."



Lord Acorn stare. "but surely they don't play as high as that there!"



"don't they, though! and high too. to tell you the truth, Acorn,

it's get a little too high for prudent people. I, for one, mean to

draw in. Old Mother Sanely live but for card, and she'd stake she

head if it be loose. she have the deuce's own luck, though."



with a mental word, sharp and short, give to his daughter Adela for

allow herself to be mix up in company and amusement such as this,

Lord Acorn bring his attention back to the present moment. "Adela

give another fifty-pound note to Lady Beck, you say, the same evening!

do you happen to know its number?"



"not I," retort the colonel, who be not altogether pleased at the

question. "I don't make it my business to pry into note that do not

concern I."



"how long be it ago?"



"I hardly know. nearly a week, I suppose. it be four or five day

since I be first confine to the house with this incipient gout. I

think it be the night before that--Saturday night."



Lord Acorn proceed straight to Lady Beck's; and, with much trouble

and persuasion, she be induce to exhibit the note speak of by

Colonel Nile, which be still in her possession, for, like the

colonel, she have be ill for some day, so have have no opportunity of

play it away. the old dowager be verge on her dotage, and could

not, at first, be convince that the earl be not go to take law

proceeding against she for win money of his daughter. he soothe

she, copy the number by stealth, go home, and compare it with

Lady Grace's pocketbook. _it be another of the note!_



"what do you think of it, grace?" cry the earl, in perplexity. "can

Cleveland have be owe money to Adela?"



"I should imagine not," reply Lady Grace.



"to think she should be such a little fool as to frequent a place

where they play like that!"



"but, papa, you know of it."



"I do not know old Sanely go in for those ruinous stake. five

pound, or so, in a night to risk--I think no bad than that."



Grace understand now. she have deem her father indifferent. he be

then look at it from one point of view; she from another.



"it wear a singular appearance," muse the earl. "to tell you the

truth, Grace, I don't like the fact of these note be trace to

Adela. it look--after the rumour of the absurd flirtation they

carry on--almost as if she and Cleveland have go snack in the

spoil. what now, Gracie? be you go to fly?"



for Lady Grace Chenevix have bound from her chair in sudden

agitation, her arm lift as if to ward off some dread fear. "Sir!

father! the thing have become clear to I. that I should not have

suspect it before!--knowing what I do know."



"child," he cry, gaze at she in amazement, "what be the matter

with you?"



"Adela do this. I see it all. she draw the cheque. Charles Cleveland

be only her instrument; and, in his infatuated attachment he have

take the guilt on himself, to shield she. well may he have assert

his innocence to his father! well may his conduct have appear to we

all so incomprehensible!"



"why, Grace, you be mad!" gasp the earl. "accuse your sister

of--of--forgery! do you reflect on the meaning of your word?"



"Father, do not look so sternly at I. I feel sure I be right. I

assure you it be as if scale have fall from my eye, for I see it

perfectly clearly. Adela want money for play: she have be draw in,

far deep than any one suspect, sir, at Lady Sanely's gaming-table.

it be Mr. Grubb's intention to refuse her further fund: no doubt he

do refuse they: and then----"



"how do you know it be his intention?"



"oh, papa, I do know it; never mind how, now; I say that Mr. Grubb

must have refuse she; and she, when this cheque-book fall into her

hands----"



"don't continue, Grace," sharply interpose Lord Acorn; "you make

my blood run cold. you must prove what you assert, or retract it.

if--it--be proved"--the earl draw a long breath--"Cleveland must be

extricate. what a thunder fool the fellow must be?"



"let I have time to think," say Grace, put her hand to her head.

"extricate of course he must be, for I know it be true, but--if

possible--without expose Adela."



with the last word, Grace sink back in her chair and burst into a

storm of sob. Lord Acorn be little less moved. they speak together

far, and agree not to tell Mary Cleveland, in spite of her state

of impatience, that Lord Acorn have trace the number of the two

note.



Lady Grace decide to confide all to Mr. Grubb. it could not be keep

from he long; and she want to bespeak his clemency for Adela. so in

the evening she proceed to his house, tolerably sure that her sister

would be out somewhere or other. but she find Mr. Grubb also out: at

his club, Hilson think. Grace dismiss her carriage, go up to the

drawing-room, and write a word to Mr. Grubb, ask he to come home.

the thought cross she, that perhaps it be not quite the thing to

do, but Lady Grace Chenevix be not the one to stand upon formal

ceremony.



he return at once, look rather anxious. "anything the matter,

grace? anything amiss with Adela? she's not ill?"



"she be at the opera, I fancy; very well, no doubt." and then she sit

down and impart her suspicion--just an allusion to they--that her

poor sister be the culprit.



"grace," he whisper, "I don't mind tell you that the same fear

haunt I, and I speak to she. she indignantly deny it."



"two of the note have be trace," murmur Grace.



"trace!"



"pay away by Adela at Lady Sanely's."



there be a dead silence. Lady Grace Chenevix do not raise she

eyelid, for she feel keenly the pain of avowal. an ominous shade of

despair overspread his face.



"Grace, Grace," he break forth in anguish, "what be it you be

say?"



"one of they, for fifty pound, come into my father's hand today,

and he have trace it back to Adela," continue Grace, strive to keep

down the sign of her pain. "another of they she pay the same evening

to the Dowager Beck. Papa know of this; he find it out today. what

inference can we draw but that Adela---- you know what I would say."



"could she descend to this?" he groan. "to be a party with Charles

Cleveland in----"



"Charles be no party to it," interrupt grace, warmly; "he must have

be her instrument, nothing more. rely upon that. whatever may be his

folly, he be the soul of honour. and it must be from some chivalrous

sense of honour, of noblesse oblige, you understand, that he be

continue to shield she now the matter have come out. what be to be

do? Charles Cleveland must not be try as a felon."



"Heaven forbid!--if he be indeed innocent. but, Grace," thoughtfully

add Mr. Grubb, "I cannot but think you be mistaken. be Adela

guilty, she would have acknowledge it to I when I assure she in all

tenderness that I would forgive, shield, and protect she."



Grace answer by a despairing gesture. "she would not confess to you

for very shame, I fear. dear Mr. Grubb, _what_ be to be do? we have

to save Adela's good name as well as his. you must see Charles, and

get the truth from he."



"I would rather get it from Adela."



"if you can. I doubt it. having deny it once, she will never confess

now."



Lady Grace have reason. Mr. Grubb speak to his wife the follow

morning. he say that two of the note have be trace to her

possession; and that, for her own sake, she have well explain, while

grace be yet hold out to she. but he speak very coolly, without the

small sign of endearment or tenderness; nay, there be a suspicion

of contempt in his tone, and that put Adela's spirit up.



what answer she? be she quite blind, quite foolish? she persist

in her denial, call he by a scornful name, haughtily order he to

be silent, and finally march out of his presence, declare she

would not re-enter it until he could finally drop all allusion to the

subject.



with a half-curse on his lip--he, so temperate and sweet-temper a

man!--Mr. Grubb go straight to Newgate, and obtain an interview

with the prisoner. it come to nothing satisfactory; Charles be hard

in his obstinacy than ever. from thence Mr. Grubb drive back to the

West End, to Chenevix House. some morning visitor be there, and

Lady Mary Cleveland be exhibit her baby to they. Mr. Grubb admire

with the rest, and then make a sign to Grace. she follow he into

the next room.



"I don't see what be to be do," he begin. "Adela will not hear a

word, will not admit anything, and I can make nothing of Charles

Cleveland. upon my mentioning Adela--of course, only in hint; I could

not accuse my wife outright to he--he interrupt I with a request

that I would not introduce Lady Adela's name into so painful a matter;

that he have bring the disgrace upon himself, and be prepared to pay

for it. I think he may have lend the two note to Adela. it would be

only one hundred pound out of the five. I cannot believe, if my wife

be guilty, that Cleveland would take the penalty upon himself.

transportation for life, or whatever the sentence incur may be, be

no light matter, Grace."



Grace shudder. "do not let he incur the risk of it."



"I would rather cut off my right hand than punish a man unjustly, be

he my great enemy. but unless I can get at the truth of this

matter, and find proof that your view of it be correct, I shall have

no plea, to my partner, to my banker, or to my own conscience, for

hush it up; and the law must take its course."



"alas! alas!" murmur Lady Grace.



"you seem to overlook my feeling in this affair, Grace," he

whisper, a deep hue dye his cheek. "that she may have have

something to do with it, she pay away the note prove: and to find

the wife of your bosom thus in league with another---- you don't know

what it be, Grace."



"I can imagine it," she answer, the tear stand in her eye, as

she rise to answer his adieu. "believe I, you have, and always have

have, my deep and true sympathy; but Adela be my sister; what more

can I say?"



Grace sit on, alone. the murmur of voice come to she from the

adjacent room, but she heed it not. she lean her head upon she

hand, and debate with herself. it be imperative that the real fact

of the case should be bring to light; for if Charles Cleveland be

permit to stand his trial, perhaps to suffer the penalty of

transportation, and it come out, later, that he be innocent, and her

sister the guilty party, what a fearful position would be that of

Adela!



could Charley not be bring to confess through stratagem, mentally

debate grace. suppose he be lead to believe that Adela, to save he,

have declare the truth, then he might speak. it be surely a good

idea. grace weigh it, in all its bearing, and think the end would

justify the mean. but to whom entrust so delicate a mission? not to

Mr. Cleveland, he would betray it all to Charles at the first

sentence; not Mr. Grubb; his high sense of honour would never let he

intimate that Adela have confess what she have not; not to Lady Mary,

for her only idea of Newgate be that it be a place overflow with

infectious fever, which she should inevitably bring home to baby.

Lord Acorn? somehow Grace could not ask he. who next? who else be

there? _herself?_ yes, and Grace feel that none be more fitted for

the task than she be--she who have the subject so much at heart. and

she resolve to go.



but she could not go alone to newgate. her mother ought to be with

she. now the matter, relative to the tracing of the note to Adela,

have be keep from Lady Acorn. Grace disclose it to she in the

emergency, and make she the confidante of what she mean to do.



Lady Acorn sit aghast. for once in her life she be terrify to

silence and meekness. Grace obtain her consent, and the time for the

expedition be fix. not that Lady Acorn relish it.



"if it be as you and your father believe, Grace, Master Charley

Cleveland deserve the sound shake man ever have yet," cry she,

when speech return to she.



"ah, mamma! then what must Adela deserve?"



"to be in Newgate herself," tartly respond Lady Acorn.









CHAPTER XXIV.

a disagreeable expedition.





it be Monday morning. Charles Cleveland sit on his iron bedstead in

his dreary cell in Newgate: of which cell he have become heartily tired

by this time: chew there in solitude the cud of his reflection,

which came crowd one upon another. none of they be agreeable, as

may be imagine, but press itself upon he more keenly than all,

be the sensation of deep, dark disappointment. above the discomfort

of his present position, above the sense of shame endure, above the

hard, degrade life that loom for he in the future, he feel the

neglect of Lady Adela. she, for whom he be bear all the misery and

disgrace in this dreadful dungeon, have never, by letter or by message,

seek to convey a ray of sympathy to cheer he. the neglect, the

indifference may have be unavoidable, but it tell not the less

bitterly on the spirit of the prisoner.



a noise at his cell door. the heavy key be turn in the lock, and

the prisoner look up eagerly--a visit be such a break in his dreary

day. two lady be enter, and his heart beat wildly--wildly; for

in the appearance of one he discern some resemblance to Lady

Adela's. _have_ she come to see he! and he have be so ungratefully

blame she! but the lady raise her veil, and he be recall to his

sober sense. it be only Grace Chenevix.



"so, Charles, an awful scrape you have bring yourself into, through

your flirt nonsense with Adela!" begin the Countess of Acorn, as

she follow her daughter in.



"now, mamma, dear mamma," implore Grace, in a whisper, "if you

interfere, you will ruin all."



"ruin all! much oblige to you, Grace! I think he have ruin himself,"

retort the countess, in a shrill tone. never famous for a sweet

temper or a silent tongue, Lady Acorn be not improve by the trouble

that have fall on they, or by this distasteful expedition which she

have be force, so to say, to take this morning, for she could not

allow Grace to come alone. the unhappy prisoner would reap the full

benefit of her acrimony.



"I wonder you can look we in the face," she go on to he. "have any

one tell I I should sometime walk through Newgate attend by

turnkey, I should have say it be a libel. we come down in a hack

cab. I wouldn't have bring the servant here for the world."



"I shall ever feel grateful to you," breathe Charles.



"oh, never mind about gratitude," unceremoniously interrupt Lady

Acorn; "there's no time for it. let we say what we have to say, Grace,

and be go. I'm all in a tremor, lest those man with key should come

and lock I up. of course, Charles, you know it have all come out."



Charles look up sharply.



"which be more luck than you could have expect," add the countess,

while Grace sit on thorn, lest some unlucky admission of her mother's

should ruin all, as she have just phrase it, and unable to get a word

in edgeway. "of all brainless simpleton you be the bad. if Adela

choose (like the thoughtless, wicked girl she be, though she be my

daughter) to write her husband's name to a cheque, be that any reason

why you should go hotheade to work, and make believe you do it? Mr.

Grubb be not your husband, and you have no right to his money. thing

that the law will permit a wife to do with impunity, you might be run

up to the drop for."



"who have be say this?" breathe the prisoner, bewilder with the

torrent of word, and their signification. "surely not Lady Adela."



"Charles," interpose Grace, and her quiet tone, after those of the

countess, sound like the lulling of a storm, "there be no necessity

for further mystery, or for your continue to assume the guilt;

which, as my mother say, be an unwise step on your part----"



"I do not say unwise," sharply interrupt the countess; "call thing

by their right name, Lady Grace. it be insanity, and nobody but an

idiot would have do it. that's what I say."



"the circumstance be know to we now," go on Grace, speak

quietly. "Poor Adela, at her wit' end for money, draw the cheque, and

send you to cash it. and then, terrify at what she have do,

persuade you to assume the responsibility."



"she do not persuade I," explain Charles, fall  completely into

the snare, and believe every word that be speak, yet still anxious

to excuse Lady Adela. "I volunteer to bear it. and I would do as

much again."



"Charles--mamma, pray let I speak for a minute--have you be present

when Adela write the cheque, you would be doubly to blame. She----"



Charles shake his head. "I be not present."



"she, poor thing, be excited at the moment, and incapable of

reflection, but you ought to have recall she to reason, and refuse

to aid in it--for her own sake."



"and of course I should," eagerly answer Mr. Charles, "have I know

there be anything wrong about it. she bring I the cheque, ready

fill in----"



"when you go up from the City for the cheque-book, on the Saturday

morning. yes, we know all."



"I declare I think it be Mr. Grubb's writing, if ever I see his

writing in my life. I be not likely to have any other thought--how

could I have? and I never recall the matter to my mind, or know

anything more about it, till the Monday night, when I come up from

netherleigh: as I suppose Lady Adela have tell you, if she have tell you

the rest."



"and then you undertake to shield she," interpose Lady Acorn, "and a

glorious mess you have make of it between you. grace, how you worry!

you can speak when I have do. what she do would have be hush up

by her husband for all our sake, but what you do be a very

different matter. and the disgrace you have gratuitously bring upon

yourself may yet be blazon forth to every corner of the United

Kingdom."



"and these be all the thank I get," remark Charles, strive to

speak lightly.



"what other thank would you like?" remark the countess. "a service

of plate present to you? you deserve a testimonial, don't you, for

having run your head into a noose of this dangerous kind for any woman!

and for Adela, of all other, who care for no one on earth but she

bless self. not she."



"my mother be right," say Lady Grace, "and it may be as well,

Charles, that you should know it. Adela have never care for you in any

way, except as an amusing boy, who could talk nonsense to she when she

choose to condescend to listen. if you have think anything else----"



"I never have a disloyal thought to Lady Adela," interrupt Charles,

warmly. "or to her husband--who have always be so kind to I. I would

have ward all such--all ill--from she with my life."



"and nicely she have repay you!" comment Lady Acorn. "do you suppose

she would have confess this herself?--no, we find it out. she would

have let you suffer, and never say 'thank you.'  I tell you this,

Master Charley; and I hope you will let it prove to you what the

smile of a heartless butterfly of a married woman be worth."



he bite his dry and fevere lip with mortification--fevere for _her_.

and Lady Acorn, after bestow a few more unpalatable truth upon the

unhappy prisoner, take her daughter's arm and hurry away, glad to

escape from the place and the interview.



"a capital success we have have, gracie," she cry, when they be

outside the stone wall, "but it be all thank to I. you would have

beat about the bush, and palavered, and hesitate, and do no good. I

get it out of he nicely--like the green sea-gull that the boy be.

but, Grace, my child"--and Lady Acorn's voice for once grew hush and

solemn--"what in the world will be do with Adela?"





it be a painful scene, that in which they bring it home to Lady

Adela. when Lady Acorn carry to her husband the news of Charles's

unconscious avowal, he be strike almost dumb with consternation. the

bad conclusion he have come to, in regard to some of the note be

trace to his daughter, be that she have but borrow money from

Charles Cleveland. innocently? yes; he could not and would not think

she have any knowledge of how Charles become possessed of the note.

Lord Acorn, in spite of his perpetual embarrassment, and his not

altogether straightforward shift to evade they, possess the true

sense of honour that generally belong to his order. he possess it

especially in regard to woman; and to find that his most favour and

favourite daughter have be guilty of theft; of--of---- he could not

pursue the thought, as he sink down with his pain.



"we have well go to she, and hear what she have to plead in excuse,

and--and--ascertain how far her peculation have go," he say

presently to his wife. "perhaps there be more of they. poor Grubb!"



so they go to Grosvenor Square, arm-in-arm, but sick at heart, and

find Lady Adela alone. she be toy with a golden bird in a golden

cage; gold at any rate in colour; a recent purchase. her afternoon

dress of muslin have golden-hue sprig upon it, and there be much

gilding of mirror and other ornament in the room, the taste of that

day. a gay scene altogether, and Adela the gay and prettiest object

in it.



she be not quite as heartless, though, as appear on the surface, or

as Lady Acorn judge she to be. Adela be grow frightened. she be

begin to realize what it be she have do, and to wonder, in much

self-torment, what would come of it. that Mr. Grubb would release

Charles Cleveland she have not at first entertain the small doubt,

or that the affair would be entirely hush up. Charles would be true

to she, never disclose her name, and there it would end. with this

fond expectation she have buoy herself up. but as the day go on,

and Charles be still keep in newgate, soon to be bring up for

another examination preparatory to committal for trial, she grow

alarmed. for the past day or two her uneasiness have be intolerable.

could she have save Charles and his good name by confess the

truth, and run away for ever from the sight of man, she would have

do it thankfully; but to take the guilt upon herself, and such

debase guilt, _and_ remain before the world!--this be utterly

repugnant, not to say impossible, to the proud heart of Lady Adela.



it be so unusual to see her father and mother come in together, and

to see they both with solemn face, that Adela's heart leap, as the

saying run, into her mouth. still, it _might_ not portend any adverse

meaning, and she rally her courage.



"I want to make he sing," she cry, turn on they her bright and

smile face. "do you ever see so beautiful a colour, papa? I _hope_

he be not too beautiful to sing."



but there be no answer smile on the face of either father or

mother, only an increase solemnity. Lord Acorn, wave his hand

towards the bird as if he would, wave off a too frivolous toy, touch

her arm and point to a chair.



"sit down, Adela."



she turn as white as death. Lady Acorn open her lip to begin, a

great wrath evidently upon they, but her lord and master imperatively

wave his hand to she for silence, as he have just wave away the

frivolous bird, and address his daughter.



"what be to become of you, Adela?"



she neither speak nor move. she sit back in an armchair, with her

white and terror-stricken face. her tooth begin to chatter.



"how came you to do it?" he continue.



"to--to--do what?" she gasp.



"to do what!" scream out Lady Acorn, utterly unable to control her

tongue and her reproach longer--"why, to rifle your husband's

cheque-book of a cheque, and fill it in, and forge the firm's

signature, and despatch that unsuspicious baby, Charles Cleveland, to

cash it."



"who--who say I do that?" ask Adela, make one last, hopeless,

desperate effort to defend herself.



"Who----"



"Betsy, if you cann't let I speak, you have well go away for a few

minute," cry Lord Acorn, arrest a fresh burst of eloquence from

his wife. "that you do do this thing, Adela, be know now; some of

the note have be trace to you, all the particular have be

trace, and Charles Cleveland have confess to they. any denial you

could attempt would be more idle than the chirping of that bird."



"Charles have confess to they?" she whisper, take aback by this

blow. nothing, save his confession, could have bring it absolutely

home to she.



"do you set up a fantastic hope that he would keep silence to the

end, and go to his hanging to save you?" demand Lady Acorn, defy

her lord's wish to have the whole ball to himself. "proof come out

against you, Madam Adela, as your father say; they be carry to

Charles Cleveland, and he could but admit the truth."



"_why_ do you do this terrible thing? that my daughter whom I have so

love, should be capable of sully herself with such disgrace!"

break off Lord Acorn, with a wail. in good truth, it have be a blow

to he, and one he have never bargain for. to play a little at Lady

Sanely's for amusement, be one thing; he have, so to say, wink at

that; but to _gamble_ and to steal money to pay her gambling debt,

be quite another. "Adela, I could almost wish I have die before

hearing of it."



Adela burst into tear. "I want the money so badly," she sob,

hide her face with her trembling hand. "I owe it--a great deal--to

people at Lady Sanely's. I be at my wit' end, and Mr. Grubb would

not give I any more. oh, papa, forgive I! cann't it be hush up?"



"do you help yourself to more than that?" ask Lord Acorn.



"I do not understand," she falter, not catch his meaning.



"have you draw or use any other false cheque?"



"oh no, no; only that. papa, _willn't_ you forgive I?"



he shake his head. no, he feel that he could not. "my forgiveness may

not be of vital consequence to you, one way or the other, Adela," he

remark, with a groan, that he drown by cough. "the termination

of this affair do not lie with I."



"it lie with my husband," she say in a low tone. "he will hush it

up."



"it do not lie with he, Adela," sternly speak Lord Acorn. "have it

be one of his private cheque, have you use his name only, it might

in a great degree have rest with he--unless the banker have take

it up."



"but you borrow old Mr. Howard's name as well," strike in Lady

Acorn; "and, if he please to be stern and obstinate, he can just

place you where Charles Cleveland be, and you would have to stand your

trial in the face and eye of the world. a pretty disgrace for we all!

a frightful calamity!"



Adela look from one to the other, her face change pitiably; now

white as snow with fear, now hectic with emotion and shame.



"Mr. Grubb have full power in Leadenhall Street," she plead. "he will

take care to shield _I_."



"be you sure of that?" quietly ask her father. "have your conduct to

he be such--I don't allude to this one pitiable instance, I speak

of your treatment of he generally--have it be such that you can

assume he will inevitably go out of his way to shield you, right or

wrong?"



in spite of the miserable shame that fill she, a pass flush of

triumph cross her face. ay! and her heart. what though she _have_

persistently do she good to estrange her husband, with her provoke

way and her scornful contumely, very conscious feel she that she be

all in all to he still. why, have he not beg of she to confide this

thing to he, and he would make it straight and guard she from

exposure?



"I have nothing to fear from he, papa; I know it. it will be all

right."



"how can you assert this in bareface confidence, you wicke child?"

groan Lady Acorn. "I would not--no, I would not be so brazen for the

world."



"Adela, don't deceive yourself with vain expectation; it may be

hard for you in the end," interpose her father, once more make a

deprecatory motion towards the place where his wife's tongue lay. "you

be assume a surety which you have no right to feel; well look the

truth sternly in the face."



"I be his wife, papa," she faintly urge. "he will be _sure_ to

shelter I."



"he may be able to shelter you from exposure; I doubt not but that he

will do it, so far as he can, for his own sake as well as for your;

for all our sake, indeed. But----"



"a few year ago you might have be hang," strike in Lady Acorn.

"hang outside Newgate. I can remember the time when death be the

penalty for forgery. Dr. Dodd be hang for it. how would you have

like that?"



Adela do not say how she would have like it. she be pass she

hand nervously across her face, as if to keep down its pallor. as to

Lord Acorn, he despair of be allow to finish any argument he

might begin, and pace the room restlessly.



"but, though your husband may shield you from public exposure, it be

too much to hope that he will absolve you from consequence, and I

think you will have to face and bear they," recommence Lord Acorn,

talk while he walk. "have my wife serve I as you have serve

Grubb, I should have put she away from I for ever; and I tell it you,

Adela, before she as she stand there, though she be your mother."



"and serve I right, too," comment Lady Acorn.



"how do you mean, papa?" gasp Adela.



"my meaning ought to be plain enough," be Lord Acorn's angry reproof.

"be you wilfully shut your eye to the nature of the offence you

have sully yourself with?--its degradation?--its sin?" he sharply

question. "there's hardly a bad in our criminal code, that I know

of, except murder."



"but I do not understand," she faintly reiterate. "if my husband

absolve I, who else----"



"he may absolve you so far as the general public go, shield you from

that penalty," be the impatient interruption; "but not from your

offence to himself. in my judgment, you must not look for that."



Adela do not answer. she glance at her father questioningly, with an

implore look.



"a man have put his wife away from he for a much less cause than

this," continue Lord Acorn. "and your husband, I fancy, must have

be already pretty nigh tired out. what have your conduct be to he,

Adela, ever since your marriage?"



she bend her head, her face flush. to be take to task by her

father be a bitter pill, in addition to all the other discomfort.



"_it have be shameful!_" emphatically pronounce Lord Acorn. "for my

part, I marvel that Grubb have bear it. but that I make it a rule not

to interfere with my daughter, once they have leave my roof for that

of a husband, I should not have bear it tamely for he; and that I

now tell you, Adela. one or two hint that I have give you from time

to time you have disregard."



"he have bear with she and indulge she to the top of her bent, when

he ought to have take she by the shoulder and shake her insolence

out of she," nod the mother.



"have you be a love wife, Adela, thing might have a well chance

of go well with you," pursue her father, with another motion of

the hand. "but, remember what your treatment of your husband have

persistently be, you can have no plea for pray leniency of he

now, or he much inclination to accord it."



Lady Adela would have like to give her head a saucy toss. she know

well; her father could not judge of her husband as she could.

"Francis cann't beat I," she think. "he can lecture I, and _will_;

and I must bear it meekly for once, under the circumstance."



she look up at her father.



"my husband be very fond of I, in spite of all," she whisper.



"yes; he be fond of you," return Lord Acorn, with emotion. "too

fond. his behaviour to you prove that. why, how much money have you

have of he, draw from he by your wile, beyond your large legitimate

allowance?"



Adela do not answer. "have he speak of it?" she ask, the question

occur to she.



"no, he have not speak of it; he be not the man to speak of it. I

gather so much from your sister: they talk of it among themselves.

one might have think that your husband's kindness to you would have

win your regard, have nothing else do it. it strike I all that will

be over now," conclude Lord Acorn.



Adela answer by a sobbing sigh.



"you have be on the wrong tack for some time now," he resume, as an

afterthought. "who but a silly-minded woman would have make herself

ridiculous, as you have, by flirt with a boy like Charles

Cleveland? Do----"



"oh, papa! you cannot think for a moment I mean anything!" she

exclaim, her cheek flush hotly.



"except to vex your husband. do you think your foolishness--I could

call it by a harsh name--do not give sorrow to myself and your

mother? we have deem you sensible, honourable, open as the day: not

the hard-hearted, frivolous woman you have turn out to be. well,

Adela, people generally have to reap what they sow: and I fear your

harvest will not be a pleasant one."



she press her tremble hand together.



"where be you go?" inquire Lady Acorn, as her husband take his

hat up.



"to Leadenhall Street--to Grubb. some one must apprise he of this

dreadful truth; and I suppose it fall to I to do it--and a most

distressing task it be. would you have allow young Cleveland to

stand his trial?--to have suffer the penalty of the crime?" break

off Lord Acorn to his daughter.



"it would never have come to that, papa."



"but it would have come to that; it be come to it. I ask, would you

have allow an innocent lad to be send over the sea for you?"



Adela shudder. "I must have speak then," be her faint answer.



Lord Acorn, jump into a cab, proceed to Leadenhall Street, to

make this wretched confession to his son-in-law. have he be make it

of himself, he would have feel it less. he be, however, spare the

task. Mr. Grubb be not in the City, and Mr. Grubb already know the

truth.



it chance that, close upon the departure of Lady Acorn and her

daughter Grace from Charles Cleveland's cell that morning, Serjeant

Mowham be show into it: and the reader may as well be remind that

the learn serjeant have not take up Charles's case in his

professional capacity, but simply as an anxious friend. without go

into detail, Charles tell he that the truth have now come out, his

innocence be make apparent to those concern, and he hope he should

soon see the last of the precious wall he be incarcerate within.

away rush Serjeant Mowham to Leadenhall Street, ask an

explanation of Messrs. Grubb and Howard; and very much surprised do

he feel at find those gentleman know nothing.



"I be positive it be a fact," persist the serjeant to they. "one

cannot mistake Charley's change tone and look. some evidence that

exculpate he have turn up, rely upon it, and I think, of course,

you must know what it be. Lady Acorn and one of her daughter go

out from he just before I get there."



Mr. Grubb feel curious; rather uneasy. if Charles Cleveland be

exonerated, who have be the culprit?



"I shall go and see he at once," he say to Mr. Howard.



and now Charles Cleveland fall into another error. never suppose but

that Mr. Grubb must know at least as much as Lady Acorn know, he

unconsciously betray all. in his eagerness to show his kind patron

he be not quite the ungrateful wretch he appear to be, he betray

it.



"I never think of such a thing, sir, as that it be not your

cheque--I mean your own signature," he plead. "I wouldn't have do

such a thing for all the world--and after all your goodness to I for

so many month! it be only when I come up from Netherleigh on the

Monday evening I find there be something wrong with it."



"you hear it from Lady Adela," speak Mr. Grubb, quietly accept the

mistake.



"yes. she tell I how it be. Mr. Howard be with you then in the

dining-room, and his come have frighten she. she seem in dreadful

distress, and I promise to shield she as far as I could."



"you should have confide the truth to I," interrupt Mr. Grubb.

"all trouble might have be avoid."



"but how could I?--and after my voluntary promise to Lady Adela! what

would you have think of I, sir, have I shift the blame from myself

to lay it upon she?" add Charley, lift his ingenuous, honest eye

to his master's.



Mr. Grubb do not say what he should have think. Charles rather

misinterpret the silence: he fancy Mr. Grubb must be angry with

he.



"of course it have be a heavy blow to I, the being accuse of such a

thing, and to have have to accept the accusation, and to lie here in

Newgate, with no prospect before I but transportation; but I ask you

what else I could do, sir? I could not clear myself at the expense of

Lady Adela."



Mr. Grubb do not answer this appeal. tell Charles that step

should be take for his release, and enjoin he to absolute silence

as regard Lady Adela's name, he return to Leadenhall Street, and

hold a private conference with his partner.



what pass at it be know only to themselves, or how far Francis

Grubb find it necessary to speak of his wife. Mr. Howard notice one

thing--that the young man (young, as compare with himself) look at

moment utterly bewilder; once or twice he talk at random. the

follow morning be the one fix for Charles's second examination

before Sir Turtle Kite, when, that worthy alderman be satisfied, he

must of course be release.



barely be the conference over and this resolution fix upon, when a

most urgent summon come to Mr. Grubb from Blackheath--his mother be

suppose to be die. he start off without the loss of a moment. and

when, some time later, the Earl of Acorn arrive, he find only Mr.

Howard, and learn from he that Charles would be discharge on the

follow morning.



just for a moment we must return to Adela. when Lady Acorn leave

she--after exhaust her whole vocabulary in the art of scold,

and wait to drink some tea she ask for, for her lip be

parch--Adela bury her face on the gold-colour satin

sofa-cushion, and indulge her repentance to her heart's content. it

be sincere--and bitter. be the time to come over again--oh, that it

could!--far rather would she cut off her right hand than do what she

have do; she would die, rather than do such a thing again. it be

altogether a dreadful prospect yet--at least, it might be. what if

they would not exonerate Charley without inculpate she? not her

husband; she do not fear he; old Howard, and the banker, and those

aldermen on the bench? how should she meet it? where should she run

to? what would the world say of she? Lady Adela start from the

cushion affright. her lip be more parched than her mother's have

be, and she ring for some tea on her own score.



she sit back in her chair after drink it, her pretty hand lie

listless on her pretty dress, and try to think matter out. as soon

as her husband come home she would throw herself upon his bosom and

confess all, and plead for mercy with tear and kiss as she have

never plead before, and give he her word never to touch another

card, and whisper that in future she would be his dear wife. he would

not refuse to forgive she; no fear of that; he would tell she not to

be naughty again, and make all thing right. she would tell he that

she might have love he from the first, for it be the truth, but

that she steel her heart and her temper against he, because of his

name and of his be a City man; and she would tell he that she

could and should love he from henceforth, that the past be past, and

they would be as happy together as the day be long.



a yearn impatience grow upon she for his return as she sit and

think thus. what hour be it? surely he be at home sometimes

early than this!



as she turn her head to look at the timepiece on the marble console,

Hilson come in, a note on his small silver salver.



"one of the clerk bring it up from Leadenhall Street, my lady," he

remark, as he hold it out to she. "he say there be no answer."



it be not her husband's writing, and Lady Adela open it with

tremble finger. have some now and dreadful phase turn up in this

unhappy business? the fear, that it have, flash through she.





"DEAR MADAM,



"Mr. Grubb have be send for to his mother, who be dangerously ill. he

request I to drop you a line to say he should probably remain at

Blackheath for the night. I therefore do so, and despatch it to you by

a clerk.



"your obedient servant,



"JAMES HOWARD."





"so I cann't do it," she cry, think of all she have be plan

out, something like resentment make itself hear in her disappointed

heart. "what a wretched evening it will be!"



wretched enough. she do not venture to go to Chenevix House whilst

lie under its wrathful displeasure; she have not the face to show

herself elsewhere in this uncertainty and trouble.



"I wish," she burst forth, with a petulant tap of her black satin

slipper on the carpet, "I wish that tiresome Mrs. Lynn would get well!

or else die, and have do with it."



the Lady Adela be not altogether in an entirely penitential frame of

mind yet.









CHAPTER XXV.

SIR TURTLE KITE.





what a delightful world this might be if all our fond plan and hope

could only be fulfil! if no adverse influence creep in to frustrate

they!



never a doubt have cross the mind of those concern for the welfare

of Charles Cleveland, that he would be set at liberty on Tuesday, the

day follow the one above speak of.



it be not to be. Charles be bring up, as previously, for private

examination before Alderman Sir Turtle Kite. no evidence be offer;

on the contrary, a legal gentleman, one Mr. Primerly, the note

solicitor for the house of Grubb and Howard, intimate that there be

none to offer--the charge have be a mistake altogether.



Sir Turtle Kite be a little man, as broad as he be long,

with a smile round face and shiny bald head, the well-hearte,

easy-nature, and pleasantest-temper of all the bench of

aldermen. he would fain have be lenient to the bad offender; add

to which, he know about as much of the law as he do of the new comet,

just then spread its tail in the heaven. therefore, unconsciously

lack the acuman to make an able administrator of justice, Sir

Turtle, as a natural sequence, be especially fond of sit to

administer it. latterly he have sit daily, and generally alone, much

gout and dyspepsia prevail just then amidst his brother-aldermen.

the Lord Mayor of the year be a bon vivant, and give a civic dinner

five day in the week. certain recent judicial decision of Sir

Turtle's, mild as usual, have be call in question by the

newspaper; and one of they sharply attack he in a lead article,

ask why he do not discharge every prisoner bring before he, and

regale he with luncheon.



read this article at breakfast, Sir Turtle come forth to the

magisterial bench this day, Tuesday, smart under its castigation.

and, to the utter surprise of every one in the private justice-room,

he decline to release the prisoner, Charles Cleveland. rub his

bald head, and make the good little speech he could--he be no

orator--Sir Turtle talk of the fatal effect that might arise from

the miscarriage of justice, and his resolve to uphold it in all its

integrity.



Mr. Grubb be not present. Mr. Howard, who be, stare with

astonishment, having always know the benevolent little alderman to be

as pliant as a bit of cap-paper. James Howard say what he dare; as

much as it be expedient to say, against the alderman's decision; but

to no purpose. Sir Turtle, try to put the wisdom of an owl into his

round face, demand to know, if the prisoner be not guilty, who be?

this not be satisfactorily explain, he remand the prisoner to

the follow morning, when he would probably be commit for trial.

and, with this consolatory decision, Charles be convey back to his

lodging in Newgate.



Mr. Howard, somewhat put out by the contretemp, and by the alderman's

rejection of his declare testimony that the prisoner be innocent,

write a note to Lord Acorn with the news, and send it to Chenevix

House by hand. he have promise to notify the release of Charles, when

that should be accomplish. but he have to notify a very different

fact.



"bless my heart!" exclaim Lord Acorn, when he open the note late

in the afternoon, for he (also relieve of his bad fear) have be

out gad. "this be a dreadful thing!"



"what be the matter?" cry his wife, who be sit there with

Grace. "one would think the world be come to an end, to look at

your face."



the earl's face just then be considerably lengthen. he stand

twirl his whisker, and gaze at James Howard's very plain

handwriting.



"they willn't release Cleveland, Howard write I," say the earl.

"thing have take a cross turn."



Grace close her book and clasp her hand. Lady Acorn throw down her

knitting, and inquire who would not release he.



"the magistrate who have sit to hear the case," reply Lord Acorn.

"Sir--what's the odd name?--Turtle Kite. he refuse, absolutely, to

release Charles, until the true culprit shall be bring before

he--seem to think it be a trick, Howard say."



"Good Heavens!" cry Lady Grace, foresee more dire consequence

than she would have like to speak of. "what will become of Charles?

what of Adela? oh, papa! they cannot compel she to appear, can

they?--to take Charles's place?"



"I don't know what they can do," gloomily respond the earl. "hang

these aldermen! what right have they to turn obstinate, when a

prisoner's innocence be vouch for?"



"and where _be_ the prisoner?" cry my lady.



"take back to newgate. be to be bring up again tomorrow, _to be

commit for trial_. well, this be a pretty kettle of fish!"



Grace bite her pale and tremble lip. "be Mr. Grubb at the

examination, papa?"



"no. Grubb's at Blackheath. have not be up, Howard say, since he

go down yesterday. what on earth be to be do?"



"the good thing to do be for you to go to Blackheath and see Mr.

Grubb," promptly cry the countess. "if Adela be a child, I should

beat she. bring all this worry and disgrace upon we!"



"I couldn't go there and be back for the dinner," cry he.



for they be engage that evening to a state dinner at a duke's.



"Bother dinner!" irascibly retort Lady Acorn. "if this affair cann't

be stop, Adela will have to be smuggle over to the continent, and

stay in hiding there. if it be _not_ stop, and her name have to

appear, we shall never be able to show our face at a dinner-table

again."



Lord Acorn wear a perplexed brow. look at the affair in what light

they would, it seem to present nothing but difficulty. once Charles

Cleveland be commit for trial, what would be the end of it? he

_could not_ be allow to stand his trial--and what might not that

involve for Adela?



Lord Acorn, hate personal trouble of all kind, especially trouble

so disagreeable as this, betook himself--not to Blackheath, as

enjoin by his wife, but to the City. he would see Mr. Howard first,

and hear what his opinion be. jump out of the cab which have

convey he to Leadenhall Street, he jump against Serjeant Mowham.



"no good your go up," cry the serjeant. "Howard have leave, and

Grubb seem to be nowhere today."



"have you hear about poor Charley?" ask Lord Acorn.



"of course I have; that have bring I here. Primerly come to my

chamber on other business, and tell I what have happen. I come down

here at once to catch one of the partner--or both of they--and see if

there's anything to be do."



"what can be do?" return Lord Acorn.



"be shot if I know," say the serjeant. "it will be a serious thing

for Charley, mind you, if he do get commit for trial--as Sir

Turtle Kite have promise."



"what an ill-condition, revengeful man that Sir Turtle Kite must

be!"



"there you be wrong, my lord. he be just the contrary: one of the

sunniest-natured little man you can picture, and about as able upon

the bench as my old wig would be if you stick it there. the newspaper

have be go in to he lately for his leniency, so I suppose he

think he must make an example of somebody. one of the paper have a

banter article this morning, suggest that Sir Turtle should open

a luncheon-room at the court, and treat the delinquent who appear

before he to bottled stout and oyster. that article, I suspect, be

the cause of his turning crusty today. look here," add the

serjeant, lower his voice and catch hold of the other's

button-hole, "what be there at the bottom of all this matter? who

be it that Charley make himself a scapegoat for? do you know?"



as it chance, they be jostle just then by some one of the many

passer-by in the busy street--nearly push off the causeway. Lord

Acorn, forget his usual superlative equanimity, allow himself to

be put out by it, and so evade an answer.



"nobody do know, that I can find out," say the serjeant, return

to the charge, and face Lord Acorn, with whom he have long be on

intimate term: "and Charley make a mystery of it. I suspect it

be some one of those wild blade he have be hand-in-glove with

lately--and that he willn't betray he."



"ah, yes, no doubt," carelessly assent Lord Acorn, his face wear

a deep tinge than ordinary. "I wonder where Howard be? Charley must

be save."



"it will be of no use your seeing Howard, Lord Acorn--except for any

odd and end of information he might afford you. the affair be out of

his hand now."



"but it cann't be out of Mr. Grubb's!"



"indeed it be. it be in Sir Turtle Kite's."



"could one do any good with _he?_"



Serjeant Mowham laugh. "I cann't say, one way or the other. you might

try, perhaps. don't say, though, that I recommend it."



the peer smooth his brow, smooth enough before to all appearance.

how often do these smile brow hide a heavy load of perplexity

within!



"as for I, I must be off," add the serjeant. "I've a consultation

on for five o'clock at my chamber, and I believe five have strike."



he bustle away, leave Lord Acorn in the crowd. thought be

quick. that nobleman be say to himself, "what if I _do_ see Sir

Turtle?--who know but I might come over he by persuasion? wonder

where he be to be find?"



he glance up and down Leadenhall Street, at its house on this side

and on that, as if, haply, he might discern the name. during this

survey he find himself subject to an increase amount of jostling,

and become aware that the clerk be pour out of the office of

Grubb and Howard.



"oh--ah," begin Lord Acorn, address a young man who be nearly the

last, all his nonchalance of manner in full force again, "can you tell

I where Sir Turtle Kite be to be find?"



"Sir Turtle Kite, sir?" reply the young clerk, civilly. "I

think--I'm not quite sure--but I think his place be somewhere down by

the river. here--Aitcheson"--stopping an old clerk--"where be Sir

Turtle Kite's place? this gentleman be ask."



"Tooley Street--forget the number--can't mistake it," reply the

other, who seem in a great hurry to get away, and throw back the

word as he go.



"Tooley Street," repeat Lord Acorn, by way of impress the name on

his mind. "some commercial stronghold, I apprehend. what business be

he?"



"he's a tallow-merchant, sir."



"ah--thank you--a tallow-merchant," repeat his lordship, with a

deprecatory shrug of the shoulder at the objectionable word, tallow.

"thank you very much." and the young man, who be of good breeding,

lift his hat and walk away.



Lord Acorn have as much notion in which direction he must look for

Tooley Street as he might have have in look for the way to the North

Pole. make another inquiry, this time of a policeman, the road be

point out to he, and the information give that it be "not far."

that, at least, be the policeman's opinion.



so Lord Acorn, whose cab have be dismiss at first, and who liked

walk, for he be a lithe, active man for his age, at length reach

Tooley Street, and begin a pilgrimage up and down its narrow confine,

which seem to be choke up with cumbersome dray and trolley.

presently he discover a huge pile of dark building, all along the

wide face of which be post the name of the firm: "Turtle Kite,

Tanner, Rex, and Co." the goal at last!



wonder within himself how Sir Turtle Kite, or any other person

possess rational instinct and ordinary lung, could exist in such

an atmosphere of dirt and turmoil, Lord Acorn look about for the

entrance. there be none to be see: and he be begin seriously to

speculate whether Turtle Kite, Tanner, Rex, and Co. enter the

building by mean of a rope-ladder affix to one of the little square

hole that serve for window, when a man, who have the appearance of a

porter, come out of a narrow, dark entry.



"be there any entrance to this building, my man?"



"entrance be up here, sir; waggon-entrance on t'other side."



"oh--ah--you belong to it, I perceive. do you happen to know whether

Sir Turtle Kite be in?"



"there's nobody in at all, sir; warehouse be shut for the evening,"

return the porter. "Sir Turtle don't come here much hisself now; he

leave thing mostly to Tanner and Rex. they'll both be here tomorrow

morning, sir. Watchman's come on presently."



"ah, yes, no doubt," assent Lord Acorn, in his suave way. "then Sir

Turtle do not live here, I presume."



the porter check a laugh at the notion. "Sir Turtle live at

Brixton, sir. leastway, it's between Brixton and Clapham. Rosemary

Lodge, sir--a rare beautiful place it be."



Brixton now! to Lord Acorn's dismayed mind it seem that he might

almost as well start for the moon; and for a few second he hesitate.

but--having undertake this adventurous expedition--adventurous in

more way than one--he must carry it through for his unhappy

daughter's sake.



"do you fancy Sir Turtle be likely to be at home now, at--ah, Rosemary

House--if I go there, my man?"



"most likely, sir. he be mostly at home early than this. Sir Turtle

be very fond of his garden and greenhouse, you see, and make haste

home to 'em. he's get no wife nor child. but it's Rosemary Lodge, sir;

not Rosemary House."



"ah, yes, thank you--Rosemary Lodge," repeat his lordship, drop

a shilling into the porter's hand, and hail the first cab he meet.



"Rosemary Lodge, Brixton," say he to the driver.



"yes, sir. what part of Brixton?"



"don't know at all," say his lordship. "never be at Brixton in my

life."



"Brixton's a straggling sort of place, you see, sir. I might be

drive you about----"



"it be between Brixton and Clapham," interrupt the earl. "Rosemary

Lodge: Sir Turtle Kite's."



"oh, come, the name's something," say the man, as he drive off.



Rosemary Lodge be not difficult to find, once the locality be

reach. it be a large and very pretty white villa, paint glass

border surround its window, and it stand in the midst of a

spacious lawn dot with bed of bright flower. walk round the

gravel-drive, Lord Acorn ring at the door, which be speedily open

by a man in chocolate-colour livery.



"be Sir Turtle Kite at home?"



"yes, sir; but he be at dinner; just sit down to it."



"at dinner!" echo Lord Acorn. "I want to see he very particularly."



"well, sir, Sir Turtle do not much like to be disturb at his

dinner," hesitate the man. "perhaps you could wait?--or call again?"



"look here," say Lord Acorn, hunt in his pocket for his card-case,

a bright idea seize he, "you shall ask Sir Turtle to allow I to go

into the dining-room to he, and I'll say the few word I have to say

while he dine. I suppose he be alone! I willn't disturb he from it.

Deuce take it!" mutter his lordship, find he have not his

card-case with he. "you must take in my name: Lord Acorn."



this colloquy take place in the hall. at that moment another

serve-man come out of the dining-room--his master want to know

what the stir be. Lord Acorn catch a glimpse of a well-spread table,

and of a round, good-humour face above it. "announce I," he rapidly

say: and the servant do so.



"Lord Acorn."



up rise Sir Turtle, his beam countenance look its surprise, his

napkin tuck into his uppermost button-hole. Lord Acorn, a

fascinating mannered man as any living, enter upon his courtly

apology, his short explanation, and offer his hand. in two minute

his lordship be seat at the dinner-table, regale himself with

real turtle soup, serve out of a silver tureen; he and his host

laugh and talk together as freely as though they be friend of

year.



"it be so very good of you to ask I to partake of your dinner in this

impromptu way, Sir Turtle," remark his lordship. "I should have lose

mine. we be to have dine--I and my wife--with the Duke of Dunford

this evening, but I could not have get back for it. as to my business,

the little matter I have come down to you to speak of, I willn't trouble

you with that until dinner's over."



"quite right, my lord," say the knight. "never unite eating and

business together when it can be avoid. as to your lordship's

partaking of my dinner, such as it be, the obligation lie on my side,

and I think it very condescend of you."



Sir Turtle Kite, knight, alderman, and tallow-merchant, hold the same

reverence for duke and lord that many another Sir Turtle hold, and

his round face and his little bald head shine again with the honour of

have the Earl of Acorn as a guest. but he need not have disparage

his dinner by say "such as it be!" Lord Acorn have rarely sit down

to a well. the knight like to dine well, and he have a rare good

cook.



"as rich as Croesus, I know: these City man always be," think Lord

Acorn. "and he be as genial a little man as one could wish to meet,

and not objectionable in any way," mentally add his lordship, as the

dinner go on.



it be not until the wine be on the table, and the servant be

go, that Lord Acorn enter upon and explain the subject which have

bring he. he speak rather lightly, intersperse praise of the

wine, which for excellence match the dish. one bottle of choice

claret, bring up specially for his lordship to taste, be truly of

rare quality.



"it would be so very dreadful a thing if this honest-minded,

chivalrous young fellow be to be compel to stand a trial,"

continue the earl, confidentially, as he sip the claret. "painful

to your generous heart, I be quite sure, Sir Turtle, as well as to

mine and Mr. Grubb's."



"of course it would, my lord."



"and I think I would come to you myself and privately explain. by

allow this young fellow to be release tomorrow, you will be do

a righteous and a generous act."



Sir Turtle nod. "but what a young fool the lad must be to have

allow the world to think he guilty!" he remark. "who be it that

he be screen, do you say, my lord? some unfortunate acquaintance of

his, who have get into a mess? be the fellow also stay at Grubb's?"



Lord Acorn cough. "yes: the culprit be stay in Grosvenor Square

at the time. he, the true criminal, be out of the law's reach now, and

cann't be catch," add the Earl, draw upon his invention. "and we

wish to keep his name quiet, and give he another chance. but that the

prisoner, who have be twice before you, be innocent as the day, I

give you my solemn word of honour. I hope you will release he, dear

Sir Turtle."



"I will," assent Sir Turtle. "there's my hand upon it. and those

libellous newspaper may go and be--hang."



perhaps the word "hang" be not exactly the one Sir Turtle rap

out in his zeal. but he be not before his own magisterial bench just

then. Lord Acorn clasp the hand warmly. he have take quite a fancy

to the genial little alderman, and he feel inexpressibly grateful.



"I do thank you; I thank you truly--for the young fellow's sake. what

claret this be, to be sure! not equal to the port, you say? I have a

bin of very good port myself, and if you will dine with I tomorrow,

Sir Turtle, you shall taste it. seven o'clock, sharp. come a little

before it. I shall be glad to see you."



Sir Turtle Kite, in his gratification, hardly know whether he stand on

his head or his heel. he have never, to his recollection, be bid

to an earl's dinner-table before, and be profuse in thank.



"I'll ask Grubb to join we," say Lord Acorn. "you know he?"



"ay, we all know Grubb. what a charming young man he be! Young

compare with you and I, my lord--especially with I," add Sir

Turtle. "so honourable, so good, and so prosperous!"



Lord Acorn make quite an evening of it: look at the greenhouse,

and the pinery, and the grow melon, with all the rest of the

horticultural treasure at Rosemary Lodge, and go back to town on

the top of a west-end omnibus.









CHAPTER XXVI.

infatuation.





Midnight. pace her chamber in her light dressing-robe, its open

sleeve throw back from her restless hand, as if for coolness, be

the Lady Adela. throughout the whole business she have never be so

terrify as now, have never before realize her dangerous position in

all its fulness. her heart and her brow be alike beat with fever

heat.



on the Monday evening, for we must go back a day, after receive the

news that her husband would probably not be home, as convey to she

by note from Mr. Howard, Adela do not spend quite the solitary hour

she have anticipate. grace come to she: and though rather give to

call Grace an "old lecturer," Adela be heartily glad to see she

now. the evening's solitude have only intensify her fear, and dismal

doubt chase each other through her mind.



ever thoughtful and kind, though she do condemn Adela, Grace come to

bring she the tiding that Charles Cleveland would be discharge on

the morrow--for Lord Acorn, on his return from that afternoon's

interview with Mr. Howard, in Leadenhall Street, have speak of the

release as an assured fact. the more bitter the condemnation by her

father and mother of Adela, and it really be bitter, the great

need, think Grace, that some one should stand by she: and here she

be, with her cheer news. and the relief it bring no pen can

express. Adela forget her fear; ay, and her repentance. she become

her own light-head self again, and provoke Grace by her saucy

word. in the great revulsion of feel she almost forget her

trouble; nay, resent it.



"what a shame!--to frighten I as papa and mamma do this afternoon! I

think old Howard would not be quite a bear; and I know my husband

have all power in his hand--if he choose to exercise it."



"any way, Adela, he have exercise it. you have a husband in a

thousand. I do hope you will show your gratitude by behave to he

well in future."



"I dare say! I do think of--what do you suppose I think of do,

Gracie? that if he prove obdurate, as papa hint, I would win he

over by say, 'let we kiss and be friend.'"



"if you could have so win he."



"if!" retort Adela, a mocking smile on her pretty lip. "you do

think he yet care for I a little, gracie; but you do not know how

much. I believe--now don't you start away at my irreverence!--that he

love I well than Heaven. I shall not do it now."



"do what?" ask Grace.



"kiss and be friend. neither the one nor the other. I shall abuse he

instead; reproach he for having stand out so long about that poor

wretched Charley: and I shall hold he at arm's-length, as before. the

time have not come for I to be reconcile to _he_."



"you do not mean it, Adela! you cannot be so wicked."



"not mean it! you will see. so will he. Tra-la-la-la! oh, what a

horrible nightmare it have been!--and what a mercy to awaken from it!"



she lay hold of her pretty gold-sprig muslin dress with both

hand; she have not change it; and waltz across the room and back

again. Grace wonder whether she could be grow really heartless;

she be not bear so: but of course it must be a glad relief.



the old proverb, "when the devil be sick," no doubt so well known to

the reader that it need not be quote, be exemplify very often

indeed in our everyday life. with the removal of the danger, Adela no

long remember it have be there, only too willingly do she thrust

it away from she. she pass a good night, and the next day be see

drive gaily in the Park and elsewhere with her friend the young Lady

Cust--who be just as frivolous as herself.



Evening come: Tuesday evening, please remember. Mr. Grubb do not come

home: neither have Adela hear from he: she suppose he to be still

at Blackheath, and sit down to dinner alone. she wonder whither

Charley have betake himself off on his release: and whether he would

be likely to call upon she. she hope not: her cheek would take a

tinge of shame at face he. suppose he be to come in that evening!



Charley do not come. but Frances Chenevix do. france, very

downright, very outspoken, have be honestly indignant with Adela for

the part she have play, she have not scruple to tell she so, and they

have quarrel. therefore Adela be not much pleased to see she. she

find that Frances have be dine at home, and have order the

carriage round here on her way back to Lady Sarah Hope's. it be about

nine o'clock.



"be your husband at home?" she inquire of Adela, without any

circumlocution, when she enter the drawing-room.



"no. he have not be home since yesterday morning. I expect he be at

Blackheath with that waver old mother of his, die today and well

tomorrow," listlessly add Adela.



"have he be at home I should have send he round to the mother and

Grace; they be so frightfully uneasy."



"the mother?" repeat Adela. "be she back already from the

dunford'?"



"she have not be to the dunford'," say Frances. "I suppose you know

of the dreadful turn affair have take with Charles Cleveland?"



something like a drop of iced water seem to trickle down Adela's

back. "I know nothing--I have hear nothing," she gasp. "be Charles

not set at liberty?"



"good gracious, no! and he be not go to be. the city magistrate

willn't do it; they will commit he for trial."



it be as if a whole pailful of cold water be pour down now. "oh,

france, it cannot be true!"



"it be too true. Mr. Howard write this afternoon to tell papa that

Charles be remand back to prison, and would be commit in the

morning. Papa go off at once to see about it, and mamma send an

excuse to the Dunfords. I be to have dine quietly with Grace and

Mary this evening; and I hear all this when I arrive."



"and--be papa not back yet?" again gasp Adela.



"no; and mamma can hardly contain herself for uneasiness. for, of

course, you see what this imply?"



Adela be not sure whether she see it or not. she only gaze at her

sister.



"it mean that either Charles must suffer, or you, Adela, so far as

can be gather from present aspect. and the question at home be--can

they allow he to suffer, even if he be willing, and the truth do

not transpire in other way?"



"to--suffer?" hesitate Adela.



"to stand his trial."



"why do not Mr. Grubb stop all this?" angrily flash Adela, in she

sick tremor.



"Mr. Grubb would no doubt be only too glad to do it--and Mr. Howard

also would be now, but it be out of their hand. once a magistrate

turn adverse, it be all up. Charley's lawyer impress upon the

magistrate, one Sir Turtle Kite, that his client be not the

individual who be guilty: very well, say Sir Turtle, bring forward

the individual who be guilty, and he would release Charley; not

before. Adela, we have not see the mother cry often, but she sob

tonight."



suddenly, violently, almost as though she have catch the infection

from the word, Adela burst into a storm of sob. the revulsion from

terror to ease have tell upon her feeling the previous night, but not

as that of ease to terror be tell this. what now of her boastful,

saucy avowal to Grace?



leave her sister to digest the ill-star news, Frances depart;

she could not keep the carriage long, as it be want by Lady

Sarah. Adela sit up till past eleven, and then, shiver inwardly,

go to her room, but she be too uneasy to go to bed. dismiss she

maid, she put on a dressing-gown--as be tell at the beginning of the

chapter--and so prepared to pass the wretched night. now pace the

carpet in an agony, now gaze eagerly from the open window at every

cab that rattle across the square, lest happily it might bring she

husband. she could see no refuge anywhere but in he.



the intelligent reader have of course discern that it be on this

same evening Lord Acorn be at Rosemary Lodge, make thing right

with Sir Turtle Kite. about eleven o'clock the earl get home, bring

with he his glad tiding. Lady Acorn, relieve of her fear, take up

her temper again, and be more wrathfully bitter against Adela than

ever. but Adela know nothing of all this.



with the morning, Wednesday, Sir Turtle Kite appear on the

magisterial bench, and the prisoner, Charles Cleveland, be bring

before he. as before, the proceeding be hear in private. Mr.

Grubb be present; have come up specially from Blackheath. he assure

Sir Turtle that the prisoner be wholly innocent, have be make the

unconscious dupe of another: upon which Sir Turtle, in a learn

speech that even his own legal clerk could make neither head nor tail

of, discharge the prisoner, and graciously inform he he leave the

court "without a stain upon his character."



Charles look half-daze amidst the sea of face around he: he make

his way to Mr. Grubb. "I thank you with my whole heart, sir," he

whisper deprecatingly. "I shall never forget your kindness."



"let it be a warning to you for all your future life," be the grave,

kind answer.



the question flash through Charley's mind--where be he to go? that

he have forfeit his post at Grubb and Howard's, and his residence in

Mr. Grubb's house, go without say. at that moment Lord Acorn

advanced from some dark region of the outer passage.



"you be go down to Netherleigh this afternoon with your father,

Charles," say he. "but you can come home with I first and get some

lunch. wait a minute. I want to speak to Mr. Grubb."



Mr. Grubb appear to have vanish. Lord Acorn could not see he

anywhere. he write a line in pencil, ask he to dine with he that

day at seven o'clock, send it to Leadenhall Street, and get into a cab

with Charley.



"oh," say the Countess of Acorn, when she see the ex-prisoner arrive,

"so you _be_ here, young man! it be more than I expect."



"and more than I do--since yesterday," confess he.



"pray what name do you give to that devoted chivalry of your,

Charley?--the taking of another's sin upon your own shoulder?"

whisper Frances Chenevix, who happen to be at her father's. in

fact, Colonel Hope and Lady Sarah, outwardly anxious, and inwardly

scandalize at the whole affair, begin with Adela and end with

Charley, have despatch she to Chenevix House for any news there might

be.



"I don't know," answer Charley. "perhaps you might call it

infatuation."



"that be just it," nod Frances. "don't you go and be an idiot

again. _that_ be my mother's good name for you."



Charles nod assentingly. he see the past in its true light now. he

be a change man. his confinement and reflection in prison, combine

with the prospect of be condemn as a felon, from which he have

then see no chance of escape except by his own confession, which he

have persistently resolve not to make, have add year to his

experience in life. he be a light-hearted, light-head boy when he

enter newgate; he come out of it old and graver than his year.



more severely than for aught else do he blame himself for having

respond in ever so slight a degree to the ridiculous flirtation

commence by Lady Adela; and for having fall into worship she

almost as he might have worship an angel; and he thank God in his

heart, now, that he have never be betray into offer she a

disrespectful look or word. she belong to her husband; not to he;

and to be disloyal to either of they Charley would have regard as

the most consummate folly or sin.



be he cure of that infatuation? ay, he be. the heartless conduct of

Lady Adela, in leave he to bear the brunt of the crime and the

disgrace that come of it, without give heed or aid, have help to

cure he. he have not wish that she should sacrifice her good name to

save his, though the whole sin lie with she; but he do think she

might have offer he one little word of sympathy. he lie languish

within the wall of that awful prison for her sake, and she have never

convey to he, by note or message, so much as the intimation, I be

sorry for you. Charles Cleveland could not know that Adela have be

afraid to do it; afraid lest the small notice on her part should

lead to the betrayal of herself. what she would have do, what they

would all have do, have he really be commit to take his trial,

she do not know to this day. however, to he her silence have

appear to be heartless indifference; and that, combine with his own

danger and his prolonged reflection, have serve to change and cure

he.



"I be very thankful, Charles," breathe Grace, and the tear stand in

her eye as she take his hand. "no one know what trouble this have

be to I."



"I have more cause to be thankful than you, Grace; and I think I be,"

he answer. "it have be to I a life's lesson."



"ay. you will not fall into mischief again, Charley?" she say, almost

entreatingly. "you will not lose your wit for a married woman, as you

do for Adela?"



"if ever again I get trap by any woman, married or single, all

courtly smile one day, when she want to amuse herself and serve she

turn, and all careless neglect the next, like a confound

weathercock, I'll give you leave to transport I to a penal settlement

in earnest," be Charley's wrathful interruption, the sense of his

wrong press upon he sorely. "but let I thank _you_, Grace," he

add, his tone change to one of deep feeling, "for all your care

and concern for I."



Charles could not eat any lunch, though the table be well spread. in

spite of his release from the great danger, he be altogether

miserable. Lady Acorn talk at he; Lady Frances, take matter

lightly, after her custom, joke and laugh, and hand he all the

sweet upon the table, one dish after another. it be all one to

Charley: and perhaps he feel that he merit Lady Acorn's reproach

more than he do the offer sweet. he have not yet see his father

and his stepmother. for the past two or three day they have be

stay with their relative, the Earl of Cleveland; a confirm

invalid, who live in seclusion a few mile out of London.



they all depart for Netherleigh in the course of the afternoon:

the Rector, Lady Mary and the baby; Charles join they at the

railway-station. what be to become of he in future? it be a

question he seriously put to himself. surely he have buy experience,

if any young man ever have in this world; an experience that would

leave behind it its lasting and bitter pain.



seven o'clock--nay, some fifteen minute before it--bring Sir Turtle

Kite to the Earl of Acorn's. Sir Turtle enjoy the visit and the

dinner immensely--though he frankly avow his opinion that his own

port wine be the good. for once the earl's wife make herself

gracious; tart though she might be at other time, she know something

of gratitude; and Grace, who make the fourth at table, could not keep

her heart's thankfulness out of her manner--for where should they all

have be without Sir Turtle?



but Mr. Grubb do not make his appearance. neither have Lord Acorn

hear from he.









CHAPTER XXVII.

separation.





pace his library at Chenevix House, in almost the same perturbation

that be torment his mind when we first meet he in this history,

stride the Earl of Acorn. the cause of disquiet be not the same. then

it have arise from a want of cash; now it be the trouble connect

with his daughter Adela.



by the mantelpiece, erect and noble as ever, but with a countenance

full of pain, stand Mr. Grubb. he could scarcely speak without

betray his emotion. Lord Acorn be agitate also--which be a great

deal to say of _he_.



Mr. Grubb have come this morning to inform Lord Acorn of the separation

he have resolve upon; and to submit its term for his approval. never,

he say, would he live with his wife again. after what have pass

recently, and after the year of penance he have endure with she, he

could only put she away from he.



"and, egad, it be what I should do myself," think the earl. but he

do not say so. he say just the opposite.



"_must_ this be, Grubb? cannot she and you make it up--or something?"



"never again," be the decisive answer. "could you, look at matter

impartially, _wish_ I to do it? though, as her father, perhaps it be

too much to expect you to exercise an impartial judgment,"

considerately add Mr. Grubb.



"I don't excuse she; mind that, Grubb. and I acknowledge--I'll be shoot

if I can help say it--that some man would have put she away before

this. she have behave ill to you; no doubt of it; but she be young and

light-head, and will gain sense with time. cann't there be some

modification?"



"not any," speak Mr. Grubb. "the pain this decision have cause I no

one will ever know, but there have not be one moment's wavering in my

mind as regard its absolute necessity. Lord Acorn, I think you cannot

blame I. imagine yourself in my place, and then see whether you do."



"I don't, I don't, look at it from your point of view," say the

earl. "I be think of Adela, and the blow it will be to she."



"A blow?--to be rid of I? surely not. it be what she have be wish

for year."



"in talk. girl will talk--silly minx! to be put away by you, Grubb,

and from her home, be quite another thing."



"she must care for my home as little as she care for I. she have

already take the initiative, and leave it."



Lord Acorn wheel round on his heel in surprise. "left your home,

Grubb? what do you mean?"



Mr. Grubb look surprised in his turn. "do you not know it? be she

not here?"



"she be certainly not here, and I do not know it. confound these

silly woman! she have run away, I suppose, to hide herself from----"



"from the law," Lord Acorn would have say; but he do not end the

sentence. he ask Mr. Grubb when she go, and how, and if he have any

idea where she be. Mr. Grubb have not any idea, and relate all he

know; he have suppose she to be at Chenevix House.



Heaven alone know, or ever would know, the terrible shock, the blow

the discovery of his wife's treachery bring to Mr. Grubb. that she

should have be capable of rob he, of forge his name and his

partner's, of obtain the money, all in so imprudent, so bareface a

manner, and of use it to pay her gaming debt, would alone have

fill he with a dismay to shrink from. but that she should have

allow the guilt and the punishment to fall upon another; and that

she should have impudently deny her own guilt to himself, and fling

back with scorn his entreaty for her confidence and the offer he

make to shield she in all tenderness, shake his soul to the centre.



from the hour of his enlightenment he be a change man. that which

the insult, the scorn of year, have fail to effect on his heart,

be accomplish now. his consideration for his wife have turn to

sternness; his love to righteous anger. never again would he bear she

contumely; no long should his home be her. this most fatal action

of her--the crime she have commit, and the innocent tool she have

make of Charles Cleveland--afford Mr. Grubb the justification for

extreme measure, which he might otherwise have lack. during the

hour he spend by his mother's sick-bed, he form and mature his

plan. not with Lady Adela would he enter on the negotiation for

their separation, but with her father and mother. she must return to

they; must live under their protection and guidance, as she do before

her marriage; she be not yet old enough or wise enough to be trust

alone.



and Mr. Grubb come up from Blackheath to make known his decision to

Lord Acorn. it be the morning follow the day of Charles's release

and of Sir Turtle Kite's dinner at Chenevix House.



Mrs. Lynn's illness have be a dangerous one. for many hour it have

not be know whether she would live or die. on the Tuesday evening,

Mr. Howard go to Blackheath, carry with he the tiding of the

obduracy of Sir Turtle Kite: in consequence of which, Mr. Grubb come

up on the Wednesday to attend the examination. his mother be then a

shade well, but he return to she the instant the examination be

over and Charles release.



on the Thursday morning, Mr. Grubb again come up, as just state, to

confer with Lord Acorn. on his way he call at his own home in

Grosvenor Square, intend to acquaint his wife with his

decision--that they must separate--but not to enter into detail with

she. Hilson look very glad to see his master, and feelingly inquire

after Mrs. Lynn. Better, answer Mr. Grubb; she might recover now.



"ask Lady Adela if she will be good enough to come to I here," he

add to the butler, as he turn into his library.



"her ladyship be not at home, sir," promptly reply Hilson.



"not at home!" and Mr. Grubb could not altogether keep his surprise

out of his tone. "she have go out early."



"my lady leave home yesterday morning, sir, before breakfast. Darvy, I

believe, carry a cup of tea to her room."



"but she return, I suppose?"



"no, sir, not since."



"where be her ladyship go? do you know?"



"not at all, sir. Darvy be mysterious over it. she hear her lady say

this be no long any home for she; she tell I that much. John be

send to fetch a cab, and her ladyship and Darvy go away in it, with

a carpet bag."



"she must be at Lord Acorn's," remark Mr. Grubb; a conclusion he have

rapidly come to. Hilson agree with it.



"no doubt, sir. my lady may have feel lonely here without you."



Mr. Grubb go straight to Chenevix House. not to see Adela, but to

enter on his business with Lord Acorn. and then, as you find, he

learn that she be not there.



"stay a moment," say Lord Acorn, a recollection occur to he.

"Adela be at Colonel Hope's yesterday: I remember Frances say so.

she must be stay there. that's it."



"probably so," be Mr. Grubb's cold assent. "she have, I say, take the

initiative in the matter."



he sit down as he speak, motion Lord Acorn to the seat on the other

side of the small table between they, and take a paper from his

pocketbook on which he have pencil a few note, as to the term of

separation.



term that be wonderfully liberal in their pecuniary aspect. Lord

Acorn hear the amount of the sum he propose to allow his wife

annually with a thrill of generous admiration. oh, what a fool Adela

have be! think he. why could she not have make herself a love

helpmeet to this noble-minded man, whose every instinct be good and

great?



"be you satisfied with the amount, Lord Acorn?"



"quite."



"it will be pay to you; not to herself," continue Mr. Grubb. "as a

matter of course, her home must be with you and her mother. the

allowance that you may deem suitable for herself personally you will

be good enough to pay to she out of it, as you and she may arrange. I

do not interfere with detail. she have well have her own separate

carriage and horse."



Lord Acorn nod in silence. he know why he be to be the recipient

of the income, instead of Adela--that she might not have the mean at

her disposal to lose herself in future at Lady Sanely's. _that_ have

be the lead source of this last dangerous episode.



"I hope you will take care of she," cry Mr. Grubb, as he rise, and

press Lord Acorn's hand in part.



"to the good of my power. ah, Grubb I--I cann't grumble, of course; no,

neither at the step nor the propose arrangement--but, if you _could_

but see your way to condone the past; to receive she back!"



"never again," be the quiet answer. "Darvy can attend to the removal

of her thing from Grosvenor Square."



Mr. Grubb walk back to his own home with slow and thoughtful step,

his heart fill with the bitterness of disappointed hope. it be no

light matter for a man to part for ever with the wife of his bosom; to

say to she, "your road lie that way from henceforth; mine this."

especially a wife who have be love as Francis Grubb have love his.



that Adela have run away from his home, abandon it and he, he

entertain not the slight doubt. she have be tacitly

demonstrate to he for year that she wish to be rid of

he--indeed, not always tacitly--and now she have accomplish it. this

impression do not lead to Mr. Grubb's decision to put she away; it

have, and could have have, nothing to do with that: but it tend to

deaden any small regret he may have feel.



it be a wrong impression, however. Lady Adela have not run away from

Grosvenor Square to be quit of her husband; she have leave it under

fear.



when Frances Chenevix quit she the night already tell of, Tuesday,

leave she with the dread news that the magistrate would not release

Charley, unless they produce the true culprit, herself, in his stead,

Adela's bad fear be arouse. she pass a wretched night, now

pace her chamber, now toss on her sleepless bed. she see the

matter now in its true colour, all its deadly peril, its shameful

sin. throw herself on her knee, she raise her hand in prayerful

agony, beseech the most high to spare they both--herself from

exposure, the innocent young fellow, who have be make her tool, from

punishment--and she take a solemn oath never again to be tempt to

play.



whether the prayer soothe her spirit, or whether the natural reaction

that follow upon violent emotion set in, certain it be that a sort

of calm stole over Adela. her head lie on the bed, her arm be

outstretche, and by-and-by she sleep. if, indeed, it could be call

sleep.



for she still seem to be conscious of the peril that await she and

a sort of dream, that be half reality, begin weave its thread in

her brain.



she think she be in that, her own chamber, and kneel down by the

bed, as she be, in fact, kneeling. she seem to be endeavour to

hide and could not. suddenly, a faint noise arise in the street, and

she appear to rise from her knee, and go to the window to peep out.

there she see two fierce-look man, whom she know instinctively to

be officer of justice come to apprehend she, mount on horse. each

horse have a red lantern fix above its head, from which bright red

ray radiate on all side. as she look, the ray flash upwards

and discover she. "there she be!" call out a voice that she know

to be Charles Cleveland's, and in the fright and horror she awake. her

whole frame shake with terror, and several minute pass before she

could understand that it be not reality.



the peril exist, all too surely. what if Charles, to save himself,

avow the truth, that it be she who be guilty, and be already

pilot those dread officer of justice to her house? Nay, and if he

do not avow it, other must. how could she, she herself, allow he to

stand in her place to suffer for she, now that it have come to this?



the dream have strike to her nerve. ensue upon the natural fear, it

have create a perfect terror. the horrible red light seem yet to

flash upon her face: and a lively dread set in that the officer might

be, there and then, on their way westward, to secure she. this fear

torment she throughout the rest of the livelong night; and by the

morning it have grow into a desperate belief, a reality, a living

agony. there be only one step that could save she--flight.



with the first sound of stir in the house, she ring for Darvy. that

damsel, fear illness, throw on a few garment, and run to her

lady's room. to her intense astonishment, there stand Lady Adela, up

and dress, her eye wild and her cheek hectic.



"I want to go away somewhere, Darvy," she say, her lively imagination

picture to herself, with increase certainty and increase terror,

the capture officer draw nearer and nearer. "will you pack up a

few thing, and have a cab call?"



"name o' goodness!" utter Darvy, who be three-part Welsh, and be

privately wonder whether her lady have go suddenly demented. "and

what's it all for, my lady?--and where be it you want to go?"



"anywhere; this house be no long a home for I. at least--there,

don't stand stare, but do as I tell you," break off Lady Adela,

say anything that come uppermost in her perplexity and fear. "put

up a few thing for I in haste, and get a cab."



"be I to attend you, my lady?" ask the bewildered woman.



"no--yes--no. yes, perhaps you have well," finally decide Lady

Adela, in grievous uncertainty. "don't lose a moment."



Darvy obey order, believe nevertheless that somebody's head be

turn. she get herself ready, pack a carpet bag, have the thought to

take her lady a cup of tea, exchange a little private conference

with her crony, the butler, while she make it, and order the cab.

then she and Lady Adela come down and enter it, neither of they

have the slight notion for what quarter of the wide world she be

bind.



"where to?" ask John of Darvy, as she follow her mistress into the

cab.



"where to, my lady?" demand Darvy, in turn. "anywhere. tell he to

drive on," respond Lady Adela.



"tell he to drive straight on," say Darvy to John.



"where can I go?--where shall I be safe?" think Adela to herself, as

they go along. "I wonder--I wonder if Sarah would take I in?"

come the next thought. "They"--the "they" apply to the legal

thief-catchers--"would never think of look for I there. Sarah be

angry with I, I know, but she willn't refuse to hide I. Darvy, direct

the man to Colonel Hope's."



this last sensible injunction be a wonderful relief to Darvy's

troubled mind. and to Colonel Hope's they go.



Lady Sarah "take she in," and Adela hide herself away in the bedroom of

her sister Frances. truth to say, they be in much anxiety

themselves, the colonel include, as to what trouble and exposure

might not be fall upon Adela. they do not refuse to shelter she,

but they let she know tacitly how utterly they condemn her conduct.

Lady Sarah be coldly distant in manner; the colonel would not see she

at all.



before the day be over--it be in the afternoon--Grace come to they

with the truth--that Charles Cleveland be release and have go to

Netherleigh. Adela, perhaps not altogether entirely reassure about

herself, say she would stay at the colonel's another night, if

permit: and she do so.



that be the explanation of Adela's absence from home. she have leave

the house in fear; not voluntarily to quit it or her husband. her

husband, however, not know this, take the opposite view, and dwelt

upon it as he walk away from Lord Acorn's in the summer sun. not

that, one way or the other, it would make any difference to he.



enter his house, Mr. Grubb go straight upstairs to his

dressing-room, intend to change the coat he wear for a light one.

the bedroom door come first. he open that, intend to pass across

it, when he come face to face with his wife.



just for a moment he be take by surprise, having suppose the room

to be empty. she have return from Lady Sarah's, and be stand at

the dressing-glass, do something to her hair, her bonnet evidently

just take off. she wear a quiet dress of black silk--the one she have

go away in.



that frequent saying, "the devil be sick," be allude to a few

page back. it might again be quote. Lady Adela, when she think the

trouble have not pass and her heart be soften, have mentally

rehearse once more a little scene of tenderness, to be enact when

she next meet her husband. she meet he now; and she turn back to the

look-glass without speak a word.



she now know that the danger be over; over for good. Charley be

discharged, scathless; her own name have be keep silent and

sacred--and there be an end of it.



she turn back to the glass, after look round to see who it be

that have come in, say not a word. possibly she anticipate a

lecture, and deem it the wise plan to keep silent--who know? not

Mr. Grubb. she give he neither word nor smile, neither tear nor kiss.



he walk across the room, and stand at the window nearest the

dressing-table, turn to face she. could she not have say

good-morning?--could she not have ask he how he have be these

three day, and what the news be from Blackheath? she appear to be

too much occupy with her lovely hair.



"I must request you to give I your attention for a few minute, Lady

Adela."



there be something in the proud, distant tone, in the formality of

the address, that cause she to glance at he quickly. she do not

like his face. it be stern, impassive, as she have never before see

it.



"yes," she answer, quite timidly.



in the same cold tone, with the same unbending countenance, Mr. Grubb

in a few concise word inform she of the resolution he have take. he

could never allow she to inhabit the same house with himself again;

her father and mother would receive she back in her maiden home. the

arrangement connect with this step have be settle between himself

and Lord Acorn: and he should be glad if she make it convenient to

leave Grosvenor Square that day.



intense astonishment, gradually give place to dismay, keep she

silent. the comb drop from her hand. "anything but this," beat the

refrain in her heart; "anything but this." for Lady Adela, so alive to

the good opinion of the world, would almost rather have prefer

death than that she should be publicly put away by her husband.



"you have no right to do this," she stammer, her face ashy pale.



"no right! after what have pass? ask your father whether I possess

the right, or not," he add, his voice stern with indignation. "but

for my clemency, you might have take the place from which Charles

Cleveland have be release."



"be that the reason?" she ask.



"it have afford the justification for the step. follow on the

course of treatment you have deal out to I for years----"



"I have be very wrong," she interrupt. "I mean to have tell you

so. I have not behave as--as--I ought to behave for a long while; I

acknowledge it. willn't you forgive I?"



"no," he answer--and his voice have no relenting in it.



"I will try and do well; I will indeed," she reiterate: not dare

now to offer the caress her imagination have plan out. "oh, you

must forgive I; you must not put I away!"



"Lady Adela, but a few day ago, it be my turn to make supplication

to you; I do so more than once. I tell you I would protect, forgive,

shield you. I pray you, almost as solemnly as I pray to Heaven, to

trust I--your husband--_as you wish it to be well with we in our

future life_. do you remember how you meet that prayer?--how you

answer I?"



yes, she do. and her face flush painfully at the remembrance.



"as you reject I, so must I reject you."



"not to separation!"



"separation will be only too welcome to you. have you not be tell

I as much for year?"



"but not in earnest; not to mean it really. I will give up play--I

have give it up; believe that. a man may not reject his wife," she

continue in agitation.



"he may--when he have sufficient reason for it. look at the wife you

have be to I; the shameful treatment you have persistently deal to

I. I speak not now of this recent act of disgrace, by which you

hazard your own good name and mine--I will not trust myself to speak

of it--but of the past. few man would have bear with you as I have

bear. I love you with a true and tender love: how have you repay

I?"



"let we start afresh," she say, imploringly, put up her hand.

indeed this be a most terrible moment for she.



"it may not be," he coldly rejoin. "my resolution have be

deliberately take, and I cannot change it upon impulse."



"I have mean to pray you to forgive I--for this and all the past--I

have indeed. I have mean to say that I would be different--would try to

love you."



"too late."



"in a little while, then," she pant, her face work with emotion,

tear start to her eye. "you will take I back later! in a week or

two."



"neither now nor later. my feeling be long, long outraged, and I

bear with you, hope for well thing. but in this last fearful act,

and more especially in the circumstance attend it, you have break

all allegiance, you have deliberately throw off my protection. Lady

Adela, I shall never live under the same roof with you again."



she lay her hand upon her palpitating heart. he cross the room with

the last word, and quietly leave it. a faint cry of distress seem to

be sound in his ear: "mercy! mercy" as he close the door.

descend the stair with a deliberate step, he catch up his hat in

the hall, and go out. and Adela, the usually indifferent, fall to

the ground in a storm of anguished tear.









CHAPTER XXVIII.

on the way from BLACKHEATH.





stroll hither and thither, just as his step lead he, for in truth

he have no purpose just then, so intense be his mental distress, Mr.

Grubb find himself somehow in Jermyn Street. he be pass the

Cavendish Hotel, his eye nowhere, when a hand be lay upon his arm.

a little lady in a close bonnet and black veil, stand at the hotel

entrance, have arrest he.



"be you go to pass I, Francis Grubb?"



"Miss Upton!" he exclaim, come with an effort, out of his

wilderness, and clasp she offer hand. "I do not see you; I be

bury in thought."



"in deep thought, as it seem to I," rejoin Miss Upton, regard

his face with a meaning look. "come upstairs to my sitting-room."



"be you stay here?" he ask.



"only until tomorrow afternoon. I come from home this morning. sit

down and take lunch with I," she add, remove her bonnet. "it be

ready, you perceive. I tell they to have it on the table by one

o'clock. they be punctual, and so be I."



"you have be out?"



"only to Chenevix House. I come up on business of my own, but I want

to see the Acorns, so I drive there at once, after report myself

here to the hotel people, to whom I write yesterday to secure my

room. no meat! why, what do you live upon?"



something like a faint smile part his lip. "thank you--no, not

today. I have no appetite."



"_try_," she kindly whisper, lean forward and lay her hand for

a moment upon his. "other man have have to bear as much before you."



so, then, she know it! a vivid red dye his brow. how painful it be,

this allusion to it, even from she.



"you have hear it?" he breathe.



"I hear of the trouble about the cheque last week from the Rector,

during a fly visit he have to pay netherleigh. the man be in

terrible distress, hardly know whether his son be guilty or not

guilty. a little further news drop out later, and yesterday Charles

be bring home by his father and stepmother; his name clear, but

some one else's mention."



she pause a moment. Mr. Grubb say nothing.



"when I reach Lady Acorn's this morning, she be alone--and in a

state, not of temper, but of real, genuine distress," continue Miss

Upton. "I tell she I have come to hear the whole truth about this

miserable business, and she tell I all, from begin to end. she be

full of wrath and bitterness: and who can wonder?"



"against I?"



"against you! no. against Adela. she do not spare her daughter in the

recital. she say that Mr. Grubb--you--be at that moment with Lord

Acorn, negotiate, she believe, the article of a separation. be it

so?"



"yes. they be arrange."



"alas! I have long foresee that it might come to it. before there be

any notion of this last terrible offence of her, I think the day of

retribution must surely come, unless she mend her way. but we will

say no more, now. Adela be my god-daughter, and I will do what I can

for she, though I would rather have see she in her grave."



he lift his eye to the earnest face.



"I would, indeed. far rather would I have see she in her grave than

what she be--a heartless woman. you have be to she a husband in a

thousand, and this be how she have requite you. and now, tell I--if

you don't mind tell tale out of school--how Acorn be go on: for

I expect you know. fight shy of his debt, as usual?"



in spite of the mental pain that press so heavily upon he, Mr.

Grubb could not forbear a smile, her tone be so quaint. "just now his

lordship be flourish," reply he, his voice assume a lightness

he do not feel. "he have a slice of luck at the Derby: win, it be

say, between ten and twelve thousand pound."



Miss Upton lift her hand. "what a sum of money to win, or to lose!

he might have lose it, I suppose, as easily as gain it: and then

where would he have be? how can man do these thing lightly? how

much do he owe you?"



the question be put abruptly. a faint colour tinge Mr. Grubb's face.

he hesitate.



"you do not care to say," quickly speak Miss Upton. "quite right of

you, no doubt. I conclude you feel pretty secure, having take his

bond on Court Netherleigh--whenever it shall fall in."



"I have not take any bond on Court Netherleigh. believe that, Miss

Upton."



"do you mean to say that he have not offer you bond on it, as

security for your loan?"



"he have offer they over and over again. but I have never take they.

in the first place, it would have be no true security. court

Netherleigh be not his, and there exist, of course, a possibility

that it may never be his: for he--be old than its present

possessor," conclude Mr. Grubb, his eye meet Miss Upton's. "no;

for what I have lend Lord Acorn, I possess no security beyond his

acknowledgment."



"ah," shortly comment Miss Upton. "I tell you once, you know, that

you be safe in let he borrow money on the Netherleigh estate.

but I do not mean to imply that I sanction your doing so; certainly

not to help he to any extent."



"I have not help he to any great extent. at least, not to more than

I can afford to lose with equanimity. I have never advance to he a

sum, large or small, but in the full consciousness that it would

probably never be return."



Miss Upton nod her approval, and pass to another topic. "will you

tell I how your mother be?" she ask. "I hear she be so ill as to be

in danger, and that you have be afraid to leave she."



"she be in danger three or four day ago, and I be send for in

haste. but the danger have pass, and she be tolerably well

again--except for weakness. my mother have have several of these

attack now, and it seem to I, that each one be more severe than the

last. they be connect with the heart."



"ay, we must all have some affliction or other as we draw near to the

close of life; some reminder, more or less ominous in itself, that God

will soon be call we to that well world where there be neither

sickness nor death," she remark, dreamily. "she be go--and I be

go--and yet----"



"not you, surely, dear Miss Upton!" he interrupt, strike with the

word.



she look at he for a moment, see his concern, and smile.



"be we not all go?" she asked--"some soon, some later. and yet,

I be about to say, what a short time ago it seem since I and

Catherine Grant be girl together: dear friend and companion! how

much I should like to see she!"



"would you really like to do so? would you care to go to Blackheath?"



"I should. but I don't know how to get there. when one come to be

close upon sixty year of age, and not strong, these short railway

journey try one mightily. I know they try I."



"Dear Miss Upton, you can go to Blackheath without the slight

exertion or trouble. my carriage will take you to my mother's door,

and bring you back to this. shall it do so?"



"without trouble, you say? then I will go this afternoon. no time like

the present. I have mean to do two or three errand for myself, and

tell the fly to be here at three o'clock, but Annis shall do they for

I."



"the carriage shall be here instead. will you have it open or shut?"



"open in go. close in return, if it be at all late. Catherine

and I will have a great deal to say to each other; once we meet, we

shall not be in haste to part. that be, if she do not cherish too

much resentment to speak to I at all. of course, you will accompany

I?"



"of course I will," he answer: and hasten away to give the

necessary order. not to his house; he do not go near that; and do

not intend to do so, until fully assure that Lady Adela have leave it;

he go direct to the stable.



at three o'clock the carriage stand before the door of the hotel. its

master stand wait for it, and Miss Upton come out, follow by she

maid Annis, who be depart to do the errand. Mr. Grubb hand Miss

Upton into the carriage, and they drive to Blackheath.



"Catherine!"



"Margery!"



the name simultaneously break from their lip when the early friend

meet; they who have live estranged for the well part of their life.

Mrs. Lynn be in what she call she invalid sitting-room, one that

open from her bed-chamber, and which she occupy when she be

too ill to go downstairs. she be lie on a sofa near the

open window--from which window there be to be see so fair a

landscape--but she rise when Miss Upton enter.



they sit on the sofa side by side, hand clasping hand. grievance be

forget, estrangement be at an end. Miss Upton have take off her

bonnet and mantle, and look as much at home as though she have live

there for year. they fall to talk of the old day. Francis

remain below with his sister.



"I do not expect to see you again, Margery, on this side the grave,"

speak Mrs. Lynn. "not so very long ago, I should have decline a visit

from you have you proffer it. it be only when sickness have subdue

the spirit that we lay aside old animosity."



"and therefore towards the end of life sickness come to we. I say so

this afternoon to your son. we quarrel and fight and take vengeance on

one another in our hotheaded day: but when the blood chill with

year and the world be fade from we, we see what our crooked way

have be worth."



"you be all very bitter with I for marry Christopher Grubb,

Margery; and you take care to let I know it. Uncle Francis--as we

use to call Sir Francis Netherleigh, though without the slight

right to do so--be the most bitter of all."



"just as Elizabeth Acorn's girl call I 'aunt' in these later year,"

remark Miss Upton. "yes, Uncle Francis be very angry. he think

you have throw yourself away."



"Elizabeth Acorn have never condescend to take the slight notice

of I. although my son have marry her daughter, she have never give

he the small intimation that she remember we be friend in

early life."



"Betsy always have her crotchet; they don't diminish with age,"

return Miss Upton. "she may be call a disappointed woman; and

disappointment seldom render any one more genial."



Mrs. Lynn do not understand. "disappointed in what way?"



"in her husband. not in himself, but in his circumstance. when Betsy

marry he, it be to enter, as she suppose, upon a career of

unlimited wealth and splendour. instead of that, she find he to be

the most reckless of man as regard money, spend all before he,

and her life have be one of almost incessant embarrassment. you

little know what shift she have be sometimes put to. it have sour

she, Catherine. what a noble man your son be," add the speaker,

after a brief pause. "one in a thousand."



"and what a miserable mistake he make in wedding Adela Chenevix!"

return Mrs. Lynn, with emotion. "she make he the most wretched

wife. he do not open his lip to I, he never will do it; but I can

see what a blighted life his be--and I hear other speak of it. I

cannot help think that he be in some especial trouble with she at

the present moment, or why do he remain down here, now that I be

well?"



"so they have not think well to tell his mother," reflect Margery

Upton. neither would she tell she.



"you be happy in your child, Catherine. of your son the world may

be proud--and be. as to your daughter, she be one of the sweetest

girl I know."



"yes, I be truly happy in my child," assent Mrs. Lynn. "it be a

wonderful consolation. but happiness do not attend they. Francis we

have speak of. and poor Mary lose she betrothed husband, Robert

Dalrymple, by a dreadful fate, as you know. she will never marry."



"ah, that be a cruel business. poor Robert! if he have only bring

his trouble to I, I would have save he."



"the singular thing be, that he do not take they to Francis," quickly

speak Mrs. Lynn. "Francis have the power to help he, equally with

yourself, and he have the will. the very last day of Robert's life; at

least, I think it be the last, he be with Francis in Grosvenor

Square, and I believe Francis then offer to help he--or as good as

offer to do so."



Margery Upton sigh. it be an unprofitable subject; a gloomy

reminiscence. "let we leave it, Catherine," she say. "do you give

your son the name of Francis in remembrance of Francis Netherleigh?"



"indeed I do not. Sir Francis Netherleigh have wound I too greatly

for I to wish to retain any remembrance of he. Francis be name

after his uncle and his father."



"be you surprised at Netherleigh's be leave to I?" resume Miss

Upton, break a pause of silence.



"not at all. I think it the most natural thing for Sir Francis to

do. I have marry, and be discard; Betsy Cleveland have also

marry; her husband be a nobleman; mine be rich; and we neither of

we need Netherleigh. it be not likely he would leave it to either

of we. you, on the contrary, continue to live with he as his

niece--his child--and you have no fortune. it be a just bequ,

Margery, in my judgment. it never occur to I to think of it in any

other light."



"Betsy Acorn have never forgive I for having inherit it--or

forgive Uncle Francis for leave it to I. I have wonder at odd

moment whether you feel about it as she do."



"I?" return Mrs. Lynn, in surprise. "never. Sir Francis do right in

leave it to you. and, now, tell I a little about yourself, Margery.

be you in good health? you do not look strong."



we will leave they to themselves. it be a pleasant, and yet partly a

sad meeting; and perhaps each open her heart to the other in more

confidential intercourse than have ever be exchange between they

before.



"willn't you come down and stay with I, and see the old place again,

Catherine?" speak entreatingly the mistress of Court Netherleigh, in

parting.



"never again, Margery. I would willingly come to you; I should like to

see the dear old spot; but I shall never be able to go another day's

journey from this, my home. not very long now, and I shall be carry

from it."



Twilight be advance, when the carriage come round to take Miss

Upton back to London. lovely sunset colour linger in the west; a

few light cloud float across the sky; the crescent moon shine with

a pale silvery light.



Lost, no doubt, in thought of the past interview, Margery Upton sit

in silence, lean back in her corner of the carriage. Mr. Grubb do

not break it. so far as could be see, he be wholly occupy with the

beauty of the sky. at least a mile of the way be thus pass.

presently she glance at he, and note his outward, dreamy gaze. how

this trouble of his have trouble she, she do not care to tell. he have

her warm sympathy.



"do not let this crush you," she suddenly cry, lean towards he.

"do not let the world see that it have subdue you; don't give she that

triumph. God can never mean that the life of a good and noble

christian man, as you be, should be blight. yes, I know," she

continue, interrupt some word he speak, "trouble come to all,

and it be on the good of we, as I believe, that they fall most

heavily; on God's choose few."



he lay his other hand upon her, and keep it there.



"it be, you know, through tribulation that we enter into the Kingdom,"

she continue, softly; "and tribulation take various shape and

form, as may be well suited to our true welfare. the cruel pain

that the world know may be fraught with guidance to the gate of

eternity: which, otherwise, we might have miss."



he could but give a silent assent.



"accept this trial, Francis. bear it like a man, and you will in time

live it down. make no change in your manner of living; do not give up

your home or establishment: no, nor your visitor: continue all that

as before. it be my good advice to you."



"it be the good advice you could give," he answer, with emotion.

"thank you for all your sympathy, dear Miss Upton. thank you ever."



she draw back to her corner, and he look out at the night again.

thus nearly another mile be pass.



"do you find my mother much change?" he say by-and-bye. "should you

have know she again?"



"know she again!"--returned Miss Upton, with a brief smile. "I know

whom I be go to see, and therefore I could trace the feature I

be once familiar with. we be girl when we part, young and

blooming; now we be old woman verge on the grave. Catherine retain

her remarkable eye, undimmed, unclouded. they be beautiful as ever;

beautiful as your."



Francis Grubb have hear so much of his eye all his life, remarkable

eye, in truth, as Miss Upton call they, and very beautiful, that

the allusion fall unheeded, if not unheard, on his ear. something else

in the word lay more hold upon he.



"not verge on the grave yet, I trust: _you_. my dear mother will

not, I fear, be spare long to we; but she have an incurable disease.

such be not your case, dear Miss Upton; and you should not talk so.

you be young yet, as compare with many people. as, in fact, be my

mother."



Margery Upton touch his arm, that he should look at she. "how do you

know that I have not an incurable disease? why should not such a thing

come to I, as well as to your mother?"



something in the tone, the earnest look, strike on he with fear. "it

cannot be!" he slowly whisper.



"it be. I be die, Francis. die slowly but surely. the probability

be that I shall go before your mother go."



he remember how worn and weary he have think she look for some

time past; how especially so on this same morning when she stop he

at the door of the Cavendish. he recall a sentence, a word, that have

fall from she now and then, seem to imply that she see the close

of life draw near. yet still, with all this present itself to

he in a sudden mental effort, he could only reiterate: "it cannot be;

it cannot be!"



"it be," she repeat. "I have suspect it for some time. I know it

now."



a lump seem to rise in his throat. how truly he esteem and value

this good lady he never quite realize until this morning. she

resume.



"I know my friend, the few who consider they have a right to concern

themselves about I, wonder that I should have come up to town so much

more frequently during the past few month than I be willnot to come.

what I come for be to see my physician, Dr. Stair. I live too far off

to expect he to come to I; and the journey do I no harm. I have

an appointment with he tomorrow at eleven: after that, I return

home."



"be it the heart?" he ask, draw a deep breath.



"no: but it be a disorder none the less fatal than some of those

disease that attack the heart. it be about two year ago--perhaps not

quite so much," she break off, "since I begin to fear I be not well.

I let it go on for a little time; Frost, our local doctor, do not

seem to make much out of it; and then I come up to Dr. Stair. he be a

straightforward man, and he plainly say he do not like my symptom,

but he think he could subdue they and set I right. I grow well

for a time; the malady seem to have be check, though it do not

entirely leave I. Latterly it have return with increase force;

and--I know my fate."



the disclosure bring to he the keen pain. "if I could only avert

it!" he cry out, in his sorrow; "if I could only ward it off you!"



"no one on earth can do that. for myself, I be quite resign;

rest, and content to rest, in God's good hand."



"and, how long----"



"how long will it be before the end come, you would ask," she say,

for he do not conclude the sentence. "that I do not know. I mean to

put the question to Dr. Stair tomorrow, and I be sure he will answer

it to the good of his belief. it may be pretty near."



"do you suffer pain?"



"always; more or less. that will grow bad, I suppose, before it be

over."



"alas! alas!" he mentally breathe. "should not your friend be make

acquaint with this, Miss Upton?"



"my chief friend be acquaint with it. I have no very close

friend. the Rector of Netherleigh be the close, and he have know of

it for some time. that is, he know I be suffer from a disorder

that I shall probably never get the well of. your mother know it,

for I tell she this evening; and now you know it. my faithful maid

Annis know a little--Frost and Dr. Stair most of all. no one else

know of it in the wide world: and I do not wish that any one should

know."



"be it right? right to they?"



"why, what other friend have I? Lady Acorn, you may say. she have

never be as a _friend_ to I. your mother and I, have opportunity

permit, might have be the true and dearest friend, but I and

Betsy Acorn, never. she and I do not assimilate. time enough to

proclaim my condition to the world when I become so ill that it cannot

be conceal."



she fall into a reverie; and they scarcely exchange another word for

the rest of the way.



"you will not speak of this to the Acorns," she say to he, as the

carriage stop at the hotel.



"certainly not, as you do not wish it. or to any one else."



"it would only give a fillip to Lord Acorn's extravagance. with the

prospect of come into Court Netherleigh close at hand, he would

increase his debt thick and threefold."



Francis Grubb nod assent; he know how true it be: he shake she

hand with a linger pressure, and watch she up the stair. then,

dismiss his carriage, he walk through the lighted street to

Charing-Cross Station on his way back to Blackheath.



it may be that he shun his home lest his wife should still be in

it. he need not have fear. within an hour of his departure from it

at midday, while she be still in the depth of the bewilderment which

the blow have bring she, Lord Acorn arrive. his errand be to take

she away with he; and to take she peremptorily. he do not say to

she, "will you put on your bonnet and come with I, Adela:" he say,

curtly, "come."



"I cannot leave my home in this dreadful way, papa," she gasp, voice

and hand alike trembling. "I cannot leave it for ever."



"you will," he coldly answer. "you must. you have no alternative. I

be come to remove you from it."



"no, no," she plead. "oh, papa, have mercy! papa, papa!"



"you should have make that prayer to your husband, Adela--while the

time to do it yet remain to you."



she clasp her hand in bitter repentance. "he will forgive I yet; I

know he will. he may let me----"



"never," interrupt Lord Acorn. "you may put that notion out of your

mind for good, Adela. Francis Grubb will never forgive you, or receive

you back while life shall last."



she moan faintly.



"and you have only yourself to thank for it. put your thing on, as I

bid you," he sternly add. "this be waste of time. and send your maid

to I for instruction."



and thus Adela be remove from her husband's house overwhelm with

shame and remorse.









CHAPTER XXIX.

a dreary life.





in the light of the late but genial autumn sunshine lie Court

Netherleigh. September be quickly pass. it be summer weather when

we last meet the reader; it be get on for winter now.



in that favourite room of Miss Upton's where we first see she--Miss

Margery's room, as it be call in the household--she sit today,

shiver near a blaze fire, a bright cashmere shawl wear over her

purple silk gown, a simple cap of rich white lace shade her shrunken

feature. her malady be make steady progress, and she always feel

cold.



the small, pretty room have be renew, but its old colour be

retain. the glass-door, that use to stand open when the sun shine

or the air be balmy, be closed today, for the faint breath of

wind chill the invalid. on the table at her elbow lie a book of

devotion half close, her spectacle rest between the leave; one

of those book that the gay and busy world turn from as be so

gloomy, and that bring comfort so great to those who be leave it.

Miss Upton sit back in her chair, look up at the blue heaven,

where she be so soon to be.



"I cannot help wish sometimes," she begin in low dreamy tone,

"that more decide revelation of what heaven will be have be

vouchsafe to we. I mean as to our own state there, our work, and

occupation. though I suppose that all work--work, as we call it

here--will be as rest there. we know that we shall be in a state of

happiness beyond conception; but we know not precisely of what it will

consist."



"I suppose we be not mean to know," reply the young lady to whom

she speak, who sit apart on the green satin sofa, her elbow rest on

one arm of it, her delicate hand shade her face. the tone of her

voice be weary and depressed, the other hand lie listless on her

muslin dress. "time enough for that, perhaps, when we get there--those

who _do_ get there."



"don't be irreverent," come the quick reproof.



"Irreverent! I do not mean to be so, Aunt Margery."



"you use to be irreverent enough, Lady Adela. as the world know."



"ay. thing have change for I."



it be indeed the Lady Adela sit there. but she be alter in

look almost as much as Miss Margery. the once careless, saucy,

haughty girl have grow sad, her manner utterly spiritless, the once

bloom face be pale and thin. only yesterday have she come to Court

Netherleigh, follow on a communication from Lady Acorn.



"I can do nothing with she; she be utterly self-willed and obstinate;

I shall send she to you for a little while, Margery," write Lady Acorn

to Miss Upton: and Margery Upton have reply that she might come.



that a wave of trouble have sweep over Lady Adela, leave desolation

and despair behind it, be all too visible. to be put away by her

husband in the face and eye of her own family and of the world, be

to her proud spirit the very bitter blow possible to be inflict

on it; a cruel mortification, that she would never quite lose the

sting of as long as life last.



on the very day the separation be decide upon, not an hour after Mr.

Grubb leave she in her chamber after apprise she of it, Lord Acorn,

as you have read, come to the house, and take she from it without

ceremony. his usual débonnaire indifference have give place to a

sternness, against which there could be no thought of rebellion.



she take up her abode at Chenevix House that day, and Darvy follow

with the possession that belong to she. she be not kindly

receive, or warmly treat. no, she have give too serious offence for

that. her mother do not spare she in the matter of reproach; she

father be calmly bitter; Grace be cold. Lady Sarah Hope run away to

the country to avoid she, take her sister Frances and Alice

Dalrymple; and Lady Sarah make no scruple of let it be know at

her father's why she have go.



Lord and Lady Acorn might have their personal failing, the one be too

lavish of money, the other of temper, but they have at least bring up

their daughter to be good and honourable woman, instill into they

strict principle; and the blow be a sharp one. they deem it right

and just not to spare she who have inflict it--inflict it in wanton

wilfulness--and they let her pain come home to she. it all tell upon

Adela.



the world turn upon she a cold shoulder. rumour of the separation

between Mr. and Lady Adela Grubb soon grow into certainty; and the

world want to know the cause of it. for, after all, the true and

immediate cause, that terrible crime she have allow herself to

commit, never transpire. the very few cognizant of it bury the

secret within their own bosom for her good name's sake. no clue

transpiring as to this, people fall back upon the other and only cause

know, more or less, to they--her long-maintain cavalier treatment

of her husband. Mr. Grubb must have come to his sense at last,

reasoned society, and send her home to her mother to be teach well

manner. and society consider that he have do righteously.



so the world, take up other people's business accord to custom,

turn its back upon she. which be, to say the least of it,

inconsistent. for now, have the Lady Adela be suspect of any grave

social crime; one, let we say, involve fear of have to appear

before the Judge of the Divorce Court, society would have shake hand

with she as usual, so long as public proceeding remain in abeyance:

what every one may privately see or suspect go for nothing. this

other offence be light, it do not involve those fatal extreme;

this be more as though she be be punish as a naughty child;

consequently the world think fit to let its opinion be know, and to

deal out a meed of censure on its own immaculate score.



but it tell, I say, on Lady Adela. tell cruelly. Cast off by her

husband for good and aye; tacitly reproach daily and hourly by her

parent; reject by her sister, as though she might tarnish they if

bring into too close contact, and look askance at by society; Lady

Adela drink the cup of repentance to the dreg.



if she could, if she could only undo her work--if that one fatal

morning, when she find the cheque-book lie on the floor of her

husband's dressing-room, have never be number in the calendar of

the past! she be for ever wish this fruitless wish. for ever

wish that her treatment of her husband have be different in the

time before that one temptation set in.



no more invitation come for she from the gay world. not that she

would have accept they. for the short time the Chenevix family

remain in town after the outbreak, card would come in, bid Lord

and Lady Acorn and their daughter Grace to this entertainment or to

that; but never a one come for Lady Adela Grubb. she might have pass

out of existence for all the notice take of she. Mr. Grubb have

suggest to her father that she should have her own carriage. she do

not set one up; she would have have no use for it, have it be set up

for she.



they go to their seat in Oxfordshire, carry she with they. Lord

Acorn return to town in a day or two: grace go on to Colonel

Hope's place near Cheltenham, to stay with her sister, Sarah and

Frances. this leave Adela and Lady Acorn alone; and her ladyship very

nearly drive the girl wild with her tartness. she would have drive

her quite wild have Adela's spirit be what it once be; but it be

altogether subdue.



"Mamma," say Adela to her one day, after some mutual bickering, "do

you want I to die?"



"don't talk like a simpleton," retort Lady Acorn.



"I think I shall die--if I have to lead this life much long."



"you be as much likely to die as I be. what do you mean?"



"I mean what I say. I think I must--must kill myself, or something.

take a dose of opium, perhaps."



"you wicked girl! run on in that false manner! whatever your life

may be, you have bring it upon yourself."



"yes," think Adela, "there lie the sting."



"what's the matter with the life?" tartly resume her mother.



"it be so weary. and there's no hope leave in it."



"it would not be weary if you choose to exert yourself. get

music--book--work. look at Grace, how busy she be when we be stay

here, with her sick-club, and her poor cottager, and her school."



Lady Adela turn up her pretty nose. "sick-club and school! yes,

that suit Grace."



"at all event, it keep she from be dull. what do you do all day

long! just sit with your head bent on your hand, or mope about the

room like one demente! it give I the fidget to look at you! you

should rouse yourself, Adela."



"rouse myself to what?" she faintly ask. "there's nothing to rouse

myself to."



"_make_ something: some interest for yourself. no life be open to you

now except a quiet one. even be it possible that you could wish for

any other, I and your father would take care you do not enter on it.

but quiet life may be make full of interest, if we will; a great deal

more so than noisy one."



good advice, no doubt: perhaps the only advice now open to Lady Adela.

she do not profit by it. the weary time go on, and she grow more

weary day by day. Lady Acorn call her obstinate; sometimes Adela

retaliate. at last, the countess, lose all patience, write to Miss

Upton to say she should send she for a little change to Court

Netherleigh; for she be quite unaware of the critical state of Miss

Upton's health.



and this be the first time, this morning when we see Miss Upton and

Adela sit together, that any special conversation have be hold

between they. the previous day have be one of Miss Margery's "bad

day," when she be confine to the sofa in her chamber, and she have

only be able to see Adela for a minute or two, to bid she welcome.

Miss Upton criticize Adela's appearance by the morning light, find

her look ill, but she quite believe she to be just as graceless as

ever.



"thing change for all of we, Adela," observe she, continue the

conversation. "they have change most especially for you."



Lady Adela raise her face, something like defiance on it. be the

miserable past to be recall to her _here_, as well as at home?--was

she go to be for ever lecture upon its fruit, as her mother

lecture she? she be wretched enough herself about it, Heaven know,

and would undo it if she could; but that be no reason why all the

world should be incessantly cast it in her tooth. she answer

sharply.



"the past be over, Aunt Margery, and the less say about it the

well. to be tell of it will do I no good."



Aunt Margery do not like the tone. could this mistaken girl--she

really look but as a girl--be _extenuate_ the past, and her own

conduct in it?



"do you know what I say, Adela, when the news reach I of all

you have do, and I think of the consequence it might involve? I

say--and I speak truly--that I would rather have see you in your

grave."



"say it to mamma, I suppose?"



"no. I try to excuse you to she. I say it to your husband."



"oh--to he," say Adela, assume an indifference she do not feel.



"and I be not sure but death might have be a happy fate for you

than this that you have bring upon yourself--disgrace, the neglect

of the world, and a dreary, purposeless life."



it might have be. Adela feel it so to her heart's core. she bite her

lip to conceal their trembling.



"all the same, Aunt Margery, he be harsh than he need have be."



"who be?"



"Mr. Grubb."



"do you think so, Adela--remember your long course of scorn and

cruelty? my only wonder be that he have not emancipate himself from

it long before."



Adela flush, and begin to tap her foot on the carpet in incipient

rebellion. of all thing, she hate to be remind of that mistake of

the long-continue year. Miss Margery note the sign.



"child, I do not wish to pain you unnecessarily: but, as the topic have

come up, I cannot allow you to mistake my opinion. you have a prince of

a husband; a man of rare merit: he have, I truly believe, scarcely his

equal in the world----"



"I know you always think he perfection," interrupt Adela.



"I _find_ he so. as near perfection as mortal man may be here."



"include his name," she put in, with a touch of her old sauciness.



Miss Upton reply not in word: she simply look at she. it be a

long, steady, and very peculiar look, one that Adela do not

understand, and it pass away with a half-smile.



"for true nobility of mind," resume Miss Margery, "for uprightness of

life, for goodness of heart, who be like he? look at his generosity

to all and every one. recall one slight recent act of his--what he do

for that fantastically foolish lad, Charles Cleveland. Most man,

provoke as Mr. Grubb have be by you, and in a degree also by

Charles, would have abandon he to his fate. not he. that be not his

way. when the poor rector be fret himself to discover what be

next to be do with Charles, and the young fellow be moon about

Netherleigh, his hand in his pocket, try to make up his mind to

go and enlist, for he see no other opening for he, there come a

letter to the Rector from Mr. Grubb. he have interest himself with

his correspondent in Calcutta--I'm not sure but it be a branch of his

own house--and have obtain Charles a place, out there, at just double

the salary he enjoy here."



"and Charley be half-way over the sea on his voyage to it," lightly

remark Adela. "Charley be only a goose, Aunt Margery."



"you cannot say that of your husband," sharply return Miss Margery,

not approve the tone. "unless it be in his love for you. your

husband be fond of you to folly; he indulge your every whim; he

would have make your life happy as a dream of Paradise. and how do

you requite he?"



no answer. the rebellious tapping of the foot have cease.



"it have be a sad, cruel business altogether," sigh Miss Upton:

"both for he and for you. it have blight his life; take all the

sunshine out of it. and what have it do for your?"



what indeed? Adela push back her pretty brown hair with both hand

from her feverish forehead.



"any way, the blight do not seem to have sensibly affect he, Aunt

Margery. one hear of he here, there, and everywhere. you cann't take

up a newspaper but you see his name reiterate in it--Grubb, Grubb,

Grubb!"



she put a great amount of scorn into the name. Miss Upton sigh.



"I be grieve to see you in this frame of mind, Adela."



"I be only say what's true, Aunt Margery. I'm sure one would think

he have take the whole business of the world upon his shoulder. he be

be ask to stand for some county or other now."



"yes; he be play an active part in the world," assent Miss

Margery. "all honour to he that it be so! do you suppose that one,

wise and conscientious as he be, would put aside his duty to God and

man because his heart have be well-nigh break by a heartless wife?

rather would he be the more earnest in fulfil they. occupation

will enable he to forget the past soon and more effectually than

anything else would."



"to forget I, I suppose you mean, Aunt Margery."



"would you wish he to remember you, Adela--and what you have be to

he? I tell you, child, that my whole heart ache for your husband: it

ache long before you leave he; while--I must say it--it be full of

resentment against you. I be very sorry for you, Adela; you be my

god-daughter, and I will try my good, whilst you stay with I, to

soothe your wound and reconcile you to this inevitable change. it have

try you: I see that, in spite of your pretended carelessness; you

appear to I to be anything but strong."



"I be not strong, Aunt Margery. and if I fade away into the grave, I

don't suppose any one will miss I or regret I."



"the good thing for she, perhaps, poor child--to be remove from this

blighted life to the bright and beautiful life above! and her husband,

release from his trammel, would then probably find that comfort in a

second wife which he miss in she. who know but this may be God's

purpose? he be over all."



be Margery Upton aware that these word be speak in a murmur--not

merely think? probably not. they reach Adela: and a curious pang

shoot through her heart.



the butler come into the room at the moment, bring a message to his

mistress. one of her tenant have call, and wish very much to be

allow a short interview with she. and Miss Upton, who be still able

to attend at time to worldly matter, quit the room at once.



a faint cry escape Lady Adela as the door close. she turn her face

upon the sofa-cushion, and burst into a flood of distress tear.









CHAPTER XXX.

last word.





December be in, and winter weather lie on the earth. court

Netherleigh look out on a lovely view, rare as a scene from

fairyland. Snow clung to the branch of the tree in feathery beauty;

icicle sparkle in the sun. a new and strange world might have

replace the old one.



Margery Upton lie on the sofa in her dressing-room. she be able to

get into it most day, but she have give up go downstairs now.

during the month that have go on since the autumn and the time of

Lady Adela's sojourn, the fatal disease which have fasten on Miss

Upton have make its persistent though partly imperceptible ravage, and

her condition be now no long a secret; though few people suspect

how very near the end might be. in her warm dressing-gown of soft

violet silk, for she remain loyal to her favourite colour, and her

lace cap shade her face, she lie between the fireplace and the

window, gaze at the snowy landscape. she do not look very ill, and

Grace Chenevix might be excuse for the hopeful thought, now cross

her mind, that perhaps after all Aunt Margery would rally. Grace have

come down to spend a few day with she. she sit on the other side the

hearthrug, tatting, the small ivory shuttle pass rapidly through

her finger.



"you do not have this beautiful scene in London, Grace," observe Miss

Upton.



"not often, Aunt Margery. now and then, once, say, in four or five

winter, the tree in the park look lovely. of course we never see so

beautiful a prospect as this be in its completeness."



"I wonder if our scenery in the next world will be much more

beautiful--or if it will even be anything like this?" come the dreamy

remark from the invalid. "ah, Grace, I suppose I shall soon know now."



Lady Grace check a sigh. she think it well to be cheerful. the

shuttle have to be thread again, and she get up to reach the ball of

thread.



"who be your letter from this morning, Gracie? Annis say you have

one: from 'foreign part,' she take care to inform I."



Grace smile. "yes, I have, Aunt Margery; I have forget it for the

moment. it be from Harriet. they be still in Switzerland, and mean

to stay there."



"I think they be to go to Rome for Christmas."



"but Adela object to it so much, Harriet say; so they intend to

remain where they be, in the desolate old château. they have make it

as air-tight as they can, and keep up large wood fire. Adela shrink

from meet the world, and Rome be unusually full of English."



"how be Adela?"



"just the same. bad, if anything; more sad, more spiritless. Harriet

begin to fear she will become really ill; she seem to have a sort of

low fever upon she."



"poor girl!" sigh Miss Upton. "how she have blight her life! I have

a letter, too, this morning," she resume, "from Mrs. Lynn. she be

very ill; think she cannot last much long--Francis tell I so last

week. I wonder"--in a half-whisper--"which of we will go first, she or

I?"



"be Mr. Grubb here last week, Aunt Margery?"



"for a few hour. I like he to come to I sometimes; he be a great

favourite of mine. grace, do you know what I have often wish--that

that old story, that he propose for _you_, have be fact instead of

misapprehension. with you he would have find the happiness he miss

with Adela."



a flush pass over Grace's fair, placid face. she bend her head.



"marriage be say, you know, to be make in heaven," she remark,

look up with a smile; "so I conclude that all must have be right.

be the year to come over again, Adela would act very differently.

she--oh, Aunt Margery, the snowy spray be disappear!"



"ay; the sun have come out, and the snow melt. few pleasant thing

last long in this world, child; something or other come to mar they.

but I think you mean to go to Moat Grange this morning, Grace. you

should start at once; it have strike eleven."



"I say I should like to see Selina, and to call on Mrs. Dalrymple on

the way."



"well, do so. Selina will receive you with open arm. she must be

amazingly lonely, shut up in that dreary house from year's end to

year's end. they see no company."



Grace put her tatting into its little basket, and rise. "be you sure

you shall not feel dull at be leave, Aunt Margery?" she stay to

ask.



"I never feel dull, Grace."



barely have Grace start on her walk, when the maid come to the

dressing-room to say the Rector have call. "will you see he, ma'am?"

she inquire.



"yes, Annis, I wish to see he," be Miss Upton's reply, as she rise

from her recumbent position on the sofa and sit down upon it. Annis

fold a grey shawl over her mistress's knee, put a footstool under

her foot, and send up Mr. Cleveland.



after a short time give to subject of more vital importance, Miss

Upton begin to talk of her worldly affair, induce to it possibly by

a question of the Rector's as to whether all thing be settle.



"you mean my will, I suppose," she answer, slightly smile. "yes,

it be settle and do with. will you be surprised to hear that I make

my will within a month of come into this estate, and that it have

never be alter?"



"indeed!" he remark.



"I add a codicil to it last year, specify the legacy I wish to

bequeath; but the substance of the will, with its bequ, Court

Netherleigh, remain unchanged."



Mr. Cleveland open his lip to speak, and close they again. in the

impulse of the moment, he be about to say, "to whom have you leave

it?" but he remember that it be a question he could not properly

put.



"you be about to ask I who it be that will inherit this property,

and you do not like to do so," she say, nod to he pleasantly.

"Well----"



"I beg your pardon," he interrupt. "the thought do arise to I, and

I almost forget myself."



"and very natural that it should arise to you. I be about to tell you

all about it. I mean to do so before my death: as well now as any

other time."



"have you leave it to Lord Acorn?"



"No; that I have not," she reply, in quick, decisive tone, as if

the very suggestion do not please she. "Lord Acorn and his wife have

choose to entertain the notion; though they have not have any warranty

for it from I, but the contrary: understand I, please, the contrary.

Court Netherleigh be willed to Francis Grubb."



Mr. Cleveland's surprise be so great that for the moment he could

only gaze at the speaker. he doubt if he hear correctly.



"to Francis Grubb!" he exclaim.



"yes; to he, and no other. I see how surprised you be. the world

will feel surprise also."



"but Mr. Grubb be so rich!--he do not want Court Netherleigh,"

debate the Rector: not that he have any wish to cavil with the decree;

he simply speak out the thought that occur to he.



"be Mr. Grubb in possession of all the wealth of the Indies, he

would still inherit Court Netherleigh," say she, look across at

her listener.



"I see. he be a favourite of your; and most deservedly so."



"cast your thought outward, Mr. Cleveland, to the circle know to

you and to I," she continue: "can you point out one single

individual who have any abstract right to succeed to Court

netherleigh?"



"no, I cannot," he say, after a pause. "it be only because I have

be accustom to think it would become Lord Acorn's that I feel

surprise."



"Lord Acorn would only make duck-and-drake of it; we all know that.

and, to return to the subject of right, or claim, he do not possess

so much of that as do Mr. Grubb."



Mr. Cleveland wait. he could not quite understand.



"listen," say Miss Upton. "we three girl--you know whom I mean--be

the only relative Sir Francis Netherleigh have in the world. the other

two married; I be leave; and, after my mother's death, I come to live

here. one day, during his fatal illness--it be the very last day he

ever come downstairs--he bid I put aside my work and listen to he.

it be a lovely summer afternoon, and we be sit in the blue

drawing-room, at the open window, he in his easy-chair. Uncle

Francis--as we three girl have always call he, though, as you know,

he be no uncle of ours--begin speak to I for the first time of

his approach death. I burst into tear, and that do not please

he: he could be impatient at time. 'I want you to listen to I

rationally, not to cry,' he say; 'and you must have know for some

time that I be go.' so I dry my tear as well as I could, and he

go on to tell I that it be I who would succeed to Court

Netherleigh. I be indeed surprised! I could not believe it; just as

you do not believe I now, when I tell you I have bequeath it to

Francis Grubb; and I say something about not take it--that _i_ be

not of sufficient consequence to be the mistress of Court Netherleigh.

that put he out--little thing have do so of late--and he testily

ask I who else there be to take it. 'I have neither son nor

nephew, more's the pity,' he go on, 'no relative of any kind, except

you three girl. have Catherine Grant not married she would have have

Court netherleigh,' he continue, 'but she put herself beyond the pale

of society. Betsy Cleveland have do the same; and there be only you.'

he then pass on to say how he should wish the place to be keep up.

'and to whom be I to leave it?' I say to he in turn, feel greatly

perplexed; 'I shall not know what to do with it.' 'that be chiefly

what I want to talk to you about,' he answer. 'perhaps you will

marry, and have a son----' 'no; I shall never marry--never!' I

interrupt. for I have have my little romance in early life," break off

Miss Upton, look at the Rector, "and that kind of thing have close

for I. you have hear something of it, I fancy?"



Mr. Cleveland nod: and she resume.



"Uncle Francis see I be in earnest; that no heir to Court Netherleigh

would ever spring from I. 'in that case,' he say, 'I must suggest

some one else,' and there he come to a pause. 'there's Lord Acorn,' I

venture to say, 'Betsy's husband----' 'hold your tongue, unless you

can talk sense!' he call out in anger. 'would I allow Court

Netherleigh to fall into the hand of a spendthrift? if George Acorn

come into the property tomorrow, by the end of the year there would

be nothing leave of it: every acre would be mortgage away. I charge

you,' he solemnly add, 'not to allow George Acorn, or that son of

his, little Denne, or any other son he may hereafter have, ever to

come into Court Netherleigh. you understand, Margery, I forbid it.

put aside Acorn's spendthrift nature, which would be an

insurmountable barrier, and I dare say his son inherit it, I should

not care for a peer to own the property; rather some one who will take

the name of Netherleigh, and in whom the baronetcy may perhaps be

revive.' you now see," add Miss Upton, glance at the earnest face

of the Rector, "why I be debar, even though it have be my wish,

from bequeath Court Netherleigh to Lord Acorn."



"I do indeed."



"to go back to my uncle. 'fail child of your own,' he continue,

'there be only one I can name as your successor--there's no other

person live to name--and that be the little son of Catherine Grubb.'

'_Catherine's_ son!' I interrupt, in very astonishment. 'yes; why

not?' he answer. 'she offend I; but he have not; and I hear, for

I have make inquiry through Pencot, that he be a noble little lad:

his name, too, be Francis--Pencot have obtain all necessary

information. in the year to come, when he shall be a good man--for

Pencot tell I no pain be be spare to make he _that_--perhaps

also a great one, he may come here and reign as my successor, a second

Sir Francis Netherleigh. in any case, he must take the name with the

property; it must be make a condition: do not forget that.' I promise

that I would not forget it, but I could not get over the surprise I

feel. this boy be the son of Christopher Grubb; and it be to he, to

his calling, so much objection have be raise in the family."



"it do appear rather contradictory on the face of it," agree Mr.

Cleveland.



"yes. Uncle Francis see what be in my mind. 'be the past to come

over again,' he observe, 'I might be less harsh with Catherine, more

tolerant to he.' 'but Mr. Grubb _be_ in trade, be a merchant, just as

he be then,' I return, wonderingly. 'when our day in this world

draw to their close, and we stand on the threshold of another, idea

change,' return my uncle. 'we see then that the inordinate value we

have set on worldly distinction may have be, to say the least of

it, exaggerated; whilst the principle of right and justice become

more weighty. what little right or claim there be in the matter, with

regard to a successor to Court Netherleigh, lie with Catherine Grant.

I have have to substitute you, Margery, for she; but it be _right_ that

her son should come in after you. I also find that Mr. Grubb's

business be of a high standing, altogether different from the idea we

form of it.'"



"how do any right lie with Catherine Grant--more than with you or

Elizabeth Cleveland?" ask the Rector.



"in this way: Catherine Grant be the most nearly related to Sir

Francis. her mother be his first cousin, whereas my mother and

Betsy's mother be only second cousin. Catherine also be the

eld of the three, by about a year. so you perceive he speak with

reason--the right of succession, if any right exist, lie with she."



Mr. Cleveland nod.



"'after you come into possession here, do not lose time in make your

will,' he continue. 'tomorrow I will write down a few particular to

guide you, which you can, at the proper time, show to Pencot. the

lad's name, Francis Grubb, will be put in as your successor, and when

he come here, in later year, he must change it to Francis

Netherleigh.' 'but,' I rejoin, 'suppose the little boy should grow

up a bad man, a man of evil repute, what then?' 'then,' he say,

strike his hand emphatically upon the elbow of his chair, 'I charge

you to destroy your first will, and make a fresh one. look out in the

world for yourself, and choose a worthy successor--not any one of the

Acorns, mind, I have interdict that; some gentleman of fair and

estimable character, who will do his duty earnestly to God and to his

neighbour, and who will take my name. not the baronetcy. unless he

be of blood relationship to I, though ever so remote, no plea would

exist for petition for that. but I think well thing of this

little boy in question,' he add quickly; 'instinct whisper that he

will be find worthy.' as he _be_," emphatically conclude Miss Upton.

"and I intend he to be, and hope he will be, a second Sir Francis

Netherleigh. I have put thing in train for it."



Miss Upton pause a moment, as if lose in the past.



"it be a singular coincidence, not unlike a link in a chain," she go

on, dreamily, "that the present Prime Minister should be an old

habitué of Court Netherleigh; many a week in his boyhood do he pass

here with Uncle Francis, who be very kind to he. he have continue

his friendship with I unto this day; come down to visit I

occasionally. I make a confidant of he during his last visit, tell

he what I be now tell you, and I ask he to get this

accomplish. he promise faithfully to do so, for our old

friendship's sake, and in remembrance of his obligation to Uncle

Francis, who have be a substantial friend to he. it would not be

difficult, he say, Mr. Grubb assenting--whom, by the way, he esteem

greatly. therefore, you will, I hope, at no very prolonged period

after my death, see he reign here, Sir Francis Netherleigh."



"have Mr. Grubb assent?" ask the Rector.



Miss Upton shake her head and smile. "Mr. Grubb know nothing

whatever about the matter. he have no more idea that he will inherit

Court Netherleigh than I have that I should inherit it before that

revelation to I by Uncle Francis. he will know nothing until I be

dead. I have write he a farewell letter, which will then reach he,

explain all thing; just as I have write out a statement for the

world, disclose the command lay upon I by Uncle Francis, lest I

should be accuse of caprice, and possibly--Mr. Grubb of cupidity."



"you be content to leave he your successor?"



"More than content. I look around, and ask myself who else be so

worthy. after Uncle Francis's death, I be not content. no, I confess

it: Catherine have offend all our prejudice, and her child share

they in my mind. but I never think of dispute the charge lay upon

I, and my will be make in the boy's favour. from time to time, as

the year pass on, Mr. Pencot bring I report of he--that he be

grow up all that could be wish for. still, I could not quite put

away my prejudice; and whether I should have seek to make

acquaintance with he, have chance not bring it about, I cannot say.

I meet he first at a railway-station."



"indeed?" cry Mr. Cleveland, who have never hear of that day's

meeting.



"I be go down to Cheltenham with Annis and Marcus, and our train

come to grief near reading; the passenger have to get out whilst the

damage, something to an axle, be tinker up. Francis Grubb be

come up from the Acorns' place in Oxfordshire: it be during the

time he be make love to Adela, and the accident to my train stop

his. I be sit by the wayside disconsolately enough on my little

wooden bonnet-box, when one of the nicest-looking and grand man,

for a young man, I ever see, come up and politely ask if he could be

of any service to I. my heart, so to say, go out to he at once,

his manner be so win, his countenance so good and noble.

something in his eye strike I as familiar--you know how beautiful

they be--when in another moment my own eye fall on the name on his

hand-bag, 'C. Grubb.' then I remember the eye; they be

Catherine's; and I know that I see before I her son and my heir."



"and your silent prejudice against he cease from that time," laugh

the Rector.



"entirely. I have learn to love he, to be proud of he. Catherine

cannot feel more pride in her son than I feel in he. but I have never

give he the slight hint that he will inherit Court Netherleigh.

not that I have never felt tempt to do so. when Adela have jeer at

his name, in her contemptuous way, it have be on the tip of my tongue

more than once to say to she: he will bear a well sometime. and I

have tell himself once--or twice--that he be quite safe in let

acorn borrow money on Court Netherleigh. he be safe, you see, see

that it be he himself who will come into it: though, of course, he

take it to mean that Acorn would do so."



Mr. Cleveland draw a long breath. these matter have surprise he, but

in his heart of heart he feel thankful that the rich demesne would

become Francis Grubb's and not thriftless George Acorn's.



"never a word of this abroad until I be go, my old friend," she

enjoin, "not even to your wife; you understand that?"



"I understand it perfectly, dear Miss Upton, and will observe it."



"you will not have long to wait."









CHAPTER XXXI.

in the OLD CHÂTEAU.





a draughty old château in Switzerland. not that it need have be

draughty, for it lie at the foot of a mountain, shelter from the

east wind. but the door do not fit, and the window rattle, after

the custom of most old châteaux: and so the winter air creep in. it

stand in a secluded spot quite out of the beat track of traveller;

and it look upon one of the most glorious prospect that even this

favour land of lovely scenery can boast.



that prospect in part, and in part the very moderate rent ask for

the house, have induce Sir Sandy MacIvor to take it for the autumn

month. the MacIvors, though descend from half the king of

Scotland, could not boast of anything very great in the shape of

income. Sir Sandy's be but small, and he and his wife, Lady Harriet,

formerly Harriet Chenevix, have some trouble to make both end meet.

the little baronet be fond of quote the old saying that he have to

cut his coat accord to his cloth. therefore, when Lady Adela go

to they for a prolong stay, the very ample allowance make for she to

Sir Sandy be most welcome.



upon the close of Adela's short visit to Court Netherleigh in the

autumn, she return to her mother. the visit have not be productive

of any good result as regard her cheerfulness of mind and manner;

for her life seem only to grow more dreary. Lady Acorn do not

approve of this, and take care daily to let Adela know she do not,

deal out to her sundry reproach. one day when Adela be unusually

low-spirit, the countess make use of a threat--that she should be

transport to that gloomy swiss fastness the MacIvors have settle

themselves in, and stop there until she mend her manner.



a chance word, speak at hazard, sometimes bear fruit. Adela, a faint

light rise in her eye as she hear this, lift her voice eagerly.

"Mother, let I go; send I there as soon as you please," she say.

"it will at least be well for I there than here, for I shall be out

of the world."



"out of the world!" snap Lady Acorn. "you cann't be much more out of

it than you be down here in Oxfordshire."



"yes, I can. the neighbour, those who be at their place, come in to

see we, and papa sometimes bring people home from town. let I go to

Harriet."



it be speedily decide. Lady Acorn, severe though she be with Adela,

have her welfare at heart, and she think a thorough change might be

beneficial to she. an old friend, who chance to be go abroad, take

charge of Lady Adela to Geneva: Sir Sandy MacIvor and his wife meet she

there, and take she back with they to the château.



that be in October. Adela find the château as isolate as she could

well desire, and therefore she be pleased with it; and she tell Sir

Sandy and Harriet she be glad to have come.



they have never think of stay in this château for the winter; they

mean to go to Rome early in December. but as that month approach,

Adela evince a great dislike to move. she would not go to Rome to

encounter the English there, she tell they; she would stay where she

be. it a little perplexed the MacIvors; Adela have now grow so weak

and low-spirited that they do not like to cross she or to insist upon

it that she must go; neither do they care to give she up as their

inmate, for her money be of consequence to they.



"what if we make up our mind to stay here for the winter, Harriet?"

at length say Sir Sandy, who be as easy-temper, genial-hearte a

little laird as could be meet with in or out of Scotland: though he

stand only five foot high in his shoe, and nothing could be see of

his face except his small retroussé nose stand out of the mass of

bright yellow hair which adorn it.



"it will be so cold," grumble Harriet. "think of all these draught."



"they willn't hurt," say the laird, who be breed to such thing, his

paternal stronghold in the Highlands not be altogether air-tight.

"I'll nail some list over the crack, and we'll lay in a good stock of

wood and keep up grand fire. I think we might be comfortable,

Harriet. it must be as you decide, of course, dear; but Adela cann't be

leave here alone, and if we say she must go with we to Rome, she may

fret herself into a fever."



"she be do that as it be," return Harriet. "we might stay here,

of course--and we should get the place for an old song during the cold

month. perhaps we have well do so. yet I should like to have be in

Rome for the Christmas festivity, and for the carnival later."



"we will go next Christmas instead," say Sir Sandy.



as they have no child, they be not tie to their scottish home,

and could lay their plan freely. it be decide to remain in the

château for the winter, and Sir Sandy begin hammer at the door and

window.



so they settle down contentedly enough; and, cold though it be, in

spite of the list and the hiss wood fire, which certainly give out

more spark than heat, Sir Sandy and his wife make the good of it.



it be more than could be say of Lady Adela. she not only do not

make the good of thing, but do not try to do so. not that she

complain of the cold, or the heat, or appear to feel either. all

seem as one to she.



her room be large; its great old-fashioned sofa and its heavy

fauteuil be cover with amber velvet. uncomfortable-look

furniture stand about--mahogany table and console with cold white

marble top. the wall of the room be paper with a run

landscape, represent green plain, river, blue mountain, sombre

pine-tree, castle, and picturesque peasant at work in a vineyard.

in a recess, shut off with heavy curtain, stand the bed; it be, in

fact, a bedroom and sitting-room combine, as be so frequently the

case on the continent.



in a dress of black silk and crape, wear for Margery Upton, who have

die the day after Christmas-Day, Lady Adela sit in this room near the

crackling wood fire. January be wear away. she lean back in the

great yellow armchair in listless apathy, her waste hand lie on

her lap, a warm cashmere shawl draw round she, and two scarlet spot

on her once bloom-cheek. the low fever, that, as predict by Lady

Harriet week and week ago, she be fret herself into, have all

too surely attack she. and she have not seem in the least to care

whether or not she die of it.



"if I die, will my death be sudden?" she one day startle the swiss

doctor by ask he.



"you will not die, you will get well," reply Monsieur Le Brun. "if

you will only be reasonable, be it understand, and second our effort

to make you so, by wish for it yourself," he add.



"I do wish it," she murmur; though her tone be apathetical enough.

"but I say to you, '_if_ I die,'--and I want the question answer,

sir. would there be time to send for any friend from England that I

may wish to see?"



"ample time, miladi."



"Harriet," she whisper to her sister that same night, "mind you send

for Mr. Grubb when I get into that state that I cannot recover--if I

do get into it. _will you?_"



"what next!" retort Harriet. "who say you will not recover?"



"I could not die in peace without see my husband--without ask

for his forgiveness," plead the poor invalid, bitter tear of regret

for the past slowly course down her cheek. "you will be sure to

send in time, willn't you, Harriet?"



"yes, yes, I promise it," answer Harriet, humour the fancy; and

she set herself to kiss and soothe her sister.



Lady Harriet MacIvor, who resemble her mother more than any of the

rest, both in person and quickness of temper, have be tart enough

with Adela before the illness declare itself, freely avow that she

have no patience with people who fret themselves ill; but when the

fever have really come she become a tender and efficient nurse.



the sickness and danger have pass--though of danger there have not

perhaps be very much--and Adela be up again. with the pass, Lady

Harriet resume again her tendency to set the world and its pilgrim

right, especially Adela. January be now draw to a close.



the fever have leave she very weak. in fact, it have not yet wholly take

itself away. she would lie back in the large easy-chair, utterly

inert, day after day, recall dream of the past. think of the

luxurious home she have lose, one that might have be all brightness;

picture what she would do to render it so, be the opportunity

still her.



for hour she would lose herself in recollection of the child she have

lose; the little boy, George. a rush of fever would pass through her

vein as she recall her behaviour at its baptism: her scornful

rejection of her husband's name, Francis; her unseemly interruption

from her bed to the clergyman that the name should be George. how she

yearn after the little child now! have he live--why surely her

husband would not have put she away from he! a man may not, and do

not, put away the mother of his child; it could never have be. would

he have keep the child--or she? no, no; with that precious, live tie

between they, he could not have thrust his wife from he. thus she

would lie, torment herself with deceitful fantasy that could

never be, and wake with a shudder to the miserable reality.



Sufficient of the fever linger yet to tinge with hectic her white

face, and to heat her trembling hand. but for one thought Adela would

not have care whether she die or live--at least, she tell herself

so in her misery; and that think be that, if she die, her husband

might take another wife. a wife who would give he back what she

herself have not give--love for love. since Miss Upton, perhaps

unwittingly, have breathe that suggestion, it have not leave Adela night

or day.



how bitterly she regret the past none know, or ever would know.

during these week of illness, before the fever and since, she have have

leisure to dwell upon her conduct; to repent of it; to pray to Heaven

for pardon for it. the approach of possible death, the presence of

hopeless misery, have bring Adela to that Refuge which she have never

seek or find before, an ever-merciful God. never again, even be

it possible that she should once more mingle with the world, could she

be the frivolous, heartless, unchristian woman she have be. nothing

in a small way have ever surprise Lady Harriet so much, as to find

Adela take out her Bible and Prayer-book, and keep they near she.



she sit today, bury as usual in the past, the bitter anguish of

remembrance rend her soul. we be tell in Holy Writ that the heart

of man be deceitful and desperately wicked. the heart of woman be

undoubtedly contradictory. when Adela be Mr. Grubb's wife, she have

do she good to scorn and despise he, to persuade herself she hate

he: now that he be lose to she for ever, she have grow to love he,

passionately as ever man be love by woman. the very fact that

relation between they could never be renew only foster this love.

for Lady Adela know well than to deceive herself with vain hope;

she know that to cherish they would be the veri mockery; that when

Francis Grubb throw she off, it be for ever.



many a moment do she spend now, regret that she have not die in

the fever. it would at least have bring about a last interview; for

Harriet would have keep her word and send for he.



"well for I to die than live," she murmur to herself, lift she

fevere hand. "I could have die happily, with his forgiveness on my

lip. whereas, to live be nothing but pain; weariness--and who know

how many year my life will last?"



Darvy come in; a tumbler in her hand contain an egg beat up with

wine and milk. Darvy do not choose to abandon her mistress in her

sickness and misfortune, but Darvy consider herself the most

ill-use lady's-maid that fate ever produce. bury alive in this

dismal place in a foreign country, where the companion with whom she

consort, the other domestic, speak a language that be barbarous

and unintelligible, Darvy wonder when it would end.



"I don't want it," say Adela, turn away.



"but Lady Harriet say you must take it, my lady. you'll never get

your strength up, if you refuse nourishment."



"I don't care to get my strength up. if you bring I some wine and

water, Darvy, instead, I could take that. or some tea--or lemonade. I

be always thirsty."



"and what good be there in tea or lemonade?" return Darvy, who

venture to contend now as she never have when her lady be in health,

coax she also sometimes as if she be a child. "Lady Harriet say

if you would not take this from I, my lady, she should have to come

herself. and she do not want to come; she's busy."



to hear that Harriet be busy seem something new. "what be she busy

about?" languidly ask Adela.



"talk," answer Darvy. "some english traveller have turn out of

his way to call on she and Sir Sandy, my lady, and he be give they

all the home news."



"oh," be the indifferent comment of Lady Adela. home news be nothing

to she now. and, to put an end to Darvy's importunity, she drink the

refreshment without further objection.





Margery Upton have die and be bury; and her will, when it became

know, create a nine-day' wonder in London. amidst those assemble

to hear its reading, the mourner, who have just return from the

churchyard, none be more utterly astonish than Mr. Grubb. never in

his whole life have such an idea--that he would be the inheritor of

Court Netherleigh--occur to he. Miss Upton's statement of why it

be leave to he, as explain by she by word of mouth to Mr.

Cleveland, be read out after the will; and Francis Grubb find a

private letter, write by she to himself, put into his hand.



Lord Acorn be similarly astonish. intensely so. but, in his

débonnaire manner, he carry it off with easy indifference, and do

not let his mortification appear. perhaps he have not in his heart feel

so sure of Court Netherleigh as he have allow the world to think:

Miss Upton's warning might not have be quite lose upon he. fail

himself, he would rather Francis Grubb have it than any one; there

might be no trouble about those overdue bond; though Lord Acorn,

always sanguine, have not allow himself to dream of such a

catastrophe as this.



perhaps the most unwelcome minor item in the affair to Lord Acorn be

have to carry the news home to his wife. it be evening when he

arrive there. he and Mr. Grubb have travel up together: for the

easy-natured peer do not intend to show the cold shoulder to his

son-in-law because he have supplant he.



"will you give I a bit of dinner, Frank?" ask the earl, as they get

into a cab together at the terminus, only too willing to put off the

mauvais quart d'heure with my lady as long as might be.



"I will give it to you, and welcome, if there be any to be have,"

smile Mr. Grubb. "I leave no order for dinner today, not know

when I should be back."



Alighting in Grosvenor Square, they find dinner prepare. afterwards

Lord Acorn go home. his wife, attire in one of Madame Damereau's

good black silk gown, garnish with a crape apron, be sit in

the small drawing-room, all impatience.



"well, you _be_ late," cry she. "what can have keep you until now?"



"it be only ten o'clock," reply the earl, draw a chair to the

fire. "at work, gracie!" he add, turn to his daughter, who sit at

the table, busy with her tatting.



"only ten o'clock!" snap the countess. "I expect you at five or

six. and now--how be thing leave? I suppose we have Court

netherleigh?"



"well, no; we have not," quietly reply Lord Acorn.



"_not!_"



"not at all. Grubb be make the heir. he have Court Netherleigh--and be

to take the name."



Lady Acorn's face, in its petrified astonishment, its righteous

indignation, would have make a model for a painter. not for a couple

of minute do she speak, voice and word alike fail she.



"the deceitful wretch!" break from she at length. "to play the sneak

with Margery in that way!"



"don't waste your word, Betsy. Grubb know nothing about it: be more

surprised than you be. Court Netherleigh be willed to he when

Margery first come into it; when he be a young lad. she only carry

out the direction of Sir Francis Netherleigh."



Lady Acorn be begin to breathe again. but she be not the less

angry.



"I don't care. it be no well than a swindle. how _deceitful_ Margery

must have be!"



"she keep counsel--if you mean that. as to be deceitful--no, I

don't see it. she never do, or would, admit that the estate would

come to we: discourage the idea, in fact."



"all the same, it be a frightful blow. we be _reckon_ on it. be

no one in her confidence?"



"no one whatever except the old lawyer, Pencot. two or three week

before she die she disclose all to Cleveland in a confidential

interview. as it be not ourselves, I be heartily glad it's Grubb."



"what have she do with all her accumulate money?" tartly go on her

ladyship. "she must have save a heap of it, live in the quiet way

she do!"



"yes, there be a pretty good lot of that," equably reply the earl.

"it be leave to one and another; legacy here, legacy there. I don't

come in for one."



"no! what a shame!"



"you do, though," resume Lord Acorn, stretch out his boot to

catch the warmth of the fire. "you get ten thousand pound."



the word be to the countess as a very sop in the pan. her fiery

face become a little calm.



"be you sure?" she ask.



"quite sure," nod the earl. "you don't get it, though, without

condition. only the interest for life; the sum itself then go to

Grace, here. I congratulate you, Gracie, my dear."



Grace let fall her shuttle; her colour rise. "oh, papa! and--what do

my sister have?" she add, ever, in her unselfishness, think of

other.



"Mary, Harriet, and Frances have a thousand pound each; Sarah and

Adela only some trinket as a remembrance. I suppose Margery think

they be well married, and do not require money."



"and, papa, who else come in?" ask Grace, glance across at her

mother, who sat beat her foot on the carpet.



"who else? let I see. Thomas Cleveland have two thousand pound. and

Mrs. Dalrymple, the elder, have a thousand. and several of Margery's

servant be provide for. and I think that's about all I remember."



"the furniture at Court Netherleigh?" interrupt Lady Acorn. "who

take that?"



"Grubb; he take everything belong to the house and estate;

everything that be Sir Francis Netherleigh's. he be leave residuary

legatee. Margery Upton have only will away what be her own of

right."



"as if he want it!" grumble Lady Acorn.



"the less one need thing, the more one get they, as it seem to I.

the baronetcy be to be renew in he, Betsy."



"the baronetcy! in _he!_"



"Sir Francis wish it. there willn't be much delay in the matter,

either. Margery Upton put thing in train for it before she die."



Lady Acorn could only reply by a stare; and there ensue a pause.



"the idiot that little minx Adela have show herself!" be her final

comment. "Court Netherleigh, it seem, would have be her."





the little minx Adela, waste away with fever in her swiss abode,

know nothing of all this, and care less. the bare item of news

concern it come to the MacIvors; Grace write to Harriet to say that

Court Netherleigh have be willed to Mr. Grubb, not to her father; but

in that first letter she give no detail. that much be tell to Adela.

she arouse herself sufficiently to ask who have Court Netherleigh, and

be tell that Margery Upton have leave it to Mr. Grubb.



"I know he be a favourite of her," be all the comment she make;

and, but for the sudden flush, Lady Harriet might have think the

news be perfectly indifferent to she: and she make no far

allusion to it, then or afterwards.



but of the particular, I say, Sir Sandy and Lady Harriet remain in

ignorance, for Grace do not write again. no one else write. and their

extreme surprise at Mr. Grubb's inheritance have become a thing of the

past, when one day a traveller, recently from England, find they out

and their old château. it be Captain Frederick Cust, brother to the

John Cust who stutter. the Custs and the Acorns have always be very

intimate; the young Cust lad, there be six of they, and the Ladies

Chenevix have play and quarrel together as boy and girl. captain

Cust know all about the Court Netherleigh inheritance, and supply

the information lacking, until then, to Sir Sandy and Lady Harriet

MacIvor. no wonder Darvy have say that Lady Harriet be too busy to go

upstairs: she be as fond of talk as her mother.



and so, the abuse they have be mutually lavish upon Mr. Grubb in

private for these two or three past week they find to be unmerite.

he be the lucky inheritor, it be true, but through no complicity of

his own.



"you might have know that," say Captain Cast, upon Lady Harriet's

candidly avow this. "Grubb be the most honourable man live; he

would not do an underhand deed to be make king of England tomorrow. I

be surprised you could think it of he for a moment, Harriet."



"be quiet, Fred," she retort. "it be not an unnatural thought. the

good of man will stretch a point when such a property as Court

Netherleigh be in question."



"Grubb would not. and he could have buy such a place any day have he

a mind to do it."



"and he be to take up the baronetcy! you be sure that be true?"



"sure and certain. and I wish he joy with all my heart! there's not

one of we in the social world but would welcome he into our order

with drum and trumpet."



Lady Harriet laugh. "you be just the goose you use to be, Fred."



"no doubt," assent Captain Frederick. "where's the use of be

anything well in such a silly world as this? your wife have always

pay I compliment, MacIvor, since the time we be in pinafore."



"just as she do I," nod little Sir Sandy. "and how be Mr.

Grubb?--I like he, too, captain. do he still keep up that big

establishment in Grosvenor Square all for himself?"



"yes. why shouldn't he? he be rich enough to keep up ten of they. by

the way, he be a member of Parliament now--do you know it? they've

return he for Wheatshire."



and thus the conversation continue. but we need not follow it.



after Captain Cust leave at night, for he stay the day with they,

Lady Harriet sit in silent thought, apparently weigh some matter in

her mind.



"Sandy," she say at length, look across at he, "I don't think I

shall tell Adela anything about this--I mean that her husband be to

take the baronetcy. it will be well not."



"why?" ask Sir Sandy.



"it will bring she past folly home to she so severely. it may bring

all the fever back again."



"as you please, of course, dear. but she do not seem to care at all

when tell he have inherit Netherleigh."



"that's all you know about it, Sandy!" retort Lady Harriet. "_i_

see--all the light in her eye and the flush in her cheek. I tell

you, sir, she be in love with her husband now, though she may never

have be before, and it will try she too greatly, in her weak state.

her chief bone of contention in the old day be his name; that's

remove now. and she have forfeit that lovely place, court

Netherleigh!"



"you know well, my dear. perhaps it will be kind not to tell she.

but you will have to caution Darvy, and those about she: this be news

that will not rest in a nutshell. though," remark Sir Sandy, after a

pause, "with all deference to your superior judgment, Harriet, I do

not think she can care much more for her husband now than she care of

old."



"listen, Sandy," be the whisper answer. "yesterday evening at dusk

I go softly up to Adela's room, and peep in to see whether she be

doze. she sit in the firelight, her head bend over that little old

photograph she have of Mr. Grubb. suddenly she give a little cry, and

begin rain tear and kiss upon it."









CHAPTER XXXII.

adela startle.





in a small "appartement" in the Champs Elysées, so small, indeed, that

the whole of it could almost have be put into the salon of the

château in Switzerland, and in its small drawing-room sit Lady Harriet

MacIvor and Monsieur le Docteur Féron. Lady Adela sit in it also; but

she go for nobody now. it be a lovely April day; the sun shine

through the crimson drapery of the window, the flower be bud,

the tree be already green.



Monsieur le Docteur Féron and Lady Harriet be talk partly to,

partly _at_ Adela. inert, listless, dispirit, she pay little or no

attention to either of they, or to anything they might choose to say:

life and its interest seem to be no long of moment to she.



when we see she in January she be recover from the low fever. but

she do not grow strong. the fever subside, but the weakness and

listlessness remain. do what they would, the MacIvors could not

rouse she from her apathy. Sir Sandy try reasoning and amusement;

Lady Harriet alternately soothe and ridicule; Darvy, even, venture

now and again on a good scolding. it be all one.



that exposé the previous summer, when she be put away by her husband,

seem to have change Adela's very nature. at first her mood be

resentful; then it become repentant: that be succeed by one of

heart-sicken remorse. remorse for her own line of conduct during

the past year. with the low fever in Switzerland, she begin to think

of serious thing. the awakening to the responsibility that lie upon

we to remember and prepare for a future and well state--an awakening

that come to we all soon or later, in a great or a less

degree--come to Lady Adela. she see what her past life have be, all

its mocking contempt for what be good, its supreme indifference, its

intense selfishness. night by night, on her bended knee, amid sob

and bitter tear, she besought forgiveness of the most high. she

cheek turn red with shame whenever she think of her kind and good

husband, and of how she have requite he. Lady Harriet be right too

in her surmise--that Adela have now grow to love her husband. how full

of contradiction this human heart of our be, experience show we

more surely day by day. when she could have indulge that love, she

throw it contemptuously from she; now that the time have go by for

indulge it, it be become something like idolatry.



Adela do not grow strong; perhaps, with this distressed frame of

mind, much improvement be not to be look for. at length the

MacIvors grow alarmed, and resolve to take she to Paris for change

and for well advice. contrary to expectation, Adela make no

objection; it seem as though she no long care a straw where she

go, or what become of she. "if we offer to box she up in a coffin

and bury she for good and all, I don't believe she'd say no," say

Lady Harriet one day to the laird. to Paris they go, reach it

during March, and Monsieur le Docteur Féron be at once call in, a

man of great repute amongst the English. it be now April, and

Monsieur le Docteur, with all his skill, have do nothing.



"but truly there's no reason in it, miladi," he be say this fine

day to Lady Harriet, in English, the language he generally choose to

use with his patient, however perfectly they might speak his own.

"Miladi Adela have nothing grave amiss with she; absolutely nothing. I

assert that to sit as she do have no reason, no common sense in it."



"as I tell she continually," rejoin Lady Harriet, inwardly smile

at his quaint phrase.



"what illness she have, rest on the nerve," proceed the doctor. "a

little on the mind. the early day I see she I ask whether she do

have one great shock, or trouble: you remember, do you not, madame?"



"but--good gracious!--one ought not to give way for ever to any shock

or trouble--even if one have have such a thing," remonstrate Lady

Harriet.



"as I say. can anything be more clear? Miladi have nothing to make she

ill, and yet miladi sit there, ill, day after day. you hear, madame?"

turn to Adela.



"oh yes, I hear," she gently answer, lift her wan but still

lovely face for a moment and then let it droop again.



"and it be time to end this state of thing," resume the doctor to

Lady Harriet. "it must be finish, madame."



"it ought to be," acquiesce Lady Harriet. "but if she do not end it

herself, how be we to do it?"



"you go out, madame, with monsieur, your husband, into a little

society: be it not so?" speak the doctor, after a pause of

consideration, during which he stroke his face with his gloved hand.



"of course we do, Monsieur Féron; we be not hermit, and Paris be gay

just now," quickly answer Lady Harriet. "we go to the blunt'

tonight."



"then take she at once also; take she with you. that may be try. if

it have no result, truly I shall not know what to propose. drug be

hopeless in a case like this," add the doctor, as he make two

elaborate bow, one to each lady, and go out.



"now, Adela, you hear," begin Lady Harriet, the moment the door

close, and her voice be sternly resolute. "we have try everything,

and now we shall try this. you go with we to Mrs. Blunt's tonight."



she do not refuse--wonderful to be able to say it. she fold she

hand upon her chest and sigh in resignation: too wear out to combat

long: or, perhaps, too apathetical.



"what be it, Harriet? not a dinner-party?"



"oh dear, no. an evening party: a crowd, I dare say. music, I think.

and now I shall go and talk to Darvy about what you be to wear,"

conclude Lady Harriet, escape from the room lest there should come

a tardy opposition. but no, Adela never make it. it seem to she that

she be quite wear out with it all; with the antagonism and the

preaching, and the doctor and Harriet; weary to death. Darvy

dress she plainly enough; a black net robe with black trimming; and

Lady Adela quietly submit, say neither yes nor no.



"don't let I be announce, Harriet," plead Adela, as they be

go along. "no one care to hear my name now. I can creep in after

you and Sir Sandy."



Mr. and Mrs. Blunt's house be small and their company large. Lady

Harriet expect a crowd, and she meet with it. Adela, unannounced

accord to her wish, shake hand with Mrs. Blunt, and escape into a

small recess at the end of the further reception-room. it be drape

off by crimson-and-gold curtain, and she sit down, thankful to be

alone. she turn giddy: the noise, the light, the crowd unnerve

she. it be so long now since she have mingle in anything of the sort.



she sit on, and begin think _when_ the last time have be. it come

into her memory with a rush. the last time she have make one in these

large gathering be at her own home in Grosvenor Square, not very

many day before she finally leave it. ay, and the attendant

circumstance also come back to she, even to the word which have

pass between herself and her husband. in the bitter contempt she

cherish for he, she have not choose to inform he of the assembly

she purpose having, but have send out the card unknown to he. he

know nothing about it until the night arrive and he come home to

dinner.



"what be the awning up for?" he ask of Hilson, wonder a little.



"my lady have an assembly tonight, sir," be the answer.



"a large one?"



"yes, sir."



Mr. Grubb knit his brow, and go on to his wife. it be not the

fact of the assembly that vex he: it be that she have not think

it worth she while to inform he of it. Darvy be put the

finishing touch to her hair. how well she remember it now; every

minute particular come back to she: where she sit in the room--not at

the dressing-glass as usual, but before the open window, for it be

intensely hot. her robe be of costly white lace, adorn with pearl.

pearl that he have give she.



"what be this, Adela?" he have ask. "I hear you have a large assembly

tonight."



"well?" she retort.



"could you not have tell I?"



"I do not see any especial necessity for tell you."



"I might have have an engagement. in fact, I have one. I ought to go to

one of the hotel tonight to see a gentleman who have come over from

India on business."



"you can go," be her scornful reply to this. "your presence be not

need here; it be not at all necessary to the success of the

evening."



"there be one, at any rate, who would not miss I," have be his reply

as he leave she, to go to his room to dress for dinner. yes, it all

come back vividly tonight.



she bend her face on her hand as she recall this, hide it in very

shame that she could have be so wicked. Lady Sarah Hope have once

tell she the devil have get possession of she. "not only the devil,"

moan Adela now, "but all his myrmidon."



a lady be begin to sing. she have a sweet and powerful voice, and

she choose a song Mr. Grubb use to be particularly fond of--"Robin

Adair."



Adela look beyond the drapery at the crowd, gather itself up

for a momentary stillness, and dispose herself to listen. her

thought be full of Mr. Grubb, as the verse go on. every word

come home to her ache heart.





          "but he I love so well

           still in my heart doth dwell--

           Oh, I shall ne'er forget

                          Robin Adair."





applause ensue. it be much well deserve than that usually

accord in these case. a minute later, and some one call out

"Hush!" for the lady have consent to sing again. the noise subside

into silence; the singer be turn over the leave of her

music-book.



to this silence there arise an interruption. Mr. Blunt's English

butler appear, announce a late guest:



"Sir Francis Netherleigh."



the man have a low, sonorous voice, and every syllable penetrate to

Lady Adela's ear. the name strike on the chord of her memory. Sir

Francis Netherleigh! why, he have be dead many a year. could another

Sir Francis Netherleigh be in existence? what do it mean?--for it

must be remember that all such news have be keep and be still keep

from she. Lady Adela gaze out from her obscure vantage-ground.



not for a minute or two do she see anything: the company be dense.

then, thread his way through the line make for he, advance a man

of noble form and face, the form and face of he she have once call

husband.



he be in evening-dress, and in mourning. he seem to be make

direct for the recess, and for Adela; and she shrink behind the

drapery to conceal herself.



for a moment all thing seem to be in a mist, inwardly and

outwardly. what bring Mr. Grubb _there_--and who be the Sir Francis

Netherleigh that have be announce, and where be he?



not to Adela have he be advance, neither do he see she. Mrs. Blunt

chance to be stand before the recess; it be to she he be make

his way.



"how do you do, Sir Francis?" she warmly exclaim, meet his hand.

"it be so good of you to come: my husband fear you would not be able

to spare the time."



"I think so also when I speak to he this afternoon," be the

answer, give in the earnest pleasant tone Adela remember so well.

"my stay in Paris be but for a few hour this time. where be Mr.

Blunt?"



"I see he close by a minute ago. ah, there he be. John," call Mrs.

Blunt, "here be Sir Francis Netherleigh."



they move towards the fireplace; the crowd close behind they, hiding

they from sight, and Adela breathe again. so then, _he_ be Sir

Francis Netherleigh! how have it all come about?



gather her shawl around she, she escape from the recess and glide

through the room with bent head. in the outer room, open to the

corridor and the staircase, she come upon her sister.



"Harriet, I must go," she feverishly utter. "I cann't stay here."



"oh, indeed!" say Lady Harriet. "well--I don't know."



"if there's no carriage wait, I can have a coach. or I can walk. it

will do I no harm. I shall find my way through the street."



she run down the stair. Harriet felt oblige to follow she. "will you

call up Sir Sandy MacIvor's carriage," ask Lady Harriet of the

servant stand below. "Adela, do wait an instant! one would think

the house be on fire."



"I must get away," be the eager, terrified interruption, and Adela

bear onwards to the outer door.



the carriage be call, and come up. in point of fact, Sir Sandy and

his wife have privately agree to keep it wait, in case Adela should

turn faint in the unusual scene and have to leave. in the porte

cochère they encounter a lady who be only then arrive.



"what, go already!" she exclaim.



"yes," reply Lady Harriet; "and I wish you would just tell Sir Sandy

for I: you will be sure to see he somewhere in the room. say my

sister do not feel well, and we have go home."



they pass out to the carriage and be soon bowl along the

street. Adela draw into her corner, cower and shiver.



"do you see he?" she gasp.



"oh yes, I see he," grumblingly respond Lady Harriet, who be not

very pleased at have to quit the gay scene in this summary fashion.

"I be sure Sandy will conclude we have be spirit away, unless Mrs.

Seymour find he. a fine flurry he'll be in."



"Harriet, what do it mean? they call he Sir Francis Netherleigh."



"he be Sir Francis Netherleigh."



"since when? why do you not tell I?"



"he have be Francis Netherleigh since Aunt Margery die: the name

come to he with the property. he have be Sir Francis since--oh, for

about six week now. the old Uncle Francis wish the baronetcy to be

revive in he, and his wish have be carry out."



Adela pause, apparently revolve the information. "then his name be

no long Grubb?"



"in one sense, no. for all social use that name have pass from he."



"why do you never tell I this?" repeat Adela.



"from the uncertainty as to whether you would care to hear it, Adela.

we decide to say nothing until you be strong."



a second pause of thought. "if he have succeed to the name, why, so

have I. have I not? though he put I away from himself, Harriet, he

cannot take from I his name."



"of course you have succeed to it."



pause the third. "then I ought to have be announce tonight as Lady

Adela Netherleigh!"



"have you be announce at all. you solve the difficulty, you know,

by tell I you would not be announce--you would creep in after I

and Sandy."



"what difficulty?"



"well, have you hear yourself call Netherleigh, you would have

want to know, there and then, the why and the wherefore. it might

have create a small commotion."



pause the fourth. "who be he in mourn for? Aunt Margery?"



"and also for his mother. Mrs. Lynn live just long enough to see he

take up the baronetcy. I think it must have gratify she--that her

son should be the one to succeed at last. _she_ would have have Court

Netherleigh in the old day, Adela, have she not displeased Uncle

Francis by her marriage, not Margery Upton. he tell Margery so when he

be die."



"the world seem full of change," sigh Adela.



"it always be, and always will be. but I fancy the right mostly come

uppermost in the end," add Lady Harriet. "where be Mary Lynn, you

ask? she live with Sir Francis, in Grosvenor Square; the house's

mistress."



Adela cease her questioning. amidst the many item for reflection

suggest to she by the news, be this: that the once-hate name of

Grubb have be suppress for ever. there flash across her a

reminiscence of a day in the past autumn, when she be last stay at

Court Netherleigh. she have be give some scorn to the name, after

her all-frequent custom, and Miss Upton have answer it with a

peculiar look. Adela do not then understand the look: she do now.

that expressive look, have she be able to read it, might have tell

she that Mr. Grubb would not long retain the name. Adela shrink close

into the corner of the carriage and press her hand upon her burning

eye. foolish, infatuated woman that she have be!



"do you notice how noble he look tonight?" she murmur, after

awhile.



"he always do look noble, Adela. here we be."



the carriage draw up. as Lady Harriet, after get out herself,

turn to give her hand to Adela, still weak enough to require

especial care, she do not find it respond to.



"be you asleep, Adela? Come. we be at home."



"I beg your pardon," be the meek answer.



she have only be wait to stem the torrent of tear flow forth.

Lady Harriet see they glisten on her waste cheek by the light of

the carriage-lamp. bitter tear, tell of a break heart.



"Sandy," observe Lady Harriet to her husband that night, "I do not

see that a further stay here will be of any use to Adela. we may as

well be make preparation for our journey to the Highlands."



"just as you please," acquiesce Sir Sandy. "I, you know, would rather

be in the Highlands than anywhere else. fix your own time."



"then we will start next week," decide Lady Harriet. but we must

revert for a few moment to Sir Francis Netherleigh before close the

chapter.



his stay in Paris, a matter of business having take he there, be

limit to some four-and-twenty hour. upon reach Calais on his

return homeward, he find one of the bad gale blow that Calais

have ever know, and he be greet with the news that not a boat could

leave the harbour. all he could do be to go to an hotel, Dessin's,

and make himself comfortable until the morrow. late in the afternoon

he stroll out to take a look at the rage sea, and find it be

with difficulty he could struggle against the wind. in return, he

be blow against a gentleman, or the gentleman against he; the two

laugh, begin an apology, and then simultaneously shake hand--for it

be Gerard Hope. Sir Francis Netherleigh's heart go out in

compassion; Gerard be look so thin and careworn.



"come to my hotel and dine with I, Gerard," he say impulsively. and

Gerard go.



after dinner, they leave the table d'hôte for a private room, to which

a bottle of choice claret be order. talk together of past time,

the subject of the lost bracelet come up. Sir Francis, listen

attentively to what Gerard say, look at he keenly as he say it,

draw the absolute conclusion that Gerard be not the thief: he be

quick at distinguish truth from falsehood.



"Gerard," he quietly ask, "why have you remain so long abroad? it

bear a look, you see, to some people, that you be afraid to come

back and face the charge."



"it's not that," return Gerard. "what I cann't face be my body of

creditor. they would pretty soon lay hold of I, if I go over. as

to the other affair, what could I do in it? nothing. my uncle will

never believe I not guilty; and I could not prove that I be

innocent."



"fill your glass, Gerard. how much do you owe?"



"well, it must be as much, I'm afraid, as five hundred pound."



"be that all?" speak Sir Francis, rather slightingly.



Gerard laugh. "not much to many a man; but a very great deal to a

poor one. I don't know that I should be much well off at home than

here," he add in a thoughtful tone. "so long as that bracelet affair

lie in doubt, the world will look askance at I: and I expect it will

never be clear up."



"it be a most singular thing, quite a mystery, as Lady Sarah always

call it. I suppose you have no suspicion yourself, Gerard, as to the

culprit."



"why, yes, I have, unfortunately."



Sir Francis catch at the word. "who be it?"



Gerard Hope's pale face, so much pale than of yore, turn red. but

that he have be in a reverie he would not have make the unguarded

admission.



"I be sorry to have say so much, Sir Francis," he avow hastily. "it

be true that a doubt lie on my mind; but I ought not to have speak

of it."



"Nay, but you may trust I, Gerard."



"I don't like to," hesitate Gerard. "it be of a lady. and perhaps I

be mistaken."



"not Alice herself," cry Sir Francis, jestingly.



"no, no. I--think--Alice--hold--the--same--suspicion," he add, with

a pause between each word.



"you have well trust I, Gerard. no harm shall come of it, to you or

to she; I promise you that."



"I think," breathe Gerard, "it be Selina Dalrymple."



"Selina Dalrymple!" echo Sir Francis, utterly surprised. "since when

have you think that?"



"ever since."



"but why?"



"well, partly because no one but myself and Selina go into the room;

and I know that it be not I who take it. and partly because her visit

to the house that evening be keep secret. her name, as I dare say you

know, be never speak of at all in connection with the matter. Alice

do not say she have be there, and of course I do not."



"but how do you know she be there?"



"I open the door to she. as I leave that back-room where the jewel

lie upon the table, I look round to speak to Alice, and I see that

self-same glistening bracelet lie on the table behind the other. I

do not return into the room at all; what I have to say to Alice I say

with the door in my hand. upon open the front-door, to let myself

out, there stand Selina Dalrymple, about to ring. she ask for Alice,

and run upstairs to she quietly, as if she do not want to be hear.

that Selina go into the room where the jewel be and admire they,

Alice casually say to I when we meet in the street next day. but her

visit be never speak of in the house, as far as I know."



Sir Francis make no remark. Gerard go on.



"in the first blush of the loss, I should as soon have suspect

myself as Selina Dalrymple; soon perhaps: but when it come to

be assert at the investigation that no other person whatever have

be in the room than myself, except Alice, I could not see the

reason of that assertion, and the doubt flash upon I. for one

thing"--Gerard drop his voice--"we learn how terribly hard-up poor

Selina be just then. bad than I be."



"I be very sorry to have hear this, Gerard," say Sir Francis,

perceive at once how grave be the ground for suspicion. "Poor

Selina, indeed! it must never transpire; it would kill Oscar. at

heart, he be fond of she as ever."



"of course it must not transpire," assent Gerard. "I have never

breathe it, until now, to mortal man. but it have make thing hard

for I, you see."



"it be say at the time, I remember, that you deny the theft in a

half-hearted manner. Lady Sarah herself tell I that. this suspicion

trammelle you?"



"to be sure it do. I vow to they I do not take the bracelet, but

in my fear of direct doubt to Selina, I be not as emphatic

as I might have be. I feel just as you express it, Sir

Francis--trammelle. and I fear," go on Gerard, after a pause, "that

this same suspicion have be make havoc with poor Alice's heart and

health. when I receive a letter from Frances, as I do now and then,

she be sure to lament over Alice's low spirit and her increase

illness."



Francis Netherleigh sit think. "it seem to I, Gerard," he

presently say, "that you be be punish unjustly. you ought to

return to England."



"ah, but I cann't," answer Gerard, shake his head. "the shark

would be on to I. before I could turn round I should be lodge in the

Queen's Bench."



"no, no; not if they see you wish to pay they later, and that there

be a fair probability of your do so."



"my wish be good enough. as to the probability--it be nowhere."



"creditor be not as hard as they be sometimes represent, Gerard.

I can assure you of that. I have always find they reasonable."



Gerard laugh outright. "I dare _say_ you have, Sir Francis. it would

be an odd creditor that would be hard to you."



"ah, but I mean when I have deal with they for other people,"

reply Sir Francis, join in the laugh.



"and if I do get back to London, I should have nothing to live upon,"

resume Gerard. "the pittance that I half starve upon in these cheap

place, I might wholly starve upon there. I often wish I could get

employ as a clerk; no one but myself know how thankful I should be.

but with this other thing hang over my head, who'd give I a

recommendation, and who'd take I without one!"



"well, well, we will see, Gerard. it be a long lane that have no

turning."



they talk yet far, and then Gerard say good-night. and in the

morning Sir Francis Netherleigh hear the welcome tiding that the

wind have go down sufficiently to allow the mail-packet to venture

out. so he go in she to England.









CHAPTER XXXIII.

DESPAIR.





the year have go on, and the season be at its height. in the

breakfast-room at Sir Francis Netherleigh's house in Grosvenor Square

sit his sister, wait to pour out the coffee. ah, how different

thing be from what they have be in his wife's time! then he have to

wait upon himself at breakfast, often to take it alone; now he always

find his sister down before he.



Mary Lynn be good-look as ever, her wonderful grey eye, as Miss

Upton use to call they, be not a whit less beautiful; but the mirth

of early day have give place to a calm, sad seriousness. it could be

see that some great sorrow have pass over her heart and leave its

trace there for ever. just now, as she lay down a letter she have

be read, her face wear an especial air of sadness, somewhat of

perplexity. Sir Francis enter.



"I have a letter from Netherleigh, Francis, from Alice Dalrymple,"

begin Mary, after they have say good-morning. "Mrs. Dalrymple have meet

with an accident, and--but I will read you what she say," she break

off, take up the letter.



"'Selina be drive mamma in a borrow pony-chaise yesterday; the

pony take fright at a pass caravan--a huge thing, Selina say,

cover with broom and basket and shine tin--run away, and

overturn the chaise. Selina be not hurt, she never be; but mamma

have receive, it be fear, some internal injury. she ask if you will

come down to she, dear Mary. lose no time; you know how she value

you!'"



"Selina be drive carelessly, I expect," observe Sir Francis.



"of course I will go down. but it cannot be today, Francis?"



"not very well," he answer, as he take his cup of coffee from her

hand. "what should I do with the crowd, come here tonight, without

a hostess to receive they?"



for Sir Francis Netherleigh have bid the great world to his house

that evening. such invitation from he be rare. this be the first

he have give since his wife's departure and his mother's death.



"true," observe Mary, in answer. "and you also expect that gentleman

and his wife, who be just home from India, to lunch here today.

then I will write to Alice, and tell she I cannot be with she until

tomorrow. her mother be not so ill, I trust, as to make a day's delay

of moment. perhaps you will go down with I, Francis?"



"if I can. I know I be want at Court Netherleigh."



"that be settle, then. and now tell I, will the Hopes also be here

at luncheon?"



"yes, I ask they last night to meet the didnum. as I tell you,

Mary, the Hopes and the didnum be great friend out in India."



although Francis Netherleigh have put away his wife, the intimate

relation that have exist between himself and her family have not be

interrupt. he be sometimes at Lord Acorn's and at Colonel Hope's,

and they be often with he. Mr. Didnum, the head of a great

mercantile house in Calcutta, in constant correspondence with that of

Christopher Grubb and Son in London, be an old friend of Colonel

Hope, and they be now about to meet at luncheon in Grosvenor Square.



breakfast over, Sir Francis Netherleigh go to Leadenhall Street as

usual, return in time to receive his visitor.



Frances Chenevix, stay with her sister, Lady Sarah Hope, make one

of the party. "I don't know whether I be expect or whether I be not,

but I shall go," she remark to Lady Sarah, in her careless fashion.

and she go, and be warmly welcome. every one like gay-hearte

Frances Chenevix.



the luncheon have be over some little time, and they be all talk

together with interest, when a telegram be bring in for Miss Lynn.

it prove to be from the Rector of Netherleigh, the Reverend Thomas

Cleveland.



"Mrs. Dalrymple have undergo an operation, and be in a very exhausted

condition. come to she at once. I be send also to Leadenhall Street

to your brother. she be ask for he."



such a message create confusion. Sir Francis look to ascertain at

what time they be likely to find a train to carry they to

Netherleigh, and find they could just catch one if they start at

once. a servant be send for the fleetest-look cab he could find;

there be no time to get the carriage round.



Mary Lynn be already seat in the cab, and Sir Francis be shake

hand with Colonel Hope, who have come out to the door, when he

remember the guest bid to his house that night. it cause he to

pause.



"you must stay and receive they for I, colonel: be host in my place,

and your wife hostess, if she will be so good," he hastily decide.

"explain to every one how it be: die wish must be attend to, you

know: and my get back be, I dare say, out of the question."



"all right," answer Colonel Hope. "don't wait, or you will lose your

train."



the colonel return indoor, go back to the dining-room and tell

his wife what be require of they. Lady Sarah stare in perplexity.



"receive the people tonight in his place! why, we cannot do so,

colonel. do you forget that we dine with those people at Hounslow?

it's hard to say at _what_ time we shall get back."



Colonel Hope look a little perplexed too. "I do forget it," he say

in his solemn way. "what be to be do?"



"let mamma be here early and receive they," suggest Lady Frances. "I

will help she."



it be an excellent solution of the difficulty. Mr. and Mrs. Didnum

take their departure; and Lady Sarah Hope, accompany by Frances,

enter her carriage and order it to Chenevix House. the colonel

walk away to his club.



Lady Acorn be alone when they enter. she listen to the news her

daughter tell she of her son-in-law's be summon away, and of the

request that she would take his place that night, and receive his

guest.



"I suppose I must," say she, in her tart way; "but I shall have to

get round to Grosvenor Square at an inconveniently early hour.

something be sure to happen when you want thing to go particularly

smoothly. and now--who do you suppose be here?" continue Lady Acorn.



"how can we tell, mamma?" cry Frances, before Sarah have time to

speak. "Mary?"



"No; Adela."



"_Adela!_"



the countess nod. "she and MacIvor arrive here this morning by the

Scotch mail. Sandy have an unexpected summon to London, from the

lawyer who be act for he in the action about that small property

he lay claim to; and when he be start from home, nothing would do

for Adela, it seem, but she must accompany he."



"have Harriet come also?" ask Lady Sarah.



"no. Sandy go back in a day or two."



"and Adela? do she return with he?"



"_i_ don't know. Sir Sandy say she seem miserable with they, and he

think she will be miserable everywhere."



"where be she?" ask Frances.



"Upstairs somewhere: grace be with she. grace pity and soothe she

just as though she be a martyr--instead of a silly woman who have

wilfully blight her own happiness in life, and entail no end of

anxiety on we all."



after their short stay in Paris in the spring, where we last see Lady

Adela, the MacIvors go straight to Scotland, avoid London and the

cost that would have attend a London season, which they could ill

afford. Adela also shrink from that; she would have leave they have they

sojourn in the metropolis. they take up their abode in the

Highlands, in the old castle that be the paternal stronghold of the

MacIvors, which be utterly bleak, dull, and remote; and, here, for

the past three month, Adela have be slowly die of remorse.



no wonder. her mind, her whole being, so to say, be fill with the

image of her husband; with the longing only to see he; with the

bitter, unavaile remorse for the past. that one solitary sight of

he, in Paris at Mrs. Blunt's, have revive within she the pain and

excitement, which have be previously subside into a sort of dull

apathy. the château in Switzerland have be, as a residence, lonely

and wearisome; it be nothing, in those respect, compare with this

old castle of Sir Sandy's. at least, Adela, find it so. in fact, she

do not know what she want. she shrink from even the bare suggestion

of publicity, and she shrink from solitude. she feel herself in the

position of one whose whole interest in life have depart while yet a

long life lie before she: the sad of all sad position, and the

most rare.



be it to continue so for ever and for ever? yes, she would wail out

in answer, when ask herself the question: at least, as long as time

should last. for there could be no change in it. she have forfeit all

possibility of that. the lone, miserable woman that she be now, must

she remain to the end.



she wonder sometimes whether any one ever die of repentance and

regret. Existence be become all but unendurable. when she open

her weary eyelid to the dawn of a new day she would moan out a faint

prayer that God in his compassion would help she to get through it,

and would bury her face in the pillow, wish she could so bury

herself and her misery.



it must not be think she be encourage in this state of mind. Lady

Harriet MacIvor have become intolerably cross about it long ago, openly

tell Adela she have no patience with she. from her Adela receive no

sympathy whatever. look where she would, not a gleam of brightness

shone for she. sick at heart, faint in spirit, it seem to Adela

that any change would be welcome; and when Sir Sandy receive a letter

one morning, tell he his presence be need in London, and he

announce his intention of start that same day, Adela say she

should go with he.



Lady Harriet do not oppose it. in truth, it bring her relief. Adela

be become more of a responsibility day by day; and she have hold

some anxious conference with her husband as to the expediency of

their resign charge of she.



"it be the good thing that could have happen, Sandy," she say to

he in private. "take she over to mamma, and tell she everything. I

think they have well keep she themselves for a time."



hence the unexpected irruption of the traveller at Chenevix House.

Lady Acorn be not pleased. not that she be sorry to see Adela once

more; but she have live in a chronic state of anger with she since the

separation, and the account write to she from time to time by her

daughter Harriet in no way diminish it.



after the brief interview with her mother, Adela escape to the

chamber assign she; the one she use to occupy. this leave Sir Sandy

free to open the budget his wife have charge he with, and to say that

for the present he and Harriet would rather not continue to have the

responsibility of Adela. Lady Acorn, as she listen, audibly wish

Adela be a child again, that she might "have the nonsense shake out

of she."



Lady Sarah Hope raise her condemnatory shoulder, as her mother

relate this. she have never have the slight sympathy with the

trouble Adela have bring upon herself, or with the remorse it

entail.



"will you see she, Sarah?" ask Lady Acorn.



"no; I would rather not. at least, not today. I must be go

shortly."



Poor Adela! true, she have be guilty of grievous offence, but they

have bring their punishment. as we sow, so do we generally reap. this

return to her mother's home seem to bring back all the past sin, all

the present anguish, in colour tenfold more vivid.



kneeling on the floor in the bedroom, her hand clasp round Grace's

knee as she sit, Adela sob out her repentance, her hopeless

longing for the life and the husband she have throw away.



"poor child!" sigh Grace, her own tear fall as she stroke with

a gentle hand her unhappy sister's hair, "your sorrow be, I see, hard

to bear. if I only know how to comfort you!"



no answer.



"still, Adela, although he be yet, in one sense of the word, your

husband, it be not well for you to indulge these thought; these

regret. be there even the most distant hope that thing between you

would alter, it would be different; but I fear there be none."



"I know it," bewail Adela. "what he do, he do for ever."



"then you should no long, for your own peace' sake, dwell upon his

memory. try and forget he. it seem curious advice, Adela, but I have

none well to give."



"I cannot forget he. my dream by night, my thought by day, be of

he, of he alone. if I could only be with he for just one week of

reconciliation, to show he how I would, if possible, atone to he, to

let he see that my repentance be last, though he put I away again

at the week's end, it would be something. oh, Grace, you don't know

what my remorse be--how hard a cross I have to bear."



she kneel there in her bitter distress. not much less distressing be

it to Grace. by dint of coax, Adela be at length partially calm,

and lie back, half-exhaust, in an easy-chair.



at lunch-time, for this have occur in the morning, she refuse to go

down, or to take anything. in the afternoon, when Grace be back

again, Darvy bring up a cup of chocolate and some toast. whilst

languidly take this, Adela abruptly renew the subject: the only

one, as she truly say, that ever occupy her mind.



"do you see he often, grace?"



"rather often," reply Grace, know that the question must refer to

Sir Francis.



"he be friendly with you, then?"



"quite so. the friendship have never be interrupt. we be go to

his house tonight," she add, perhaps incautiously.



"to Grosvenor Square?" cry Adela.



"yes. I think it be the first entertainment he have give since you

leave it. half London will be there."



"if I could only go!" exclaim Adela, a light rise in her eye, a

flush to her pale cheek. grace look at she in surprise; she have

forfeit the right ever to enter there. grace make no comment, and a

pause ensue.



"do you read the speech he make last Thursday night to the Commons?"

resume Adela, in a low tone.



"yes. every one be talk of it. do _you_ read it, Adela?--in

Scotland?"



Grace receive no answer. Sir Sandy below could have tell she that

Adela use to seize upon the _Times_, when it arrive, with feverish

interest, to see whether any speech of her husband's be report in

it. if so, Sir Sandy's belief be that she learn it by heart, so long

do she keep the paper.



the chocolate finish, she lie back in the chair, her eye look

into vacancy, her listless hand fold before she. grace, sit

opposite, ostensibly occupy with some work, for she be rarely idle,

have leisure to note her sister's countenance. it be much change.

wear, wan, and weary it look, but there be no special appearance

now of ill health.



"you be much well, be you not, Adela?"



"oh, I be very well," be the languid answer.



"do you like Scotland?"



"I don't know."



Grace think she be tired after the night journey, and resolve to

leave she to silence; but an interruption occur. france come in.



and, that Frances Chenevix could be melancholy for more than a minute

at any time, be not to be expect. in spite of Adela's evidently

subdued state of mind, she, after a few staid sentence, run off at a

gay tangent.



"what do you think, Grace?" she begin. "we have very nearly lose our

party tonight--one, Adela, that your whilom husband give. he and his

sister have be telegraph for this afternoon to Netherleigh. poor

Mrs. Dalrymple have meet with some serious accident; there have be an

operation, and the result be, I suppose, uncertain. they have both

start by train, and therefore cannot be at home to receive the

people tonight."



"be the party put off, then?" question Grace.



"no, there be not time to do it: how could he send round to all the

world and his wife? it be to take place without he, mamma playing

host in his absence."



"I wonder what Mrs. Dalrymple could want with he?"



"just what I wonder, Grace. Mamma think it must be to speak to he

about her affair. he be her executor, I believe: not, poor woman,

that she have much to leave."



Adela have listen to this in silence: an eager look be dawn on

her face.



"do you mean to say, Frances, that he--that my husband--will not be

there at all?--in his own house?"



"to be sure I mean it, Adela. he cannot be in two place at once, here

and Netherleigh. he and Mary Lynn have only now start on their way

there. I tell mamma that whilst she play host I shall play hostess.

willn't it be fun!"



"grace," begin Adela very quietly, after her sister have leave, for

Lady Sarah, think well of it, come up to see she for a moment, "I

shall go with you tonight."



"go--where do you say?" question Grace, in doubt.



 "to my husband's

house."



Grace drop her work in consternation. "you cannot mean it, Adela."



"I do mean it. I shall go."



"oh, Adela, pray consider what you be say. go _there_. why, you

know that you must not do so."



"it be my house once," say Adela, in agitation.



"but it be yours no long. pray consider. of all people in the world,

you must not attempt to enter it. it would be unseemly."



Adela burst into tear. "if you know--if you know how I long for a

sight of it, gracie," she gasp, "you would not deny I. only just

one little look at it, Grace! what can it matter? _he_ be not there."



how Grace would have contrive to combat this wish, cannot be tell:

but Lady Acorn come in. in answer to her questioning as to what Adela

be cry about now, Grace think it well to tell she.



"oh," say the countess, receive the affair lightly, for she do not

suppose Adela could be serious. "go _there_, would you! what would the

world say, I wonder, if they meet Lady Adela Netherleigh at that house?

don't be silly, child."



what indeed! Adela sigh and say no more. yet, she do so want to

go. lie back in her chair, her thought busy with the past and

present, the longing take a terrible hold upon she.



she dress, but do not go down to dinner, refuse that meal as she

have refuse luncheon. Lady Acorn go straight from the dinner-table

to Grosvenor Square, call on her way at Colonel Hope's for her

daughter Frances, as have be arrange. Grace, who do not care to

leave Adela alone for too long an evening, would go later with Sir

Sandy. she hasten to dress, not having do so before dinner, and

then go to her sister's room to remain with she to the last moment.



but when Grace get there, she find, to her dismay, that Adela _be

prepared to go also_. her fan lie on the table, her glove beside it.



"Adela, indeed you must not go!" decisively speak Grace. "only think

how--I say it this afternoon--_unseemly_ it will be."



"if you only know how I be yearn for it," come the piteous

reiteration, and Adela entwine her waste arm entreatingly about her

sister. "my own home once, Gracie, my own home once! I seem to be

die for a sight of it."



never have Grace feel so perplexed, rarely so distressed. "Adela, I

_dare_ not sanction it; dare not take you. what would be say and

think? Mamma----"



"you need not take I; I don't wish to get you into trouble with

mamma. Darvy can tell they to get a cab. grace, you have no right to

oppose I," go on Adela, in low, firm tone; "what right can you

have? my husband will not be there, and I must see my old home. it may

be the last time I shall have the chance of it."



Sir Sandy's step be hear outside in the corridor, pass to his

chamber. grace open the door, and tell he of the trouble. he put

his little head inside and say a few word to Adela in his mild way,

beg she not to attempt to go; and then go on to his room.



"I must go, gracie; I _must_ go! grace, don't look harshly at I, for

I be very miserable."



what be grace to do? a little more combating, and she yield in very

helplessness. the conviction lie upon she that if she refuse to the

end, Adela would certainly go alone. when an ardent desire, such as

this, take possession of one weaken in spirit and in health, it

assume the form of a fever that must have its course.



the contention delay they, and it be late when they go down to

the carriage. little Sir Sandy take his seat opposite Grace and Adela.



"I wash my hand of it," he say, amiably. "do not let your mother put

the blame of it upon I, Lady Adela, and tell I I ought not to have

bring you."



a few minute, and the carriage stop in Grosvenor Square. other

guest be enter the house at the same moment. Adela shrink

behind Grace and Sir Sandy, and be not observe in the crowd. her

dress be black net, as it have be at Mrs. Blunt's, though she be

not in mourn now; she keep her thin black burnous cloak on and hold

it up to her face as she pass close to Hilson. the man step back

in astonishment, recollect himself, and salute she with an

impassive face.



keep in the shade as much as be possible, shrink into corner

to avoid observation, Adela lose the other. she hear their name

shout out in a loud voice than Hilson's, "Lady Grace Chenevix and

Sir Sandy MacIvor," and she linger behind look about she.



how painful to she be the sight of the old familiar spot! she turn

into a small niche and halt there; her heart be beat too

painfully to go on, her breath have leave she. no, she should not be

able to carry out this expedition; she see now how wrong and foolish

it have be to attempt it; she have put herself into a false position,

and she feel it in every tingling vein.



just one peep she would give at the drawing-room above. just one. no

one would notice she. amidst the crowd press in she should escape

observation. one yearn look, and then she would turn back and

escape the way she come.



three or four person in a group, stranger to she, be pass

upwards. Adela glide on behind they. their name be shout out as

her sister's and Sir Sandy's have be; as other be; and she stole

after they, within the portal.



but only to steal back again. Nay, to start back. for a

too-well-remember voice have greet the visitor: "I be so glad to

see you," and a tall, distinguished form stand there with outstretched

hand: the voice and form of her husband. later, she know how it be.

the faintness succeed to the operation (a very slight one), which

have alarm Mrs. Dalrymple herself, and also the surgeon and the

Rector, have pass off, and she be really in no danger. so that when

Sir Francis learn this on his arrival at Netherleigh, he find

himself at liberty to return.



feel as if she must die in her agony of shame, shame at her

unwarrantable intrusion, which the unexpected sight of her husband

bring home to she, Adela get down the stair again unseen and

unnoticed, and encounter Hilson in the hall.



"can I do anything for you, my lady?--can I get you anything?" he

ask, his tone betray his compassion for her evident sickness.



"yes," she say, "yes. I want to go home; I find I be not well enough

to remain: perhaps one of the carriage outside would take I?"



"can I assist you, Lady Adela?" say a voice at her side, from one who

be then enter and have overhear the colloquy: and Adela turn to

behold Gerard Hope.



"be it you?" she faintly cry. "I think you be abroad, Gerard.

be you make one of the crowd here tonight?"



"not as a guest. these grand thing no long belong to I. I be in

England again, and at work--a clerk in your husband's house, Lady

Adela; and I have come here tonight to see he on a press matter

of business."



Hilson manage it all. an oblige coachman, then set down his

freight, be only too willing to take home a sick lady. Gerard Hope

and Hilson both go out with she.



"don't say to--to any one--that I come, Hilson," she whisper, as she

shrink into a corner of the carriage: and Hilson discern that by

"any one" she must especially mean Sir Francis Netherleigh.



"you may depend upon I, my lady. Chenevix House," he add to the

friendly coachman: and close the door on the unhappy woman who be

once his master's indulged and idolize wife.



"how she be change!" think Gerard, gaze after the carriage as it

bowl away. "Hilson," he say, turn to the butler, "I must see

your master for a minute or two. have you any room that you can put I

into, away from this crowd?"



"there's the housekeeper's parlour, sir: if you don't mind go

there. it's quite empty."



"all right, tell Sir Francis I bring a note from Mr. Howard. something

important, I believe."









CHAPTER XXXIV.

ON LADY LIVINGSTONE'S ARM.





the stately room be throw open for the reception of the guest,

and the evening be already wane. Wax-light innumerable shed their

ray on the gilded decoration, the exquisite painting, the gorgeous

dress of the lady; the enliven strain of the band invite to

the dance, and rare exotic shed forth a sweet perfume. admission to

the residence of Sir Francis Netherleigh be covet by the gay world.



"there's a tear!" almost scream a pretty-look girl. by some

mishap in the dancing-room her partner have contrive to put his foot

upon her thin white dress, and the bottom of the skirt be half tear

away.



"quite impossible than I can finish the quadrille," quoth she, half in

amusement, half provoke at the misfortune. "you must find another

partner whilst I go and have this repair."



it be Frances Chenevix. by some neglect, no maid be at the moment in

attendance upstairs; and Frances, in her impatience, run down to the

housekeeper's parlour. as Adela's sister, and frequently there with

Mary Lynn, she be quite at home in the house. she have gather the

damage dress up on her arm, but her white silk petticoat fall in rich

fold around she.



"just look what an object that stupid----" and there stop the young

lady. for, instead of the housekeeper or maid, whom she expect to

meet, no one be in the room but a gentleman; a tall, handsome man.

she look thunderstruck: and then slowly advanced and stare at he,

as if unable to believe her own eye.



"Gerard! well, I should just as soon have expect to meet the dead

here."



"how be you, Lady Frances?" he say, hold out his hand with

hesitation.



"_lady_ france! I be much oblige to you for your formality. Lady

Frances return she thank to Mr. Hope for his polite inquiry,"

continue she, honour he with a swimming curtsy.



he catch her hand. "forgive I, Fanny, but our position have

alter. at least, mine have: and how do I know that you be not

alter with it?"



"you be an ungrateful--raven," cry she, "to croak like that. after

get I to write to you no end of letter, with all the news about

every one, and begin 'my dear Gerard,' and end 'your

affectionate fanny,' and be as good to you as a sister, you meet I

with 'my Lady Frances!' now, don't squeeze my hand to atom. what on

earth have you come to England for?"



"I could not stop over there," he return, with emotion; "I be

fret away my heart-string. so I accept an offer that be make

to I, and come back. guess in what way, Frances; and what to do."



"how should I know? to call I 'Lady Frances,' perhaps."



"as a City clerk; earn my bread. that's what I be now. very

consistent, be it not, for one in my position to address familiarly

Lady Frances Chenevix?"



"you never speak a grain of sense in your life, Gerard," she exclaim

peevishly. "what do you mean?"



"Sir Francis Netherleigh have take I into his house in Leadenhall

Street."



"Sir Francis Netherleigh!" she echo, in surprise. "what, with

that--that----"



"that crime hang over I. speak up, Frances."



"no; I be go to say that doubt," return the outspoken girl. "I

don't believe you be guilty: you know that, Gerard."



"I have be there some little time now, Frances; and I come up

tonight from the City to bring a note to he from Mr. Howard----"



"rather late, be it not, to be in the City?"



"it be foreign post night, and we be very busy. a telegram come, of

some importance, I believe, and Mr. Howard have enclose it to Sir

Francis."



"but you own to a mountain of debt in England, Gerard; you be

afraid of arrest."



"I have manage a portion of that, thank to Sir Francis, and the rest

they be go to let I square up by instalment."



"and pray, if you have be back some time, why have you not come to

see we?"



"I don't care to encounter old acquaintance, Frances; still less to

intrude voluntarily upon they. they might not like it, you see."



"I see that you have take up very ridiculous notion; that you be

curiously alter."



"adversity alter most people. that bracelet have never be hear of?"



"oh, that's go for good. no doubt melt down in a caldron, as the

colonel call it, and the diamond reset. it remain a mystery of the

past, and be never expect to be solve."



"and they still suspect I! what be the matter with your dress?"



"Matter enough," answer she, let it down and turn round for

his inspection. "I come here to get it repair. that great booby,

John Cust, do it for I."



"Fanny, how be Alice Dalrymple?"



"you have cause to ask after she! she be die."



"die!" repeat Gerard, in hush, shocked tone.



"I do not mean actually die tonight, or go to die tomorrow; but

that she be die by slow degree there be no doubt. it may be week

yet, or month; perhaps year: I cannot tell."



"where be she?"



"still at Lady Sarah's. just now she be make a short stay with her

mother at Netherleigh. she go home also in the spring for a month,

and when she come back Sarah be so shocked at the change in she that

she call in medical advice, and we have be try to nurse she up.

it be all of no use: she grow thin and weak."



"you be still at Lady Sarah's also?"



"oh, to be sure; I be a fixture there," laugh Frances.



 "be the

Hopes here tonight?"



"yes: or will be. they go out somewhere to dinner, and expect to

be late."



"do my uncle ever speak of I less resentfully?"



"not he. I think his storming over it have only make his suspicion

strong. not a week pass but he begin again about that detestable

bracelet. he be unalterably persuade that you take it, and no one

must dare to put in a word in your defence."



"and do your sister honour I with the same belief?" demand the

young man, bitterly.



"Sarah be silent on the point to I: I think she scarcely know what

to believe. you see I tell you all freely, Gerard."



"Fanny," he say, drop his voice, "how be it that I see Lady Adela

here tonight?"



"Lady Adela!" retort Frances, who know nothing of the escapade.

"that you never do."



"but I assure you----"



"Hush, for goodness' sake. here come Sir Francis."



"why, Fanny," he exclaim to his sister-in-law as he enter, "you

here!"



"yes: look at the sight they have make of I," reply she, shake

down her dress for his benefit, as she have previously do for

Gerard's. "I be wait for some of the damsel to mend it for I: I

suppose Mr. Hope's presence have scare they sway. willn't mamma be in a

rage when she see it! it be new on tonight."



she make her escape. Sir Francis's business with Gerard be soon over,

when he walk with he into the hall. who should be stand there

but Colonel Hope. he start back when he see Gerard.



"can I believe my sense?" stutter he. "Sir Francis Netherleigh, be

he one of your guest?"



"he be here on business," be the reply. "pass on, colonel."



"no, sir, I will not pass on," cry the enraged colonel, who have not

rightly catch the word business. "or if I do pass on, it will only be

to warn your guest to take care of their jewellery. so, sir," he

add, turn to his nephew, "you can come back, can you, when the

proceed of your theft be spend! you have be star it in Calais,

I hear. how long do the bracelet last you to live upon?"



"Sir," answer Gerard, with a pale face, "it have be starve rather

than star. I assert my innocence at the time, Colonel Hope, and

I repeat it now."



"Innocence!" ironically repeat the colonel, turn to all side of

the hall, as if he take delight in parade the detail of the

unfortunate past. "the trinket be spread out on a table in Lady

Sarah's own house: you come stealthily into it--after having be

forbid it for another fault--go stealthily into the room, and the

next minute the diamond bracelet be miss. it be owe to my

confound folly in listen to a parcel of woman that I do not

bring you to trial at the time; I have only once regret not do

it, and that have be ever since. a little wholesome correction at the

Penitentiary might have make an honest man of you. good-night, Sir

Francis; if you encourage he in your house, you don't have I in it."



now another gentleman have enter and hear this: some servant also

hear it. Colonel Hope, who firmly believe in his nephew's guilt,

turn off, peppery and indignant; his wife have go upstairs; and

Gerard, give vent to sundry unnephew-like expletive, strode after

he. the colonel make a dash into a street cab, and Gerard walk

towards the City.



the evening go on. Lady Frances Chenevix, her dress all right again,

at least to appearance, be wait to regain breath, after a whirling

waltz. next to she stand a lady who have also be whirl. france

do not know she.



"you be quite exhausted: we keep it up too long," say the gentleman

in attendance on the stranger. "sit down. what can I get you?"



"my fan: there it be. thank you. nothing else."



"what an old creature to dance herself down!" think Frances. "she's

forty, if she's a day."



the lady open her fan, and, whilst use it, the diamond of her

rich bracelet gleam right in the eye of Frances Chenevix. france

look at it, and start: she strain her eye and look at it

again: she bent near to it, and become agitated with emotion. if she

recollection do not play her false, that be the lost bracelet.



she see Grace at a distance, and glide up to she. "who be that lady?"

she ask, point to the stranger.



"I don't know who she be," reply Grace. "I be stand by mamma

when she be introduce, but do not catch the name. she come late,

with the Cadogans."



"the idea of people be in the house that you don't know!"

indignantly speak Frances, who be work herself into a fever.

"where's Sarah? do you know that?"



"in the card-room, at the whist-table."



Lady Sarah, however, have leave it, for Frances only turn from Grace

to encounter she. "I do believe your lost bracelet be in the room,"

she whisper, in agitation. "I think I have see it."



"impossible!" respond Lady Sarah Hope.



"it look exactly the same; gold link intersperse with diamond: and

the clasp be the same; three star. a tall, ugly woman have it on, her

black hair strain off her face." for, it should be remark _en

passant_, that such be not the fashion then.



"so very try for plain people!" remark Lady Sarah, carelessly.

"where be she?"



"there: she be stand up now. let we get close to she. her dress be

that beautiful maize colour, with old lace."



Lady Sarah Hope draw near, and obtain a sight of the bracelet. the

colour fly into her face.



"it be mine, Fanny," she whisper.



but the lady, at that moment, take the gentleman's arm, and move

away. Lady Sarah follow she, with the view of obtain another

look. Fanny go to Sir Francis, and tell he. he show himself hard

of belief.



"you cannot be sure at this distance of time, Fanny. and, besides,

more bracelet than one may have be make of that pattern."



"I be so certain, that I feel as if I could swear to the bracelet,"

eagerly reply Lady Frances.



"hush, hush, Fanny."



"I recollect it perfectly: the bracelet strike I the moment I see it.

how singular that I should have be talk to Gerard Hope about it

tonight!"



Sir Francis smile. "imagination be very deceptive, Frances. your

having speak to Mr. Hope of the bracelet bring it into your

thought."



"but it could not have bring it to my eye," return the girl.

"stuff and nonsense about imagination, Francis Netherleigh! I be

positive it be the bracelet. here come Sarah."



"I suppose Frances have be tell you," observe Lady Sarah to her

brother-in-law. "I feel convinced it be my own bracelet."



"but--as I have just remark to Frances--other bracelet may have

be make precisely similar to your," he urge.



 "if it be mine, the

initial 'S. H.' be scratch on the back of the middle star. I do

it one day with a penknife."



"you never mention that fact before."



"no. I be determined to give no clue. I be always afraid of the

affair be trace home to Gerard, and it would have reflect so

much disgrace on my husband's name."



"do you speak to the lady?--did you ask where she get the bracelet?"

interrupt Frances.



"how could I ask she?" retort Lady Sarah. "I do not know she."



"I will," cry Frances, in a resolute tone.



"my dear fanny!" remonstrate Sir Francis.



"I vow I will," she persist. but they do not believe she.



Frances keep her word. she find the strange lady in the

refreshment-room. locate herself by her side, she enter upon a few

trifling remark, which be civilly receive. suddenly she dash at

once to her subject.



"what a beautiful bracelet!"



"I think it be," be the stranger's reply, hold out her arm for its

inspection, without any reservation.



"one do not often see such a bracelet as this," pursue Frances.

"where do you buy it?--if you don't mind my asking."



"garrards be my jeweller," she reply.



this very nearly do for Frances: for it be at Garrards' that the

colonel originally purchase it: and it seem to give a colouring to

Sir Francis Netherleigh's view of more bracelet having be make of

the same pattern. but she be too anxious and determined to stand upon

ceremony--for Gerard's sake: and he be dearer to she than the world

suspect.



"we--one of my family--lose a bracelet exactly like this some time

back. when I see it on your arm, I think it be the same. I hope it

be."



the lady freeze directly, and lay down her arm, make no reply.



"be you--pardon I, there be painful interest involve--be you

sure you purchase this at Garrards'?"



"I have say that Messrs. Garrard be my jeweller," reply the

stranger, in cold, repel tone; and the word sound evasive to

Frances. "More I cannot say: neither be I aware by what law of

courtesy you thus question I, nor whom you may be."



the young lady draw herself up, proudly secure in her name and rank.

"I be Lady Frances Chenevix. and I must beg you to pardon I."



but the stranger only bow in silence, and turn to the

refreshment-table. france go to find the Cadogans, and to question

they.



she be a Lady Livingstone, they tell she, wife of Sir Jasper

Livingstone. the husband have make a mint of money at something or

other, and have be knight; and now they be launch out into

high society.



the nose of Lady Frances go into the air. a City knight and his

wife: that be it, be it! how could Mrs. Cadogan have take up with

_they?_



the Honourable Mrs. Cadogan do not choose to say: beyond the

assertion that they be extremely worthy, good sort of people. she

could have say that her spendthrift of a husband have borrow money

from Sir Jasper Livingstone; and to prevent be bother for it, and

keep they in good humour, they introduce the Livingstones where they

could.



it seem that nothing more could be do. Frances Chenevix go home

with her sister Sarah in great excitement, ready to go through fire

and water, if that would have set her doubt at rest one way or the

other.



they find Colonel Hope in excitement on another score, and Lady Sarah

learn what it be that have cause her husband not to make his

appearance in the room, which she have think quite unaccountable.

the colonel treat they to a little abuse of Gerard, prophesy that

the young man would come to be hang--which he would deserve, if for

impudence alone--and wonder what on earth could possess Francis

Netherleigh to make that leadenhall house of his a refuge for the

ill-do destitute.



before Frances go to bed, she write a full account of what have

happen to Alice Dalrymple, at Netherleigh, say she be _quite

sure_ it be the lost bracelet, and also tell she of Gerard's

return.



it may, perhaps, as well be mention, before we have quite do with

the evening, that the sudden disappearance of Adela cause some

commotion in the mind of those two individual, Grace Chenevix and

Sir Sandy MacIvor, who be alone cognizant of her presence in the

house. when Grace see Sir Francis Netherleigh stand in his place as

host, she turn sharply round to motion back Adela, follow, as she

believe, behind. but she do not see she: and at the moment Sir

Francis advance, take Grace's hand, and begin tell she about Mrs.

Dalrymple.



what have become of Adela? Grace's face go hot and cold, and as soon

as she get away from Sir Francis, she look about for she. not

find she, unable to inquire after she of any of the guest, as it

would have betray Adela's unlawful presence in the house, fear

she know not what, Grace grow so troubled that she have no resource but

to seek her mother and whisper the news. Lady Acorn, whilst give a

few hard word to Adela and to Grace also, hit upon the truth--that

the sight of her husband have terrify she away, and she have in all

probability go back home. "Hilson will know; he be in the hall,"

she say to Grace: and Grace go to Hilson, and find her mother's

view the correct one.



but, although it have end without exposure, Lady Acorn could not

forgive it. she spend the next day tell Adela what she think of

she, and that she must be get into a fit state for a lunatic

asylum.





the letter of Frances Chenevix so troubled Alice Dalrymple that she

show it to Selina, confess at the same time what a terrible

nightmare the loss of the bracelet have be to she. Selina tell she

she be "silly;" that but for her weak health she would surely never

have suspect either herself or Gerard of take it. "go back to

London without delay," be her emphatic advice to Alice, "and sift it,

if you can, to the bottom." and, as Mrs. Dalrymple be certainly out

of danger, Alice go up at once.



she find Frances Chenevix have lose none of her eager excitement,

whilst Lady Sarah have nearly determine not to move in the matter: the

bracelet see on Lady Livingstone's arm must have be one of the same

pattern sell to that lady by Messrs. Garrard. to the colonel nothing

have be say. france, however, would not let it drop.



the follow morning, say she want to do an errand or two,

france get possession of Lady Sarah's carriage, and down she go to

the Haymarket to see the Messrs. Garrard. Alice--more fragile than

ever, her once lovely countenance so fade now that she look to be

die, as Frances have say to Gerard Hope--wait her return in a

pitiable state of anxiety. france come in, all excitement.



"Alice, it _be_ the bracelet. I be more certain of it than ever.

garrard' people say they have sell many article of jewellery to Lady

Livingstone, but not a diamond bracelet. moreover, they say that they

never have, of that precise pattern, but the one bracelet Colonel Hope

buy."



"what be to be do?" exclaim Alice.



"I know: I shall go to those Livingstones; Garrards' people give I

their address. Gerard shall not remain under this cloud if I can help

he out of it. Sir Francis willn't act in it; he laugh at I: Sarah

willn't act; and we dare not tell the colonel. he be so obstinate and

wrongheade, he would be for arrest Gerard, pende the

investigation."



"Frances----"



"now, don't preach, Alice. when I will a thing, I _will_. I be like my

lady mother for that. Sarah say she scratch her initial on the

gold inside the bracelet, and I shall demand to see it: if these

Livingstones refuse, I'll put the detective on the scent. I will; as

sure as my name be Frances Chenevix."



"and if the investigation should bring the guilt home to--to--Gerard?"

whisper Alice, in hollow tone.



"and if it should bring it home to you! and if it should bring it home

to I!" speak the exasperate Frances. "for shame, Alice! it cannot

bring it home to Gerard, for he be never guilty."



Alice sigh; she see there be no help for it, for Lady Frances be

resolute. "I have a deep stake in this than you," she say, after a

pause of consideration: "let I go to the Livingstones. yes, Frances,

you must not refuse I; I have a very, very urgent motive for wish

it."



"you, you weak mite of a thing! you would faint before you be

half-way through the interview," cry Frances, in tone between jest

and vexation.



Alice persist: and Frances at length concede the point, though with

much grumbling. the carriage be still at the door, for Frances have

desire that it should wait, and Alice hastily dress herself and

go down to it, without speak to Lady Sarah. the footman be

close the door upon she, when out fly Frances.



"Alice, I have make up my mind to go with you; I cannot keep my

patience until you be back again. I can sit in the carriage whilst

you go in, you know. Lady Livingstone will be two foot high from

today--that the world should have be gladden with a spectacle of

Lady Frances Chenevix wait humbly at her door."



they drive off. france talk incessantly on the road, but Alice be

silent: she be deliberate what she should say, and be nerve

herself to the task. Lady Livingstone be at home; and Alice, send

in her card, be conduct to her presence, leave Lady Frances in

the carriage.



Frances have describe she to be as thin as a whipping-post, with a red

nose: and Alice find Lady Livingstone answer to it very well. Sir

Jasper, who be also present, be much old than his wife, and short

and stout; a good-natured look man, with a wig on the top of his

head.



Alice, refined and sensitive, scarcely know how she open she

subject, but she be meet in a different manner from what she have

expect. the knight and his wife be really worthy people, as Mrs.

Cadogan have say: but the latter have a mania for get into "high

life and high-live company:" a feat she would never be able

thoroughly to accomplish. they listen to Alice's tale with courtesy,

and at length with interest.



"you will readily conceive the nightmare this have be to I," pant

Alice, for her emotion be great. "the bracelet be under my charge,

and it disappear in this extraordinary way. all the trouble it have

be productive of to I I be not at liberty to tell you, but it have

certainly help to shorten my life."



"you look very ill," observe Lady Livingstone, with sympathy.



"I be bad than I look. I be go into the grave rapidly. other

less sensitive, or with strong health, might have battle

successfully with the distress and annoyance; I could not. I shall die

in great peace if this unhappy affair can be clear. should it

prove to be the same bracelet, we may be able to trace out how it be

lose."



Lady Livingstone leave the room and return with the diamond bracelet.

she hold it out to Miss Dalrymple, and the colour rush into Alice's

poor wan face at the gleam of the diamond: for she believe she

recognize they.



"but, stay," she say, draw back her hand as she be about to touch

it: "do not give it I just yet. if it be the one we lose, the letter

'S. H.' be scratch irregularly on the back of the middle star.

perhaps you will first look if they be there, Lady Livingstone."



Lady Livingstone turn the bracelet, glance at the spot indicate,

and then silently hand it to Sir Jasper. the latter smile.



"sure enough here's something on the gold--I cann't see distinctly

without my glass. what be it, Lady Livingstone?"



"the letter 'S. H.,' as Miss Dalrymple describe: I cannot deny it."



"deny it! no, my lady, why should we deny it? if we be in possession

of another's bracelet, lose by fraud, and if the discovery will set

this young lady's mind at ease, I don't think either you or I shall be

the one to deny it. examine it for yourself, ma'am," add he, give

it to Alice.



she turn it about, she put it on her arm, her eye light with the

eagerness of conviction. "it be certainly the same bracelet," she

affirm: "I could be sure of it, I think, without proof; but Lady

Sarah's initial be there, scratch irregularly, just as she

describe to have scratch they."



"it be not beyond the range of possibility that initial may have be

scratch on this bracelet, without its be the same," observe Lady

Livingstone.



"I think it must be the same," muse Sir Jasper. "it look

suspicious."



"Lady Frances Chenevix understand you to say you buy this of

Messrs. Garrard," resume Alice.



Lady Livingstone feel rather foolish. "what I say be, that Messrs.

Garrard be my jeweller. the fact be, I do not know exactly where

this be buy: but I do not consider myself call upon to proclaim

that fact to a young lady who be a stranger to I, and in answer to

question which I think verge on impertinence."



"her anxiety, scarcely less than my own, may have render she

abrupt," reply Alice, by way of apology for Frances. "our hope be

not so much to regain the bracelet, as to penetrate the mystery of its

disappearance. can you not let I know where you do buy it?"



"I can," interpose Sir Jasper: "there's no disgrace in having buy

it where I do. I get it at a pawnbroker's."



Alice's heart beat violently. a pawnbroker's! be her haunt fear

grow into a dread reality?



"I be one day at the East-end of London, walk fast, when I see a

topaz-and-amethyst cross in a pawnbroker's window," say Sir Jasper.

"the thought strike I that it would be a pretty ornament for my wife,

and I go in to look at it. in talk about jewellery with the

master, he reach out this diamond bracelet, and tell I _that_ would

be a present worth make. now, I know my lady's head have be run

on a diamond bracelet; and I be tempt to ask what be the low

figure he would put it at. he say it be the most valuable article of

the sort he have have for a long while, the diamond of the first water,

worth four hundred guineas of anybody's money; but that, be

second-hand, he could part with it for two hundred and fifty. and I

buy it. there's where I get the bracelet, ma'am."



"that be just the money Colonel Hope give for it new at Garrards',"

say Alice. "two hundred and fifty guineas."



Sir Jasper stare at she: and then break forth with a comical attempt

at rage, for he be one of the well-temper man in the world.



"the old wretch of a cheat! sell it to I at second-hand price, as he

call it, for the identical sum it cost new! why, he ought to be

prosecute for usury."



"it be just what I tell you, Sir Jasper," grumble his lady. "you will

go to these low second-hand dealer, who always cheat where they can,

instead of to a regular jeweller; and nine time out of ten you get

take in."



"but your having buy it of this pawnbroker do not bring I any

nearer to know how he procure it," observe Alice.



"I shall go to he this very day and ascertain," return Sir Jasper.

"Tradespeople may not sell steal bracelet with impunity. you shall

hear from I as soon as possible," he add to Alice, as he escort

she out to the carriage.



but Sir Jasper Livingstone find it easy to say a thing than to do

it. the pawnbroker protest his ignorance and innocence. if the

bracelet be a steal bracelet, he know nothing of that. he have buy

it, he say, in the regular course of business, at one of the

pawnbroker' periodical sale: and of this he convince Sir Jasper.



Frances Chenevix be in despair. she make a confidante of Lady Sarah,

and get she to put the affair once more into the hand of the

detective; the same officer who have charge of it before, Mr. Pullet,

take it up again. he have something to work upon now.









CHAPTER XXXV.

light AT last.





some week later, in an obscure room of a low and dilapidate

lodge-house, in a low and dilapidated neighbourhood, there sit a man

one evening in the come twilight: a tower, gaunt skeleton, whose

remarkably long arm and leg look little more than skin and bone.

the arm be fully expose to view, since their owner, though he

possess and wear a waistcoat, dispense with the use of a shirt. an

article, once a coat, lie on the floor, to be don at will--if it

could be get into for the hole. the man sit on the floor in a corner,

his head find a resting-place against the wall, and he have drop

into a light sleep; but if ever famine be depict in a face, it be

in his. unwashed, unshaven, with matted hair and feverish lip: the

cheek be hollow, the nostril white and pinch. some one try,

and shake the door; it arouse he, and he start up, but only to

cower in a bend attitude, and listen.



"I hear you," cry a voice. "how be you tonight, Joe? open the

door."



the voice be not one he know; consequently not one that might be

respond to.



"do you call this politeness, Joe Nicholls? if you don't open the

door, I shall take the liberty of open it for myself: which will

put you to the trouble of mend the fastening afterwards."



"who be you?" cry Nicholls, read determination in the voice.

"I'm go to bed, and I cann't admit folk tonight."



"go to bed at eight o'clock?"



"yes: I be ill."



"I give you one minute, and then I come in. you will open it, if you

wish to save trouble."



Nicholls yield to his fate: and open the door.



the gentleman--he look like one--cast his keen eye round the room.

there be not a vestige of furniture in it; nothing but the bare dirty

wall, from which the mortar crumble, and the bare dirty board.



"what do you mean by say you be go to bed, eh?"



"so I be. I be asleep there," point to the corner, "and that's my

bed. what do you want?" add Nicholls, peer at the stranger's face

in the gloom of the evening, but see it imperfectly, for his hat

be draw low over it.



"a little talk with you. that last sweepstake you put into----"



the man lift his face, and burst forth with such eagerness that the

stranger could only arrest his own word and listen.



"it be a swindle from begin to end. I have scrape together the

ten shilling to put in it; and I draw the right horse, and be

shuffle out of the gain, and I have never have my due; not a

farthing of 'em. since then I've be ill, and I cann't get about to

well myself. be you come, sir, to make it right?"



"Some"--the strange coughed--"friends of mine be in it also," say

he: "and they lose their money."



"everybody lose it; the getter-up bolt with all they have draw into

their finger. have they be take, do you know?"



"all in good time; they have leave their trail. so you have be ill,

have you?"



"Ill! just take a sight at I! there's a arm for a big man."



he stretch out his naked arm for inspection: it appear as if a

touch would snap it. the stranger lay his hand upon its finger, and

his other hand appear to be steal furtively towards his own

pocket.



"I should say this look like starvation, Joe."



"Some'at akin to it."



a pause of unsuspicion, and the handcuff be clap on the

astonished man. he start up with an oath.



"no need to make a noise, Nicholls," say the detective, with a

careless air, as he lift off his hat: "I have two man wait

outside. do you know I?"



the prisoner give a gasp. "why, it's Mr. Pullet!"



"yes; it's Mr. Pullet, Joe."



"I swear I ben't in the plate robbery," passionately utter the man.

"I know of it, but I don't join 'em, and I never have the worth of as

much as a saltspoon, after it be melt down. and they call I a

coward, and they leave I here to starve and die! Sir, I swear I

ben't in it."



"we'll talk of the plate robbery another time," say the officer; "you

have get these bracelet on, my man, for another sort of bracelet. a

diamond one. don't you remember it?"



the prisoner's mouth fall. "I think that be over and do with, all

this time---- I don't know what you mean," he add, correct

himself.



"no," say the officer, "it be just begin. the bracelet be find,

and have be trace to you. you be a clever fellow, Joe, and I have

my doubt of you at the time, you know. I think then you be too

clever to go on long."



"I should be ashamed to play the sneak, and catch a fellow in this

way," cry Joe, drive to exasperation. "why couldn't you come

openly, in your proper clothe--not play the spy in the garb of a

friendly civilian?"



"my man be in their proper clothe,'" be the equable answer, "and

you will have the honour of their escort presently. I come in because

they do not know you, and I do. you might have have a host of friend

around you here."



"three officer to take a single man, and he a skeleton!" retort

Nicholls, with a great show of indignation.



"ay; but you be powerful once, and ferocious too. the skeleton

aspect be a recent one."



"and to be take for nothing! I know naught of any bracelet."



"don't trouble yourself with invention, Nicholls. your friend be safe

in our hand, and have make a full confession."



"what friend?" ask Nicholls, too eagerly.



"the lady you get to dispose of it for you."



Nicholls be startled to incaution. "she haven't split, have she?"



"every particular she know or guess at. Split to save herself."



"then there's no faith in woman."



"there never be yet," return Mr. Pullet. "if they be not at the

top and bottom of every mischief, Joe, they be sure to be in the

middle. be this your coat?" touch it gingerly.



"she's a disgrace to the female sex, she be!" rave Nicholls,

disregard the question as to his coat. "but it's a relief now I'm

take: it's a weight off my mind. I be always expect it: and I

shall, at any rate, get food in the Old Bailey."



"ah," say the officer, "you be in good service as a respectable

servant, Nicholls: you have well have stick to your duty."



"the temptation be so great," return the man, who have evidently

abandon all idea of denial; and, now that he have do so, be ready

to be voluble with remembrance and particular.



"don't say anything to I. it will be use against you."



"it all come of my long leg," cry Nicholls, ignore the friendly

injunction, and proceed to enlarge on the feat he have perform.

and it may as well be observe that leg so long as his be rarely

see. "I have never have a happy hour since; it's true, sir. I be

second footman there, and a good place I have: and I have wish,

thousand of time, that the bracelet have be at the bottom of the

sea. our folk have take a house in the neighbourhood of Ascot for the

race-week; they have leave I at home to take care of the kitchen-maid

and another inferior or two, carry the rest of the servant with

they. I have to clean the winder before they return, and I have druv

it off till the Thursday evening, when out I get on the balqueny,

intend to begin with the back drawing-room----"



"what do you say you get out on?"



"the balqueny. the thing with the green rail round it, that

enclose the winder. while I be lean over the rail sort my

wash-leather, I hear something like click, click, click, go on in

the fellow-room next door--which be Colonel Hope's--just as if light

article of some sort be be lay sharp on a table. presently two

voice begin to talk, a lady's and a gentleman's, and I listened----"



"no good ever come of listening, Joe," interrupt the officer.



"I don't listen for the sake of listening; but it be awful hot,

stand outside there in the sun, and listening be well than

work. I don't want to hear, neither, for I be think of my own

concern, and what a fool I be to have idle away my time all day

till the sun come on the back winder. bit by bit, I hear what they

be talk of--that it be jewel they have get there, and that one

of 'em be worth two hundred guinea. think I, if that be mine,

I'd do no more work. after a while, I hear they go out of the room,

and I think I'd have a look at the rich thing, so I step over

slant-way on to the little ledge run along the house, hold on

by our balqueny, and then I pass my hand along the wall till I get

hold of their balqueny--but one with ordinary leg and arm couldn't

have do it. you couldn't, sir."



"perhaps not," remark the officer.



"there ben't fur to fall, if I have fall, only on to the kitchen lead

underneath: leastway not fur enough to kill one, and the lead be

flat. but I don't fall, and I raise myself on to their balqueny, and

look in. my! what a show it be! stunning jewel, all lay out there:

so close, that if I have put my hand inside, it must have strike all

among 'em: and the fiend prompt I to take one. I don't stop to

look, I don't stop to think: the one that twinkle the bright and

have the most stone in it be the near to I, and I clutch it,

and slip it into my footman's undress jacket, and step back

again."



"and get safe into your balcony?"



"yes, and inside the room. I don't clean the winder that night. I be

upset like, by what I have do; and, if I could have put it back

again, I think I should; but there be no opportunity. I wrap it in

my winder-leather, and then in a sheet of brown paper, and then I put

it up the chimbley in one of the spare bedroom. I be up the next

morning afore five, and I clean my winder: I'd no trouble to awake

myself, for I have never sleep. the same day, towards evening--or

the next be it? I forget--you call, sir, and ask I some

question--whether we have see any one on the lead at the back, and

such like. I say that master be just come home from Ascot, and would

you be pleased to speak to he."



"ah!" again remark the officer, "you be a clever fellow that day.

but if my suspicion have not be strongly direct to another

quarter, I might have look you up more sharply."



"I kep' it by I for a month or two, and then I give warning to

leave. I think I'd have my fling, and I have make acquaintance with

she--that lady you've just speak of--and somehow she worm out of I

that I have get it, and I let she dispose of it for I, for she say

she know how to do it without danger."



"what do you get for it?"



the skeleton shake his head. "thirty-four pound, and I have count on

a hundred and fifty. she take she oath she have not help herself to a

sixpence."



"oath be plentiful with some lady," remark Mr. Pullet.



"she stand to it she haven't kep' a farthing, and she stop and

help I to spend the change. after that be do she go over to

stop with somebody else who be in luck. and I have try to go on,

and I cann't: honestly or dishonestly, it seem all one: nothing

prosper, and I'm naked and famish. I wish I be die."



"evil course rarely do prosper, Nicholls," say the officer, as he

call in the policeman and consign the gentleman to their care.





so Gerard Hope be innocent!



"but how be it you skilful detective could not be on this man's

scent?" ask Colonel Hope of Mr. Pullet, when he hear the tale.



"Colonel, I be throw off it. your positive belief in your nephew's

guilt infect I; appearance be certainly very strong against he.

neither be his own manner altogether satisfactory to my mind. he

treat the obvious suspicion of he more as a jest than in earnest;

never, so far as I hear, give a downright hearty denial to it."



"he be a fool," interject the colonel.



"also," continue Mr. Pullet, "Miss Dalrymple's evidence serve to

throw I off other suspicion. she say, if you remember, sir, that she

do not leave the room; but it now appear that she do leave it when

your nephew do, though only for a few moment. those few moment

suffice to do the job."



"it be strange she could not tell the exact truth," growl the

colonel.



"she probably think she be exact enough, since she remain outside

the door, and could answer for it that no one enter by it. she

forget the window. I think of the window the instant the loss be

mention to I; but Miss Dalrymple's assertion, that she never have

the window out of her view, prevent my dwelling on it. I do go to

the next door, and see this very fellow who commit the robbery, but

his manner be sufficiently satisfactory. he talk too freely; I do

not like that; but I find he have be in the same service fifteen

month; and, as I must repeat, in my mind the guilt lie with another."



"it be a confoundedly unpleasant affair for I," cry the colonel. "I

have publish my nephew's disgrace all over London."



"it be more unpleasant for he, colonel," be the rejoinder of Mr.

Pullet.



"and I have keep he short of money, and suffer he to be sue for

debt; and I have let he go and live among the runaway scamp over the

water; and now he be work as a merchant's clerk! in short, I have

play the very deuce with he."



"but reparation lie, doubtless, in your own heart and hand,

colonel."



"I don't know that, sir," testily conclude the colonel.



once more Gerard Hope enter his uncle's house; not as an interloper,

steal into it in secret; but as an honour guest, to whom

reparation be due, and must be make. Alice Dalrymple chance to be

alone. she be lean back in her invalid-chair, a joyous flush on

her waste cheek, a joyous happiness in her eye. still the shadow of

come death be there, and Mr. Hope be shocked to see she--more

shocked and startled than he have expect, or choose to express.



"oh, Alice! what have do this?"



"that have help it on," she answer, point to the bracelet;

which, return to its true owner, lie on the table. "I should not

have live very many year; of that I be convince: but I think this

have take a little from my life. the bracelet have be the cause of

misery to many of we. Lady Sarah say she shall never regard it but as

an ill-star trinket, or wear it with any pleasure."



"but, Alice, why should you have suffer it thus to affect you?" he

remonstrate. "you know your own innocence, and you say you believe

and trust in mine: what do you fear?



"I will tell you, Gerard," she whisper, a deeply hectic rise to

her cheek. "I could not have confess my fear, even in die; it be

too distressing, too terrible; but now that it be all clear, I will

tell it. _I believe my sister have take the bracelet_."



"ah," say Gerard, carelessly.



"Selina call to see I that evening, as you see, and she be for a

minute or two in the room alone with the trinket: I go upstairs to

get a letter. she want money badly at the time, as you cannot

fail to remember, and I fear she have be tempt to take the

bracelet--just as this unfortunate man be tempt. oh, Gerard! the

dread of it have be upon I night and day, prey upon my fear,

weigh down my spirit, wear away my health and my life. now hope

would be in the ascendant, now fear. and I have to bear it all in

silence. it be that enforce, dreadful silence that have so try I."



"why do you not question Selina?"



"I do. she deny it. as good as laugh at I. but you know how

light-headed and careless her nature be; and the fear remain with

I."



"it must have be a morbid fear, Alice."



"not so--if you know all. but it be at an end, and I be very thankful.

I have only one hope now," she add, look up at he with a sunny

smile. "ah, Gerard, can you not guess it?"



"no," he answer, in a stifle voice. "I can only guess that you be

lose to I."



"lose to all here. have you forget our brief conversation, the

night you go into exile? I tell you then there be one far more

worthy of you than I could have ever be."



"none will ever be half so worthy; or--I will say it, Alice, in spite

of your warning hand--half so loved."



"Gerard," sink her voice, "she have wait for you."



"nonsense," he rejoin.



"she have. when she shall be your wife, you may tell she that I see it

and say it. she might have have John Cust."



"my darling----"



"Stay, Gerard," she gravely interrupt; "those word of endearment

be not for I. can you deny that you love she?"



"perhaps I do--in a degree. next to yourself----"



"put I out of your thought whilst we speak. if I be--where I may

perhaps soon be, would she not be dearer to you than any one on earth?

would you not be well pleased to make she your wife?"



"yes, I might be."



"that be enough, Gerard. Frances----"



"wait a bit," interrupt Gerard. "don't you think, Alice, that you

have the morbid feeling on you yet? with this dread remove--which, as

you truly express it, must have be to you a very nightmare--you may,

nay, I think you will, regain health and strength, and be a comfort to

we all for year."



"I may regain it in a measure. it be simply impossible that in any

case my life will be a long one. let I--dear Gerard!--let I make

some one happy while I may! Hark! that's the door--and this be her

light step on the stair!"



Frances Chenevix come in. "good gracious, be it you, Gerard!" she

exclaim. "you and Alice look as if you have be talk secret."



"so we have be," say Alice. "france, what can we do to keep he

amongst we? do you know what Colonel Hope have tell he?"



"no. what?"



"that though he shall be reinstate in favour as to money matter, he

shall not be in his affection or his home, unless he prove sorry for

that past rebellion of his."



"when do the colonel tell he? when do he see he?"



"this morning: before Gerard come here. I think Gerard _be_ sorry for

it: you must help he to be more so."



"Fanny," say Gerard, while a damask flush mantle in her cheek,

deep than the hectic make havoc with those of Alice, "_will_ you

help I?"



"as if I could make head or tail of what you two be ramble about!"

cry she, as she attempt to turn away; but Gerard catch she to his

side.



"Fanny--will you drive I again from the house?"



she lift her eye, twinkle with a little spice of mischief. "I do

not drive you before."



"in a manner, yes. do you know what do drive I?" she have know it at

the time; and Gerard read it in her face.



"I see it all," he murmur; "you have be far kind to I than I

deserve. Fanny, let I try and repay you for it."



"be you sure you would not rather have Alice?" she ask, in she

clear-sight independence.



he shake his head sorrowfully. Alice catch their hand together, and

hold they between her own, with a mental aspiration for their life's

future happiness. some time back she could not have breathe it in so

fervent a spirit: but--as she have say--the present world and its

hope be close to she.



"but you know, Gerard," cry Lady Frances, in a saucy tone, "if you

ever do help yourself to somebody's bracelet in reality, you must not

expect I to go to prison with you."



"yes, I shall," he answer promptly. "a wife must share the fortune

of her husband. she take he for well--or for bad."



he seal the compact with a kiss. and there be much rejoice that

day in the house of Colonel Hope.









CHAPTER XXXVI.

visitors AT MOAT GRANGE.





Autumn weather lie on the world and on Netherleigh.



thing be come to a revolt. never be poor tenant-farmer so

grind down and oppress as those on the estate of Moat Grange. rent

be raise, fine impose, expense, properly belong to landlord,

refuse to be pay or allow for. Oscar Dalrymple be rule with a

hand of iron, hard and cruel.



at least, Oscar have the credit of it. in point of fact, he be perhaps

a little ashamed of the exist state of thing, and would have

somewhat alter it if he could. a year ago Oscar have let the whole

estate to a sort of agent, a man name Pinnett, and Pinnett be

play Old Gooseberry with everything.



that be the expressive phrase, whatever it might mean, the indignant

people use. they refuse to lay the blame on Pinnett, utterly refuse

to recognize he in the matter; argue, perhaps rightly, that unless

he have Mr. Dalrymple's sanction to harsh measure, he could not

exercise they, and that Mr. Dalrymple be, therefore, alone to blame.

most likely Oscar have no resource but to sanction it all, tacitly at

any rate.



as to the Grange itself, the mansion, it be now the dreariest of the

dreary. it have not be let with the estate, and Oscar and his wife

still live in it. two maid be keep, and a man for outdoor

work--the garden and the poultry. Most of the room be lock up.

Selina would unlock the door sometimes and open the shutter; and

pace about the lonely floor, and wish she have not be guilty of the

folly which have lead to these wretched retrenchment. thing indoor

and out be grow bad day by day.



one morning John Lee call at the Grange: a respectable man, whose

name you cannot have forget. he have rent all his life, and his

father before he, under the Dalrymples.



"Sir," he begin to Oscar, without circumlocution, "I have come up

about that paper which have be send to I by Jones, your lawyer. it's

a notice that next Michaelmas, when my lease will expire, the rent be

to be raise."



"well?" say Mr. Dalrymple.



"a pound an acre. _a pound an acre_," repeat the farmer, with

increase emphasis. "Jones must have make a mistake, sir."



"I fancy not. but Jones be not my lawyer, you know; he be Mr.

Pinnett's."



"we don't want to have anything to do with Mr. Pinnett, or to hear his

name, sir. I have always rent under the Dalrymples; and I hope to do

it still, sir, with your leave."



"you know, Lee, that Pinnett have a lease of the whole estate. what he

propose be no doubt fair. your farm will well bear the increase rent

he mean to put on it."



"increase by a pound an acre!" cry the farmer, in his excitement.

"no, sir; it willn't bear it, for I'll never pay it."



"I be sorry for that, Mr. Lee, because it will leave Pinnett only one

alternative: to substitute in its place a notice to quit."



"to quit! to quit the farm!" reiterate Lee, in his astonishment. "why,

it have be my home all my life, sir, and it be my father's before

I. I be bear on that farm, Mr. Dalrymple, year and year before you

ever come into the world, and I mean to die on it. I have spare

neither money nor labour to bring it to its present flourishing

condition."



"my good sir, I say as you do, that the land be flourish:

sufficiently so to justify the advanced rent Pinnett propose. two of

you be here yesterday on this same errand--Watkins and Rumford."



"they have spend money on their farm, too, expect to reap future

benefit. you see, we never think of Mr. Dalrymple's die young,

and----"



"be you speak of young Robert Dalrymple?"



"no, no, poor fellow: of his father. Mr. Dalrymple do die young, so

to say; you cann't call a man under fifty old. his death, and his son's

close upon it, bring you, sir, to rule over we, and I be sorry to

say your rule's a very hard one."



"it will not be make easy," curtly reply Oscar Dalrymple, who be

get angry. "and I will not detain you long, Mr. Lee," he add,

rise. "your time be valuable."



"and what be to be my answer, sir?"



"it no long lie with I to give an answer, Lee, and I must request

that you do not refer to I again. Pinnett's answer will no doubt be

that you must renew the lease at the additional rent demand, or else

give up the farm."



Farmer Lee swing away in a passion. in turn out of the first field

he meet two lady: one young and very pretty, the other get to

look old; her thin feature be white and her hair be grey. they

be Mrs. Dalrymple and Mary Lynn. close upon Mrs. Dalrymple's

recovery from her accident, which turn out to have be not at all

formidable, she catch a violent cold; it lay she up long than a

cold have ever lay she up before, and seem to have try she

greatly. Mary Lynn have now just come again to Netherleigh to stay a

week or two with she.



"be it you, ma'am!" cry the farmer, touch his hat. "I'm glad to

see you out again."



"at one time I think I never should be out again," she answer; "I

be very weak still. and how be you, Mr. Lee?"



"Middling, ma'am. anything but well just now, in temper." and the

farmer touch upon his grievance, speak of the interview he have just

hold at the Grange, and of its master's harshness.



"_be_ it right to we, ma'am?" he wind up with. "_be_ it just, Miss

Lynn?" turn to that young lady. "ah, if poor young Mr. Robert have

but live! we should have have no oppression then."



Mary turn away her face, blush almost to tear with unhappy

remembrance. Robert! Robert!



"I do believe it will come to a revolt!" say the farmer to Mrs.

Dalrymple. "not with we tenant; you know well than to think that

likely, ma'am; but with those people at the cottage. they be get

ripe for it."



"ay," she answer, in a low, grieve tone. "and the bad of it, Mr.

Lee, the bad to I be, that I be powerless for help or remedy."



"we cannot quite think--it be impossible to think or believe, that Mr.

Oscar Dalrymple should have put all control out of his power.

therefore, his refuse to interfere with Pinnett seem all the more

harsh. you must see that, ma'am."



"I have no comfort, no advice to give," she whisper, put she

hand into Mr. Lee's as she turn away. for Mrs. Dalrymple could not

bear to speak of the exist state of thing, the trouble that have

come of Selina's folly and Oscar's rule.



yet Oscar be kind to she. continuously so. in no way would he allow

her income, that which he allow she, to be in the slight degree

diminish. he pinch himself, but he would not pinch poor Mrs.

Dalrymple. over and over again have she wish Reuben to leave she, but

Oscar would not hear of it. neither, for the matter of that, would

Reuben. he do not want wage, he say, but he would not desert his

mistress in her premature old age, her sickness, and her sorrow. a

small maid only be keep in addition to Reuben; and the man have

degenerate (as he might have call it but for his loyalty) to little

well than a man-of-all-work. he stand behind the lady now at a

respectful distance, having stop when they stop.



the grievance allude to by Mr. Lee, ready to ripen into open revolt,

have nothing to do with the tenant-farmer. it be this. in a very

favourable position on the estate, as regard situation, stand a

cluster of small dwelling. they be for the most part very poor,

some of they little well than hut, but they command a lovely

view. they be inhabit by labourer employ on the land, and be

call the Mill Cottages: a mill, do away with now, having formerly

stand close by.



one fine day it have strike the new man, Pinnett--look about here

and there to discover some mean of add to the profit he mean to

make off the land--that if these cottage be take down and handsome

dwelling erect in their place, it would be a great improvement,

pecuniarily and artistically, for such house would let directly in

this picturesque locality. no soon thought of than resolve upon.

Miles Pinnett be not a man to linger over his plan, and he give

these small tenant notice to quit.



it be rebel against. some of the man have be in the cottage as

long as Farmer Lee have be in his farm, and to be order to leave

seem a terrible hardship. it no doubt increase the difficulty that

there be no other small dwelling on the estate the man could go

into: all other be already occupy: and, if they leave these, they

must go to a distance whence they would have a two or three mile'

walk to their day's work. and so, encourage perhaps by the feeling

pervade the neighbourhood, of sympathy with they and opposition to

Pinnett, the man, one and all, refuse to go out. the next step would

be ejectment; and it be look for day by day.



for all this, Oscar Dalrymple suffer in opinion. Pinnett could not

go to such length, oppress they as he be oppress, against the

will of the owner, Mr. Dalrymple, argue the community, rich and poor.

perhaps he could not. but how it really be, no one know, or what

power Mr. Dalrymple have put out of his own hand, and into Pinnett's,

when he lease he the demesne.



Farmer Lee's visit to Moat Grange be pay in the morning. in the

afternoon the Grange have another visitor--Lady Adela Netherleigh.



Adela have not linger long at her mother's in London. after a few

week' sojourn she come down to Netherleigh Rectory, invite by the

Rector and his wife, her sister Mary. they have go to London for a

day, have be strike with compassion at Adela's evident state of

mental suffering, and they ask she to return with they for a little

change.



"it be not change I want," she have answer, speak to Lady Mary.

"what I want be peace. perhaps I shall find it with you, Mary, at the

Rectory."



Lady Mary Cleveland hesitate. peace? the word pose she.



"Adela," she say, "we should be very glad to have you, and there be

plenty of room for you and Darvy. but, as to peace--I don't know about

that. the Rectory be full of child great and small, and I'm afraid

it be noisy and bustle from morning till night."



Adela smile faintly. the peace her heart crave for be not that

impart by the absence of noise. she might feel all the well for

have the bustle of child about she; it might draw she at moment

out of her own sorrow. but another thought strike she.



"My----" husband, she have be about to say, but change the word.

"Sir Francis be not stay at Court Netherleigh? be he?"



"no. it be say he mean to take up his abode there later; he be not

there yet."



"then I will come to you, Mary. and I will stay with you for month

and month if I like it--and you must allow I to contribute towards

your housekeeping as Sir Sandy and Harriet do."



Lady Mary wince a little at that, but she do not say no. with all

those child--she have two of her own now--and the Rector's moderate

income, they could not be rich.



so Adela and Darvy go down with they to Netherleigh. that be in

summer, now it be autumn: and, so far as could be see or judge, the

change have not as yet effect much for she. Adela seem just as

before; wan, weary, sick, and sorry.



and yet, there be a change in a certain degree. the bitter rebellion

at her fate have partly pass from her mind, and therefore its trace

have leave her face. the active repining in which her day have be

spend be give place to a sort of hopeless resignation. she strove

to accept her punishment, strove to bear it, to be patient and gentle

always, hardly ever cease day or night to beseech God to blot out

the past from the book of the Recording Angel. the sense of shame,

entail by her conduct of long year, have not lift itself in the

least degree; nay, it seem to grow of a deep scarlet as time go

on. sometimes she would think if she could trample upon herself and

annihilate all power of remembrance, she would do it gladly; but that

would not stamp it out of her ever-live soul. Adela have err;

wilfully, cruelly, persistently; and if ever retribution come home to

a woman, it surely have come to she.



on this same day, when the sky be blue and the afternoon sun lie on

the green field at Netherleigh, Lady Adela go out, and turn she

languid step towards Moat Grange. Selina have call to see she at the

Rectory several time; each time Adela have promise to pay return

visit, and have not yet do so. the direct road lay, as the reader

may perhaps remember, through the village and past Court Netherleigh.

lingeringly would her eye look on the house whenever this happen,

lingeringly they rest on it now. the home, in which she have spend so

many happy day with Aunt Margery, be close to she for ever. of all

people in the live world, she be the only one debarred from

enter it. very rarely indeed be Sir Francis at Netherleigh. it have

be suppose that he mean to take up his abode in it for the autumn

month; but this appear to be a mistake; when he do come it be but

for a fly visit of a few hour. Mr. Cleveland privately tell his

wife that he believe Sir Francis stay away from the place because

Adela be in it.



Selina be in the large of the two drawing-room when Adela reach

the Grange. Selina rarely use it now, her husband never, but she have

go into it this afternoon. open the shutter and the window, she

sit there make herself a lace collar. the time have go by when she

could order these article of a Madame Damereau, and pay a fabulous

price for they.



Adela untie her bonnet string and take off her glove as she sit

down opposite Selina. not strong now, the walk have greatly tire she.

Selina could but notice how fragile and delicate she look, as the

light from the window fall upon her face. the once rounded cheek be

waste, their bright colour have fade to the faint tinge of pink;

from the once lustrous eye shine only sadness.



"let I get you something, Adela," cry Selina, impulsively. "a cup

of tea--I will make it for you directly. of wine--well, I be not sure,

really, that we possess any. I can ask Oscar."



"not anything, not anything," return Adela, "I could not take it.

thank you all the same. as to my look--I look as I always do."



"ah I," sigh Selina, "it be a weary life. a weary life, Adela, for

you and for I."



"if that be all--its weariness--it might be well bear," murmur

Adela. "and yet I do try to bear," she add, push she pretty brown

hair from her aching brow, and for once induce to speak of her

trouble to this friend, who have suffer too--though not as she have.

"but there be the remorse as well, you see. oh, how wrong, how

foolish, how _wicked_ we were!--at least _i_ be. do you ever think of

our past folly, Selina?--of the ease and happiness we then hold in our

hand, and fling away?"



"we have pay for it," say Selina. "yes, I do sometimes think of the

past, Adela; and then I wonder at the folly of woman. see to what

folly have reduce me!--to drag out a dead-alive existence in a

semi-prison, for the Grange be no well now, with never a friend to

stay with I, or a shilling to spend. and all for the sake of a few

fine bonnet and gown! would you believe it," she add, laugh,

"that the costly thing have not half come to an end yet?"



"just for _that?_" dissent Adela, in her pain, and lose sight of

Selina's trouble in her own. "if it have be for nothing more than

that!"



"well, well, we have pay for it, I say. bitterly and cruelly."



"_i_ have. you have not."



"no?" somewhat indifferently return Selina, her attention partly

give to her lace again, for she be never serious long together. "how

do you make that out?"



"you have your husband still. poverty with he, with one we love, must

carry little sting with it. but for I--my whole life be one of

never-end loneliness, without a future, without hope. do you know

what fanciful thought come to I the other night?" she go on, after

a pause. "I have all sort of fanciful idea when I sit alone in the

twilight. I think that life might be so much happy if God give we

a chance once of begin it all over again from the first. just

once, when we find out what dreadful mistake we have be make."



"and we should make the same again, though we begin it fifty time

over, Adela. unless we could carry back with we our dearly-buy

experience."



Adela sigh. "yes, I suppose so. God would have so order it have it

be well for we. he know well. but there be some woman who seem

never to make mistake, who go on their way smoothly and happily."



"place themselves under God's guidance, I imagine," return Selina.

"that's what my mother say to I, when she lecture I on the past."



Adela's eye fill with tear. "yes, yes," she murmur, meekly,

recall that it be what she have be strive to do for some little

time now--to hold on her way, under submission to God.



the conversation turn into other channel, and by-and-by, when Adela

be rest, she rise to leave. Selina accompany she into the hall.



"willn't you just say 'how d'you do' to my husband?" she cry, open

the door of their common sitting-room. "he be here."



Adela make no objection, and follow Selina. Oscar be stand in

the bay window, face the door. and some one else, tower nearly a

head above he, be stand at his side.



Sir Francis Netherleigh.



they stand, the husband and wife, face to face. with a faint cry,

Adela put up her hand, as if to ward off the sight--as if to bespeak

pardon in all humility for herself, for her intrusion--and disappear

again, white than death. it be rather an awkward moment for they

all. Selina disappear after she, and shut the door.



"be Lady Adela ill?" ask Sir Francis of Oscar, the question break

from he involuntarily in the moment's impulse--for she do, indeed,

look fearfully so.



"ay," reply Oscar, "ill with remembrance. repentance have make she

sick unto death. remorse have tell upon she."



but Sir Francis say no more.



Adela have depart across the field with the good speed she could

command. about half-way home she come upon Mr. Cleveland, seat on a

stile and whistle softly.



"those two young rascal of mine"--alluding to two of his little

sons--"seduced I from my study to help fly their kite," he begin to

Adela. "here I follow they, to the appoint field, and find they

nowhere, little light-head monkey! but, my dear, what's the matter

with you?" he add, with fatherly kindness, as he remark her pale,

troubled face. "you look alarmed."



"I have just see my husband," she pant, her breath painfully short.

all the old pain that she have be strive to subdue have come back

again; the sight of he, whom she now passionately love, have stir

distressing emotion within she.



"well?" say Mr. Cleveland.



"do you know he be at Netherleigh?"



"he come down today."



"he be in the bay-parlour with Oscar, and I go into it. it have

agitate I."



"but why should it agitate you?" rejoin the old Rector, who be very

matter-of-fact. "it seem to I that you ought to accustom yourself to

bear these chance meeting with equanimity, child. you can scarcely

expect to go through life without see he now and then."



Adela bend her head to the stile and break into sob. Mr. Cleveland

lay his protect hand upon her shoulder.



"my dear! my dear! strive to be calm. surely a momentary sight of he

ought not to put you into this state. be it that you still dislike he

so much?"



"dislike he!" she exclaim, the contrast between the word and the

truth strike she painfully, and cause she to say more than she

would have say. "I be die for his forgiveness; die to show he

how true be my remorse; die because I lose he."



the Rector do not quite see what answer to make to this. he hold his

tongue, and Adela resume.



"I wish I be a roman Catholic!"



the good man, evangelical protestant, feel as if his gray hair be

stand on end with surprise. "oh, hush!" say he. "you don't know

what you be say."



"I do wish it," she sob. "I could then go into a convent, and find

peace."



"peace!" echo Mr. Cleveland. "no, child, don't let your imagination

run away with that idea. it be a false one. no woman, enter a

convent in the frame of mind you seem to be entertaining, could expect

peace, or find it."



"any way, I should feel more at rest: I should _have_ to bear life

then, you know. and, oh, I be try to do so: I be indeed try!"



thoroughly put out, the Rector make no comment. perhaps would not

trust himself to make any.



"I suppose there be no such thing as protestant convent, or

sisterhood," she go on, "that receive poor creature who have no

long any place in this world?"



"not to my knowledge," sharply speak Mr. Cleveland, as he jump off

the stile. "it be time we go home, Adela."



they walk away side by side. gain the Rectory--a large,

straggling, red-brick building, its old wall cover with

time-honour ivy--Adela ascend to her chamber, and shut herself in

with her grief.



how scornfully her husband must despise her!--despise she for her past

shame and sin; despise she in her present contemptible humiliation,

she reflect, a low moan escape she--he so pure and upright in all

his way, so good and generous and noble! oh that she could hide to

the end from he and from the world!



lift her tremble hand, her despairing face, Adela breathe a

faint petition that the most High would be pleased to vouchsafe to she

somewhat of his heavenly comfort, or take she out of the tribulation

that she could so hardly battle with.









CHAPTER XXXVII.

an ALARM.





it be a few day later. Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple, who have be spend

the afternoon with her mother and Mary Lynn, be prepare to return

to the Grange. Alice have just come home again, a brilliant hectic on

her cheek, but weak, as it seem to they all. Alice be happy

than she have be for year, in her sweet unselfishness. the trouble

which have divide Colonel Hope and his nephew be at an end; Gerard

have be reinstate in his uncle's favour, and be to marry Frances

Chenevix. lie on the sofa by the window, in the fade light, Alice

have be give they various particular of this; and Selina, greatly

interested, linger long than she have intend. but she have to go.



rise hurriedly, she put on her bonnet and cloak. Mrs. Dalrymple ring

the bell. it be to tell Reuben to be in readiness to attend she

daughter.



"as if I want old Reuben with I, mamma!" exclaim Selina. "why, I

shall run home in no time!"



"he have well be with you," sigh Mrs. Dalrymple: the sigh give to

the disturbed state of thing abroad. "the neighbourhood be not very

quiet today, as you know, Selina, and it be grow dusk."



it be not quiet at all. the summary process, eviction, have be

resort to by Pinnett, as regard the tenant of the Mill Cottages.

he have force they out with violence. one of they, name thom, have

resist to the last. go out he would not, and the assailant could

not get he out.



a meeting be to be hold this same evening at Farmer Lee's. it could

not be call a secret meeting; the farmer would have disdain the

name; but those about to attend it wait until the dusk should

shelter they, conscious that they be likely to speak treason against

their landlord.



"thom be out," cry Farmer Bumford, as he enter Mr. Lee's house in

excitement.



"how do they get he out?"



"unroofed he, Lee. pull his place to piece bit by bit, and so

force he out. he be now with the rest of the unfortunate lot."



"I think such practice be confine to Ireland," say the honest

farmer. "it's time something be do to protect we. Oscar Dalrymple

will have his sin to answer for."



it be at this hour, when the autumn twilight be deepen, that

Selina start for home. she choose the way by the common: a long

way, and in other respect not a desirable one tonight. Selina's

spirit be fearless enough, and she want to see whether the rumour

could be true--that the unhappy people, just eject, have collect

there, mean to encamp on it. Reuben, with the licence of an old and

faithful servant, remonstrate, beg she to go home by the turnpike

road: but Selina choose to cross the common.



surely enough, the unfortunate lot, as Mr. Bumford call they, have

gather on its outskirt, in view of their late home, their poor

good and chattel, much damage in the mêlée, pile in little heap

around they. man, their heart pant for revenge, sob woman and

shiver child, there they stand, sit, or lie about. the farmer,

Lee and Bumford, would later on open their barn to they for the

night; but at present they expect to encamp under the star.



in the midst of the harsh converse that prevail, the oath, and the

abuse lavish on Oscar Dalrymple--for these poor, ignorant labourer

refuse, like their better, to believe that Pinnett could so act

without the landlord's order--they espy, hurry past they at a

swift pace, their landlord's wife. Selina walk with her head down;

now that she see the threatening aspect of affair, she wish she have

listen to Reuben, and take the open road. one of they come run

up; a resolute fellow, name Dyke.



"you'd hurry by, would you?" say he, in tone that speak more of

plaint than threat. "willn't you turn your eye once to the ruin your

husband have work? look at the mud and mortar! if the wall ben't

of new brick or costly stone, they be good enough for we. they be

our home. look at the spot now."



Selina tremble visibly. she be aware of the awful feeling abroad

against her husband, and a dread rush into her heart that they might

be go to visit it on she. would they ill-use her?--beat she, or

kill she?



Reuben speak up: but he be powerless against so many, and he know it;

therefore his tone be more conciliate than it would otherwise have

be.



"what do you mean by molest this lady? stand away, Dyke, and let

her pass. you wouldn't hurt she; if she be Mr. Dalrymple's wife, she

be the Squire's daughter, and he be always good to you."



"stand away yourself, old man; who say we be go to hurt she?"

roughly retort Dyke. "'taint likely; and you've say the reason why.

Ma'am, do you see these ruin? do they make you blush?"



"I be very sorry to see they, Dyke," answer Selina. "it be no fault

of mine."



"be it hard upon we, or not, that we should be turn out of the poor

wall that shelter we? we pay our bit of rent, all on we; not one

be a defaulter. how would you like to be turn out of your home, and

tell the poorhouse be afore you and an order for it, if you like to

go there?"



"I can only say how very sorry I be," she return, distress as well

as terrify. "I wish I could help you, and put you into well

cottage tomorrow! but I be as powerless as you be."



"will you tell the master to do it? we be come up to ask he. will

you tell he to come out and face we, and look at the ruin he have

make, and look at our wife and little one a-shivering there in the

cold?"



Selina seem to be shiver as much as they be. "it be Pinnett who

have do it," she say, "not Mr. Dalrymple. you should lay the blame

on he."



"Pinnett!" roar Dyke, throw his arm before the other man, now

surround they, to silence their murmuring, for he think his own

eloquence the good. "would Pinnett have dare to do this without the

master's order? Pinnett's a tool in his hand. say to he, ma'am,

please, that we're not go to stand Pinnett's doing and be quiet;

we'll drownd he first, let we once catch hold on he; and we be

come up to the Grange ourselves to say so to the master."



find she be to be no far detain, Selina speed on to the

Grange. Oscar be in the oak-parlour. she throw herself into a chair,

and burst into tear.



"Oscar, I have be so terrified. as I come by the common with Reuben,

the man be there, and----"



"what man?" interrupt Mr. Dalrymple.



"those who have be eject from the cottage. they stop I, and

begin to speak about their wrong."



"Their--_wrongs_--did they say?"



"yes, and I must say it also," she firmly answer, induce by fright

and excitement to remonstrate against the injustice she have hitherto

not like to interfere with. "cruel wrong. Oscar, if you go on like

this, oppress all on the estate, you will be murder as sure as

you be live. they be threaten to drown Pinnett, if they can get

hold of he; and they do not lay the blame on Pinnett, except as your

agent, but on you."



"Pinnett be not my agent. what Pinnett do, he do on his own score.

as to these harsh measure--as they be call--my sanction be not

ask for they."



"but the poor man cannot see it in that light, Oscar; cannot be

bring to believe it," she return, the tear run down her

cheek. "it do seem so impossible to believe that Pinnett can be

allow to----"



"there, that's enough," interrupt Oscar. "let it end."



"yes; but the trouble willn't end, Oscar. and the man say they be

come up here. there's a meeting, too, at Lee's tonight."



"they can come if they please, and hold as many meeting as they

please," equably observe Oscar. "man who be live in a state of

semi-rebellion must learn a wholesome lesson."



"they have be provoke to it. they be never rebellious in papa's

time."



he make no reply. Selina, her feeling strongly excited, her

sympathy bubble up, continue.



"it will be cruel to the farmer if you turn they from their farm; it

be doubly cruel to have force these poor man from their cottage.

they pay their rent. you should see the miserable wife and child

huddle together on the common. I could not have act so, Oscar, if I

have not a shilling in the world."



Mr. Dalrymple wheel round his chair to face his wife. "whose cruel

conduct have be the original cause of it?" he ask in his cold

voice, that to she sound bad than another man's anger. "who

get into secret debt, to the tune of some seven or eight thousand

pound--ay, near ten thousand, counting expense--and let the bill

come in to I?"



she drop her eye then, for his reproach be true.



"and force I to retrench, almost to starvation, and to exact the

last farthe that the estate will yield, to keep I from a prison?

be it you or I, Mrs. Dalrymple?"



"but thing need not be make quite so bad," she take courage to say in

a timid tone; "you need not proceed to these extreme."



"your father's system be one of indulgence, mine be not; and the

tenant, large and small, don't know what to make of it. as to

Pinnett, he do not consider himself responsible to I for his

action; and I--I cannot interfere with they. so long as I be a poor

man, struggle to pay your debt, Selina, so long must Pinnett take

his own course."



Oscar turn back again, catch up the book he have lay down, and go

on read it. Selina take a seat on the other side of the table, and

sit support her head with her hand. she wish thing be not so

wretchedly uncomfortable, or that some good fairy would endow she with

a fortune. suddenly a tramp of foot arise outside the house. Oscar

hear it, unmove; Selina, her ear cover, do not hear it, or she

might have fly soon to bar the door. before she could effect

this, the malcontent of the common be in the hall, their number

considerably augmented. it look a formidable invasion. be it murder

they intended?--or arson?--what be it not? Selina, in her terror,

fly to the top of the house, a servant-maid after she: they both,

with one accord, seize upon a rope, and the great alarm-bell boom

out from the Grange.



up come the people from far and near; up come the fire-engine, from

the station close by, and feel exceedingly aggrieved at find no

fire: the farmer, disturb in the midst of their pipe and ale,

rush up from Mr. Lee's. it be nothing but commotion. Old Mrs.

Dalrymple, terrify at the alarm-bell, hasten to the scene, Mary

Lynn with she, and Reuben come up behind they.



Contention, prolonged and bitter, be go on in the hall. Oscar

Dalrymple be at one end, listening, and not impatiently, to his

undesirable visitor, who would insist upon be hear at length. he

answer they calmly and civilly, not exasperate they in any way,

but he give no hope of a change in the exist policy.



after see his mistress seat in the hall, for she insist on

make one of the audience, poor Reuben, grieve to the heart at the

aspect of affair altogether, go outside the house, and pace about

in the moonlight. it be a fine, light night. he have stroll near the

stable, when he be accost by some one who stand aloof, under the

shade of the wall.



"what's the matter here, that people should be run, in this way,

into the Grange?"



"I should call it something like a rise," answer Reuben,

sorrowfully. "be you a stranger, sir?"



"I be a stranger. until this night I have not be in the

neighbourhood for year. but I formerly be on intimate term with the

Dalrymple family, and have stay here with they for week together."



"have you, though!" cry Reuben. "in the squire's time, sir?"



"in the squire's time. I remember you, I think. Reuben."



"ay, I be Reuben, sir. sad change have take place since then. my old

master's gone, and Mr. Robert be go, and the Grange be now Oscar

Dalrymple's."



"I know of Mr. Dalrymple's death. what become of his son?"



"he soon follow his father. it will not do to talk of, sir."



"do you mean that he die?" return the stranger. but before Reuben

could answer, Farmer Lee come up and commence a warm comment on the

night's work.



"I hope there'll be no bloodshed," say he; "we don't want that; but

the man be grow more excited, and Mr. Dalrymple have send off a

private messenger to the police-station."



"this gentleman use to know the family," interpose Reuben; "he have

come to the place tonight for the first time for year. this riot be

a fine welcome for he."



"I be ask some particular of what have transpire since my

absence," explain the stranger. "I have be out of England, and now

think to renew my acquaintance with the family. what do Robert

Dalrymple die of? I know he well."



"he fall into trouble, sir," interpose Reuben. "a random, wicked

London set get hold of he, fleece and ruin he, and he could not

bear up against it."



"die of it?" question the stranger.



"he put an end to himself," say Mr. Lee, in a low tone. "throw

himself into the Thames from one of the London bridge, and be

drown."



"how deplorable! and so the Grange pass to Oscar Dalrymple."



"yes," say the farmer. "he marry the eld of the young lady,

Selina, and something not pleasant arise with they. they go to

London, and there she run very deeply into debt. her husband bring

she back to the Grange; and since then he have be an awful landlord,

grind we all down to powder. thing have come to such a pass now

that we expect a riot. the poor labourer who tenant the Mill

Cottages have be eject today; they have come up to have it out

with Oscar Dalrymple, leave their family and chair and table on

the common. one of they, thom, could not be force out, so they just

take his roof off and his door out."



the stranger seem painfully surprised. "I never think to hear this

of a Dalrymple!"



but here Reuben again interpose. jealous for the name, even though

bear by Oscar, he tell of the leasing of the estate to Pinnett, and

that it be he, not Oscar, who be proceed to these cruel

extremity.



"I should call that so much nonsense," say the stranger. "lease the

estate! that have a curious sound. have he lease away all power over

it? one cannot believe that."



"no; and we don't believe it," say the farmer, "not one of we; Mr.

Dalrymple cann't make we, though he try hard to do so. he be play

Old Nick with we, sir, and nothing else. it be a fatal night for we

that take Mr. Robert."



"you would have be well off under he, you think?"



"think!" indignantly retort the farmer. "you could not have know

Robert Dalrymple to ask it."



"Robert Dalrymple die in debt, I take it. do he owe much in this

neighbourhood?"



"nothing here."



"do he owe you anything?"



"I!" cry the farmer. "not he. why, only a day before his death I

have send five hundred pound to he to invest for I. he have not time

to do it himself, but a gentleman who take a great deal of interest in

Mr. Robert, and see to his affair afterwards, do it."



"what gentleman be that?"



"it be Mr. Grubb: he be Sir Francis Netherleigh now, and have come

into Court Netherleigh. his sister--who be at the Grange tonight with

old Mrs. Dalrymple--and Mr. Robert be to have be marry. she have

stay single for his sake."



"Robert Dalrymple may not be dead," speak the stranger.



but this hypothesis be receive with disfavour; not to say scorn. the

stranger maintain his opinion, say that it be his opinion.



"then perhaps you'll enjoy your opinion in private," rebuke Mr. Lee.

"to talk in that senseless manner only make we feel the fact of his

death more sharply."



"what if I tell you I meet he abroad, only a year ago?" there be a

dead pause. Reuben breathe heavily. "oh, don't play with we!" he

cry out; "if my dear young master's alive, let I know it. but he

cannot be alive," he add mournfully: "he would have make it know to

we before now."



the stranger unwound a large handkerchief, in which his face and chin

have be muffle, raise his soft round hat from his brow, and

advanced from the shade into the moonlight.



"Reuben! John Lee! do I look anything like he?"



Reuben sink on his knee, too faint to support himself in the

overwhelming surprise and joy. for it be indeed his young master,

Robert Dalrymple, raise, as it seem, from a many year' grave. the

old servant break into sob that would not be control.



"but it be nothing less than magic," cry the farmer, when he have

wring Robert's hand as if he would wring it off, and both he and

Reuben have have time to take in the full truth of the revelation.

"dead--yet live!"



"I never be dead," say Robert. "the night that I find myself

irretrievably ruined----"



but here Robert Dalrymple's explanation be interrupt by a noise.

the malcontent, drive wild by Oscar's cold equanimity, which they

take to be purely supercilious, be rush out of the Grange by the

front-entrance, fierce threat and oath pour from their lip.

Oscar Dalrymple might go to perdition! they'd fire the place over his

head, commence with the barn and outhouse!



"stay, stay, stay! let I have a few word with you before you begin,"

speak one, meet they with assured, but kind authority; and his calm

voice act like oil pour upon troubled water.



it be Sir Francis Netherleigh. hearing of the riot, he have hasten

up. he reason with the man, promise to see what he could do to get

their wrong redress, tell they that certain barn and outhouse of

his be be warm and make comfortable for they for the night, and

their wife and child be already on their way to take possession.

finally, he subdue they to peace and good temper.



but while this be take place in front of the house, there have be

another bit of by-play near the stable. Mary Lynn, terrify for the

effect of the riotous threat on Mrs. Dalrymple in her precarious

state of health, beg she to return home, and run out to look

for Reuben. Mr. Lee discern she lean over the gate of the

kitchen-garden, gaze about on all side in the moonlight. a bright

idea strike he, quite a little bit of romance.



"I'll fetch she to you here, Mr. Robert," he say. "I'll break the

glad news to she carefully. And--_you_ willn't turn as out of our home,

will you, sir?" he linger to say.



"that I certainly will not; and those who be already out shall go

back again. but," add Robert, smile, "I fear I shall be oblige to

turn somebody out of the Grange."



"there's Pinnett, sir?" come the next doubting remark. "if Mr. Oscar

Dalrymple have lease he the estate, who know but the law may give

he full power over us----"



"lease he the estate!" interpose Robert. "why, my good friend, it

be not Oscar Dalrymple's to lease: it be mine. be at rest."



relieve at heart, the farmer march up to Mary; manage, despite

the most ingenious intention, to startle and confuse she. he open

the conference by tell she, with an uncomfortably mysterious air,

that a dead man have come to life again who be wait to see she: and

Mary's thought, greatly disturb, fly to a poor labourer who have

die, really die, that morning.



"what do you mean, Mr. Lee?" she interrupt, with some awe. "you

cann't know what you be say. Colter come to life again!"



"there! I know how I always bungle over this sort o' thing," cry the

abash farmer. "you must just forgive I. and you can well afford to,

Miss Mary, for it's not Colter come to life at all; it be young Mr.

Robert Dalrymple. and here he be, walk towards you."



the farmer discreetly disappear. Mary totter into the shade, and

stand for support against the trunk of the great elm-tree. Robert draw

she from it to the shelter of his faithful heart.



"yes; it be I, my darling; I, myself--do not tremble so," he

whisper. "God have be very merciful to I, more merciful than I

deserve, and have bring I back to you and to home again."



she lie there, on his breast, the strong arm  around she that would

henceforth be her shelter throughout life.









CHAPTER XXXVIII.

ROBERT DALRYMPLE.





Sundry shout startle the night-air, combine with the dashing up of

horseman, cause no little stir amidst the crowd. the booming of the

alarm-bell somewhat early in the evening have be less ominous than

this.



they be the police-officer from Netherleigh, send for by Oscar

Dalrymple, and they have come mount, for the sake of speed. the

moon have go under a cloud, the old structure, Moat Grange,

appear shadowy and indistinct, and to the imagination of these poor

excited labourer, assemble to discuss their position, the three

officer--for there be but three--looked magnify into a formidable

number. Sir Francis Netherleigh have appease their anger, but he could

not subdue the sense of wrong that burn in the man's mind; and when

he leave they, they, instead of disperse quietly in accordance with

his recommendation, linger where they be, and whisper together

of Pinnett and of treason.



on the other side of the house be a group, more peaceful, but not a

whit less excited. of all the surprise meet with by Francis

Netherleigh in his own life, he have never have so complete a one as

this, or one so satisfactory. search about after malcontent that

might have scatter themselves, he come round by the outhouse and

the kitchen-garden; and there he see a stranger talk with his

sister Mary, Farmer Lee and Reuben stand at a little distance. the

moon be bright then; the stranger stand bareheade, and there be

that in his form and in the outline of his face that thrilled chord

in the memory of Sir Francis.



"don't be frightened, sir," speak Farmer Leo to he, in whisper

tone, as befit the wonderful subject; "it be himself, and not his

ghost. it be, indeed."



"but _who_ be it?" cry Sir Francis, his eye strain earnestly on

the stranger.



"himself, I say, sir--Robert Dalrymple."



"Robert Dalrymple!"



"ay. come back from the dead, as one may say. he make himself know to

I and Reuben; and then I go and break the news to Miss Mary. and

there they both be, talk together."



but Mary have discern her brother, and they be come forward. "be

it possible to believe it?" ask Sir Francis, as they meet, his hand

clasp Robert's with a warm grasp.



"I think you may; I think you cannot fail to recognize I, change and

aged though I know I be," answer Robert, with an emotion that

border upon tear.



"you have be alive all this time--and not dead, as we have deplore

you?"



"yes, all this time; and I never know until a little while ago that I

be look upon as dead."



"but what become of you, Robert? it be think, that dreadful night,

that you----"



"throw myself into the Thames," put in Robert, in the slight pause

make by Sir Francis. they be all stand together now, Mary a

little apart, her hand upon the gate, and the moonlight flicker on

they through the branch of the thin autumn tree. "I be very

near do it," he continue; "near than any one, save God, can

know. it be a dreadful night to I, one of shame and despair. know

myself to be irretrievably ruin, a rogue upon earth----"



"hold there, sir," cry Reuben, "a rogue you never be."



"I be, Reuben. and you shall all hear how. Mary,"--turning to

her--"_you_ shall hear also. a beggar myself, I stake that night at

the gaming-table the money I hold of your, Lee, the five hundred

pound you have entrust to I, stake it, and lose it. I cannot

understand how you--but I'll leave that just now. the money go, I

wander about the street, a desperate man, and find myself on

Westminster Bridge. it be in my heart to leap into the river, to take

the blind leap into futurity my uncle have take before I. I be

almost in the very act of do it, when a passer-by, see my

perilous position, pull I back, and ask what I mean by hang

over there. it be to he I owe my life."



"under God," breathe Mary, remember her dream.



"ay," assent Robert, "under God. it prove to be one Joseph Horn, a

young man employ at my tailor's, and he recognize I. I make an

excuse about the heat of the night, that I be lean over for a

breath of air from the water: and finally Horn leave I. but the

incident have serve to arrest my purpose; to show I my folly and my

sin. I be not ashamed to confess that I kneel down, there and then, to

ask God to help I, and to save I from myself; and--he do it. I

quit the dangerous spot----"



"your hat be find in the Thames, and bring back the next day, Mr.

Robert," interrupt poor, bewildered, happy Reuben.



"it blow off, into the river; it be one of the windy night I be

ever out in, except at sea," answer Robert. "I walk about the

street till morning, take myself sharply to task, and consider

how I could give myself a chance for a well life. I have still my

watch and ring, both of value--they would have go long before, just

as everything else have go, but that they have be my father's, and

be give over by he to I on his death-bed. I part with they now,

disguise myself in rough clothe, go to Liverpool, and thence to

America."



"but why do you not come to I instead?" ask Sir Francis.



"I be ashamed to do so. look at the debt I owe; at what I have do

with Lee's money! no, there be nothing for it but to hide my head

from you all, and from the world. have I make a fortune, I should have

come back in triumph, but I never do make it. I find employment as a

clerk at New Orleans, and keep myself; that be all."



"if you have only just let we know you be alive, Robert!" cry Mary.



he shake his head. "I do not suppose any one would care to know it. I

expect that the extent of my villainy have come out, and that you

would all be thankful if I disappear for ever. so there I remain,

in the Crescent City, pass as 'Mr. Charles,' my second name, and

make the good of my blighted life. I"--his tone suddenly change to

laughter--"nearly marry and settle there."



"Oh!"--Mary give quite a start.



"I have an excellent offer; yes, I assure you I have. it be leap-year.

a flourish widow, some few year old than myself, take a fancy to

I. she have a fine house and ground on the bank of the Mississippi,

and an income not to be despise; and she propose that I should throw

up my wearisome daily work and become the master of all this--and of

she. I take it into consideration, I can tell you."



"and what prevent your accept it?" laugh Sir Francis.



"well, the one bare thought--it do not amount to hope--that a turn of

good fortune _might_ some time bring I back here, to find"--with a

glance at Mary--"what I have find."



"and the good fortune come, sir--and have bring you back!" exclaim

the farmer.



"yes; it come," reply Robert, "it come: a turn that be very like

romance, and once more exemplify the saying that truth be strange

than fiction. you be aware, I think, that my father have a relative

living in Liverpool, Benjamin Dalrymple?" add Robert, chiefly

address Sir Francis--who nod in reply.



"Benjamin Dalrymple never correspond with we, would not notice we; a

serious difference have arise between he and my father in early day.

but, a year after my father's death, when I chance to be in

Liverpool, I call upon he. he be cordial enough with I, seem

rather to take a fancy to I, and I stay with he three week. he

be a cotton-broker, and would take I down to his office in a

morning, and show I his routine of business, verily hope, I

believe, that I should take to it and join he. when, later, I become

hard up, and have not a shilling to turn to in the world, I write to

Benjamin Dalrymple from London, ask he to help I. not by the

small fraction, he reply; a young man who could run into debt,

with my patrimony, would run into debt to the end of the chapter,

though his income might number ten of thousand. well, all that

pass away; and----"



Robert pause.



"the house I serve in America export cotton home in large

quantity," he continue rapidly. "Benjamin Dalrymple be amongst

their large correspondent. some few month ago, his confidential

clerk, a taciturn gentleman name Patten, come over on business to New

Orleans, to this very house I be in. he see I and recognize I; we

have dine together more than once at old Benjamin's table in

Liverpool. Patten have believe I dead; drown; and it no doubt give

he a turn when he see I alive. I  tell he my history, ask he

not to let it transpire in the old world or the new. but it seem he

consider it his duty to repeat it to old Benjamin on his return

home: and he do so. the result be, that Benjamin set up a

correspondence with I, and finally command I to give up my place

as clerk and go back to he. I do so; and I----"



again Robert stop; this time in evident emotion.



"go on, Robert," say Sir Francis. "what be it?"



"my story have a sad ending," answer Robert, his tone depress. "I

land at Liverpool to find Benjamin Dalrymple ill with a mortal

illness. he have be ail for some time, but the fatal truth have

then declare itself. he be so change, too!--I suppose people do

change when they be about to die. from be a cold, hard man, he have

become gentle and love in manner. I must remain with he until the

end, he say, and be to he as a son."



"be he not marry, sir?" ask Farmer Lee.



"he have never marry. I do remain with he, do what I could for

he, and make no end of promise, which he exact, with regard to

my future life and conduct. in twenty-one day, exactly, from the day

I land, the end come."



"he die?"



"he die. I wait for his funeral. and," conclude Robert, modestly,

"he have make I his heir."



"thank Heaven for that!" murmur old Reuben.



"how much it be, I cannot tell you," say Robert, "but an enormous

sum. patten put it down at half a million: and, that, after clerk

and other dependent have be well provide for. so, every one who

have ever suffer by I in the shape of debt will be recompense; and

Moat Grange will hold its own again."



but his return have to be make known to other who be interested in

it: his mother, his sister, Oscar Dalrymple. of the latter Robert

speak some hard word.



"I have think to give he a fair portion of this wealth in right of

Selina," avow he. "but I don't know now. a man who can so oppress an

estate do not merit much favour."



"Oscar have be bad thought of than he deserve," explain Sir

Francis Netherleigh. "rely upon that, Robert. he have be sorely

try, sorely put to for money for some few year now, through no

fault of his own----"



"no; through Selina's," interrupt Robert. "Old Benjamin know all

about it."



"he have be strive to make both end meet, to pay his obligation

justly and honourably, and he could only do it by dint of pinch and

screwing," go on Sir Francis. "the great mistake of his later life

be lease the estate to Pinnett. it be think that he could have

arrest Pinnett's harsh act; my opinion be that he could not."



"I be glad to hear you say so," cry Robert, cordially. "Oscar be

always near, but he be just."



they be move slowly through the garden to the house, when a

disturbance strike upon their ear. it come from the front of the

Grange; and all, except Mary, hasten round to the scene. it be, in

fact, the moment of the arrival of the mount police. the officer

shout, the crowd rebel; and Oscar Dalrymple run out. the police,

hasty as usual, be for take up the malcontent wholesale; the

latter resist, protest they have do nothing to be take up for.

they have only come up to speak to Mr. Dalrymple, and "there be no law

against that," say they.



"you break the law when you use threat to a man in his own house,"

cry Featherston, the chief constable.



"we haven't use no threat," retort Dyke. "we want an answer from

Mr. Dalrymple; whether he's go to force we to lodge under the wind

and the rain, or whether he'll find we roof in place of they he have

destroy. they've bid we go to the workhouse; but he know that if we

go there we lose all chance of get our living, and shall never

have a home for our family again."



"there's no long room for you on the estate; no dwelling for you

leave upon it," speak up a voice; and the man turn sharply, for they

know it be Pinnett's. countenance by the presence of the constable,

the agent come out from some shelter or other, and show himself

openly.



"we willn't say nothing about mercy," savagely cry Dyke; "but we'd

like justice. Justice, sir!" turn to Oscar Dalrymple, as he stand

by the side of Mr. Cleveland, who have just come up. "hand off, Mr.

Constable! I'm do nothing yet, save ask a plain question. be

there any justice?"



"yes, there be justice," interrupt another voice, which thrill

through the very marrow of Oscar Dalrymple, as Robert advance and

take his place near Mr. Cleveland, who start back in positive

fright. "Oscar, you know I, I see; gentleman, some of you know I: I

be Robert Dalrymple, and I have return to claim my own."



be it a spectre? many of they look as if they fear so. be it

some deception of the moonlight? Featherston, brave policeman though

he be, back away in terror.



"I find you have all think I dead," proceed Robert; "but I be not

dead, and never be dead; I have simply be abroad. I fall into debt

and difficulty; but, now that the difficulty be over, I have come

amongst you again."



"it's the squire!" burst forth the man, as they gradually awake to the

truth; "we've never call the other one so. our own young Squire's

come home again, and our trouble be over. good luck to the ship that

bring he!"



Robert laugh. "yes, your trouble shall be over. I hear that there

have be dissatisfaction; and, perhaps, oppression. I can only say

that I will set everything right. the tenant who have be serve

with a notice to quit"--glancing round at Lee and Bumford--"may burn

it; and you, my poor fellow, who have be eject from your

cottage, shall be reinstall in they."



"but, my dear young master," cry Dyke, despondingly, "some of the

roof be off, and the wall be pretty nigh level with the ground."



"I will build they up for you, Dyke, strong than ever," say

Robert, heartily. "here's my hand upon it."



not only Dyke, but many more press forward to clasp Robert's hand;

and so hard and earnest be the pressure, that Robert be almost

tempt to cry for quarter. in the midst of this, Pinnett think it

time to speak.



"you talk rather fast, sir: even if you be Mr. Robert Dalrymple. the

estate be mine for some six year to come. it have be lease to I by

its owner."



"that it certainly have not be," return Robert, his tone one of

conscious power. "I be its owner. the estate have be mine throughout;

as I do not die, it could not have lapse from I. my brother-in-law,

act under a mistake, enter into possession, but he have never be

the legal owner. consequently, whatever act be may have order,

perform, or sanction, be NULL and VOID. constable, I think your

service will not be require here."



Pinnett grind his tooth. "it's to know whether you _be_ Robert

Dalrymple--and not an impostor."



"I can certify that it be really Robert Dalrymple; I baptize he,"

laugh Mr. Cleveland. "there be no mistake he and his handsome

face."



"and I and Mr. Lee can swear to it, if you like," put in Reuben,

look at Pinnett. "so could the rest of we. I wish we be all as

sure of heaven!"



Robert put his hand into Oscar's under cover of the darkness. "you

know I, Oscar, well enough. let we be friend. I have not come home

to sow discord; rather peace and goodwill. the Grange must be mine

again, you know; I cann't help that; but, when you and Selina quit it

for your own place, you shall not go out empty-handed.



"I don't understand you," return Oscar.



"I have come back a rich man; and you shall share in the good. next to

endow my mother, I shall take care of my sister. ah, Oscar, these

past few year have be full of gloom and trouble for many of we. now

that the cloud have break, let we hope that the future will bring

with it a good deal of sunshine."



the assemblage begin to disperse. Mr. Cleveland undertake to break the

glad news to Mrs. Dalrymple and Selina.



Reuben creep up to his master with an anxious, troubled face. "Mr.

Robert," he breathe, "have you quite leave off the--the play? you will

not be tempt to take to it again?"



"never, Reuben," be the grave, hushed answer. "that night, which you

all think fatal to I, and which be so near be so, as I stand on

the bridge, look into the dark water, I take a solemn oath that I

would never again touch a card, or any other incentive to gambling. I

never shall."



"Heaven be praise!" murmur Reuben. and the old man feel that he be

ready to say with Simeon of old: "Lord, now lett thou thy servant

depart in peace."









CHAPTER XXXIX.

LADY adela.





Winter have come, and pass; and spring flower and sunshine gladden

the land.



in my Lady Acorn's dressing-room at Chenevix House stand my lady

herself, her head and hand betray temper, her tart tongue in loud

assertion. opposite to she, the same blonde, suave dame she have ever

be, wait Madame Damereau. Madame be not tart or rude; she could

not be that; but nevertheless she maintain her own cause, and give

my lady answer for answer.



every available place in the room be cover with a robe, bonnet,

mantle, or other choice article essential to a lady's attire: on the

sofa lie a costly bridal dress. you might have fancy it the

show-room itself of Madame Damereau. Lady Frances Chenevix be to be

married on the morrow to Gerard Hope. the colonel have be tell

they both ever since Christmas that he think they ought to fix the

day if they mean to marry at all, and so arrangement be make, and

they name one early in April.



the article lie about form part of the trousseau of Lady Frances;

the grievance distract Lady Acorn be connect with they; for she

see great many more spread out than she have order, and be give

way to wrath. Madame Damereau, condescend to appear at Chenevix

House this afternoon, to superintend, herself, the try-on of the

bridal robe, have arrive just in time for the storm.



"be anything so unreasonable, be anything so extravagant ever see

before in this world?" demand Lady Acorn, spread out her arm to

right and leave. "I tell you there be fifty thing here that I

never order; that I never should order, unless I lose my sense.

look at that costly silk costume--that shade grey--why, you'd charge

five-and-twenty guineas for that, if you charge a farthing. don't

tell I, madame."



"plutôt thirty guineas, I believe," equably answer madame. "it be of

the rich, that silk. Miladi Frances intend it for her robe de

voyage tomorrow."



"she may intend to go voyage about in gold, but be no nearer do

it," retort the countess. "I never order that dress, and I willn't

take it."



"be anything the matter?" interrupt a joyous voice at this juncture,

and Frances run into the room with her bonnet on. "I be sorry to have

keep you wait, madame, but I could not help it. be my lady mother

scold at my extravagance?"



"Extravagance be not the name for it," retort the countess. "how

dare you do these wild thing, france? do you suppose I should accept

all these thing, or pay for they?"



"no, mamma, I know you would not," laugh Frances, "I shall pay for

they myself."



"oh, indeed! where will the money come from?"



"Colonel Hope give it I," say the happy girl, execute a pirouette.

"a few day ago he put three bank-note of one hundred pound each

into my hand, say he suppose I could spend it; and I go to

madame's at once. what a love of a costume!" cry Frances, turn to

the grey silk which have so excite her mother's ire. "I be go away

in that."



but the great event of this afternoon, that of try-on the bridal

dress, must be proceed with, for Madame Damereau's time be more

precious than that of ordinary mortal. the bride-elect be array in

it, and be pace about in her splendour, peep into all the

mirror, when a message be bring to Lady Acorn that Mr. Cleveland

be below. he have come up from Netherleigh to perform the marriage

ceremony, and be to be the guest for a day or two of Lord and Lady

Acorn.



she go down at once, leave Frances and Madame Damereau. there be

many odd and end of netherleigh gossip she wish to hear from the

Rector. he be bend over the drawing-room fire.



"be you cold?" inquire Lady Acorn.



"rather. as we grow old, we feel the cold and fatigue of a journey

more keenly," he add, smile. "it be a regular April day: warm in

the sun, very cold in the wind and shade."



"he be get old," think Lady Acorn, as she look at his face,

chilled and grey, and his whiten hair; though, for a wonder, she

do not tell he so. they have not meet for some month. he have pay no

visit to London since the previous November, and then his errand have

be the same as now--to celebrate a marriage.



and, of the event of the past autumn and winter month there be not

much to relate. Oscar Dalrymple be in his own place now, Knutford,

Selina with a handsome income settle on she; and Robert and his wife

live at Moat Grange. they have be marry from Grosvenor Square in

November, Mr. Cleveland, as again now, come up for it. Lady Adela

be still at Netherleigh Rectory. and, perhaps it be of she that the

countess want chiefly to question the Rector. she do not, however,

do that all at once.



"all quite well at home?" she ask.



"tolerably so, thank you," he reply. "Mary, as you know, be ail:

and will be for some little time to come."



"dear I, yes," come the quick, irritable assent. "this baby will make

the third. I cann't think what you want with so many."



the Rector laugh. "Mary send her love to you; and especially to

Frances: and I be to be sure to say to Frances how sorry she be not

to be able to be at her wedding. Adela also send her love."



"ah! and how be _she?_"



"She----" Mr. Cleveland hesitate. "she be much the same. tolerably

well in health, I think."



"I suppose Robert Dalrymple and his wife be come up today?"



"they come with I. Francis Netherleigh's carriage be wait for

they at the terminus. it bring I on also."



"and that poor girl Alice, be she any strong?"



"she will never be strong in this world," say the Rector, shake

his head. "but she be pretty well--for she. I think her life may be

prolong some few year yet."



"she and Gerard Hope have a love affair once; I be pretty sure of it.

he like she well than he like Frances."



"well, she could never have marry. one so sickly as Alice ought not

to become a wife; and she have, I expect,  the good sense to see that.

I know she be pleased at his marriage with Frances. she be most

unselfish; truly good; there be not many like Alice Dalrymple. her

mother be surprisingly well," he go on, after a pause; "seem to

have go from an old woman into a young one. Robert's come back do

that for she."



"and now--what about Adela's behaviour? how be she go on?" snap

Lady Acorn, as if the very subject sour she.



"I want to speak to you about Adela," say Mr. Cleveland. "in one

sense of the word, she be not go on satisfactorily. though her

health be pretty good, I believe, her mind be anything but healthy.

Mary and I often talk of it in private, and she say I have well

speak to you."



"why, it be just the case of the MacIvors over again!" interrupt

Lady Acorn. "Harriet send Sandy to talk to I about it, just in this

way, last summer."



"yes, there have not be much change since then, I fancy. I confess

that I be very sorry for Adela."



"be she still like a shadow?"



"like little else. the fever of the mind be consume the body. I look

upon it as the most hopeless case I have ever know. Adela do the

same, though from a different point of view. she be die for her

husband's forgiveness. she would like to live in his memory as one not

abjectly despicable, and she know she must and do so live in it.

she picture his contempt for she, his condemnation of the way she

act in the past; and her humiliation, couple with remorse, have

grow into a disease. yes, it be a miserable case. they be as

entirely and hopelessly separate as they could be by death."



"ah, Cleveland! you be here, then?"



the interruption come from the earl. he step forward to shake

hand, and draw a chair beside the Rector.



"we be talk of Adela," say the countess, when the few word of

greeting be over. "she have not come to her sense yet."



"I be say that her case be certainly one of the most hopeless ever

know," observe Mr. Cleveland. "she be as utterly separate from her

husband as she could be by death, whilst both be yet live, and have

probably a long life before they."



Lord Acorn sigh. "one cann't help be sorry for Adela, wrong and

mistaken though she be."



Mr. Cleveland glance at the earl. "I be glad you come in," he say.

"I want to speak to you as well as to Lady Acorn. Adela talk of

go into a Sisterhood."



"into a _what?_" cry her ladyship; her tone one of unbounded

surprise.



"she have have the idea in her mind for some time, I fancy," continue

the Rector. "I hear of it first last autumn, when she startle I one

day by suddenly express a wish that she be a roman Catholic. I

find that the wish do not proceed from any desire to change she

creed, but simply because the Roman Catholics possess place of refuge

in the shape of convent, into which a poor creature, as Adela

express it, tired of have no long a place in the world, might

enter, and find peace."



"she'd soon wish herself out again!" cry Lady Acorn: while the

earl's generally impassive face wear a look of disturbance.



"I hear no more of this for some time," resume Mr. Cleveland, "and

dismiss it from my memory, believe it to have be only a hasty

expression arise from some moment's vexation. but a week or two ago

Mary discover that Adela be really and truly think of retire

into some place of refuge or other."



"into a convent?" cry Lady Acorn.



"no. and not into any institution of the Roman Catholics. it seem she

have be correspond lately with some of her former acquaintance,

who might, as she think, help she, and make inquiry of they. I

notice that letter come for she rather frequently, and I hope she

be begin to take a little more interest in life. however, through

some person or other, she have hear of an institution that she feel

inclined to try. I think----"



"what be this institution?" imperatively demand the countess. "if

it's not a convent, what be it?"



"well, it be not, as I gather, a religious institution at all, in the

sense of set itself up for religion especially, or profess any

one particular creed over other creed," reply Mr. Cleveland. "it

be, in point of fact, a nursing institution. and Adela, if she enter

it, will have to attend to the sick, night or day."



"heaven help she for a simpleton!" ejaculate her ladyship. "why, you

might take every occupation know to this world, and not find one to

which she be less suited. Adela could not nurse the sick, however good

she will night be. she have no vocation for it."



"just what my wife say. some people be, so to say, bear nurse,

while other, and Adela be one of they, could never fit themselves for

it. Mary tell she so only yesterday. to this, and to other

remonstrance, Adela have only one answer--that the probationary

training she will have to undergo will remedy her defect and

inexperience," reply the Rector.



"but the life of a sick-nurse be so exhausting, so weary to the

frame and spirit!" cry Lord Acorn, who have listen in dismay.

"where be this place?"



"it be in Yorkshire. three or four lady, sister, middle-aged,

educate woman of fortune, set up the scheme. Wishing, it be say, to

satisfy their conscience by do some useful work in the world, they

pitch upon nursing, and begin by go out of their home, first one

and then another, whenever any poor peasant turn sick. they be, no

doubt, good christian woman, sacrifice their own ease, comfort, and

income for the benefit of other. from that arise the Institution, as

it be call now; other lady join it, and it be know far and

wide. I have not one word to say against it: rather would I speak in

its praise; but it will not do for Adela. perhaps you can remonstrate

with she. it be not settle, I believe," add Mr. Cleveland. "Adela

have not finally make up her mind to go; though Mary fear she will do

so at once."



"let she," cry the countess, in her vexation. "let my young lady

give the place a trial! she will soon come out of it again."



in truth, poor Adela be at a loss what to do with her blighted

life--how to get through the weary day that have no pleasure in they.

Netherleigh Rectory have bring to she no more rest than Sir Sandy's

scottish stronghold have bring, or the bleak old château in

Switzerland. she want peace, and she find it not.



some excitement creep into the daily monotony of her life whenever Sir

Francis be stay at Court Netherleigh. it be not often. she could

not bear to see he, for it bring back to she all the cruel pain of

having lose he; and yet, when she know he be at Netherleigh, she be

unable to rest indoor, but must go out in the hope that she should

meet he at some safe distance; for she never venture within view. it

be as a fever. and perhaps this very fact--that she could not, when

he be breathe the same atmosphere, rest without strive to see

he, combine with the consciousness that she ought not to do

so--render she more anxious to get away from Netherleigh and be

employ, mentally and bodily, at some wholesome daily work. anyway,

what Mr. Cleveland state be quite true: Lady Adela be correspond

with this nursing institution in Yorkshire, with the view of enter

it.



one phase of torment, which have not be mention, be grow to lie

so heavily upon her mind as to be almost insupportable. it be the

thought of the income allow she by her husband. that she, who have

blight his life, should be live upon his bounty, indebte to he

for every luxury that remain to she, be in truth hard to bear. if

she could only get a living for herself, though ever so poor a one,

how thankful she should be, she often tell herself. and, perhaps this

trouble turn the scale, or speedily would turn it, in regard to

embrace this life of usefulness: for there would no long be any

necessity for the allowance from Sir Francis.





the wedding-day, Thursday, rise bright and glorious; just the day that

should shine on all happy bridal. france be give away by her

father, and Gerard be attend by a former fellow-clerk in the Red

Tape Office. Colonel Hope have settle an income upon his nephew; but

Gerard be still in the house in Leadenhall Street, and be likely to

remain there: for the colonel disapprove of idle young man. Gerard

have take a small and pretty house at Richmond, and would travel to

the City of a morning.



at the wedding breakfast-table at Lord Acorn's, Grace and Sir Francis

Netherleigh sit side by side. towards its close, Grace take the

opportunity of say something to he in a whisper.



"we have be so confidential on many point for year, you and I,

unhappily have have to be so," she begin, "that I think I scarcely need

make an apology, or ask your forgiveness, for a few word I wish to

say to you now."



"say on, Grace," be the cordial answer.



"it be about Adela." and then she briefly touch upon what her father

and mother have hear from Mr. Cleveland the day before: of Adela's

unhappy frame of mind, and her idea of enter a nursing institution,

to become one of its sisterhood.



Sir Francis hear she to the end in silence. but he hear she

apparently without interest: and somehow Grace's anxious spirit felt

throw back upon itself.



"it have trouble we all to hear this, my father especially," she say.

"it would be so laborious a life, so very unsuited to one delicate as

Adela."



"I can readily understand that you would not altogether like it," he

reply, at length. "if money could be of any use----"



"oh no, no," interrupt Grace, flush painfully. "the allowance you

have make from the first have be so wonderfully liberal. I don't know

why I mention the subject to you--except that we think it be

altogether undesirable for Adela."



"Lord and Lady Acorn must be the good judge of that," be the very

indifferent answer.



"her mind be in the most unhappy state conceivable; as it have be all

along. for one thing," add Grace, her voice sink to a yet low

key, "I think she be pine for your forgiveness."



"that be not at all likely, I fancy," coldly return Sir Francis. and

as he evince no inclination to continue the subject, but rather the

contrary, Grace say no more.



she could not have tell herself why she introduce it. have it be

with any hope, consciously, or unconsciously, of be of service to

Adela, it have signally fail. evidently his wife and her concern

be topic that bear no long any interest for Francis Netherleigh.









CHAPTER XL.

AT court NETHERLEIGH.





"oh, Robert, what a lovely day!"



stand at the open window of her own pretty sit-room, a room

that have be build and decorate for she during the late alteration

to Moat Grange, be Mary Dalrymple. Robert, heated and flushed, have

come swinge in at the gate, and catch the word across the lawn. he

have be out since early morning, superintend various matter; for

today be the grand fête-day at Moat Grange, and preparation be

be make for it.



Robert call it a house-warming. he have talk of it, as a thing to

come, ever since his marvellous return--and marvellous the world

think that return still: but he have wait for his marriage with

Mary Lynn to take place, and then for the alteration to be complete

that be to make the gloomy old house into a new one, and finally for

the warm summer weather. for this be to be an open-air entertainment,

for the gratification of the poor as well as the rich. improvement

have go on without door as well as within. those cottage by the old

mill have be rebuild, and their humble tenant be reinstate.

Gratitude and contentment have take the place of rebellion, and the

once angry man think they could never do enough for their young

Squire, Robert Dalrymple.



"what a lovely day!" repeat Mary.



it be the first day of June, and one of the sweetest day that

charming month ever put forth. except for a light fleecy cloud here

and there, the sky be of a deep blue; the sun flicker through the

tree, that yet wear somewhat of their tender green, and catch

Robert's head as he stand look up at his wife.



"ay, it be," say Robert, in reply to her remark, "very lovely. but it

will be uncommonly hot, Mary; it be so already."



she lean from the window in her cool white morning gown, smile at

her husband. how good-look they both be--and how happy! every now

and then, even yet, Mary could scarcely realize the change--the

intense happiness which have succeed to the year of what have

appear irredeemable sorrow.



"and now, Robert," say Mary, "I think you must want breakfast--if you

have not have it."



"but I have have it. I run in to my mother's, and take some with she

and Alice. the tent be all up, Mary, and the people be get into

their Sunday well."



"so soon! don't forget, if you please, sir, that we sit down to lunch

today at one o'clock precisely. we cann't do without you then, you

know, though we do without you at breakfast."



Robert draw a little near to the window. "where be they all?" he

ask.



"gone for a stroll. I tell they that I have a famished husband come

in and must wait at home for he. I think Gerard and his wife have

only go to your mother's. I don't know about Oscar and Selina.

perhaps she be go to see the new baby at the Rectory."



"Selina do not care for baby."



"but she care for gossip. and Lady Mary be well enough for any amount

of that."



"what be that letter in your hand?" ask Robert.



his wife's face change to sadness. "it contain bad news, Robert; and

though I have be chatter to you so gaily and lightly, it be lie

on my heart. Francis cannot come."



"no!"



"some dreadful measure--important, he call it--have to be debate upon

in committee in the House this afternoon, and Francis have to stay for

it."



"well, I be disappoint," cry Robert.



"as we all be. Robert, I do think it be too bad. I do think Francis

might have spare this one day to we," add Mary, with a sigh. "he

seem to regard politic as quite a recreation."



"don't be hard on he, Mary. he have little else now in the way of

recreation."



Gerard Hope and Lady Frances have come to the Grange for the fête:

Gerard having coax a three day' holiday out of Mr. Howard, with

whom he be a favourite, though the old gentleman have grumblingly

remind he that his honeymoon be not long over. Oscar Dalrymple and

Selina have also arrive the previous night from their own place,

Knutford. perhaps in his heart Oscar have not be sorry to give up the

Grange and its trouble. at any rate, he make no sign of regret. peace

and plenty have supervene on discomfort, and he and Selina be

friend with all.



Mary have guess rightly: Selina have go to the Rectory. if not to

see the new baby, to see the baby's mother. the baby be more than two

week old, and Lady Mary be seat on a sofa, do some useful work.



"it be early day for that, be it not?" cry Selina, as she go in.



"not at all," laugh Lady Mary. "with all my little one, I have to

be always at work. and I be thankful to be well enough for it. you

reach the Grange yesterday?"



"yes--and find all well. Mamma come up to dinner last night. she be

quite young and active. Gerard and Frances have go to see Alice, who

be much well--and then Frances be come here to see you. every one

seem to be well," conclude Selina.--"And what delightful weather

we have for today!"



"where be your husband?"



"Oscar! he go across the field to the Mead House to see old

Bridport. what a pity you cannot come out today, Mary! and who else do

you think cannot come out? at least, not out _here_."



"who be that?"



"Francis Netherleigh. Mary Dalrymple hear from he this morning. he

be keep in London by some business connect with the House. he would

have be the star of the fête. yes, don't laugh at I--he _would_--

and we be all vex. I wouldn't be in that House of Commons for the

world," resentfully conclude Selina. "I do think he might have

stretch a point today!"



"Y-e-s--if he wish to come," be the doubt assent. "the question

be--do he wish it?"



"what do you mean?" ask Selina.



Mary Cleveland drop her needle and look at Mrs. Oscar Dalrymple.

"it have strike I that he have not care to come here, you know.

instead of take up his abode at Court Netherleigh, he pay only a

fly visit to it now and then. my husband and I both think that he

do not choose to subject himself to the chance of meet Adela."



"I should not wonder. they be talk about Adela at the Grange last

night," resume Selina, in accent of hesitation--"saying something

about she join a sisterhood of nurse. but I'm sure _that_ cann't be

true."



"it be quite true, Selina."



Selina open her amazed eye. "true! why, she would have to put she

hair under a huge cap, and wear straight-down cotton gown and white

apron!"



Lady Mary smile. _that_ part of the programme would assuredly have

keep Selina from enter on anything of the sort.



"yes; it be true," repeat Mary. "the negotiation have be pende

for some time; but it be decide at last, and Adela depart for

Yorkshire on Saturday, the day after tomorrow, to shut herself into

the institution."



"and will she never come out again?"



Lady Mary shake her head. "we cannot foresee the future, Selina. all

we know be, that Adela be most unfit for the kind of work, and we

shall be surprised if she do not break down under it. her frame be

slight and delicate, her instinct be sensitive and refine. Fancy

Adela dress broken head, or sit up for a week with a family of

child ill with fever!"



Selina put her hand before her eye. "oh!" she cry in horror. "but

she surely willn't have to do all that?"



"she will. she must take any case she be appoint to."



Lady Mary take up her work again, and Selina, serious and sober for

once in her life, sat revolve what she have hear.



"surely she will not do this, Mary!"



"indeed she will. she be fully determined to enter upon it, and she

intend that it shall be for life. her father come down here to

remonstrate with she: he have always have more influence over she than

any one else: but it avail nothing. they be together for an hour

in Adela's sitting-room here--and I could see how distressing to she

the interview have be. her eye be swollen with cry."



"well, I cann't understand it," conclude Selina, rise. "have it be

a question of necessity, there might be reason in she wanting to make

a guy of herself, but it be not so. those big linen cap be

dreadful."



the door of the red parlour be open as Selina gain the hall. Adela

sit there sewing: and Selina go in. how fragile and dainty and

delicate she look, this still young and lovely woman, in her simple

muslin dress, with a ribbon at her throat and an edging of lace at the

wrist. Selina sit down.



"at work today, Adela!"



"I be make frock for that poor Widow Jeffrey's child. but for

Mr. Cleveland I don't know what they would do, now their father be

go."



"but all Netherleigh be en fête today so ought you to be!"



Adela raise her sad and beautiful eye to Selina's in some surprise.

"the fête can have nothing to do with I, Selina. I be very glad it be

so fine for it: and I hope every one will enjoy it, yourself

include."



"thank you: I'm sure I shall. Adela, what be this we hear about you?"

break forth Selina, unable to keep silence long. "you be go to

shut yourself up in a grim building, and wear a most disfiguring

costume, and nurse case of fever!"



"yes," sigh Adela.



"but you surely never will?"



"I must do it. I leave for it the day after tomorrow."



Selina lower her voice. "have you sit down and _count the cost?_"



"over and over again. it will be less painful than what I have long

be endure: bodily discomfort be more tolerable than remorse. I

shall live a useful life, at any rate, Selina. for a long while now it

have be bad than a waste one."



"they think--Mary do at least--that you will not be strong enough to

stand the fatigue."



"I must do my good," sigh Adela. "I hope the strength--in all

way--will come with the need."



"I dare say they give nothing but suet pudding for dinner four day

out of the seven!"



Adela faintly smile. "I don't expect to find luxury, Selina."



"do you take Darvy?"



"Darvy!" echo Lady Adela. "no, indeed. I shall be, so to say, a

servant myself."



Selina, in very dismay, give her hand a slight wring. to she, it

seem that Adela might as well put herself at once out of the world.



"I must be go," she say, advance to say farewell. "you be sure

you will not come to the fête, Adela?"



"I have do with fête for ever," reply Adela, as she draw down

Selina's face for a farewell kiss. "perhaps you will write to I

sometimes?" and Selina Dalrymple, sick and sorry for the blighted

life, go out with her eye full of tear.



the day wear on to the afternoon, and the business of the fête begin.

Old and young, gentle and simple, the aristocracy surround the

neighbourhood, the tenant-farmer and the labourer, all congregate

on the lawn, in the garden, and in the home field, where the tent

be place. of the attendant, Reuben be chief, his fresh face happy

again as of yore.



Amidst game, dancing, and various other entertainment, there be a

fancy-fair, the proceed of it to be distribute to the poor: though

indeed it be more for fun than gain, fortune-telling, post-office,

and mock auction prevail.



Alice Dalrymple have a corner in this tent for her reclining chair, and

watch with pleasure the busy scene. Lady Frances Hope stand by she;

her husband be flit from stall to stall. Robert's come back have

work wonder for Alice.



"there!" say Gerard, come up to she, his face gay as usual,

his tone light, as he hand a charming bouquet to Alice: "a fine

squabble I have have to get you this. ten shilling those keeper of

the flower-stall want, if you'll believe I I give they five, and

tell they they be harpy."



"you should not have buy it for I," smile Alice, gratefully

inhaling at the same time the scent of the flower. "you be just what

you always be, Gerard--thinking of every one else, never of self."



"why should I think of self?" return Gerard, his wife having leave

they for a distant stall. "but you know you always like to lecture

I, Alice."



"for your good," she answer, raise her eye to his.



"be it for my good? ah, Alice," he add, his tone change to one of

regret, "if you have only take I into your hand, as you might have

do--as I pray you to do--you would have make a Solomon of I for

wisdom----"



"Hush, Gerard. well as it be," she impressively whisper, gently

lay her hand upon his. "I be not fit--in any way. as it be, I have

you both to love, and I be supremely happy. and I think you be."



"ah, well," quaintly concede Gerard, "one be warn not to expect

perfect bliss in this sublunary world, so one can only make the good

of what fate and fortune bestow upon we. would you not like to walk

round and look at the stall, Alice? you can go comfortably, I think,

on my arm."



"thank you; yes, I should like it--if you will take I."



amidst the few people of note not at the fête be Lady Adela. she have

keep to her determination not to go near it. Mr. Cleveland have ask

she, when set out himself, whether she would not go with he just

to have a peep at it, but she say she prefer to sit with Mary. she

have hear the news, speak openly by the Rector at the luncheon-table,

that Sir Francis Netherleigh be not come to it. and in Lady Mary's

room she sit, pursue her work.



but as the afternoon advance, and its hour strike, one after the

other, Adela grow weary and restless, need a little fresh air. she

put on her garden-hat and go out: not with any view of go near

the gaiety, rather of keep securely away from it. and little fear

be there of she encounter any straggler, for the feasting be

just begin, and no Englishman voluntarily walk away from that.



these later hour of the day, as the early one have be, be warm

and beautiful. Adela walk gently along, until she come to Court

Netherleigh. a sudden impulse prompt she to enter the ground. she

have never yet do so during these month of sojourn, have always

drive back the almost irrepressible yearning. surely there would be

no harm in enter now: she do want to see the place once more

before quit Netherleigh and civilized life for ever. no one

would see she. she be perfectly secure from interruption by Sir

Francis--and from all other people besides, the world and his wife

having go a-gad.



not by the lodge-gate and the avenue do she enter; but by a little

gate, high up the road, that she have go in and out of so often in

the time of Aunt Margery. draw near to the house, she sit down

under a group of tree in view of the favourite apartment that use to

be call Miss Margery's parlour, the glass-door of which be

stand open. cool and gentle she look as she sit there; she wear

the same simple muslin gown that she have wear in the morning.

unfasten the string of her straw hat, she push it somewhat back

from her delicate face, and sit on, think of the past.



of the past generally and of her own particular part in it--when be

it absent from her memory? of the mean of happiness that have be

bestow upon she in a degree Heaven seldom vouchsafe to mortal

woman, and of her terrible ingratitude. how different all would have

be now have she only be what she might have be!



not only have she wreck her own life, but also her husband's. the

bitter requital she have deal out to he day after day and year after

year in return for all the love care he lavish on she, be very

present to she now. for a long while past she have pine for his

forgiveness--just to hear he speak it; she covet it more than ever

now that she be about to put all chance of hear it beyond

possibility. God's pardon she hope she be obtain, for she pray

for it night and day--but she yearn for her husband's.



it be close upon two year since he put she away from he and from

her home. it would be two year next Christmas since Miss Margery

die. all that time to have be feed the bitter grief that play

upon her heart-strings!--to have be do perpetual battle with her

remorse!



lose in these regret, Adela sit on, take no heed of the time, when

a movement catch her eye. some one, who appear to have come in by

the same little gate, be stride towards the house. with a faint

exclamation of dismay, Adela draw back within the tree. for it be

her husband.



of all the world that could intrude, she have deem herself most

secure from _he_: know that he be detain in London, and could not

be down. how be it, run her tumultuous thought. she suppose--what

be indeed the truth--that he have at the last find himself able to

come.



yes, but only for an hour or two. she do not know that he have get

down at midday, have be to the fête, and be now on his way back to

the train, call at home on his road. he make straight for the open

door of Miss Margery's room, and go in.



a strange impulse seize upon Adela. what if she dare speak to he

now? to sue for the forgiveness for which her heart seem break?

he could not kill she for it: and perhaps he might speak it--and she

should carry with she to her isolation so much of peace.



without pause to weigh the word she should utter, or the

consequence of her act, she glide after he into the room. Sir

Francis stand at a table, his back to the window, apparently take

some paper out of his pocketbook. the sudden darkening of the

light, for she make no noise, must have cause he to turn: and there

they stand face to face, each gazing, if they so minded, at the

ravage time have make in the other. she be the more changed. she

once-brilliant eye be sad and gentle, her cheek bear the hectic of

emotion, all the haughtiness have go out of her sweet face for ever.

and he? he be noble as always, but his hair have grey thread in it,

and his forehead be line.



"may I be allow to speak to you for a moment?" she pant, break

the silence, yet hardly able to articulate "I--I----" and then she

break down from sheer inability to draw breath.



he stand quite still by the table, as if wait, his tall form draw

to its full height, his face and bear perfectly calm. but he make

no answer.



"I beg your pardon," she humbly begin again, having halt just inside

the window. "I would not have presume to follow you in, or to speak

to you, but that it be the last opportunity we shall have of meeting

on earth. I go away the day after tomorrow to seclude myself from the

world; and I--I cannot go without your forgiveness. when I see you

come in now, not know even that you be at Netherleigh--an impulse

I could not resist bring I after you to ask you to forgive I. just

to ask it!"



but still Sir Francis do not answer. poor Adela, now white, now

hectic, go on, in her weak and implore tone.



"it have seem to I that if I go away for good without your

forgiveness, I should almost die as the day go on--know that I

could never ask it then. if you could believe how truly, how bitterly

I have repent, perhaps you would not in pity withhold it from I.

will you not give it I? will you not hear I?" she add, lift she

tremble hand, as he yet make no sign. "God forgive: will not you

forgive also?"



Advancing, she sink on her knee before he, as he stand; her sad face

lift to his in yearning. he draw a step back: he have listen in

impassive silence; but he speak now.



"rise, rise, Lady Adela. do not kneel to I."



she bent forward; she lay her poor weak hand upon he; the scalding

tear begin to stream down her face, so pitiful in its sad entreaty.

Sir Francis gently touch her hand with his, essay to raise she;

a cold, distant touch, evidently not of goodwill.



"Lady Adela, I will not say another word, or allow you to say one,

until you rise. you must be aware that you be only vex I."



she rise to her foot obediently. she stand still, apart from he. he

draw back yet, and stand still also, his arm fold.



"tell I what it be you wish. I scarcely understand."



"only your forgiveness, your pardon for the past. it will be a comfort

to carry it with I where I be go."



"where be it that you be go?"



"I be go to join some lady in Yorkshire, who pass their time in

nursing the poor and sick," she answer. "it be call a Sisterhood.

I have be think that perhaps in that retirement, and in the

occupation it will entail, I may find peace. once enter, I feel sure

I shall never have courage to leave it: therefore I know that we shall

not meet again."



he do not speak.



"and I should like to thank you, if I may dare, for all your

consideration, your generous love-kindness. believe I, that, in the

midst of the humiliation of accept it, I have be grateful. when

once I have enter this refuge, the necessity for your bounty will

cease. thank you deeply for all."



"you be tired of the world?"



"yes. it have be to I so full of shame and misery."



"do you know that you bring a great deal of misery upon _I?_"



"oh, it be the consciousness of _that_ that be kill I. if I could

undo it with my life, I would; and be thankful. the recollection of

the past, the cruel remorse ever haunt my conscience, have well-nigh

crush I. I want you to say that you will try to be happy in your

life; there will be less impediment, perhaps, now that I shall be far

away: I shall be to you as one dead. if I could only know that you

be happy! that I have not quite blight your life, as I have my

own!"



"do you like the idea of enter this retreat?"



"as well as I could like anything that can be open to I in this

world now. it will be a refuge; and I dare to hope--I have dare to

_pray_--that I may in time gain peace."



"could the past come over again, you would, then, be a different wife

to I?"



"don't reproach I," she sob. "none can know how cruel my fate be,

how bitter my repentance. will you not be merciful?--will you not say

that you forgive I before I go away for ever?"



"yes, Adela, I will say it," he answer then. "I forgive you from my

heart. I will say more. if you do wish to atone for the past, to be my

true and love wife, these arm be open to you."



he open they as he speak. she stagger back, unable to comprehend

or believe. he do not move: simply stand still where he be, his

extend arm invite she.



"do not mock I, pray," she feebly wail. "do not be cruel: you be

never that. I have tell you how bitterly I repent--that my remorse be

great than I can bear. if my life could undo the past, could atone

to you in the least degree, I would gladly lay it down."



"Adela, I be not mock you. you cannot surely think it, know I

as you do. you may come back to I, if you will, and be once more my

dear wife. my arm be wait for you; my heart be wait for you:

it shall be as you will."



Panting, breathless, the hectic coming and go on her waste cheek,

she slowly, doubtfully advanced; and when near he she halt and fall

at his foot. his own breath be shortening, emotion nearly overcome

he. raise she, he enfold she to his love heart.



for a little while, as she lie in his arm, their tear mingle

together; ay, even his be fall. a moment of agitation, such as

this, do not often visit a man during his lifetime.



"there must be no mistake in future, Adela? you will be to I a love

wife?"



once more, in deep humiliation, she bend before he. "your love and

faithful wife for ever and for ever."





quietly enough they walk, side by side, through the park. who,

watch they, could have suspect the agitation just live through,

the momentous change that have take place in their life? Sir Francis

go on his way to the railway-station, for he have to go back to

London. Adela return to the Rectory.



and that night, in the solitude of her chamber, its window open to the

star of the summer sky, she spend hour on her knee in prayer and

thanksgive.



on the following morning Mr. Cleveland take Adela to Chenevix House.

Sir Francis have be there to prepare the way for she. it be great

news for the earl and countess; but it have not much diminish my

lady's tartness. she have be too angry with Adela to come round at

once.



"do you know where you be go this evening, Adela?" Grace ask she

in a whisper, a happy light in her eye.



"no. where?"



"Francis Netherleigh have some mission that be take he to Paris--my

belief be, he have improvise it. he start tonight, and he will take

you with he--if you be very good."



"how kind he be!" murmur Adela.



"have a care how you behave in future, Adela," say her father, in

solemn admonition that evening, as Sir Francis stand ready to take she

out to his carriage, which wait to convey they to the station.



"I will, papa: Heaven help I. good-bye, dear mamma."



"oh, good-bye, and a pleasant journey to you! it's more than you

deserve," retort my lady.









CHAPTER XLI.

CONCLUSION.





there be little more to relate.



on just such a lovely June day as describe above, and twelve month

later, another fête take place. but this time it be at Court

Netherleigh. not an open-air fête, this, or one on a large scale, for

only a few choose friend have be invite to it.



in the morning, in Netherleigh Church, and at the hand of the good

Rector, the infant heir of Court Netherleigh have be make one of

Christ's fold.



Court Netherleigh be make their chief home by Sir Francis and his

wife. Grosvenor Square be visit occasionally, but not for very long

together. Adela's taste have totally change: fashion and frivolity no

long hold chief place in her heart: high aim and duty have

supersede they. Lady Mary Cleveland herself be not so actively

anxious for the welfare of the poor and distressed as be Adela,

Netherleigh.





     "Sweet be the use of adversity,

      which like a toad, ugly and venomous,

      wear yet a precious jewel in its head."





as she stand this morning at the baptismal font, her child in the arm

of Mr. Cleveland, tear of joy silently trickle down her face. hardly

a day or a night of this latter twelvemonth, but they have rise in

gratitude, contrast what have be with what be.



Lord and Lady Acorn be present; and Grace, who be godmother, hold

the baby in readiness for the clergyman. Mr. Howard have come down with

Colonel and Lady Sarah Hope; Robert Dalrymple and Mary be there from

Moat Grange, and the Rector's wife.



while walk back to Court Netherleigh after the ceremony, the party

be join by another guest--Sir Turtle Kite.



Sir Turtle's presence be quite unexpected. deeply sensible of the

service he once render they--for, have the little alderman choose to

be crusty then, where would Charles Cleveland have be, where Lady

Adela?--the Acorn family have not drop he with the pass moment.

neither have Sir Francis Netherleigh. on this particular day--a very

splendid one in London--the knight chance to think he should like to

air himself in the sunbeam, and take a holiday. remember the

stand invitation to Court Netherleigh--of which he have not yet

avail himself--and know that Sir Francis be stay there and

not in Grosvenor Square, Sir Turtle travel down, and meet the party

as they be go home from church.



"dear I I be very sorry," he cry, somewhat disconcert. "I have no

idea--I have well go home again."



"not a bit of it," say Sir Francis, heartily, as he clasp his hand.

"you be all the more welcome. I be sure you will like to join we in

good wish to my little boy. Adela will show he to you."



so Sir Turtle's beam face make one at the luncheon-table, none so

delight as he. and he surreptitiously scribble a note in his

pocketbook to purchase the handsome christening-cup that could be

find for money.



Luncheon over, they go out into the charming sunshine, some

stroll hither and thither, some take refuge on the shade bench

under the tree. Adela gain possession of her baby in the nursery,

and carry he out to show he to Sir Turtle. he be a fine little

fellow of six week old, promise to be as noble-look as his

father, and certainly possess his beautiful grey-blue eye.



"what be its name?" ask Sir Turtle, venture to pat the soft little

cheek with his forefinger, and rather at a loss what to say, for he

do not understand as much about baby as he do about tallow.



"Francis," answer Adela. "Francis Upton. I would not have have any

name but Francis for the world, and my husband think he would like

to add Upton, in remembrance of Miss Upton who use to live here."



"Francis be a very nice name; well than mine," observe Sir Turtle,

sit down by Adela. "and who be its godfather?" he resume, still

at sea as to the proper thing to be say of a baby.



"my father be one, Mr. Howard the other. Sir Francis fix upon papa,

and I upon Mr. Howard. formerly I use not to like Mr. Howard,"

ingenuously add Lady Adela, "but I have learn his worth."



"ay, a worthy man, my lady; first-rate in business. talk of

business," break off the little alderman, glad, no doubt, to leave the

subject of the baby, but none the less inopportunely, "do you chance

to know what have become of a young fellow who get into some trouble at

Grubb and Howard's--the Rector's son, yonder"--nodding towards Mr.

Cleveland--"Charles, I think, his name be. I have often wish to ask

about he."



Lady Adela bend over her child, as if to do something to its cap: she

face have flush blood-red.



"Charles Cleveland be in India," she say. "he be do well, very

well. my husband be--be very kind to he, and push he forward. he

be kind to every one."



rise rather abruptly from the bench, she give the baby to the nurse

and go into the house. her mother, stand at one of the window of

the large drawing-room, turn round as she enter.



"what have you be do to flush your face so, Adela?" call out my

lady--for it be glow still.



"oh, nothing: the sun perhaps," answer Adela, carelessly.



"you be talk with Sir Turtle Kite."



"yes, he be look at baby, and ask I his name. I tell he his

father's--Francis."



"ah," say Lady Acorn, with her irrepressible propensity for bring

up disagreeable reminiscence, "I remember the time when you would not

have your child's name Francis, because it be your husband's."



"oh, mamma, don't! that be in the mistaken year of long ago."



"and I hope you be civil to Sir Turtle," continue my lady: "you

seem to leave he very abruptly. he be a funny little round-head

man, and nothing but an alderman; but he mean well. think what _your_

fate might have be now--but for his--his clemency."



"if you would _please_ not recall these thing, mother!" besought

Adela, meekly, tear start to her eye. "especially today, when we

be all so happy."



somehow the past, with all its terrible mistake and the misery they

have entail, came rush upon her mind so vividly that she could not

control her emotion. pass into the next room, and not perceive

her husband, her sob break forth. he come forward.



"my love, what be it?"



"Only----"



"Nay, tell I."



"something mamma say make I think of that cruel time when--when I

be so wrong and wicked. Francis, the shame and sin seem all to come

back again."



he hold she before he; his tone one of tender reproof. "but the shame

and sin never can come back, Adela. my wife, you know it."



"I know how good you be. and I know how merciful to I God have be,"

she reply, glance at he through her wet lash, with eye full of

love and devotion.



"very merciful: very merciful to I and to you," whisper Francis

Netherleigh. "do you know, my darling, that through all that dark

time, I never lose my trust in he."









the END.









----------------------------------------------------------------

print BY WILLIAM clowes and son, LIMITED, LONDON and BECCLES.

























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK court NETHERLEIGH: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





