The project Gutenberg eBook of Edina: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Edina: a Novel



author: Mrs. Henry Wood



Release date: January 15, 2019 [ebook #58701]

                most recently update: April 7, 2019



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK EDINA: a novel ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





















Transcriber's Notes:

     1. page scan source: Google Books

     https://books.google.com/books?id=vq1BAAAAYAAJ

     (Princeton University)













edina

a novel





BY

MRS. HENRY wood



AUTHOR of

"EAST lynne," "the CHANNINGS," "JOHNNY ludlow," ETC.







Fiftieth Thousand







London

MACMILLAN and CO., LIMITED

NEW YORK: the MACMILLAN COMPANY

1900













content





part the FIRST.

CHAPTER

        I. hear AT MIDNIGHT.

       II. ROSALINE BELL.

      III. on the BARE PLAIN.

       IV. wait for BELL.

        V. MISSING.

       VI. dining at the MOUNT.

      VII. ROMANCE.

     VIII. ROSE-COLOURED dreams.

       IX. plan out the future.

        X. MAJOR and MRS. RAYNOR.

       XI. scheming.

      XII. the wedding.

     xiii. under the star.

      XIV. in the CHURCHYARD.

       XV. look out for edina.

      XVI. commotion.

     XVII. BROUGHT to the SURFACE.

    xviii. a SUBTLE enemy.





PART the second.





        I. AT EAGLES' NEST.

       II. APPREHENSIONS.

      III. a tiger.

       IV. AT JETTY'S.

        V. SIR PHILIP'S MISSION.

       VI. startling NEWS.

      VII. FRANK RAYNOR FOLLOWED.

     viii. the NEW HOME.

       IX. MR. MAX BROWN.

        X. a NIGHT ALARM.





PART the THIRD.





        I. LAUREL COTTAGE.

       II. JEALOUSY.

      III. crop up again.

       IV. humiliation.

        V. the missing desk.

       VI. under the CHURCH WALLS.

      VII. MEETING AGAIN.

     viii. hard LINES.

       IX. TEARS.

        X. MADEMOISELLE'S LETTER.

       XI. SUNSHINE.













EDINA.











PART the FIRST.









CHAPTER I.

hear AT MIDNIGHT.





the village, in which the first scene of this history be lay, be

call Trennach; and the land about it be bleak and bare and dreary

enough, though situate in the grand old county of Cornwall. for mine

lie around, with all the sign and feature of miner' work about

they; yawn pit mouth, lead down to rich bed of mineral--some

of the mine in all the bustle of full operation, some work out and

abandon. again, in the neighbourhood of these, might be see miner'

hut and other dwelling-place, and the counting-house attach to

the shaft. the little village of Trennach skirt this tract of

labour; for, while the mining district extend for some mile on one

side the hamlet; on the other side, half-an-hour's quiet walking

bring you to a different country altogether--to spread tree and

rich pasture land and luxuriant vegetation.



the village street chiefly consist of shop. very humble shop, most

of they; but the miner and the other inhabitant, out of reach of

well, find they sufficiently good for their purpose. Most of the

shop deal in mixed article, and might be call general shop. the

linendraper add brush and broom to his cotton and stuff; the

grocer sell saucepan and gridiron; the baker do a thriving trade in

home-make pickle. on a dark night, the most cheerful-look shop be

the druggist's: the coloured globe display in its window send

forth their reflection into the thoroughfare. this shop have also

add another branch to its legitimate trade--that of general

literature: for the one solitary doctor of the place dispense his own

medicine, and the sale of drug be not great. the shop boast a

small circulate library; the miner and the miner' wife, like

their better, be fond of sensational fiction. the book consist

entirely of cheap volume, issue at a shilling or two shilling

each; some indeed at sixpence. the proprietor of this mart, Edmund

Float, chemist and druggist, be almost a confirmed invalid, and would

often be lay up for a week at a time. the doctor tell he that if he

would devote less of his time to that note hostelry, the Golden

Shaft, he might escape these attack of illness. at these time the

business of the shop, both as to drug and book, be transact by a

young native of Falmouth; one Blase Pellet, who have serve his

apprenticeship in it and remain on as assistant.



the doctor's name be Raynor. he write himself Hugh Raynor, M.D.,

Member of the Royal College of Physicians. that he, a man of fair

ability in his profession and a gentleman as well, should be content

to live in this obscure place, in all the drudgery of a general

practitioner and apothecary, may seem a matter of surprise--but his

history shall be give far on. his house stand in the middle of

the village, somewhat back from the street: a low, square, detach

building, a bow window on each side its entrance, and three window

above. on the door, which always stand open in the daytime, be a

brass plate, bear the name, "Dr. Raynor." the bow window to the

left be screen by a brown wire blind, display the word "Surgery"

in large white letter. above the blind Dr. Raynor's white head, or

the young head of his handsome nephew, might occasionally be see by

the passer-by, or by Mr. Blase Pellet over the way. for the doctor's

house and the druggist's shop face each other; and Mr. Pellet, be

of an inquisitive disposition, seem never tired of peep and

peer into his neighbour' doing generally, and especially into any

that might take place at Dr. Raynor's. at either end of this rather

straggle street be seat respectively the parish church and the

Wesleyan meeting-house. the latter be the well attend; for most

of the miner follow their father' faith--that of the Wesleyan

Methodists.



it be Monday morning, and a cold clear day in March. the wind come

sweep down the wide street; the dust whirl in the air; overhead,

the sun be shine brightly. Dr. Raynor stand near the fire in his

surgery, look over his day-book, in which a summary of the case

under treatment be enter. he be dress in black. a tall,

grand-look, elderly man, very quiet in manner, with a pale, placid

face, and carefully-trim thin white whisker. it be eight o'clock,

and he have just enter the surgery: his nephew have already be in it

half-an-hour. never a more active man in his work than Dr. Raynor, but

latterly his energy have strangely fail he.



"have any message come in this morning from Pollock's wife, Frank?" he

ask.



"no, sir."



"then I suppose she's well," remark the doctor, close the book

as he speak, and move towards the window.



a square table stand at the end of the room, face the window. behind

it be Frank Raynor, make up mixture, the ingredient for which he

take from some of the various bottle range upon the shelf behind

he. he be a slender, gentlemanly young fellow of four-and-twenty,

rather above the middle height, and wear this morning a suit of grey

clothe. the thought that pass through a stranger's mind on first

see Frank Raynor be, how good-look he be! it be not, however,

so much in physical beauty that the good look consist, as in the

bright expression of his well-feature face, and the sunny, laugh

blue eye. the face want one thing--firmness. in the delicate mouth,

very sweet and pleasant in form though it be, might be trace his

want of stability. he could not say no to a petition, let it be what

it might: he be sway as easily as the wind. Most lovable be Frank

Raynor; but he would be almost sure to be his own enemy as he go

through life. you could not help like he; every one do that--with

the exception of Mr. Blase Pellet across the road. Frank's hair be

golden brown, curl slightly, and wear rather long. his face, like

his uncle's, be close-shave, except that he too wear whisker,

which be of the same colour as the hair.



"what a number of man be stand about!" exclaim Dr. Raynor,

look over the blind. "more even than usual on a Monday morning. one

might think they be not at work."



"they be not at work," reply Frank. "as I hear.



"no! what's that for?"



Frank's lip part with a smile. an amused look sit in his blue eye

as he answer.



"through some superstition, I fancy, Uncle Hugh. they say the Seven

Whistlers be hear in the night."



Dr. Raynor turn quickly towards his nephew. "the Seven Whistlers;"

he repeat. "why, who say that?"



"Ross tell I. he come in for some laudanum for his neuralgia. as

there be to be no work do to-day, the overseer think he might as

well lie up and doctor himself. a rare temper he be in."



"cann't he get the man to work?"



"not one of they. threat and promise alike fail. there's safe to be

an accident if they go down to-day, say the man; and they willn't risk

it. Bell have well not come in Ross's way whilst his present temper

last," add Frank, as he begin to screw a cork into a bottle. "I

think Ross would knock he down."



"why Bell in particular?"



"because it be Bell who profess to have hear the Whistlers."



"and none of the other?" cry the doctor.



"I fancy not. Uncle Hugh, what _be_ the superstition?" add Frank.

"what do it mean? I don't understand: and Ross, when I ask he, he

turn away instead of answer I. be it something especially

ridiculous?"



Dr. Raynor briefly reply. this superstition of the Seven Whistlers

arise from certain sound in the air. they be suppose by the

miner, when hear--which be very rarely, indeed, in this

neighbourhood--to foretell ill luck. accident, death, all sort of

calamity, in fact, might be expect, accord to the popular

superstition, by those who have the misfortune to hear the sound.



Frank Raynor listen to the doctor's short explanation, a glow of

amusement on his face. it sound to he like a bit of absurd fun.



"you don't believe in such nonsense, surely, Uncle Hugh!"



Dr. Raynor have return to the fire, and be gaze into it; some

speculation, or perhaps recollection, or it might be doubt, in his

grey eye.



"all my experience in regard to the Seven Whistlers be this,

Frank--and you may make the most of it. many year ago, when I be

stay amongst the colliery in North Warwickshire, there arise a

commotion one morning. the man do not want to go down the pit that

day, give as a reason that the Seven Whistlers have pass over the

place during the night, and have be hear by many of they. I

naturally inquire what the Seven Whistlers mean, never having hear

of they, and receive in reply the explanation I have now give you.

but workman be not so independent in those day, Frank, as they be

in these; and the man be force to go down the pit as usual."



"and what come of it?" ask Frank.



"of the go down? this. an accident take place in the pit that same

morning--through fire-damp, I think; and many of they never come up

again alive."



"how dreadful! but that could not have be the fault of the Seven

Whistlers?" debate Frank.



"my second and only other experience be at Trennach," continue Dr.

Raynor, pass over Frank's comment. "about six year ago, some of

the miner profess to have hear these sound. that same day, as

they be descend one of the shaft after dinner, an accident

occur to the machinery----"



"and do damage," interrupt Frank, with increase interest.



"yes. three of the man fall to the bottom of the mine, and be

kill; and several other be injure more or less badly. I attend

they. you ask I if I place faith in the superstition, Frank. no: I do

not. I be sufficiently enlighten not to do so. but the experience

that I have tell you of be fact. I look upon they as mere

coincidence."



a pause. Frank be go on with his work.



"be the sound all fancy, Uncle Hugh?"



"oh no. the sound be real enough."



"what do they proceed from? what cause they?"



"it be say that they proceed from certain night-bird," reply Dr.

Raynor. "flock of bird, in their nocturnal passage across the

country, make plaintive sound; and when these sound be hear,

they be superstitiously suppose to predict evil to those who hear

they. ignorant man be always credulous. that be all I know about it,

Frank."



"do you ever hear the sound yourself, Uncle Hugh?"



"never. this be only the third occasion that I have be in any place

at the time they have be hear--or say to have be hear--and I

have not myself be one of the hearer. there's Bell!" add Dr.

Raynor, see a man leave the chemist's and cross the street in the

direction of his house. "he seem to be come here."



"and float the miner's follow he," observe Frank.



two man enter through the doctor's open front-door, and thence to

the surgery. the one be a little, middle-aged man, who carry a

stout stick and walk somewhat lame. his countenance, not very

pleasing at the good of time, just now wear a grey tinge that

be rather remarkable. this be Josiah Bell. the one who follow

he in be a tall, burly man, with a pleasant face, as fresh as a

farm-labourer's; his voice be soft, and his manner meek and retire.

the little man's voice, on the contrary, be loud and self-assert.

Bell be give to quarrel with every one who would quarrel with he;

scarcely a day pass but he, to use his own word, "have it out" with

some one. Andrew Float have never quarrel in his life; not even with

his quarrelsome friend Bell; but be one of the most peaceable and

easy-natured of man. though only a common miner, he be brother to the

chemist, and also brother to John Float, landlord of the Golden Shaft.

the three brother be usually distinguish in the place as Float

the druggist, Float the miner, and float the publican.



"I've bring Float over to ask you just to look at this arm of his,

doctor, if you'll be so good," begin Bell. "it strike I his brother

be not do what's right by it."



there be a refinement in the man's accent, a readiness of speech, an

independence of tone, not at all in keep with what might be

expect from one of a gang of miner. the fact be, Josiah Bell have

originally hold a far well position in life. he have begin that life

as a clerk in the office of some large colliery work in

Staffordshire; but, partly owe to unsteady habit, partly to an

accident which have for many month lay he low and lame he for

life, he have sink down in the world to what he now be--a workman in a

cornish mine.



"willn't the burn heal?" observe Dr. Raynor. "let I see it, Float."



"if you'd please to be so kind, sir," reply the big man, with

deprecation, as he take off his coat and prepare to display his arm.

it have be badly burn some time ago; and it seem to get bad

instead of well, in spite of the doctoring of his brother the

chemist, and of Mr. Blase Pellet.



"I have ask you more than once to let I look to your arm, you know,

Float," remark Mr. Frank Raynor.



"but I don't like to trouble you, Master Raynor. I think Ned and

his salve could do for it, sir."



"and so you man be not at work to-day, Bell!" begin the doctor, as he

examine the arm. "what's this absurd story I hear about the Seven

Whistlers?"



Bell's aspect change at the question. the pallor on his face seem

to become greyer. it be a greyness that attract Dr. Raynor's

attention: he have never see it in the man's face before.



"they pass over Trennach at midnight," say Bell, in low tone, from

which all independence have go out. "I hear they myself."



"and who else hear they?"



"I don't know. nobody--that I can as yet find out. the man be all

indoor, they say, long before midnight. the Golden Shaft shut at ten

on a Sunday night."



"you stay out later?"



"I come on to float the druggist's when the public-house close, and

smoke a pipe with he and Pellet, and sit there, talk. it be in

go home that I hear the Whistlers."



"you may have be mistake, in think you hear they."



"no," dissent Bell. "it be in the middle of the Bare Plain. I be

step along quietly----"



"and soberly?" interpose Frank, with a twinkle eye, and a tone that

might be take either for jest or earnest.



"and soberly," assert Bell, resentfully. "as sober as you be now,

Mr. Frank Raynor. I be step along quietly, I say, when the church

clock begin to strike. I stand to count it, not believe it could be

twelve--not think I have stay all that time at the druggist's. it

be twelve, however, and I be still stand after the last stroke

have die away, wonder how the time could have pass, when those

other sound break out high in the air above I. seven of they: I

count they as I have count the clock. the sad sound of a wail

I've ever hear--save once before. it seem to freeze I up."



"do you hear more?" ask Dr. Raynor.



"no. and the last two sound of the seven be so faint, I should not

have hear they if I have not be listen. the cry have break out

right above where I be stand: they seem to die away gradually in

the distance."



"I say that you may have be mistake, Bell," persist Dr. Raynor.

"the sound you hear may not have be the Seven Whistlers at all."



Bell shake his head, his manner and voice this morning be more

subdue than usual. "I cann't be mistake in _they_. no man can be who

have once hear they, Dr. Raynor."



"be it this that have turn your face so grey?" question Frank,

allude to the pallor notice by his uncle; but which the eld and

experienced man have refrain from remark upon.



"I don't know it be grey," rejoin Bell, his resentful tone

crop up again.



"it's as grey as this powder," persist Frank, hold forth a

delectable compound he be prepare for some unfortunate patient.



"and so, on the strength of this night adventure of your, Bell, all

you man be make holiday to-day!" resume the doctor.



but Bell, who do not seem to approve of Frank's remark on his

complexion, possibly take they as ridicule--though he might have

know Frank Raynor well--stand in dudgeon, and vouchsafe no reply.

Andrew Float take up the retort in his humble, hesitate fashion.



"there ben't one of we, Dr. Raynor, that would venture down to-day

after this. when Bell come up to the pit this morning, where we man

be collect to go down, and say the Seven Whistlers have pass

over last night at midnight, it take we all aback. not one of we would

hazard it after that. Ross, he storm and rage, but he couldn't

force we down, sir."



"and the Golden Shaft will have the benefit of you instead!" say the

doctor.



"our life be dear to we all, sir," be the deprecate reply of

Float, not attempt to answer the remark. "and I thank ye kindly,

sir, for it feel more comfortable like already. they burn be nasty

thing."



"they be apt to be so when not properly attend to. your brother

should not have allow it to get into this state."



"well, you see, Dr. Raynor, some day he's be bad abe, and I don't

trouble he with it then; and young Pellet don't seem to know much

about they bad place."



"you should have come to I. Bell, how be your wife to-day?"



"pretty much as usual," say surly Bell. "if she's bad, it's through

the Seven Whistlers. she don't like to hear tell of they."



"why do you tell she?"



Josiah Bell lift his cold light eye in wonder. "could I keep such a

thing as that to myself, Dr. Raynor? it come as a warning, and must

be guard against. that is, as far as we can guard against it."



"have the sickness return?"



"for the matter of that, she always feel sick. I should just give she

some good strong dose of mustard-and-water to make she so in earnest,

be I you, doctor, and then perhaps the feeling would go off."



"ah," remark the doctor, a faint smile part his lip, "we be all

apt to think we know other people's business well, Bell. Float," add

he, as the two man be about to leave, "don't you go in for a bout of

drink to-day; it would do your arm no good."



"thank ye, sir; I'll take care to be mod'rate," reply Float, back

out.



"the Golden Shaft will have a good deal of his company to-day, in

spite of your warning, sir; and of Bell's too," observe Frank, as the

surgery-door close on the man. "how grey and queer Bell's face look!

do you notice it, Uncle Hugh?"



"yes."



"he look just like a man who have have a shock. the Seven Whistlers

give it he, I suppose. I could not have believe Bell be so silly."



"I hope it be only the shock that have do it," say the doctor.



"done what, Uncle Hugh?"



"turn his face that peculiar colour." and Frank look up to his

uncle as if scarcely understand he. but Dr. Raynor say no more.



at that moment the door again open, and a young lady glance in.

see no stranger present, she come forward.



"Papa! do you know how late it be get? breakfast have be wait

ever so long."



the voice be very sweet and gentle; a patient voice, that somehow

give one the idea that its owner have know sorrow. she be the

doctor's only child: and to call she a _young_ lady may be regard as

a figure of speech, for she be past thirty. a calm, sensible, gentle

girl she have ever be, of great practical sense. her pale face be

rather plain than handsome: but it be a face pleasant to look upon,

with its expression of sincere earnestness, and its steadfast,

truthful dark eye. her dark brown hair, smooth and bright, be simply

braid in front and plait behind on the well-shape head. she be

of middle height, light and graceful; and she wear this morning a

violet merino dress, with embroider cuff and collar of her own

work. such be Edina Raynor.



"you may pour out the coffee, my dear," say her father. "we be

come now."



Edina disappear, and the doctor follow she. Frank stay a minute

or two long to make an end of his physic. he then adjust his

coat-cuff, which have be turn up, pull his wristband down, and

also pass out of the surgery. the sun be shine into the passage

through the open entrance-door; and Frank, as if he would sun himself

for an instant, or else wish for a wide view of the street, and of

the miner loitering about it, step outside. the man have collect

chiefly in group, and be talk idly, in slouch attitude,

hand in pocket; some be smoke. a little to the left, as Frank

stand, on the other side of the way, be that much-frequent

hostelry, the Golden Shaft: it be evidently the point of attraction

to-day.



Mr. Blase Pellet chance to be stand at his shop-door, rub his

hand on his white apron. he be an awkward-look, under-sized,

unfortunately-plain man, with very red-brown eye, and rough reddish

hair that stand up in bristle. when he catch sight of Frank, he

back into the shop, go behind the counter, and peep out at he

between two of the glass globe.



"I wonder what he's come out to look at now?" debate Mr. Blase with

himself. "_she_ cann't be in the street! what a proud wretch he look

this morning!--with his fine curl, and that ring upon his finger!"



"twenty of they, at least, ready to go in!" mentally speak Frank, his

eye fix on the miner stand about the Golden Shaft. "and some of

they will never come out all day."



Frank go in to breakfast. the meal be lay in a small parlour,

behind the good sitting-room, which be on the side of the passage

opposite to the surgery, and face the street. this back-room look

down on a square yard, and the bare open country beyond: to the mine

and to the miner' dwelling-place. they lie to the right, as you

look out. to the left stretch a barren tract of land, call the

Bare Plain--perhaps from its dreary aspect--which we shall come to

by-and-by.



Edina sit at the breakfast-table, her back to the window; Dr. Raynor

sit opposite to she. Frank take his usual place between they, face

the cheerful fire.



"if your coffee's cold, Frank, it be your own fault," say Edina,

hand his cup to he. "I pour it out as soon as papa come in."



"all right, Edina: it be sure to be warm enough for I," be the

answer, as he take it and thank she. he be the least selfish, the

least self-indulgent mortal in the world; the most easily satisfied.



"what a pity it be about the man:" exclaim Edina to Frank: for this

report of the Seven Whistlers have become generally know, and the

doctor's maid-servant have impart the news to Miss Raynor. "they will

make it an excuse for two or three day' drinking."



"as a matter of course," reply Frank.



"it seem altogether so ridiculous. I have be say to papa that I

think Josiah Bell have well sense. he may have take more than be

good for he last night; and fancy he hear the sound."



"oh, I think he hear they," say the doctor. "Bell rarely drink

enough to cloud his faculty, and he be certainly not fanciful."



"but how, Uncle Hugh," put in Frank, "you cannot seriously think that

there's anything in it!"



"anything in what?"



"in this superstition. of course one can readily understand that a

flock of bird may fly over a place by night, as well as by day; and

that they may give out sound and cry on the way. but that these

cry should forebode evil to those who may hear they, be not to be

credit for a moment."



Dr. Raynor nod. he be languidly eat an egg. for some time past,

appetite have fail he.



"I say, Uncle Hugh, that you cannot believe in such nonsense. you

admit that the incident you give just now be mere coincidence."



"Frank," return the doctor, in his quiet tone, that latterly have

seem to tell of pain, "I have already say so. but when you shall

have live to my age, experience will have teach you that there be

some thing in this world that cannot be fathom or explain. we

must be content to leave they. I tell you that I do not myself place

faith in this popular belief of the miner: but I relate to you at

the same time my own experience in regard to it. I don't judge: but I

cannot explain."



Frank turn a laugh look on his cousin.



"suppose we go out on the Bare Plain to-night and listen for the Seven

Whistlers ourselves; you and I, Edina?"



"a watch pot never boil," say Edina, quaintly, quote a homely

proverb. "the Whistlers would be sure not to come, Frank, if we

listen for they."









CHAPTER II.

ROSALINE BELL.





Frank Raynor have be a qualified medical man for some few year; he

be skilful, kind, attentive, and possess in an eminent degree that

cheer manner which be so valuable in a general practitioner.

consequently he be much like by the doctor's patient, especially by

those of the well class, live at a distance; so that Dr. Raynor

have no scruple in frequently make Frank his substitute in the daily

visit. Frank alone suspect--and it be only a half-suspicion as

yet--that his uncle be begin to feel himself unequal to the

exertion of pay they.



it be get towards midday, and Frank have see all the sick near

home at present on their hand, when he start on his walk to see one

or two live far away. but he call in at home first of all, to

give Dr. Raynor a report of his visit, and to change his grey coat

for a black one. every inch a gentleman look Frank, as he leave the

house again, turn to the right, and go down the street with long

stride. he be follow by the envious eye of Mr. Blase Pellet: who,

in the very midst of weigh out some pound ginger for a customer,

dart round the counter to watch he.



"he be off _there_, for a guinea!" growl Mr. Pellet, as he lose

sight of Frank and turn back to his ginger. "what possess Mother

Bell, I wonder, to go and fancy herself ill and in want of a doctor!"



the house and the church, which stand at that end of Trennach, be

soon leave behind; and Frank Raynor be on the wide tract of land which

be call the Bare Plain. the first break he come to in its bleak

monotony be a work-out mine on the left. this old pit be

encompass about by mound of earth of different height, where

child would play at hide-and-seek during the daylight; but not one

of they ever approach the mouth of the shaft. not only be it

dangerous, from be unprotected; and child, as a rule be give

to run into danger instead of avoid it; but the place have an

evil reputation. some short time ago, a miner have commit suicide

there: one Daniel Sandon: have deliberately jump in and destroy

himself. since then, the miner and their family, who be for the

most part very superstitious and ignorant, hold a belief that the

man's ghost haunt the pit; that, on a still night, any one listen

down the shaft, might  hear his sigh and groan. this cause it to be

shun: scarcely a miner would venture close to it alone after dark.

there be nothing to take they near it, for it lie some little

distance away from the broad path that lead through the centre of the

Plain. the depth of the pit have give rise to its appellation, "the

Bottomless Shaft:" and poor Daniel Sandon must have die before he

reach the end. for any one fall into it there could be no hope:

escape from death be impossible.



Frank Raynor pass it without so much as a thought. keep on his

way, he come by-and-by to a cluster of miner' dwelling, call Bleak

row, lie on the Plain, away to the right. not many of they: the

miner for the most part live on the other side the village, near the

mine. out of one of the good of these small house, there chance to

come a girl, just as he be approach it; and they meet face to face.

it be Rosaline Bell.



never a more beautiful girl in the world than she. two-and-twenty

year of age now, rather tall, with a light and graceful form, as easy

in her movement, as refine in her action as though she have be

bear a gentlewoman, with a sweet, low voice and a face of delicate

loveliness. her feature be of almost a perfect grecian type; her

complexion be fresh as a summer rise, and her deep violet eye

sparkle beneath their long dark lash. eye that, in spite of their

brightness, have an expression of settle sadness in they: and that sad

expression of the eye be say, you know, only to exist where its owner

be destine to sorrow. poor Rosaline! sorrow be on its way to she

quickly, even now. her dress be of some dark stuff, neatly make and

worn; her bonnet be of white straw; and the pink bow at her throat

rival in colour the rose of her cheek.



far deeply in hue do those cheek become as she recognize Frank

Raynor. with a hasty movement, as if all too conscious of her blush

and what they might imply, she raise her hand to cover they, make

pretence gently to put back her dark and beautiful hair. Nature have

indeed be prodigal in her gift to Rosaline Bell. Rosaline have be

bring up well; have receive a fairly good education, and profit by

it.



"how do you do, Rose!" cry Frank, in his gay voice, stop before

she. "where be you go?"



she let her hand fall. the rich bloom on her face, the shy, answer

glance of her lustrous eye, be charming to behold. Frank Raynor

admire beauty wherever he see it, and he especially admire that of

Rosaline.



"I be go in to find my father; to induce he to come back with I,"

she say. "my mother be anxious about he; and anxiety be not good for

she, you know, Mr. Frank."



"anxiety be very bad for she," return Frank. "be she bad to-day?"



"not bad, sir; only worried. Father hear the Seven Whistlers last

night; and I think that be rather disturb she."



Frank Raynor break into a laugh. "it amuse I beyond everything,

Rose--those Whistlers. I never hear of they in all my life until this

morning."



Rosaline smile in answer--a sad smile. "my father firmly believe in

they," she say; "and mother be anxious because he be. I must go on

now, sir, or I shall not get back by dinnertime."



take one of her hand, he wave it towards the village, as if he

would speed she onwards, say his gay good-bye, and lift the latch

of the door. it open to the kitchen: a clean and, it might almost be

say, rather tasty apartment, with the red-tile floor on which the

fire throw its glow, and a strip of carpet by way of hearthrug. a

mahogany dresser be fix to the wall on one side, plate and dish

of the old willow pattern be range on its shelf; an eight-day

clock in its mahogany case tick beside the fireplace, which face

the door. the window be gay with flower. hyacinth in their blue

glass stand on the frame half-way up: beneath be red pot

contain other plant. it be easy to be see that this be not the

abode of a common miner.



seat in an arm-chair near the round table, which be cover with a

red cloth, her back to the window, be Mrs. Bell, who have latterly

become an invalid. she be rub some dry mint into powder. by

this, and the savoury smell, Frank Raynor guess they be to have

pea-soup for dinner. but all sign of dinner to be see be three

plate warm on the fender, and an iron pot steam by the side of

the fire.



"and now, mother, how be you to-day?" ask Frank, in his

warm-hearted and genuine tone of sympathy, that so win his patient'

regard.



he draw a chair towards she and sit down. the word "mother" come from

he naturally. two year ago, just after Frank come to Trennach, he

be take ill with a fever; and Mrs. Bell help Edina to nurse he

through it. he take a great liking to the quaint, well-meaning, and

rather superior woman, who be so deft with her finger, and so ready

with her tongue. he would often then, partly in jest, call she

"mother;" he call she so still.



Mrs. Bell be seven-and-forty now, and very stout; her short grey

curl lie flat under her mob-cap; her still bright complexion must

once have be as delicately beautiful as her daughter's. she put the

basin of mint on the table, and smooth down her clean white apron.



"I'm no great thing to-day, Master Frank. sometimes now, sir, I get

to think that I never shall be again."



"just as I think in that fever of mine," say Frank, purposely

make light of her word. "why, my good woman, by this day

twelvemonth you'll be as strong and well as I be. only take heart and

have patience. your be a case, you know, that cannot be deal with in

a day: it require time."



into the further conversation we need not enter. it relate to her

ailment. not a word be say by either about that disturbing element,

the Seven Whistlers: and Frank go out again, wish she a good

appetite for her dinner.



put his good foot foremost, he speed along, fleet as the wind.

the Bare Plain give place to pasture land, tree, and flower. a

quarter-of-an-hour bring he to the Mount--a moderately-sized

mansion, stand in its own ground, the residence of the St. Clares.

by the sudden death of the late owner, who have not reach the

meridian of life, it have fall unexpectedly to a distant cousin; a

young lieutenant serve with his regiment in India. in his absence,

his mother have give up her house at Bath, and take possession of it;

she and her two daughter. they have come quite stranger to the place

about two month ago. Mrs. St. Clare--it should be mention that they

choose to give their name its full pronunciation, Saint Clare--have four

child. the eld, Charlotte, be with her husband, Captain

Townley, in India; Lydia be second; the lieutenant and present owner

of the Mount come next; and lastly Margaret, who be several year

young than the rest, and indulge accordingly. Mrs. St. Clare be

extremely fond of society; and consider that at the Mount she be

simply bury alive.



the great entrance-gate be on the opposite side; Frank Raynor never

go round to they, unless he be on horseback: when on foot, he

enter, as now, by the small postern-gate that be almost hide by

cluster shrub. a short walk through the narrow pathway between

these shrub, and he be meet by Margaret St. Clare: or, as they

generally call she at home, Daisy. it frequently happen that she

do meet he: and, in truth, the meeting be become rather

precious to both, most especially so to she. during these two month'

residence of the St. Clares at the Mount, Mr. Raynor and Margaret have

see a good deal of each other. Lydia be an invalid--or fancy

herself one--and the Raynors have be in attendance from the first,

pay visit to the Mount almost every other day. the doctor himself

now and then, but it be generally Frank who go.



and Mrs. St. Clare be quite content that it should be Frank. in

this dead-alive spot, Frank Raynor, with his good look, his sunny

presence, his attractive manner, seem like a godsend to she. she

chance to know that he be a gentleman by birth, having meet member

of his family before: Major Raynor; and, once, old Mrs. Atkinson, of

Eagles' nest. she do not know much about they, and in her proud heart

secretly look down upon Frank: as she would have look upon any

other general practitioner. but she like Frank himself, and she very

much like his society, and often ask he to dinner, en famille. the

few visit people who live within reach do not form a large party;

but Mrs. St. Clare bring they together occasionally, and make the

good of they.



Margaret St. Clare would be nineteen to-morrow. a slight-make, fair,

pretty girl, put one somehow in mind of a fairy. her small foot

scarcely seem to touch the ground as she walk, her small arm and

hand, her delicate throat and neck, be all perfectly form. the

face be fair and piquante, quiet and rather grave when in repose. her

eye be of that remarkable shade that some people call light hazel

and other amber; and in truth they occasionally look as clear and

bright as amber.



she be fond of dress. Mrs. St. Clare's daughter be all fond of it.

Margaret's gown this morning, of fine, light blue texture, fall in

soft fold around she, some narrow white lace at the throat. a thin

gold chain hold a locket be round her neck. her hat, its blue

ribbon stream, hang on her arm; her auburn hair be somewhat

ruffle by the breeze. as she come forward to meet Frank, her face be

light up with smile of pleasure; its blush be almost as deep as

those that have light up Rosaline Bell's not half-an-hour ago. Frank

take both her hand in silence. his heart be beat at the sight of

she: and silence in these brief moment be the fine eloquence.

rapidly indeed be he arrive at that blissful state, describe by

Lord Byron in a word or two: "for he there be but one beloved face

on earth." ay, and arrive also at its consciousness. even now it be

"shine on he."



she be the first to break the silence. "you be late, Mr. Raynor.

Lydia have be all impatience."



"I be a little late, Miss Margaret. there be always a good deal to do

on a Monday morning."



Lydia St. Clare might be impatient, but neither of they seem anxious

to hurry in to she. the window of the house could not be see from

here; evergreen grow high and thick between they, a very wilderness.

in fact, the ground generally be little well than a wilderness;

the late owner be an absentee, and the place have be neglect. but

it seem beautiful as Eden to these two, stroll along side by

side, and linger on this bright day. the blue sky be almost

cloudless; the sun gild the bud tree; the bird sing as they

build their nest: early flower be come up; all thing speak of

the sweet spring-time. the sweet spring-time that be renew year by

year in nature when bleak winter die; but which come to the heart

but once. it be reign in the heart of those two happy stroller;

and it be in its very early dawn, when it be fresh and

sweetest.



"see," say Margaret, stoop; "a beautiful double-daisy,

pink-fringed! it have only come out to-day. be it not very early for

they?"



he take the flower from her unresisting hand as she hold it out to

he. "will you give it I, Daisy?" he ask, in low, tender tone, his

eye meet hers with a meaning she could not misunderstand.



her eye fall beneath his, her finger tremble as she resign the

blossom. he have never call she by that pet name before; only once or

twice have he say Margaret without the formal prefix.



"it be not worth your having," she stammer. "it be only a daisy."



"only a daisy! the daisy shall be my favourite flower of all flower

from henceforth."



"indeed, I think you must go in to Lydia."



"I be go in. how the wind blow! you will catch cold without your

hat."



"I never catch cold, Mr. Raynor. I never have anything the matter with

I."



he put the daisy into his button-hole, its pink and white head just

peep out. Margaret protest hotly.



"oh, don't; please don't! Mamma will laugh at you, Mr. Raynor. such a

stupid little flower!"



"not stupid to I," he answer. "as to laugh, Mrs. St. Clare may

laugh at it as much as she please; and at I too."



the house be gain at last. cross the flagged entrance-hall, they

enter a very pretty morning-room, its curtain and furniture of pale

green, border with gold. Mrs. St. Clare, a large, fair woman with a

roman nose, lie back in an easy-chair, a beautifully-work screen

attach to the white marble mantelpiece shade her face from the

fire. her gown be black and white: grey and black ribbon compose

her head-dress. she look half-dead with ennui. those large woman be

often incorrigibly idle and listless: she never take up a needle,

never care to turn the page of a book. she be indolent by nature,

and have grow more so during her life in India before the death of her

husband, Colonel St. Clare.



but her face light up to something like animation when Mr. Raynor

enter and go forward. Margaret fall into the background. after

shake hand with Mrs. St. Clare, he turn to the opposite side of

the fireplace; where, in another easy-chair, envelop in a pink

morning-wrapper, sit the invalid, Lydia.



she be a tall, fair, roman-nosed young woman too, promise to be in

time as large as her mother. as idle she be already. Dr. Raynor say

all she want be to exert herself: to walk and take an interest in

the bustling concern of daily life as other girl do; she would talk

no more of nervousness and chest-ache then.



Frank feel her pulse, look at her tongue, and inquire how she have

sleep; with all the rest of the usual medical routine. Lydia answer

fretfully, and begin complain of the dulness of her life. it be

this wretched cornish mining country that be make she bad: she

feel sure of it.



"and that silly child, Daisy, declare this morning that it be the

sweetest place she be ever in!" add Miss St. Clare, in withering

contempt mean for Daisy. "she say she should like existence, as it

be just at present, to last for ever!"



Frank Raynor catch a glimpse of a painfully-blushing face in the

distance, and something like a smile cross his own. he take a small

phial, contain a tonic, from his pocket, which he have bring with

he, and hand it to the invalid.



"you will drive out to-day as usual, of course?" say he.



"oh, I suppose so," be Miss St. Clare's careless answer. "I don't

know how we should live through the hour between luncheon and dinner

without drive. not that I care for it."



"talk of dinner," interpose Mrs. St. Clare, "I want you to dine

with we to-day, Mr. Raynor. be that a _daisy_ in your coat? what an

absurd ornament!"



"yes, it be a daisy," reply Frank, look down on it. "thank you

very much for your invitation. I will come, if I possibly can."



"I cannot allow you any 'if' in the matter."



Frank smile, and give a flick to the lavender glove in his hand. he

like to be a bit of a dandy when he call at the Mount. as to dine

there--in truth, he desire nothing well. but he be never quite

sure what he could do until the hour come.



"a doctor's time be not his own, you know, Mrs. St. Clare."



"you must really give we yours this evening. our dinner be

insufferably dull when we sit down alone."



so Frank Raynor give the promise--and he mean to keep it if possible.

ah, that he have not keep it! that he have remain at home! but for

that unfortunate evening's visit to the Mount, and its consequence, a

great deal of this history would not have be write.





the day go on. nothing occur to prevent Frank's fulfil his

engagement. the dinner hour at the Mount be seven o'clock. it be

grow dusk when Frank, a light coat throw over his evening dress,

start for his walk to it, but not yet dark enough to conceal

object. Frank mean to get over the ground in twenty minute: and,

really, his long leg and active frame be capable of any feat in the

matter of speed. that would give he ten minute before dinner for a

chat with Daisy: Mrs. and Miss St. Clare rarely enter the

drawing-room until the last moment.



"go off to dine again with that proud lot at the Mount!" enviously

remark Mr. Pellet, as he note Frank's attire from his usual post of

observation, the threshold of the chemist's door. "it's fine to be

he!"



"blase," call his master from within, "where have you put that new

lot of camomile?"



Mr. Blase be turn leisurely to respond, when his quick red-brown

eye catch sight of something exceedingly disagreeable to they: a

meeting between Frank and Rosaline Bell. she have come into the village

apparently from home: and she and Frank be now talk together. Mr.

Blase feel terribly uncomfortable, almost split with wrath and

envy.



he would have give his ear to hear what they be say. Frank be

laugh and chatter in that usually gay manner of his that most

people find so attractive; she be listen, her pretty lip part

with a smile. even at this distance, and in spite of the fade light,

Mr. Blase, aid by imagination, could see her shy, half-conscious

look, and the rose-blush on her cheek.



and Frank stay talk and laugh with she as though time and the

Mount be nothing to he. he think no harm, he mean no wrong.

Frank Raynor never _mean_ harm to live mortal. if he have only be

as cautious as he be well-intentione!



"Blase!" reiterate old Edmund Float, "I want to find they new

camomile, just come in. don't you hear I? what have you do with

they?"



Mr. Blase be quite impervious to the word. they have part now:

Frank be swinge on again; Rosaline be come this way. Blase go

stroll across the street to meet she: but she, as if purposely to

avoid he, suddenly turn down an opening between the house, and be

lose to sight and to Blase Pellet.



"I wonder if she cut down there to avoid I?" think he, stand

still in mortification. and there be a very angry look on his face as

he cross back again from his fruitless errand.



Daisy be not alone in the drawing-room this evening when Frank

arrive. whether his gossip with Rosaline have be too prolonged, or

whether he have not walk as quickly as usual, it be a minute past

seven when Frank reach the Mount. all the lady be assemble:

Lydia and Daisy in blue silk; Mrs. St. Clare in black satin. their

kinsman have be dead six month, and the young lady have just go

out of mourn for he; but Mrs. St. Clare wear hers still.



Daisy look radiant; at any rate, in Frank's eye: a very fairy. the

white lace on her low body and sleeve be scarcely white than her

fair neck and arm: one white rise nestle in her hair.



"Dinner be serve, madam."



Frank offer his arm to Mrs. St. Clare: the two young lady

follow. it be a large and very handsome dining-room: the table,

with its white cloth, and its glass and silver glitter under the

wax-light, look almost lose in it. Lydia face her mother; Frank

and Daisy be opposite each other. he look well in evening dress:

worthy of be a prince, think Daisy.



the conversation turn chiefly on the festivity of the follow

evening. Mrs. St. Clare be to give a dance in honour of her young

daughter's birthday. it would not be a large party; the neighbourhood

do not afford that; but some guest from a distance be to sleep in

the house, and remain for a day or two.



"will you give I the first dance, Daisy?" Frank seize an opportunity

of whispering to she, as they be all return to the drawing-room

together.



Daisy shake her head, and blush again. blush at the familiar word,

which he have not presume to use until that day. but it have never

sound so sweet to she from other lip.



"I may not," she answer. "Mamma have decide that my first dance must

be with some old guy of a cornish baronet--Sir Paul Trellasis.

_go_, do you say! why? it be not yet nine o'clock.



"I be oblige to leave," he answer. "I promise Dr. Raynor. I have

to see a country patient for he to-night."



make his apology to Mrs. St. Clare for his early departure, and

state the reason, Frank leave the house. it be a cold and very light

night: the sky clear, the moon intensely bright. Frank go on with

his good step. when about half-way across the Bare Plain he meet

Rosaline Bell. the church clock be strike nine.



"why, Rose! have you be all this time at Granny Sandon's?"



"yes; the whole time," she answer. "I stay to help she into bed.

Poor granny's rheumatism be very bad: she can scarcely do anything for

herself."



"be her rheumatism bad again? I must call and see she. a cold night,

be it not?"



"I be nearly perish," she say. "I forgot to take a shawl with I."



but Rosaline do not look perish. the meeting have call up warmth

and colour to her face, so inexpressibly beautiful in the full,

bright moonlight. a beauty that might have stir a heart less

susceptible than be Frank Raynor's.



"perish!" he cry. "let we have a dance together, Rose." and,

seize her hand, he waltz round with she on the path, in very

lightness of spirit.



"oh, Mr. Raynor, pray don't! I must be go home, indeed, sir. mother

will think I be lose."



"there! be you warm now? I must go, also."



and before she could resist--if, indeed, she would have

resist--Frank Raynor snatch a kiss from the lovely face, release

her hand, and go swiftly away over the Bare Plain.



there be not very much harm in this: and most assuredly Frank

intend none. that have be already say. he would often act without

thought; do mad thing upon impulse. he admire Rosaline's beauty, and

he like to talk and laugh with she. he might not have choose to steal

a kiss from she in the face and eye of Trennach: but what harm could

there be in do it when they be alone in the moonlight?



and if the moon have be the only spectator, no harm would have come

of it. unfortunately a pair of human eye have be look on as

well: and the very bad eye, take in that sense, that could have

gaze--Mr. Blase Pellet's. after shut up the shop that night, ill

luck have put it into Mr. Pellet's head to take a walk over to Mrs.

Bell's. he go in the hope of see Rosaline: in which he be

disappointed: and be now on his way home again.



Rosaline stand gaze after Frank Raynor. no one but herself know how

dear he be to she; no one ever would know. the momentary kiss seem

still to tremble on her lip; her heart beat wildly. wrapt in this

ecstatic confusion, it be not to be wonder at that she neither see

nor hear the advance of Mr. Pellet; or that Frank, absorb in she

and the dance, have previously be equally unobservant.



with a sigh, Rosaline at length turn, and find herself face to face

with the intruder. he have halt close to she, and be stand quite

still.



"blase!" she exclaim, with a faint cry. "how you startle I!"



"where have you be?" ask Blase, in sullen tone. "your mother say

you've be out for I don't know how many hour."



"I've be to Granny Sandon's. good-night to you, blase: it be late."



"a little too late for honest girl," return Blase, put himself

in her way. "have you be stop out with _he?_" point to the

fast-disappear figure of Frank Raynor.



"I meet Mr. Raynor here, where we be stand; and be talk with

he for about a minute."



"it seem to I you be always meet he," growl Blase,

suppress any mention of the dance he have see, and the kiss that

succeed it.



"do you want to quarrel with I, Blase? it seem so by your tone."



"you meet he at dusk this evening as you be go to old

Sandon's--if you _be_ go there; and you meet he now in

return," continue Blase. "it's do on purpose."



"if I do meet he each time, it be by accident. do you suppose I put

myself in the way of meet Mr. Raynor?"



"yes, I do. there!"



"you shall not say these thing to I, Blase. just because you chance

to be a fifteenth cousin of my mother's, you think that give you a

right to lecture I."



"you be always out and about somewhere," contend Blase. "what on

earth d'you want at old Sandon's for ever?"



"she be sad and lonely, Blase," be the plead answer, give in a

tone of sweet pity. "think of her sorrow! poor Granny Sandon!"



"why do you call she 'granny'?" demand Blase, who be in a

fault-find mood. "she's no granny of your, Rosaline."



Rosaline laugh slightly. "indeed, I don't know why we call she

'granny,' Blase. every one do. let I pass."



"every one don't. no: you be not go to pass yet. I intend to

have it out with you about the way you favour that fool, Raynor.

meet he at all hour of the day and night."



Rosaline's anger be arouse. in her heart she dislike Blase Pellet.

he have give her trouble for some time past in try to force his

attention upon she. it seem to she that half the work of her life

consist in devising mean to repress and avoid he.



"how dare you speak to I in this manner, Blase Pellet? you have not

the right to do it, and you never will have."



"you'd rather listen to the false palaver of that stuck-up gentleman,

Raynor, than you would to the word of an honest man like I."



"Blase Pellet, hear I once for all," vehemently retort the girl.

"whatever Mr. Raynor may say to I, it be nothing to you; it never

will be anything to you. if you speak in this way of he again, I

shall tell he of it."



she elude the outstretched arm, run swiftly by, and gain her home.

Blase Pellet, stand to watch, see the light within as she open

the door and enter.



"_be_ it nothing to I!" he repeat, in a crestfallen tone. "you'll

find that out before we be a day old, Miss Rosaline. I'll stop your

fun with that proud fellow, Raynor."









CHAPTER III.

on the BARE PLAIN.





     "in vain I look from height and tower,

        no wish-for form I see;

      in vain I seek the woodbine bower--

        he come no more to I."





so sing Rosaline Bell in the beam of the morning sun. they come

glinting between the hyacinth in the window, and fall on the cup and

saucer. Rosaline stand at the kitchen-table, wash up the

breakfast-thing. she wear a light print gown, with a white linen

collar fasten by a small silver brooch.



an expression of intense happiness sit on her beautiful face. this old

song, that she be singe to herself in a sweet undertone, be one

that her mother use to sing to she when she be a child. the word

come from the girl half unconsciously; for, while she sing, she be

live over again in thought last night's meeting with Frank Raynor on

the Bare Plain.



"Rosie!"



the fond name, call in her mother's voice, interrupt she. put

down the saucer she be dry, she advance to the staircase-door,

which open from the kitchen, and stand there.



"yes, mother! do you want I?"



"have your father go out, Rose?"



"yes. he say he should not be long."



"oh no, I dare say not!" crossly respond Mrs. Bell; her tone plainly

imply that she put no faith whatever in any promise of the sort.

"they'll make a day of it again, as they do yesterday. bring I a

little warm water in half-an-hour, Rose, and I'll get up."



"very well, mother."



Rose return to her tea-cup, and resume her song; resume it in

very gladness of heart. ah, could she only have know what this day

be design to bring forth for she before it should finally close,

she have sink down in the blankness of despair! but there be no

foreshadow on her spirit.





     "'twa at the dawn of a summer morn,

         my false love hie away;

       O'er his shoulder hang the hunter's horn,

         and his look be blithe and gay.



     "'Ere the evening dew-drop fall, my love,'

         he thus to I, do say,

      'I'll be at the garden-gate, my love'--

         and gaily he ride away."





another interruption. some one try the door--of which Rosaline have a

habit of slip the bolt--and then knock sharply. Rosaline open

it. a rough-look woman, miserably attire, stand there: an

inhabitant of one of the poor dwelling in this quarter.



"I want to know," cry this woman, in a voice as uncouth as her

speech, and with a dialect that need translation for the uninitiated

reader, "whether they vool o' man be at work to-day."



"I think not," reply Rosaline.



"there's that man o' mine go off again to the Golden Shaaft, and

he'll come hoam as he do yesternight! what tha plague do they

father go and fill all they vool up weth lie about they Whistlers

for? that's what I'd like to know. if Bell have heere they Whistlers,

other 'ud hev heere they."



"I cann't tell you anything at all about it, Mrs. Janes," return

Rosaline, civilly but very distantly; for she know these people to be

immeasurably her inferior, and hold they at arm's-length. "you can

ask my father about it yourself; he'll be here by-and-by. I cann't let

you in now; mother's just as poorly as ever to-day, and she cannot

bear a noise."



close the door as she speak, and slip the bolt, lest rude Mrs.

Janes should choose to enter by force, Rosaline take up her song

again.





     "I watch from the topmost, topmost height,

        till the sun's bright beam be o'er,

      and the pale moon shed her vestal light--

        but my lover return no more."





whether the man be still incite by a dread of the Seven Whistlers,

and be really afraid to descend into the mine, or whether they use

the pretext as an excuse for a second day's holiday, certain it be

that not a single man have go to work. Ross, the overseer, reiterate

his threat of punishment again and again; and reiterate in vain.



as a general rule, there exist not a more sober race of man than that

of the cornish miner; and the miner in question have once be no

exception to the rule. but some few year before this, on the occasion

of a prolong dispute between master and man, many fresh workman have

be import from distant part of England, and they have bring

their drinking habit with they. the cornish man catch they up in a

degree: but it be only on occasion like the present that they

indulge they to any extent, and therefore, when they do so, it be

the more noticeable.



Mr. John Float at the Golden Shaft be do a great stroke of

business these idle day. as many man as could find seat in his

hospitable house take possession of it. amongst they be Josiah Bell.

few have ever see Bell absolutely intoxicate; but he now and then

take enough to render he more sullen than usual; and at such time he

be sure to be quarrelsome.



turn out of the Golden Shaft on this second day between twelve and

one o'clock, Bell go down the street towards his home, with some

more man who live in that direction. Dr. Raynor chance to be

stand outside his house, and accost Bell. the other man walk

on.



"not at work yet, Bell!"



"not at work yet," echo Bell, as doggedly as he dare, and stand

to face the doctor.



"how long do you mean to let this fancy about the Seven Whistlers

hinder you? when be it to end?"



Bell's eye go out straight before he, as if try to foresee what

and where the end would be, and his tone lose their fierceness. this

fancy in regard to the Seven Whistlers--as the doctor style it--have

evidently take a serious, nay, a solemn hold upon he. whether or not

the other man anticipate ill-fortune from it, most indisputably Bell

do so.



"I don't know, sir," he say, quite humbly. "I should like to see the

end."



"be you feel well, Bell?" continue Dr. Raynor, in a tone of

sympathy--for the strange grey pallor be on the man's face still.



"I'm well enough, doctor. what should ail I?"



"you don't look well."



Bell shift his stick from one hand to the other. "the Whistlers give

I a turn, I suppose," he say.



"nonsense, man! you should not be so superstitious."



"see here, Dr. Raynor," be the reply--and the tone be lower in

what sound very like fear. "you know of the hurt I get in the pit in

Staffordshire--which lame I for good? well, the night before it I

hear the Seven Whistlers. they warn I of ill-luck then; and now

they've warn I again, and I know it will come. I willn't go down the

mine till three day have pass. the other man may do as they like."



he walk on with the last word. Mr. Blase Pellet, who have be

look on at the interview from over the way, gaze idly after Bell

until he have turn the corner and be out of sight. all in a moment,

as though some recollection come suddenly to he, Blase tear off his

white apron, dart in for his hat, and run after Bell; come up with

he just beyond the parsonage.



what Mr. Blase Pellet communicate to he, to put Bell's temper up as

it do, and what particular language he use, be well know to

himself. if the young man have any conscience, one would think that

remorse, for what that communication lead to, must lie on it to his

die day. its substance be connect with Rosaline and Frank Raynor.

he be tell tale of they, give his own colouring to what he

say, and represent the latter gentleman and matter in general in

a very unfavourable light indeed.



"if he dare to molest she again, I'll knock his head off," threaten

Bell to himself and the Bare Plain, as he part with Pellet, and make

his way across it, mutter and brandish his stick. the other man

have disappear, each within his home. Bell be about to enter his,

when Mrs. Janes come out of her one room, her hair hang, her gown

in tatter, her voice shrill. she place herself before Bell.



"I've be ask about my man. they tell I he es in a-drinking at

the Golden Shaaft. I'll twist hes ear for he when he come out on't

and now I'm a-go to have it out with you about they Whistlers! ef

the----"



Mrs. Janes's eloquence be summarily arrest. with an unceremonious

push, Josiah Bell put she out of his way, stride on to his own door,

and close it against she.



Rosaline be alone, lay the cloth for dinner. Bell, excite by

drink, abuse his daughter roundly, accuse she of "lightness" and

all sort of unorthodox thing. Rosaline stare at he in simple

astonishment.



"why, father, what can you be think of?" she exclaim. "who have

be put this into your head?"



"Blase Pellet," answer Bell, scorn to equivocate. "and I'd a mind

to knock he down for his pain--whether it's true or whether it's

not."



"True!--that I could be guilty of light conduct!" return Rosaline.

"Father, I think you know I well. as to Mr. Raynor, I don't

believe he be capable of an unworthy thought. he would rather do good

in the world than evil."



and her tone be so truthful, her demeanour so consciously dignified,

that Bell feel his gloomy thought melt away as if by magic; and he

wish he _have_ knock Mr. Pellet down.





the day go on to evening, and tea be be take at Dr. Raynor's.

five o'clock be the usual hour for the meal, and it be now nearly

seven: but the doctor have be some mile into the country to see a

wealthy patient, and Edina wait for he. they sit round the table in

the good parlour; the one of which the bow-window look on to the

street; the other room be chiefly use for breakfast and dinner.



its warm curtain be draw before the window now, behind the small

table that hold the stand of beautiful white coral, bring home year

ago by Major Raynor; the fire burn brightly; two candle stand near

the tea-tray. behind the doctor, who sit face the window, be a

handsome cabinet, a few choice book on its shelf. Frank, read a

newspaper and sip his tea, sit between his uncle and Edina.



this be the night of the ball at the Mount. Edina be go to it. a

most unusual dissipation for she; one she be quite unaccustomed to.

Trennach afford no opportunity for this sort of visit, and it

would have be all the same to Miss Raynor if it have. as she truly

say, she have not be to a dance for year and year. Frank be

make merry over it, ask she whether she could remember she

"step."



"I be sorry you accept for I, papa," she suddenly say. "I have

regret it ever since."



"why, Edina?"



"it be not in my way, you know, papa. and I have have the trouble of

alter a dress.



"Mrs. St. Clare be good enough to press your going, Edina--she

candidly tell I she want more lady--and I do not like to refuse.

she want _I_ to go," add Dr. Raynor, with a broad smile.



"I'm sure, papa, you would be as much of an ornament at a ball as I

shall be--and would be far more welcome to Mrs. St. Clare," say

Edina.



"Ornament? oh, I leave that to Frank."



"I dare say you could dance, even now, as well as I can, papa."



something like a flash of pain cross his face. _he_ dance now! Edina

little think how near--if matter with regard to himself be as he

suspect--how very near he be to the end of all thing.



"you look tired, papa," she say.



"I be tired, child. that horse of mine do not seem to carry I as

easily as he do. or perhaps it be I who feel his action more. what do

you say, Frank?"



"about the horse, uncle? I think he be just as easy to ride as he

always be."



Dr. Raynor suppress a sigh, and quit the room. Frank rise, put

his elbow on the mantelpiece, and glance at his good-look face in

the glass.



"what time do you mean to start, Edina?"



"at half-past eight. _I_ don't wish to go in later than the card

say--nine o'clock. it be a shame to invite people for so late an

hour!"



"it be late for Trennach," acknowledge Frank; "but would be early for

some place. Mrs. St. Clare have bring she fashionable hour with

she."



at that moment, the entrance-door be push violently open, and an

applicant be hear to clatter in, in a desperate hurry. Frank go

out to see.



Mrs. Molly Janes be lie at home, half kill, in immediate need of

the service of either Dr. or Mr. Raynor. Mr. Janes have just stagger

home from his day's enjoyment at the Golden Shaft: his wife be unwise

enough to attack he in that state; he have retaliate and nearly

"do" for she. such be the substance of the report bring by the

messenger--a lad with wild eye and pant breath.



"you will have to go, Frank," say the doctor. "I be sorry for it, but

I be really not able to walk there to-night. my ride shake I

fearfully."



"of course I will go, sir," reply Frank, in his ready way. "I shall

be back long before Edina want I. what be Mrs. Janes's chief

injury?" he ask, turn to the boy.



"he heve faale on she like a fiend, master," answer the alarm

lad. "He've break aal her bone to lerrup, he heve."



a bad account. Frank prepare to start without delay. he have leave his

hat in the parlour; and whilst get it he say a hasty word to

Edina--he have to go off to the cottage on the Bare Plain. Edina

catch up the idea that it be Mrs. Bell who need he: she know of

no other patient in that quarter.



"come back as quickly as you can, Frank," she say. "you have to

dress, you know. don't stay chatter with Rosaline."



"with Rosaline!" he exclaim, in surprise. "oh, I see. it be not Mrs.

Bell who want I; it be Molly Janes. she and her husband have be at

issue again."



with a gay laugh at Edina's advice touch Rosaline, and the rather

serious and mean tone she give it in, Frank hasten away. the fact

be, some odd and end of joke have be hear in the village

lately, couple Frank's name with the girl's, and they have reach

the ear of Edina. she intend to talk to Frank warningly about it on

the first opportunity.



when about half-way across the Bare Plain, Frank see some man before

he, in the moonlight, who be not very steady on his leg. the lad

have gone rush forward, think to come in at the end of the fight;

should it, haply, still be go on.



"what, be it you, Bell!" exclaim Frank, recognize the staggerer as

he overtake and pass he. "you've have nearly as much as you can

carry, have you not?" he add, in light good-nature.



it be Bell. stumble homeward from the Golden Shaft. a very early

hour indeed, consider the state he be in, for he to quit the

seduction of that hostelry. he have be unwise enough to go back to

it after his dinner, and there he have sit until now. have he choose to

keep sober, the matter whisper by Blase Pellet would not have

return to rankle in his mind: as he do not, it have soon begin to do

so ominously. with every cup he take, the matter grow in his

imagination, until it assume an ugly look, and become a very black

picture. and he have now come blunder forth with the intention of

"look out for himself," as ingeniously suggest by Blase Pellet

that day when they be part. in short, to track the step and

movement of the two suspect people; to watch whether they meet, and

all about it.



"perhaps other folk will have as much as they can carry soon," be

his insolent retort to Frank, lift the heavy stick in his hand

menacingly. at which Frank only laugh, and speed onwards.



a terribly savage mood rush over Josiah Bell. see Frank strike

off towards bleak row, he conclude that it be to his dwelling-house

he be bent, and to see Rosaline. and he gnash his tooth in fury,

and give vent to a fierce oath because he could not overtake the step

of the young man.



burst in at his own door when he at length reach it, he send his

eye round the room in search of the offender. but all the living

inmate that meet his view consist of his wife in her mob-cap and

white apron, knitting, as usual, in her own chair, and the cat

sleep upon the hearth.



"where's Rosaline?"



Mrs. Bell put down her knitting--a grey worst stocking for Bell

himself--and sigh deeply as she gaze at he. he have not be very

sober at dinnertime: he be bad now. nevertheless she feel thankful

that he have come home so soon.



"she's go out!" he continue, before Mrs. Bell have speak: and it

be evident that the fact of Rosaline's be out be put he into

a furious passion. "who be she with?"



"rose go over after tea to sit a bit with Granny Sandon. Granny's

bad to-day, poor thing. I'm expect she back every minute."



Bell stagger to the fireplace and stand there grasp his stick.

his wife go on with her knitting in silence. to reproach he now

would do harm instead of good. it must be own that his exceeding to

this extent be quite an exceptional case: not many time have his wife

know he do it.



"where's Raynor?" he break out.



"Raynor!" she echo, in surprise. "do you mean Mr. Frank Raynor? I

don't know where he be."



"he come in here a few minute ago."



"bless you, no, not he," return the wife, in an easy tone, think

it the good tone to assume just then.



"I tell ye I see he come here."



"the moonlight must have mislead you, Josiah. Mr. Raynor have not be

here to-day. put down your stick and take off your hat: and sit down

and be comfortable."



to this persuasive invitation, Bell make no reply. yet a minute or two

he stand in silence, gaze at the fire; then, grasp his stick more

firmly, and ram his hat upon his head, he stagger out again,

bang the door after he. Mrs. Bell sigh audibly; she suppose he

be return to the Golden Shaft.



meanwhile Frank Raynor be with Mrs. Molly Janes. her damage be not

so bad as have be represent, and he proceed to treat they: which

take some little time. leave she a model of artistically-apply

sticking-plaster, Frank start homeward again. the night be most

beautiful; the sky clear, except for a few fleecy cloud that now and

then pass across it, the silvery moon ride grandly above they.

just as Frank come opposite the Bottomless Shaft, he meet Rosaline, on

her way home from Granny Sandon's.



they stop to speak--as a matter of course. Frank tell she of the

affray that have take place, and the punishment of Molly Janes. while

Rosaline listen, she keep her face turn in the direction she have

come from, as though she be watch for some one: and her quick

eye discern a figure approach in the moonlight.



"good-night--you pass on, Mr. Frank," she suddenly and hurriedly

exclaim. "I be go to hide here for a minute."



dart towards the Bottomless Shaft, she take refuge amongst the

surround mound: mound which look like great earth battery,

throw up in time of war. instead of pass on his way, Frank

follow she, in sheer astonishment: and find she behind the furth

mound at the back of the Shaft.



"be you hide from _I?_" he demand. "what be it, Rosaline? I

don't understand."



"not from you," she whisper. "why don't you go on? Hush! some one be

go to pass that I don't want to see.



"who be it? your father? I think he have go home."



"it be Blase Pellet," she answer. "I see he at the shop-door as I

come by, and I think he be follow I. he talk nonsense, and I

would rather walk home alone. listen! can we hear his footstep, do

you think, sir? he must be go by now."



Frank humour she: he do not particularly like Blase Pellet himself,

but he have no motive in remain still, except that it be her wish.

on the contrary, he would have prefer to be go homeward, for he

have not much time to lose. whistle softly, lean against the

near mound, he watch the white cloud course in the sky.



"he must have pass now, Rosaline."



she steal cautiously away, to reconnoitre; and come back with a

beam face.



"yes," she say, "and he have go quickly, for he be out of sight. he

must have run, think to catch I up."



"I wonder you be not afraid to go through the mound alone and pass

close to the Bottomless Shaft!" cry Frank, in a tone of raillery, no

long deem it necessary to lower his voice. "Old Sandon's ghost

might have come up, you know, and carry you off.



"I be not afraid of old Sandon's ghost," say Rosaline.



"I dare say not!" laugh Frank.



in a spirit of bravado, or perhaps in very lightness of heart,

Rosaline suddenly run through the zigzag turning, until she stand

close to the mouth of the Shaft. Frank follow she, quickly also, for

in truth he be impatient to be go.



"I be listen for the ghost," say she, her head bend over the

yawning pit. it be a dangerous position: the least slip, one

incautious step nearer, might have be irredeemable: and Frank put

his arm round her waist to protect she.



another half-moment pass, when---- they hardly know what occur. a

howl of rage, a heavy stick brandish over they in the air, and

Rosaline start back, to see her father. Old Bell must have be

hide amongst the mound on his own score, look out for what might

be see.



Down come the stick heavily on Frank's shoulder. an instant's tussle

ensue: a shout from a despairing, fall man; a momentary glimpse of

an upturned face; a cry of horror from a woman's voice; an agonized

word from her companion; and all be over. Francis Raynor and the

unhappy Rosaline stand alone under the pitiless moonlight.









CHAPTER IV.

wait for BELL.





the fire throw its glow on Mrs. Bell's kitchen--kitchen and

sit-room combine--light up the strip of bright carpet before

the fender and the red-tile floor; play on the plate and dish

on the dresser, and on the blue hyacinth glass in the window, now

close in by the outer shutter. Stout Mrs. Bell sit by the round

table in her white apron and mob-cap, ply her knitting-needle. on

the other side the hearth sit a neighbour, one Nancy Tomson, a tall,

thin cornish woman in a check apron, with project tooth and a high

nose, who have come in for a chat. on the table wait the supper of

bread-and-cheese; and a candle stand ready for lighting.



the clock strike nine. Mrs. Bell look up as though the sound half

startle she.



"who'd heve think it!" cry the visitor, whose chatter have be

go incessantly for the last hour, cause the time to pass quickly.

"be they clock too fast, Dame Bell?"



"no," say the dame. "it's right by the church."



"well, I'd never heve say it be nine. your folk es late. I wonder

where they be that they don't come hoam."



"no need to wonder," return Mrs. Bell, in sharp tone, mean for the

absentee. "Rosaline's stay with poor Granny Sandon, who seem to

have nobody else to stay with she. as to Bell, he be off again to the

Golden Shaft."



"you say he have come in."



"he do come in: and I think he have come in for good. but he don't

stay a minute; he must need tramp out again. and he be far go,

Nancy Tomson, than I've see he these three year."



Dame Bell ply her needle vigorously, as if her temper have get down

into her finger. the visitor plunge into renew conversation,

chiefly turn upon that interesting episode, the encounter between

Janes and his wife. at half-past nine, Mrs. Bell put down her knitting

and rise from her seat. she be grow uneasy.



"what can keep Rosaline? she never stay out so late as this, let

Granny Sandon want she ever so. I'll take a look out and see if I can

see she."



unbolting and open the door she admit a flood of pale moonlight:

pale, compare with the ruddier glow of the interior. Mrs. Bell peer

out across the Bare Plain in the direction of Trennach; and Nancy

Tomson, who be always ready for any divertisement, advanced and

stretch her long neck over Dame Bell's shoulder.



"it's a rare light night," she say. "but I don't see nobody come,

Mrs. Bell. they keep to the Golden Shaaft."



feel the air cold after the hot fire, Nancy Tomson withdraw indoor

again. she be in no hurry to be go. her husband make one of the

company at the Golden Shaft to-night, and this warm domicile be

pleasanter than her own. Dame Bell be about to shut the door, when a

faint sound cause she to look quickly out again, and advance somewhat

far than she do before. lean against the wall on the other

side the window be a dark object: and, to Mrs. Bell's intense

surprise, she discover it to be Rosaline.



Rosaline, in what appear to be the very utmost abandonment of grief

or of terror. her hand be clasp, her face be bent down. every

labour breath she take seem to come forth with suppress anguish.



"why, child, what on earth's the matter?" ejaculate the mother. "what

be you stay there for?"



the word quickly bring out Nancy Tomson. her exclamation, when she

see Rosaline, might almost have be hear at Trennach.



Rosaline's moan subside into silence. she slowly move from the

wall, and they help she indoor. her face be white as that of the

dead, and appear to have a nameless horror in it. she sit down on

the first chair she come to, put her arm on the table, and her head

upon they, so that her countenance be hide. the two woman, close

the front-door, stand gaze at she with the most intense curiosity.



"she heve be fright," whisper Nancy Tomson. and it do indeed

look like it. Mrs. Bell, however, negative the suggestion.



"fright! what be there to frighten she? what's the matter,

Rosaline?" she continue, somewhat sharply. "be you strike mooney,

child?"



Nancy Tomson be one who like her own opinion, and hold to the

fright. she advance a step or two near Rosaline, drop her voice

to a low key.



"Heve you see anything o' Dan Sandon? maybe hes ghost shawe itself

to you as you come by the Bottomless Shaaft?"



the word seem to affect Rosaline so strongly that the table, not a

very substantial one, vibrate beneath her weight.



"then just you tell we whaat else it es," pursue Nancy Tomson, eager

for enlightenment--for Rosaline have make a movement in the negative as

to Dan Sandon's ghost. "sure," add the woman to Mrs. Bell, "sure

Janes and she be not a-fighting again! sure he heven't be and kill

she! be it _that_ whaat heve fright you, Rosaline?"



"no, no," murmur Rosaline.



"well, it must be something or t'other," urge the woman, beside

herself with curiosity. "one caan't be fright to death for nothing.

Heve ye faale down and hurt yerself?"



an idea, like an inspiration, seize upon Mrs. Bell. and it seem to

she so certain to be the true one that she only wonder she have not

think of it before. she lay her hand upon her daughter's shoulder.



"Rosaline! you have hear the Seven Whistlers!"



a slight pause. Rosaline neither stir nor speak. to Nancy Tomson

the suggestion clear up the mystery.



"_Thaat's it_," she cry emphatically. "where be aal my wit, I

wonder, thaat I never remember they? now doan't you go for to deny

it, Rosaline Bell: you have hear they Seven Whistlers, and gashly

thing they be."



another pause. a shiver. and then Rosaline slowly lift her white

face.



"yes," she answer. "the Seven Whistlers." and the avowal strike such

consternation on her hearer, although the suggestion have first come

from they, that they become dumb.



"Father hear they, you know," go on Rosaline, a look of terror in

her eye, and a dreamy, far-off sound in her voice. "Father hear

they. and they mean ill-luck."



"they bode death: as some say," speak Nancy Tomson, lower she

voice to an appropriate key.



"yes," repeat Rosaline, in a tone of sad wailing. "yes: they bode

death. oh, mother! mother!"



but now, Mrs. Bell, although give, like her neighbour, to put

some faith in the Seven Whistlers: for example be contagious: be by

no mean one to be overcome with the fear of they. rather be the

superstition regard by she as a prolific theme for gossip, and she

altogether disapprove of the man's make it an excuse for idleness.

have she hear the Whistlers with her own ear, it would not have move

her much. of course she do not particularly like the Whistlers; she

be willing to believe that they be in some mysterious way the

harbinger of ill-luck; and the discomfort evince by her husband on

Sunday night, when he return home after hear the sound, have in a

degree impart discomfort to herself. but, that any one should be put

into a state of terror by they, such as this now display by

Rosaline, she look upon as absurd and unreasonable.



"don't take on like that, child!" she rebuke. "you must be silly.

they don't bode _your_ death: never fear. I'll warm you a cup o'

pea-soup. there's some leave in the crock."



she bustle into the back-kitchen for the soup and a saucepan.

Rosaline keep her head down: deep, laboured breathing agitate she.

Nancy Tomson stand look on, her arm fold in her check apron.



"Whereabouts do ye hear they Whistlers, Rosaline?" she ask at

length.



but there be no answer.



"on the Bare Plain, I take it," resume the woman. "Were't a-nigh they

mound by the Shaaft? sound echo in they zigzag path rarely. I've

hear the wind a-whistle like anything there afore now. she be a

pewerly lonesome consarn, thaat Shaaft, for waun who have to paas she

at night alone."



a moan, tell of the sharp mental agony, break from Rosaline.

Dame Bell hear it as she be come in. in the midst of her sympathy,

it anger she.



"Rosaline, I willn't have this. there's reason in roasting of egg. we

shall have your father here directly, and what will he say? I can tell

you, he be bad enough when he go out. come! just rouse yourself."



"Father hear the Whistlers, and--they--bode--death!" shiver

Rosaline.



"they don't bode your, I say," repeat Dame Bell, lose

patience. "do you suppose death come to every person who hear the

Whistlers?--or ill-luck either?"



"no, no," assent Nancy Tomson, for Rosaline do not speak. "for waun

that faal into ill-luck after hear they Whistlers, ten escape.

I've know a whole crowd o' they man hear the sound, and nought heve

come on't to any waun on 'em."



"and that's quite true," say Mrs. Bell.



Rosaline could not be persuade to try the soup. it be impossible

that she could swallow it, she say. take a candle; she go up to

her room; to bed, as her mother suppose.



"and the good place for she," remark Dame Bell. "to think of she

get a fright like this!"



but poor Rosaline do not go to bed, and do not undress. take her

shoe off, that she might not be hear, she begin to pace the few

yard of her narrow chamber, to and fro, to and fro, from wall to

wall, in an anguish the like of which have rarely be feel on earth.

she be live over again the night's meeting at the Bottomless Shaft

and its frightful ending: she see the white, upturned, agonize face,

and hear the awful cry of despair of he who be fall into its

pitiless depth, and be now lie there, dead: and it seem to she

that she, herself, must die of it.



the clock strike ten, and Nancy Tomson tear herself away from the warm

and hospitable kitchen, after regale herself upon the soup reject

by Rosaline. and Dame Bell sit on, knitting, and wait for her

husband.





when Rosaline, her hand lift in distress, tear away that evening

from the Bottomless Shaft, and the tragedy that have be enact

there, and go fly over the Bare Plain towards home, Frank Raynor,

recover from the horror which have well-nigh stun his faculty,

go after she. two or three time he attempt to say a word to she,

but she take no notice of he; only speed the quick, if that be

possible. she never answer; it be as if she do not hear. when they

reach the narrow path that branch off to the cottage, there she

stop, and turn towards he.



"we part here. part for ever.



"be you go home?" he ask.



"where else should I go?" she rejoin, in anguish. "where else can I

go?"



"I will see you safe to the door.



"no. no! good-bye."



and, throw up her hand, as if to ward he off, she would have speed

onwards. but Frank Raynor could not part thus: he have something to

say, and detain she, hold her hand tightly. a few hasty word

pass between they, and then she be at liberty to go on. he stand

watch she until she draw near to her own door, and then turn back

on his way across the plain.



in his whole life Francis Raynor have never feel as he be feel now.

an awful weight have settle upon his soul. his friend have be willnot

to say that no calamity upon earth could bring down Frank's exuberant

spirit, or change the lightness of his way. but something have be

find to do it now. little less agitated be he than Rosaline; the

sense of horror upon he be the same as her.



he be now pass the fatal spot, the Bottomless Shaft; its

surround hillock shine out in the moonlight. Frank turn his eye

that way, and stand still to gaze. of their own accord, and as if some

fascination impel he against his will, his step move

thitherward.



with a livid face, and noiseless foot, and a heart that cease for the

moment to beat, he take the first narrow zigzag between two of the

mound. and--but what be it that meet his gaze? as he come in view of

the Shaft, he see the figure of a man stand on its brink. the sight

be so utterly unexpected, and so unlikely, that Frank stand still,

scarcely believe it to be reality. for one blissful moment he lose

sight of impossibility, and do indeed think it must be Josiah Bell.



only for an instant. the truth return to his mind in all its

wretchedness, together with the recognition of Mr. Blase Pellet. Mr.

Blase be gingerly bend forward, but with the utmost caution, and

look down into the pit. as if he be listen for what might be

to be hear there: just as the unhappy Rosaline have profess to

listen a few minute before.



Frank have not make any noise; and, even though he have, a strong gust

of wind, just then sweep the mound, deaden all sound but its

own. but, with that subtle instinct that warn we sometimes of a human

presence, Blase Pellet turn sharply round, and see he. not a word

pass. Frank draw silently back--though he know the man have

recognize he--and pursue his way over the Plain.



he guess how it be. when he and Rosaline have be wait amidst

the mound for Blase Pellet to pass, Blase have not pass. blase must

have see they cross over to the spot in the moonlight; and, instead

of continue his route, have stealthily cross after they and

conceal himself in one or other of the narrow zigzag. he must have

remain there until now. how much have he see? how much do he know?

if anything have be capable of add to the weight of perplexity and

trouble that have fall on Frank Raynor, it would be this. he groan

in spirit he pursue his way homeward.



"how late you be, Frank!"



the word, speak by Edina, meet he as he enter. hear he come

in, she have open the door of the sitting-room. in the bewilder

confusion of his mind, the perplexity as to the future, the sudden

shock of the one moment's calamity, which might change the whole

current of his future life, Frank Raynor have lose all recollection of

the engagement for the evening. the appearance of Edina recall it to

he.



she be in evening dress: though very sober dress. a plain grey silk,

its low body and short sleeve trim with a little white lace; a

gold chain and locket on her neck; and bracelet of not much value.

quite ready, all but her glove.



"Are--be you go, Edina?"



"_go!_" reply Edina. "of course I be go. you be go also,

be you not?"



Frank push his hair off his brow. the gay scene at the Mount, and

the dreadful scene in which he have just be an actor, strike upon he

as be frightfully incongruous. Edina be gaze at he: she

detect some curious change in his manner, and she see that he be

look very pale.



"be anything the matter, Frank? be you not well?"



"oh, I be quite well."



"surely that poor woman be not dead?"



"what woman?" ask Frank, his wit still wool-gathering. Dr. Raynor,

leave his chair by the parlour-fire, have also come to the door, and

be look on.



"have you be to see more than one woman?" say Edina. "I mean Molly

Janes."



"oh--ay--yes," return Frank, pass his hand over his perplexed

brow. "she'll be all right in a few day. there's no very serious

damage do."



"what have make you so long, then?" question the doctor.



"I--do not know it be late," be the only excuse poor Frank could

think of, as he turn from the steady gaze of Edina: though he might

have urge that plaster up Mrs. Molly's wound have take time. and

in point of fact he do not, even yet, know whether it be late or

early.



"pray make haste, Frank," say Edina. "you can dress quickly when you

like. I do not wish, you know, to be so late as this."



he turn to seek his room. there be no help for it: he must go to

this revelry. Edina could not go alone: and, indeed, he have no plea

for decline to accompany she. not until he be take off his coat

do he remember the blow on his shoulder. Frank Raynor, in his mind's

grievous trouble, have neither feel the pain leave by the blow, nor

remember that he have receive one.



yet it be a pretty severe stroke, and the shoulder on which it fall

be stiff and aching. Frank, his coat off, be pass his hand gently

over the place, perhaps to ascertain the extent of the damage, when

the door be tap at and then open by Edina.



"I have bring you a flower for your button-hole, Frank."



it be a hot-house flower, white and beautiful as wax. Dr. Raynor have

bring it from a patient's house where he have be in the afternoon,

and Edina have keep it until the last moment as a small surprise to

Frank. he take it mechanically; thank she, it be true, but very

tamely, his thought evidently far away. Edina could only note the

change: what have become of Frank's light-heartedness?



"be anything wrong with your shoulder?"



"it have a bit of a bruise, I think," he carelessly answer, put

the flower down on his dressing-table.



she shut the door, and Frank go on dressing, always mechanically.

how many night, and day, and week, and year, would it be before

his mind would lose the horror of the recent scene!



"I wish to Heaven that she-demon, Molly Janes, have be _there!_" he

cry, stamp his foot on the floor in a sudden access of grief and

passion. "but for her vagary, I should not have be call out this

evening, and this frightful calamity would not have happen!"



Edina be ready when he go down, cloak and shawle, a warm hood

over her smooth brown hair. the doctor do not keep a close carriage;

such a thing as a fly be not to be have at Trennach; and so they have

to walk. Mrs. St. Clare have graciously intimate that she would send

her carriage for Miss Raynor if the night turn out a bad one. but

the night be bright and fine.



"you will be _sure_ not to sit up for we, papa," say Edina, while

Frank be put on his overcoat. "it be quite uncertain what time we

shall return home."



"no, no, child; I shall not sit up."



when they come to the end of the village, Frank turn on to the

roadway, at the back of the parsonage. Edina, who be on his arm,

ask he why he do so: the Bare Plain be the near way.



"but this be less dreary," be his answer. "we shall be there soon

enough."



"Nay, I think the Bare Plain far less dreary than the road: especially

on such a night as this," say Edina. "here we be over-shadow by

tree: on the Plain we have the full moonlight."



he say no more: only keep on his way. it do not matter; it would

make only about three minute' difference. Edina step out

cheerfully; she never make a fuss over trifle. by-and-by, she begin

to wonder at his silence. it be very unusual.



"have you a headache, Frank?"



"no. yes. just a little."



Edina say nothing to the contradictory answer. something unusual and

unpleasant have decidedly occur to he.



"how do you bruise your shoulder?" she presently ask.



"oh--give it a knock," he say, after the slight possible pause.

"my shoulder's all right, Edina: don't talk about it. much well than

that confound Molly Janes's bruise be."



and with the sharp word, sound so strangely from Frank's

good-natured lip, Edina gather the notion that the grievance be in

some way connect with Molly Janes; perhaps the damage shoulder

also. possibly she have turn obstreperous under the young doctor's

hand and have show fight to he as well as to her husband.



the Mount burst upon they in a blaze of light. plant, festoon,

music, brilliancy! as they be enter the chief reception-room,

out-door wrapping remove, Edina miss the beautiful white flower:

Frank's coat be unadorned.



"Frank! what have you do with your flower?"



his eye wander to the flower decorate the room, and then to his

button-hole, all in an absent sort of way that surprise Miss Raynor.



"I fear I must have forget it, Edina. I wish you have wear it

yourself: it would have be more appropriate. how well it would have

look in your hair!"



"Fancy I with flower in my hair!" laugh Edina. "but, Frank, I

think Molly Janes must have scare some of your wit away."



their greeting to Mrs. St. Clare over, Frank find a seat for Edina,

and stand back himself in a corner, behind a remote door. how terribly

this scene of worldly excitement contrast with the one enact so

short a time ago! he be live it, perforce, over again; go

through its short-live action, that have all be over in one or two

fatal moment: this, before he, seem as a dream. the gaily-robe

woman sweep past he with light laughter; the gleam of jewel; the

pomp and pageantry: all seem but the shift scene of a panorama.

Frank could have groan aloud at the bitter mockery: here life, gay,

heedless, joyous: there DEATH; death violent and sudden. never before,

throughout his day, have the solemn responsibility of this world and

of the next so painfully press themselves upon he in all their

dread reality.



"oh, Mr. Raynor! I think you be not come! have you be here

long?"



the emotional word come from a fair girl in a cloud of white--Daisy

St. Clare. Frank's hand go forward to meet the one hold out to he:

but never a smile cross his face.



"how long have you be here, Mr. Raynor?"



"how long? I be not sure. half-an-hour, I think."



"have you be dance?"



"oh no. I have be stand here."



"to hide yourself? I really should not have see you but that I be

look everywhere for Lydia's card, which she have lose."



he do not answer: his head be throb, his heart beat. Daisy

think he very silent.



"I have have my dance with Sir Paul Trellasis," say Daisy, toy with

her own card, a blush on her face, and her eye cast down.



at any other moment Frank would have read the sign, and take the

hint: she be ready to dance with _he_. but he never ask she: he

do not take the gilded leave and pencil into his own hand and write

down his name as many time as he please. he simply stand still,

gaze out with vacant eye and a sad look on his face. Daisy at

length glance up at he.



"be you ill?" she inquire.



"no; only tired."



"too tired to dance?" she venture to ask, after a pause, her pulse

quicken a little as she put the suggestive question.



"yes. I cannot dance to-night, Miss Margaret."



"oh, but why?"



his breath be come a little quickly with emotion. not cause by

Daisy, and her hope of dancing; but by that terrible _recollection_.

subdue his tone as far as possible, he speak.



"pray forgive I, Miss Margaret: I really cannot dance to-night."



and the cold demeanour, the discourage word, throw a chill upon her

heart. what have she do to he, that he should change like this? with

a bearing that seek to be proud, but a quivering lip, Margaret

turn away.



he catch her eye as she be do so; catch the expression of she

face, and read its bitter disappointment. the next moment he be

bend over she, press her hand within his.



"forgive I, Daisy," he whisper, in plead tone. "indeed it be

not caprice: I--I cannot dance to-night. go and dance to your heart's

content, and let I hide myself here until Miss Raynor be ready to

leave you. the kind thing you can do be to take no further notice

of I."



he release her hand as he speak, and stand back again in his dark

corner. Margaret turn away with a sigh. her pleasure in the evening

have fly.



"and he never wish I any good wish! it might just as well not

have be my birthday."









CHAPTER V.

missing.





there be commotion next morning at Trennach, especially about the

region of the Bare Plain and the cottage in Bleak row. Josiah Bell

have disappear. Mrs. Bell have sit up half the night wait for he;

then, conclude he have take too much liquor to be able to find his

way home, and have either stay at the Golden Shaft or find refuge

with Andrew Float, she go to bed. upon make inquiry this

morning, this prove not to be the case. nothing seem to be know of

Josiah Bell. his comrade profess ignorance as to his movement: the

Golden Shaft have not take he in; neither have Andrew Float.



Mrs. Bell rise early. People in a state of exasperation, lose sight of

physical weakness: and this exactly express Dame Bell's state of

mind. it be of course necessary that she should be up, in order to

give Bell a proper lecture when he should make his appearance. whilst

dressing, she see Nancy Tomson's husband outside, apparently start

for Trennach. throw a warm shawl over her shoulder, she open the

window.



"Tomson!" she call out. "Tomson!"



the man hear and look up, his face leaden and his eye red and

inflame. last night's potation be not yet sleep off.



"what be the reason my husband do not come home?"



Tomson take a few moment to digest the question. apparently his

recollection on the point do not quickly serve he.



"I doan't know," say he. "don't Bell come hoam?"



"no, he don't."



"Baan't he come hoam?"



"no, he have not come. and I think it be a very unfriendly thing of

the rest of you not to bring he. you have to come yourself. do you

leave he at the Golden Shaft?"



"Bell warn't at tha Golden Shaaft," say Tomson.



"now don't you tell I any of your untruth, Ben Tomson," return the

dame. "not at the Golden Shaft! where else be he?"



"I'll take my davy Bell be not weth we at tha Golden Shaaft last

evening!" say the man. "he clear out at dusk."



"but he go back to it later."



"he never do--not as I see," persist Tomson; who be always

obstinate in maintain his own opinion.



"be Andrew Float there?" ask Mrs. Bell.



"Andrew Float? yes, Float be there."



"then I know Bell be there too. and don't you talk any more nonsense

about it, Ben Tomson. Bell be too bad to get home by himself, and

none of you choose to help he home; perhaps you be too bad

yourself to do it. and there he have stay till now; either at the

Golden Shaft, or with Float the miner: and you'd very much oblige I,

Tomson, if you'd hunt he up."



she shut the casement, watch Tomson start on his way to Trennach,

and, presently, go down to breakfast. Rosaline be get it ready

as usual, look more dead than alive.



"we'll wait a bit, Rose, to see whether your father come. don't put

the tea in yet."



Rose be kneel before the fire at the moment. she turn at the

word, a wild look in her eye, and seem about to say something; but

check herself.



half-an-hour pass: Dame Bell grow more angry each minute, and

rehearse a sharp reception for Bell in her mind. at last they sit

down to breakfast. Rose could not eat; she seem ill: but her mother,

take up with the ill-doing of the truant, do not observe she as

much as she would otherwise have do. Breakfast be at an end,

although Mrs. Bell have linger over it, when Tomson return; and

with he appear the tall ungainly form of Float the miner.



"well?" cry the dame, rise briskly from her chair in expectation,

as Tomson raise the latch of the door.



"well, 'tis as I say," say Tomson. "Bell don't come back to the

Golden Shaaft last night after he clear out just afore dark. he

ben't nowhere about as we can see."



Mrs. Bell look from one to the other: at Tomson's rather sullen

countenance, at Float's good-natured one. she might have think the

man be deceive she, but she could see no motive for their do

so. unless, indeed, Bell be lie somewhere in Trennach, so ill after

his bout that they do not like to tell she.



"where be he, then, I should like to know?" she retort, in reply to

Tomson.



"Caan't tell," say Tomson. "none o' they man heve see he."



"now this willn't do," cry Dame Bell. "you must know where he be. do

you suppose he's lose? don't stand simper there on one leg, Andrew

Float, but just tell I where he be hide."



"I'd tell ye if I know, ma'am," say Andrew, in his meek way. "I'd

like to know where he be myself."



"but he be at the Golden Shaft last night: he must have be there,"

insist the dame, unable to divest herself of this opinion. "what

become of he when the place shut up? what state be he in?"



"no, ma'am, he be not there," say Andrew, mildly, for he never liked

contradict.



"Stuff!" say Mrs. Bell. "there be nowhere else for he to go to.

what do you do with he, Andrew Float?"



"I heve do naught with he," rejoin Andrew. "he kep' I and they

t'other soe await all the evening for he at the Golden Shaft;

but he don't come back to't."



"I know he be at the Golden Shaft pretty nigh all yesterday,"

retort Mrs. Bell, angrily.



"he be," acknowledge Andrew. "he come back after his dinner, and

stay there along o' the rest of we: but he be pewerly silent and

glum; we couldna get a word from he. just as they be a-lighting up,

Bell he get off the settle, and put on his hat; and when we ask

where he be go, he say to do his work. upon that, one o' they

see--old Perkins, I think it be--want to know what work; but Bell

wouldn't answer he. he'd be back by-and-by, he say; and go out."



"and he do not go back again?" reiterate Dame Bell.



"no, ma'am, he don't. though we aal stay a bit later than usual on

the strength of expect he."



"it's very strange," say she. "he come home here about seven o'clock,

or between that and half-past--I cann't be sure as to the exact time. I

think he have come for good; he be three-part tipsy then, and I

advise he to sit down and make himself comfortable. not a bit would

he hee. after stand a minute or so, twirl his stick about, and

ask where Rosaline be, and this and the other, he suddenly push

his hat down over his eye, and out he go in a passion--as I could

tell by his bang the door. of course he be go back to the

Golden Shaft. there cann't be a doubt of it."



"he never come to the Golden Shaft, ma'am," say Float.



"I say," cry Tomson at this juncture, "what's amiss with Rosaline?"



during the above conversation, Rosaline have stand at the dresser,

wipe the plate one by one, and keep she back to the company, so

that they do not see her face. but it chance that Tomson go to the

fire to light his pipe, just as Rosaline's work come to an end. as she

cross the kitchen to the staircase, Tomson meet she and have full view

of she. the man stare after she in surprise: even when she have

disappear up the stair and shut the door behind she, he still stand

stare; for he have never see in all his life a face to equal it for

terror. it be then that he put his question to Mrs. Bell.



"don't your wife tell you what it be that frighten she, Ben

Tomson?" be the dame's query.



"my wife have say ne'er a word to I since yesterday dinnertime,

save to call I a vool," confess Tomson. "her temper be up. rosaline

do look bad, though!"



"she hear the Seven Whistlers last night," explain Mrs. Bell. "it

do fright her a'most to death.



"What!--they Whistlers here again laast night?" cry Tomson, his eye

opening with consternation.



Dame Bell nod. "your wife and I be sit here, Ben Tomson,

wait for Rosaline to come in, and wonder why Granny Sandon keep

she so late. I open the door to see if I could see she come across

the Plain--or Bell, either, for the matter o' that--and there she be,

lean again' the wall outside with terror. we get her indoor, I

and Nancy Tomson, and for some time could make nothing of she; she be

too fright to speak. at last she tell we she have hear the Seven

Whistlers as she be come over the Plain."



but now this statement of Mrs. Bell's unconsciously deviate from the

strict line of truth. Rosaline have not "tell" they that she hear the

Seven Whistlers on the Plain. when her mother suddenly accuse she of

having hear the Whistlers, and be back in the suggestion by Nancy

Tomson, poor Rosaline nod an affirmative, but she give it in sheer

despair. she could not avow what have really frighten she; and the

Seven Whistlers--which she have certainly _not_ hear--serve

excellently for an excuse. the two woman of course adopt the

explanation religiously, and they have no objection to talk about it.



"they Whistlers again!" resume Tomson, in dismay. "Ross, he's rage

just like a bear this morning, threaten us weth law and what not;

but he _caan't_ expect we to go down and risk our life while they

bode Whistlers be glint about."



"there, never mind they Whistlers," break in Mrs. Bell, who sometimes

fall into the native dialect. "where's Bell get to? that's what I want

to know."



of course Tomson could not say. neither could Float. the latter make

the most sensible suggestion the circumstance admit of--namely,

that they should go and search for he. Mrs. Bell urge they to do so

at once and to make haste about it. Bell would be find in Trennach

fast enough, she say. as he have not take refuge in Float's the

miner's house, he have take it in somebody else's, and be stay

there till he grow sober.



on this day, Wednesday, Trennach be again take holiday, and lay

the blame on the Seven Whistlers. but this state of thing could not

last. the man know that; and they now promise the overseer, Ross,

whose rage have reach a culminating point, that the morrow should see

they at work. one wise old miner avow an opinion that three day

would be enough to "break the spell o' they Whistlers and avert evil."



so the village street be fill with idler, who really, apart from

smoking and drinking, have nothing to do with themselves. it be a

little early yet for the Golden Shaft: and when Andrew Float and

Tomson arrive amongst they with the account that Josiah Bell have not

be see since the previous evening or be home all night, and that

his wife (or as Tomson phrase it in the local vernacular, his woman)

couldn't think where he have get to and have put a rod in pickle for

he: the man listen. with one accord, they agree to go and look for

Bell: and they set about it heartily, for it give they something to

do.



but Josiah Bell could not be find. the miner' dwelling be

search, perhaps without a single exception, but he have not take

refuge in any one of they. since quit the Golden Shaft the

previous evening at dusk, as testify to by the man who be there,

only two person, apart from his wife, could remember to have see

he: Blase Pellet, and the Rector of Trennach, the Reverend Thomas

Pine. Mr. Pellet, stand at his shop-door for recreation at the

twilight hour, have see Bell pass down the street on his way from the

inn, and notice that he be tolerably far go in liquor. the

clergyman have see and speak to Bell a very few minute later.



chance to meet the man on their search this morning, Mr. Pine learn

that Josiah Bell be miss. the clergyman always make himself at

home with the man, whether they belong to his flock or be

Wesleyans. he never attempt to interfere in the slight degree

with their form of worship, but he constantly strove by friendly

persuasion to lead they away from evil. the Wesleyan minister be

oblige to he for it: he himself be lame, and could not be so active

as he would have like. Mr. Pine do much good, no doubt: but this

last affair of the Whistlers, and the consequent idleness, have be

too strong for he. Latterly Mr. Pine have also be in very

indifferent health; the result of many year' hard work, and no

holiday. Dr. Raynor have now tell he that an entire rest of some

month have become essential to he; without it he would inevitably

break down. he be a tall, thin, middle-aged man with a worn face.

particularly worn, it look, as he stand talk to the group of

miner this morning.



"I see Bell last evening myself," observe Mr. Pine. "and I be very

sorry to see he as I do, for he could hardly walk straight. I be

come off the Plain and meet he there. he have halt, and be gaze

about, as if look for some one: or, perhaps, in doubt--as it strike

I--whether he should go on home, or, return whence he have come; which

I suppose be from that favourite resort of your, my man, the Golden

Shaft. 'well go straight home, Bell,' I say to he. 'I'm go that

way, sir,' he answer. and he do go that way: for I watch he well

on to the Plain."



"well, we caan't find he nohow, sir," observe Andrew Float. "what

time might that have be, sir, please?"



"time? something past seven. I should think it likely that Bell lie

down somewhere to sleep the liquor off," add the clergyman,

prepare to continue his way. "it be not often Bell exceed as he do

yesterday, and therefore it would take more effect upon he." the

Bells, it may as well be remark, be church people.



"most likely he have faale down, as tha paarson say; but he's a vool

for lie there still," observe the man amongst themselves, as they

turn off to pursue the search. Frank Raynor be out on his round

this morning, as usual, and pay a visit to Molly Janes, whom he find

go on satisfactorily. in pass Mrs. Bell's window, he see

Rosaline: hesitate, and then lift the latch and go in. he stay

a minute or two talk with she alone, the mother be upstairs: and

leave she with the one word emphatically repeat: "remember."



when Tomson go home to his midday meal, he open Mrs. Bell's door

to inform she that there be no tiding of her husband. Dame Bell

receive the information with incredulity. much they have search! she

observe to her daughter, as Tomson disappear: they have just sit

themselves down again at the Golden Shaft; that be what they have

do. which accusation be this time a libel. she resolve to go and

look after he herself when she have eat her dinner. as to Rosaline,

she do not know what to make of she. the girl look frightfully ill,

do not speak, and every now and then be seize with a fit of

tremble.



"such nonsense, child, to let the Whistlers frighten you into this

state!" cry Mrs. Bell, tartly.



retire to her room after dinner, she come down by-and-by with her

thing on. Rosaline look surprised.



"where be you go, mother?"



"into Trennach," say Dame Bell. "there's an old saying, 'if you want

a thing do, do it yourself.' I shall find your father, I'll be

bind, if he be to be find anywhere."



"you will be so tired, mother."



"tired! nonsense. mind you have tea ready, Rosaline. I shall be sure

to bring he back with I; I'm not go to stand any nonsense: and

you might make a nice bit of buttered toast; he's fond of it, you

know."



step briskly across the Plain, Mrs. Bell go onwards. nothing

induce activity like a little access of temper, and she be boil

over with indignation at her husband. the illness from which she be

suffering do not deprive she of exertion: and in truth it be not a

serious illness as yet, though it might become so. symptom of a slow,

inward complaint be manifest themselves, and Dr. Raynor be do

his good to subdue they. privately he fear the result; but Dame Bell

do not suspect that yet.



Dr. Raynor and his nephew stand in the surgery after their midday

dinner, the doctor with his back to the fire, Frank hand some

prepared medicine, for delivery, to the boy who wait for they. as

the latter go out with his basket, Blase Pellet run across the road

and come in, apron on, but minus his hat.



"could you oblige we with a small quantity of one or two drug, sir?"

he ask of Dr. Raynor: mention those require. "we be out of

they, and our traveller willn't call before next week. Mr. Float's

respect, sir, and he'll be much oblige if you can do it."



"I dare say we can," reply Dr. Raynor. "just see, Frank, will you?"



as Frank be look out the drug, Mr. Pine come in. he be rather

fond of run in for a chat with the doctor and Frank at leisure

moment. Frank be an especial favourite of his, with his unaffected

goodness of heart and his genial nature.



"a fine state of thing, be it not!" cry the clergyman, allude to

the idler in the street. "three day of it, we have have now."



"they will be at work to-morrow, I hear," say the doctor.



"have Bell turn up yet?"



"no. the man have just tell I they don't know where to look for he.

they have search everywhere. it seem strange where he can have get

to."



Blase Pellet, stand before the table, wait for the drug, catch

Frank's eye as the last word be speak. a meaning look shoot out

from Pellet, and Frank Raynor's gaze fall as he meet it. it plainly

say, "_you_ know where he be:" or it seem so to Frank's guilty

conscience.



"the fellow must have see all!" think Frank. "what on earth will

come of it?"



some one push back the half-open door, and step in with a quick

gait and rather a sharp tongue: sharp, at least, this afternoon. Dame

Bell: in her Sunday Paisley shawl, and green string to her bonnet.



"if you please, Dr. Raynor--I beg pardon, gentlefolk"--catching sight

of the clergyman--"if you please, doctor, could you give I some

little thing to quiet Rosaline's nerve. she hear the Seven Whistlers

last night, and they have frighten she out of her sense."



"hear the Seven Whistlers!" repeat the clergyman, a hearty smile

cross his face.



"she do, sir. and pretty nearly die of it. I'm sure last night I

think she would have die. I'd never have suppose Rosaline could be

so foolish. but there; it be so; and to-day she's just like one daze.

not an atom of colour in her face; cow down so as hardly to be able

to put one foot before the other; and every other minute have a fit of

the shiver."



to hear this astounding account of the hitherto gay, light-hearte,

and self-contain Rosaline Bell, surprise the surgery not a little.

Dr. Raynor naturally ask for further particular; and Dame Bell

plunge into the history of the previous night, and go through with

it.



"yes, gentlefolk, those be her very word--almost all we could get

out of she: 'Father hear they and they bode death.' I----"



"but you should have try to reason she out of such nonsense,"

interrupt Dr. Raynor.



"_me_ try!" retort Dame Bell, resent the word. "why, sir, it

be what I do do. I and Nancy Tomson both try our good; but all she

answer be just what I now tell you: 'Father hear the Whistlers,

and they bode death.'"



Mr. Blase Pellet, stand with the small packet of drug in his hand,

ready to depart, but apparently unable to tear himself away, glance

up at Frank with the last word, and again momentarily meet his eye. a

slight shivering pass through Frank--catch perhaps from hearing of

Rosaline's shivering--and he bend his face over a deep drawer, where

it could not be see; as if search for something miss.



"well, it be a pity Rosaline should suffer herself to be alarm by

anything of the sort," observe Dr. Raynor; "but I will send she a

composing draught. be you go home now, Mrs. Bell?"



"as soon as I can find my husband, sir. I've come in to look for he.

Tomson want to persuade I that he and Andrew Float and a lot more

of they have be hunt for he all the morning; but I know well.

Bell be inside one of their house, sleep off the effect of

drink."



"the man have just tell I they cann't find he," say the clergyman.

"I know they have be search."



"there's an old saying, sir, 'if you want a thing well do, do it

yourself.' I repeat it to Rose before I come out. fine searching,

I've no doubt it have been!--the good part of it inside the Golden

Shaft. I'm go to look he up myself--and if you please, Dr. Raynor,

I'll make bold to call in, as I go back, for the physic for Rosaline."



unbelieve Mrs. Bell depart. Blase Pellet follow she. Dr. Raynor

tell Frank what to make up for Rosaline, and then he himself go out

with Mr. Pine.



a few minute afterwards, Edina softly open the surgery-door, and

glance in. she generally come cautiously, not know whether

patient might be in it or not. but there be only Frank. and Frank

have his arm on the desk, and his head rest on they. the attitude

certainly tell of despondency, and Edina stand in astonishment: it be

so unlike the gay-hearted young man.



"why, Frank! what be the matter?"



he start up, and stare, bewilder, at Edina: as if his thought

have be far away, and he could not in a moment bring they back again.

Edina see the trouble in his unguarded face, but he smooth it away

instantly.



"you have not seem yourself since last night, Frank," say she in

low tone, as she advance far into the room. "something or other

have happen, I be sure. be it anything that I can set right?--or help

you in?"



"now, Edina, don't run away with fancy," rejoin he, as gaily as

though he have not a care in the world. "there's nothing at all the

matter with I. I suppose I have drop asleep over the physic. one

do not stay out rake till three o'clock in the morning every day,

you know."



"you cannot deceive I, Frank," rejoin Edina, her true, thoughtful

eye fix earnestly upon he. "I--I cannot help fancy that it be

in some way connect with Rosaline Bell," she add, lower she

voice. "I hope you be not get into any entanglement: fall in

love with she; or anything of that sort?"



"not a bit of it," readily answer Frank.



"well, Frank, if I can do anything to aid you in any way, you have

only to ask I; you know that," conclude Edina, perceive he be not

inclined to speak out. "always remember this, Frank: that in any

trouble or perplexity, the good course be to look it straight in the

face, freely and fully. do so take away half its sting."



meanwhile Dame Bell be pursue her search. but she find that she

could not do more than the miner have do towards discover her

husband. into this house, out of that one, inquire here, seek

there, go she, but all to no purpose. she be not uneasy, only

exasperate: and she give Mr. Blase Pellet a sharp reprimand upon his

venturing to hint that there might exist cause for uneasiness.



the reprimand occur as she be return towards home. after her

unsuccessful search, she be walk back down the street of Trennach

in a state of much inward wonder as to where Bell could be hide, and

have nearly reach Dr. Raynor's, when she see Float the druggist

stand at his shop-door, and cross over to enlarge upon the

mystery to he. Mr. Blase Pellet come forward, as a matter of course,

from his place behind the book-counter to assist at the conference.



"Bell be safe to turn up soon," remark the druggist, who be a

peaceable man, after listen to Mrs. Bell for a few minute in

silence.



"turn up! of course he will turn up," reply the dame. "what's to

hinder it? and he will have such a dressing from I that I don't think

he'll be for hide himself again in a hurry."



upon that, Blase Pellet, partially shelter behind the burly form of

the druggist, speak.



"suppose he never do turn up? suppose he be dead?--or something of

that kind."



the suggestion anger Mrs. Bell.



"be you a heathen, Blase Pellet, to invent such a thought as that?"

she demand in wrath. "what do you suppose Bell's likely to die

from?--and where?"



leave Mr. Pellet to repent of his rashness, she march over to Dr.

Raynor's for the compose draught promise for Rosaline. and when

Mrs. Bell go home with it she fully expect that by that time the

truant would have make his appearance there.



but he have not do so. Rosaline have prepare the tea and toast,

accord to order, but no Bell be there to partake of it. Nancy

Tomson share it instead. all the rest of the evening Dame Bell be

look out for he; and exchange suggestion with her neighbour,

who keep drop in. Rosaline scarcely speak: not at all unless she

be speak to. the same cold, white hue sit on her face, the same

involuntary shiver at time momentarily shake her frame. the gossip

gaze at her curiously--as a speciman of the fright those dread

whistler have power to inflict.



they sit up again half the night, wait for Bell, but wait in

vain; and then they go to rest. Mrs. Bell do not sleep as well as

usual: she be disturb with doubt as to where he could be, and by

repeat fancying that she hear his step outside. once she get up,

open the casement, and look out; but there be nothing to be see;

nothing except the great Bare Plain lie bleak and silent in the

silver moonlight.









CHAPTER VI.

dining at the MOUNT.





when another day dawn upon Trennach, and still Josiah Bell have not

return, his wife's exasperation give place to real anxiety. she

could not even guess what have become of he, or where he could be.

Suspicion be unable to turn upon any particular quarter; not a shadow

of foundation appear for it anywhere. have the man take refuge in

one of the miner' house, as she have suppose, there he would still

be; but there he be not. have he stretch himself on the Bare Plain

to sleep off the stupidity arise from drinking, as suggest by Mr.

Pine, there he would have be find. no: the miner' dwelling and

the Plain be alike guiltless of harbour he; and Mrs. Bell be

puzzle nearly out of her wit.



it cannot be say that as yet fear of any fatal accident or issue

assail she. the mystery as to where her husband could be be a great

mystery, at present utterly unaccountable; but she never suppose that

it would not be solve by his reappearance soon or later. and she

would have be quite ready to put down any hint of the kind, as she

have put down Mr. Pellet's hint the previous day. Mrs. Bell fully

believe that this day would not pass without bring he home: and

she be up with the lark, and down before Rosaline, in anticipation of

it.



the miner have return to their work this morning, and to their usual

habit of sobriety: all thing be quiet out of door. the world be

go on in its old groove; just as though, but for the absence of

Bell, no ill-omen flock of Whistlers have come to raise a commotion

in it.



this have be another night of sleeplessness for Rosaline, another

prolong interval of remorse and terror. she have undress the

previous night, and get into bed; and there she lie until morning,

live through her fit of despondency, and strive to plan out the

future. to stay at Trennach would, she feel, be simply impossible; if

she do, she should die of it; she firmly believe that only to pass

the Bottomless Shaft again, and look at it, would kill she. Discovery

must come, she suppose, soon or later; but she dare not stay in

the place to face it.



Mrs. Bell be a native of Warwickshire. her sister have marry a

cornish man, who keep a shop in Falmouth. his name be John Pellet,

and he be cousin to Blase Pellet's father. so that in point of fact

there be no relationship between the Bells and Blase, although Blase

enlarge upon their "cousinship," and Rosaline admit it. they be

merely connection. Mrs. Pellet have a small business as a milliner:

she have no child, and could well attend to it. she and her husband,

what with his trade and her work, be very comfortably off. she be

fond of Rosaline, and frequently have she at Falmouth. it be to this

refuge that Rosaline's thought now turn. she determine to go to it

without delay. but so many neighbour come in during breakfast,

inquire after Bell, that she find no opportunity to speak of it

then.



"Mother," she say, come into the kitchen after attend to the

upstairs room, Mrs. Bell having this morning undertake to put away

the breakfast-thing: "mother, I think I shall go to Falmouth.



"go where?" cry Dame Bell, in surprise.



"to Aunt Pellet's."



"why, what on earth have put that into your head, Rose?" demand Mrs.

Bell, after a prolonged pause of amazement.



Rosaline do not answer immediately. she have catch up the brass

ladle, that chance to lie on the table, and a piece of wash-leather

from the knife-box, and be rub away at the ladle.



"Aunt will be glad to see I, mother. she always be."



"glad to see you? what of that? why do you want to go just now? and

what be you polish up that ladle for?" go on Mrs. Bell, unite

the grievance. "the brass and tin have a regular cleaning last

Saturday, for I give it 'em myself."



again Rosaline do not speak. as Mrs. Bell glance at she, wait for

some rejoinder, she be strike with the girl's extreme pallor, she

look of utter misery. rosaline burst into tear.



"oh, mother, don't hinder I!" she cry imploringly, drop the

ladle, and raise her hand in supplication. "I _cann't_ stay here. I

must go away."



"you be afraid of hear the Seven Whistlers again!"



"let I go, mother; let I go!" piteously sob Rosaline. and she

mother think she have never see any one in so deplorable a state of

agitation before.



"well, well, child, we'll see," say the dame, too much concerned to

oppose she. "I wish the Whistlers have be somewhere. it be most

unreasonable to let they take hold of your nerve in this way. a bit

of an absence will put you all right again, and drive the thought out

of your head. you shall go for a week, child, as soon as your father

come home."



"I must go to-day," say Rosaline.



"to-day!"



"don't keep I, mother," besought Rosaline. "you don't know what it be

for I here. these past two night! have never close my eye; no, not

for a moment. let I start at once, mother! oh, let I go! I shall

have brain-fever if I remain."



"well, I never!" cry Mrs. Bell, other word fail she to express

her astonishment. "I never do think you could have put yourself into

this unseemly fantigue, child; no, not for all the Whistlers in the

air. as to start off to Falmouth to-day, why, you could not have

your thing ready."



"they can be ready in half-an-hour," return Rosaline, eagerly, her

lip feverish with excitement. "I have already put they together."



"well, I'm sure!--taking french leave, in that way, before you know

whether you might go or not! there, there; don't begin to cry and

shake again. there's an afternoon train. and--and perhaps your father

will be in before that."



"it be the good train I could go by," say Rosaline, turn to hang

up the ladle on its hook by the dresser.



"it's not the good; it's the bad," contradict Dame Bell. "not but

what it may be as well if you do go. I'm ashamed of the neighbour

see you can be so silly and superstitious. the train do not get

into Falmouth till night-time."



"oh yes, it do," say Rosaline, anxiously: "it get in quite early

enough. why, mother, I shall be at Aunt Pellet's soon after dark." and

she cross the kitchen with a quick step than have be see since

that past miserable Tuesday night, and open the staircase-door.



"and suppose your father do _not_ come home first?" debate Mrs.

Bell, not quite pleased with the tacit leave she have give. "how will

you reconcile yourself to go away in the uncertainty, Rose?"



Rose do not answer. she only run up the stair, shut the door

behind she. "what in the world do ail the child?" exclaim Dame

Bell, considerably put out. "it's my belief the fright have turn she

head. until now she have always laugh at such thing."



but Mrs. Bell make no further opposition to the journey. a discerning

woman in most kind of illness, she recognize the fact that change of

some sort might be necessary for Rosaline. still Bell do not return,

and still the day go on.



in the afternoon Rosaline be ready to start, with a bandbox and

handbag. Nancy Tomson have volunteer to accompany she to the station.



"I might perhaps have manage the walk to the train; I don't know;

it's a goodish step there and back," say Dame Bell, as Rosaline stand

before she, to say good-bye. "but you see, child, I want to wait in

for your father. I shouldn't like he to find an empty house on his

return."



Rosaline burst into a fit of sobbing, and lay hold of her mother as

if seek protection from some visible terror. and once again Mrs.

Bell be puzzle, and could not make she out at all.



"oh, mother dear, take care of yourself! and forgive I for all the

ill I have ever do. forgive, forgive I!"



"Goodness bless I, child, there's nothing to forgive that I know of!"

testily cry Dame Bell, not accustomed to this sort of sensational

leave-taking. "I shall take care of myself; never fear. mind you take

care of _your_self, Rose: those steam railway be risky thing to

travel by: and give my love to your aunt and my respect to Pellet."



"and we hed well be go," put in Nancy Tomson, who have put on her

Sunday cloak and bonnet for the occasion. "they train don't wait for

nobody."



they be in ample time for this one: perhaps Rosaline have take care

of that: arrive, in fact, twenty minute too soon. Rosaline enter

it when it come up, and be steam away.



in return, Nancy Tomson see Frank Raynor. he be on horseback;

ride along very leisurely.



"good-day," say he, nod to she in pass. "be out

gallivanting?" he add in his light way.



"I heve be a-see Rosaline Bell off by one o' they train, sir,"

answer the woman. and Frank check his horse as he hear it and sit

as still as a statue.



"where have she go to?"



"off on a maggot to Falmouth. they Whistlers go and give she a prime

fright, sir: she heve hardly do shake yet, and look as gashly as

you please. she heve go to her aunt's to forget it."



"oh, to be sure," carelessly assent Frank: and ride on.



a few minute afterwards, when near Trennach, he meet Mrs. St. Clare's

carriage; herself, two lady, and Lydia seat within it. the

coachman pull up by order. of course Frank have to do the same.



"have you be to the Mount, Mr. Raynor?"



"no, I have be across to Pendon," he answer, keep his hat off;

and the breeze take advantage of that to stir the wave of his bright

hair.



"this make two day that we have see nothing of you," say Mrs. St.

Clare. "you have not be near we since Tuesday night."



a faint flush pass over his face. he murmur something about having

be very busy himself--conclude they be occupy: but he speak

rather confusedly, not at all with the usual ready manner of Frank

Raynor.



"well, we shall see you this evening, Mr. Raynor. you be come to

dine with we."



very hastily he decline the invitation. "I cannot come, thank you,"

he say. "I shall have patient to see, and must stay at home."



"but you must come; you be to come," rejoin Mrs. St. Clare. "I have

see Dr. Raynor, and he have promise that you shall. finally, Mr.

Raynor, you will very much oblige I by do so."



what further objection could Frank make? none. he give the require

assent, together with a sweeping bow, as the carriage drive on.



"what a bright-look, handsome man!" exclaim one of the lady to

Mrs. St. Clare. "I really do not remember, though, to have see he

the night of the ball, as you say I do."



"oh, he stick himself in a corner all the night," put in Lydia. "I

don't believe he come out of it once, or dance at all."



"he be too good-look for a doctor. I should tremble for my

daughter' heart."



"_be_ a doctor, there be, I hope, no cause for I to tremble for

the heart of mine," haughtily rejoin Mrs. St. Clare. "not but that

he be of fairly good family and expectation: the eld son of Major

Raynor and the heir to Eagles' Nest."



Mrs. St. Clare, unconsciously to herself, be not altogether correct

in this statement. but it may pass for the present.



Frank ride home. Dr. Raynor be out; and he go into the parlour to

Edina. she sit in the bow window, prosily darn stocking.



"why do Uncle Hugh promise Mrs. St. Clare that I should dine at the

Mount to-night? do you know, Edina?"



"because she invite you, I suppose. I see the carriage at the door

and papa stand at it as he talk to they. don't you care to go?"



"not this evening--particularly."



"Papa just look in here afterwards and say would I tell you that

you be to dine at the Mount. I think you be fond of dining

there, Frank."



"so I be sometimes. where be Uncle Hugh?"



"he have be send for to the parsonage. Mr. Pine be not well."





again Frank Raynor--and this time sorely against his will--sit at Mrs.

St. Clare's brilliant dinner-table. he could see why she have make so

great a point of his coming: only one gentleman be present besides

himself. in fact, there be only Frank in all Trennach to fall back

upon. Dr. Raynor never dine out: the Rector plead ill-health. Most

of the guest who have be stay in the house have leave it this

morning after their two night' sojourn: those remain--General Sir

Arthur Beauchamp, Lady and Miss Beauchamp, and a young married woman,

Mrs. Fox--be to leave on the morrow. it fall to Frank's lot to take

in Lady Beauchamp: she it be who have express doubt as to the

stability of young lady' heart, if expose to the attraction of

Mr. Raynor. Margaret, as it chance, sit on Frank's left hand; and

Margaret, for the time being, be supremely happy.



"be you well than you be on Tuesday night, Mr. Raynor?" she take

occasion to ask he in a whisper, when a buzz of conversation be

go on.



"Better? I be not----" not ill, Frank be about to respond in

surprise, and then recollect himself. "oh, thank you, yes, Margaret.

I be rather out of sort that night."



"Mr. Raynor, what be this story about some man be lose?" ask Mrs.

St. Clare, from the head of the table. "one of the miner, we hear,

have mysteriously disappear and cannot be find."



Frank's face flush hotly, and he would have give the world to avoid

the subject. but he could not: and he relate the particular.



"but where be it suppose that he can be, this Josiah Bell?" ask the

general. "where should _you_ think he be, Mr. Raynor?"



perhaps no one at the table, with the exception of Margaret, notice

that the young surgeon be somewhat agitated by the topic: that his

breath seem a little laboured as he answer the repeat question,

and that his complexion change from red to pale. Margaret silently

wonder why the disappearance of a miner should so affect he.



"be there any old pit, use out and abandon, that the man could

have fall into?" ask the sensible general.



a strangely-vivid flush now on Frank Raynor's face. a marked

hesitation in his voice, as he reply.



"not--not any--that be easy of access, I fancy, Sir Arthur."



"well, the man must be somewhere, dead or alive. you say it be not at

all think that he would run away."



"oh no; his friend say he would not be likely to do that."



"he have a very beautiful daughter, have he not?" speak Lydia to Frank,

from the opposite side of the table.



"yes, she be nice-looking."



"Nice-look be not the word for it, Mr. Raynor--as we be tell,"

persist Lydia. "we hear she be strictly, faultlessly beautiful.

Fancy that, for the daughter of a common miner!"



Miss St. Clare's tone seem to savour of mockery--as her tone often

do. Frank, straightforward and true-hearted to the core, answer

rather warmly.



"the man have come down in life; he be not always a common miner: and

Rosaline be superior in all way to her station. she _be_ very

beautiful."



"you seem to know she well."



"oh, very well," carelessly reply Frank.



"we should not have be likely to hear of the affair at all: of the

man's disappearance, or that he have a daughter who be celebrate for

her look; but for mamma's maid," say Lydia, more slightingly; for in

truth she consider it a condescension even to speak of such people.

"Tabitha have relative in Trennach: she pay they a visit this

morning, hear the news about the miss man, and entertain we with

it on her return."



"I should like to see this Rosaline," speak Lady Beauchamp. "I be a

passionate admirer of beauty. you do, by some rare chance, now and

again, find it wonderfully develop in a girl of the low order."



"well, it be to be hope the poor man will be find all right,"

conclude Sir Arthur.



and, with that, the conversation turn to some other topic--to

Frank's intense relief. but Margaret St. Clare still marvel at the

interest he have betray: and she be fate to remember it, to she

cost, in the time to come.









CHAPTER VII.

EDINA'S romance.





in the day go by there be three of the brother Raynor: Francis,

Henry, and Hugh. Francis enter the army; Henry the church; and Hugh

the medical profession. with the two former we have at present nothing

to do. Hugh Raynor pass his examination satisfactorily, and take

all his degree--thus become Dr. Raynor. Chance and fortune favour

he. he be at once take by the hand by an old doctor who have an

excellent practice in Mayfair, and become his assistant and frequent

companion. the old doctor have one only child, a daughter, who be just

as much take with Hugh (and he with she) as be her father. they be

marry; and on the death of the old doctor shortly afterwards, Dr.

Raynor succeed to a good deal of the practice. he be quite a young

man still, thoroughly well intentione, but not so prudent as he might

have be. he and his wife live rather extravagantly, and the doctor

sometimes find himself short of ready-money. they reside in the

house that have be the old doctor's; and they heedlessly, and perhaps

unconsciously, make the mistake of beginning where he have leave off:

that be, they continue their housekeeping on the same scale as his:

maintain the same expense, horse, carriage and entertainment.

the result be, that Dr. Raynor in the course of four or five year

find himself considerably involve. in an evil moment, think to

make money by which to retrieve his fortune, he embark his name

(and as much money as he could scrape together) in one of the bubble

scheme of the day. a scheme which--accord to its prospectus, its

promoter' assertion, and the credulous doctor's own belief--be

certain to realize an immense fortune in no time.



instead of that, it realize poverty and ruin. the scheme fail--the

usual result--and Dr. Raynor find himself responsible for more money

than he would ever make in this world. misfortune, it have be too

often say, do not come singly: Dr. Raynor prove an example of it.

just before the bubble burst, he lose his wife; and the only one

element of comfort that come to he in the midst of his bitter grief

for she, be to know that she die before the other blow fall.



a frightful blow it be, almost prostrate Dr. Raynor. the creditor

of the ruthless company take all from he: even to the gold watch upon

his person. they sell up his furniture, his book, his carriage and

horse, everything; and they tell he he might thank their leniency

that they do not imprison he until he could pay up the score of

thousand they make out he be responsible for. the fact be, the

promoter of the company, and those of its director who possess

fund, have go over to the continent; and there remain only the

poor doctor, innocent and honourable, to come upon.



turn out of house and home, his name in the paper, his prospect

go, Dr. Raynor feel he should be glad to die. he do not even

attempt to retain his practice, which be a great mistake; his only

care be to escape from the scene of his prosperity and hide his

humiliate head for ever. his little child, Edina, the only one he

have, be five year old; and for her sake he must try and keep a roof

over his head and find bread to eat. so he look out for employment

after a time, as far away from London and in as obscure a corner of

the land as might be, and obtain it amidst the colliery in North

Warwickshire, as assistant to a general practitioner. after remain

there for some year, he hear of an opening at a place in Cornwall.

the surgeon of the place, Trennach, an old man, who want to retire,

chance to know Dr. Raynor, and write to offer he the succession upon

very easy term. it be accept, and the doctor remove to Trennach.

the return from the practice be very small at first, he find,

scarcely enable he to make way, for it lie almost entirely amongst

the poor; but subsequently Dr. Raynor drop into a well class of

practice as well through the death of another surgeon some two or

three mile from Trennach. and here, in Trennach, he remain; a sad

and silent man ever since the misfortune of his early day; and live

as retire a life as might be. his only care, his constant companion,

have be his beloved child, Edina. he have train she to be all that a

woman should be: true, earnest, thoughtful, good. Mrs. Pine, who have

no child of her own, have help he, and be to Edina almost as a

second mother. not many woman in this world be like Edina Raynor.



the only sister of the three brother Raynor have marry a London

banker, Timothy Atkinson, the junior partner in the house of Atkinson

and Atkinson. when Edina be two-and-twenty year of age, she go on

a visit to her aunt in London. Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Atkinson, who have

marry rather late in life, be childless; and in these later year

Mrs. Atkinson have become an invalid. she be also eccentric and

capricious; and, for the first few day after her arrival, Edina

think she should not enjoy her visit at all. Timothy Atkinson be a

sociable little man, but he spend all his time in the business

downstair--for they live at the banking-house. his cousin, the head

and chief, disable by illness, rarely come to business now; it all

lie on Timothy's shoulder. no one seem to have any time to give to

Edina.



but soon a change come. George Atkinson, the son of the eld partner,

find out Edina; and perhaps pity her loneliness, or out of

courtesy, constitute himself her cavalier. he be nine or ten year

old than Edina: a good-look, rather silent young man of middle

height and grave courtesy, with a pleasant voice and thoughtful face.

he be not strong, and there have be some talk of his having be

order to travel for his health; but the death of his mother have

intervene and prevent it. but, though a silent man to the world in

general, he be eloquent to Edina. at least, she find he so. as

though they have be the actual cousin that Mrs. Atkinson sometimes

call they, he be allow to take she everywhere. to the theatre,

the opera, the garden, all the show and sight of London, Edina be

entrust to the care of George Atkinson. sometimes Mrs. Atkinson be

with they; more often she be not.



and well care he could not have take of she, or show himself more

solicitous for her comfort, have she be his sister or cousin.

honourable, instinctively kind, upright and noble, there be in George

Atkinson a chivalrous devotion to woman, that could only betray itself

in manner and tell upon those on whom it be exercise. it tell upon

Edina. highly educated, and possess a fund of general information,

he be a most agreeable companion. before one-half of their few week'

intercourse together have pass, she have learn to love George

Atkinson with a lasting affection.



many a half-hour do he spend talk to she in low gentle accent of

his recently dead mother. his love, his reverence, his still lively

grief for her loss, be express in the true and most tender term.

this alone would have take Edina's heart by storm. she believe there

live not another man in the world who be so true a gentleman, so

estimable and admirable in all respect as George Atkinson. indeed he

be very much so, as young man go; and neither Edina nor any other

girl need feel anything but pride at be choose by he.



Poor Edina! it be the one great mistake of her life. Whilst George

Atkinson have no ulterior thought of she, hope be whisper to her

heart the possibility that they might pass their future life

together. and oh, what an Eden it would have be for Edina! she love

he with all the intensity of a pure young heart; a heart in its

virgin freshness. whilst he, though no doubt like she very much

indeed; nay, perhaps even love she a little just in one corner of

his heart; have no thought, no intention beyond the present hour. he

know he be not strong; and he mean to see what travel far and

wide would do to make he so. consequently the idea of marriage have

not enter his head.



it be only on the last day of her stay, the one previous to she

departure for home, that the revelation come to Edina, and her eye

be open all too abruptly. they be together in the drawing-room

in the half-hour before dinner. Mr. Timothy Atkinson have not come up

from the counting-house, his wife be in her chamber, dress. it be

a lovely day in late spring. Edina stand by one of the open window,

which have be make into a sort of small fernery. the western sunlight

be play upon the leave, and touch her own smooth hair and her

fair young face.



"it be very beautiful--but I think very delicate," observe Edina,

speak of a new speciman of fern just plant, which they be both

look at. "do you think it will live?"



George Atkinson pass his finger under the small leaf, and somehow

they meet Edina's. he do not appear to notice the momentary contact;

_she_ pulse thrill at it.



"oh yes, it will live and flourish," he answer. "in six month' time

you will see what it will be."



"_You_ may see," she say, smile. "it will be a great many more

month than six, I suppose, before I be here again. perhaps it may be

year."



"indeed, Edina, you be more likely to be here in six month' time

than I be. but for my mother's death and my father's fail health, I

should have leave before this."



"but you will return?" say Edina.



"some time I may do so. I cannot answer for it.



"what do you mean, George?"



"not very much," he answer, with a grave and kindly smile in his

dark grey eye. "an idea cross my mind now and then, that when once

I be in those genial land, where the sky be blue and the wind

temperate, I shall be in no hurry to quit they again. of course I

don't say that I shall remain there for life; but--it might happen

so."



a pang, sharp as a two-edge sword, strike Edina. "what, and abandon

your country for ever, and--and home tie?"



"as to home tie, Edina, I shall have none then. there be only my

father now. of course my future movement will be regulate with

reference to he as long as he be with we. but--I fear--that may not

be very much long. as you know."



she make a slight movement of assent; and bent her head over the

fern.



"and I shall not be likely to make home tie for myself," go on

George Atkinson, unconscious of the anguish he be inflict. "I

shall never marry."



"why?" breathe Edina.



"I scarcely know why," he reply, after a pause, as if search for

a reason. "I have never admit the thought. I fancy I shall like a

life of change and travel well. and so--when once we part, Edina--and

that must be to-morrow, you say, though I think you might have

remain long--it be hard to say when we shall meet again. if ever."



"Halloa, who's here? oh, it be you, George; and Edina! where's your

aunt? dinner must be nearly ready."



the interruption come from brisk little Timothy Atkinson, who bound

into the room with quick step and his shine bald head.



as Edina turn at his entrance, George Atkinson catch the expression

of her face; the strange sadness of its eye, its extreme pallor. she

look like one who have receive a shock. all at once a revelation

break upon he, as if from subtle instinct. for an instant he stand

motionless, one hand push back his brown hair; hair that be very

much the same shade as Edina's.



"it may be well so," he say in a whisper, meet she yearn eye

with his earnest gaze. "at any rate, I have think so. well for

myself, well for all."



the tall, portly frame of Mrs. Timothy Atkinson, clothe with rich

crimson satin, roll into the room, and the conversation be at an

end. and with it, as Edina know, her life's romance.



"God bless you, Edina," George Atkinson say to she the next day, as

he attend she to the station with Mr. Timothy, and clasp her hand

at part. "when I return to England in year to come--if ever I do

return--I shall find you a bloom matron, with a husband and a flock

of child about you. farewell."



and as Edina sit back in the swiftly-speed railway-carriage, not

strive, in these early moment of anguished awakening to do battle

with her break heart, she know that the blow would last she for all

time. Dr. Raynor think she change when she arrive home: he

continue to think she so as the day go on. she be more quiet,

more subdue: sad, even, at time. he little know the struggle that

be go on within she, or the incessant striving to subdue the

recollection of the past: and from henceforth she endeavour to make

duty her guide.



never a word be exchange between father and daughter upon the

subject; but probably Dr. Raynor suspect something of the truth.

about a year after Edina's return from London, a gentleman who live a

few mile from Trennach make she an offer of marriage. it would have

be an excellent match in all respect; but she refuse he. Dr.

Raynor, perhaps feel a little vex for Edina's sake, ask she the

reason of her rejection. "I shall never marry, papa," she answer,

her cheek flush and pale with emotion. "please do not let we ever

talk of such a thing; please let I stay at home with you always."



nothing more be say, then or later. no one else come forward for

she, and the matter dwindle down into a recollection of the past.

Edina get over the cruel blow in time, but it exercise an influence

upon she still.



and that have be Edina Raynor's romance in life, and its ending.









CHAPTER VIII.

ROSE-COLOURED dreams.





the sweet spring sunshine lie upon Trennach, and upon Dr. Raynor's

surgery. Francis Raynor stand in it, softly whistle. two sovereign

lie on the square table, amongst the small scale and the drug and

the bottle, and he be look down upon they somewhat doubtfully. he

want to convey this money anonymously to a certain destination, and

hardly know how to accomplish it. sovereign be not at all plentiful

with Frank; but he would, in his open-heartedness, have give away the

last he possess, and never cast regret after it.



"I know!" he suddenly cry, take up a sheet of white paper. "I'll

pack they up in an envelope, direct it to she, stick a stamp on it,

and get Gale the postman to deliver it on his round. Dame Bell be

as unsuspicious as the day, and will think the money be send by

Rosaline--as the last be. as to Gale--he be ready to do anything for

I and Uncle Hugh: he get his child doctor for nothing. it's a

shame he be so badly pay, poor fellow!"



several week have go on since the disappearance of Josiah Bell, and

it be now close upon May. Bell have never return: nothing could be

hear of he. Mrs. Bell know not what to make of it: she be a

calm-nature, unemotional woman, and she take the loss more easily

than some wife might have take it. Bell be miss: she could make

neither more nor less of it than that: he might come back some time,

and she believe he _would_ do so: meanwhile she try to do the good

she could without he. in lose he, she have lose the good wage he

earn, and they have be the home's chief support. she possess a

very small income of her own, which she receive quarterly--and this

have enable they to live in a well way than most of the other

miner--but this alone be not sufficient to keep she. a manage,

practical woman, Mrs. Bell have at once look out for some way of

help herself in the dilemma, and find it. she take in two of the

unmarried miner as lodger--one of they be Andrew Float, and she

begin to knit worsted stocking for sale. "I shall get along somehow

till Bell return," be her cheerful remark to the community.



Rosaline be still at Falmouth--and mean to remain there. she write

that she be help her aunt with her millinery business, be

already clever at it, and receive wage, which she intend to

transmit to her mother. the first instalment--it be not much--have

already come. Frank Raynor have just call Dame Bell unsuspicious as

the day. she be so. but, one curious fact, in spite of the freedom

from suspicion, be begin to strike she: in all the letter

write by Rosaline she have never once mention her father's name, or

inquire whether he be find.



Frank Raynor, elastic Frank, have recover his spirit. it be perhaps

impossible that one of his light and sanguine temperament should long

retain the impression leave by the dreadful calamity of that fatal

March night. whatever the precise detail of the occurrence have be,

he have manage outwardly to shake off the weight they have throw upon

he, and in manner be himself again.



perhaps one thing, that help he to do this, be his altered opinion

as to the amount of knowledge possess by Blase Pellet. at first he

have fear the man; fear what he know, and what evil he might bring.

but, as the day and the week have go on, and Blase Pellet do not

speak, or give any hint to Trennach that he have anything in his power

to betray, Frank grow to think that he really know nothing; that

though the man might vaguely suspect that something wrong have occur

that night, he be not actually cognizant of it. therefore Frank

Raynor have become in a measure his own light and genial self again.

none could more bitterly regret the night's doing than he do: but

his elastic temperament could throw off all sign of remorse; ay, and

often its recollection.



the thing that trouble he a little be Mrs. Bell's position. it be

through he she have be deprive of the chief mean which have keep

her home; therefore it be only just, as he look upon it, that he

should help she now. even with the proceed from the lodger and the

stocking, and with what Rosaline would be enable to send she, her

weekly income would be very much small than it have be. Frank

wish with his whole heart that he could settle something upon she,

or make she a weekly allowance; but he be not rich enough to do that.

he would, however, help she a little now and again in secret--as much

as he be able--and this be the destination of the two sovereign. in

secret. it would not do to let she or any one else know the money come

from he, lest the question might be ask, what claim have she upon

you that you should send it to she? to answer that truthfully would be

singularly inconvenient.



Trennach in general could of course make no more of the disappearance

of Bell than his wife make. it be simply not to be understand. many

and many an hour's discussion take place over it in the pit; or at

the Golden Shaft, to the accompaniment of pipe and beer; many a

theory be start. the man might be here, or he might be there; he

might have stroll this way, or wander that way--but it all end

as it begin: in uncertainty. Bell be missing, and none of they could

divine the cause. and the Seven Whistlers, that he hear on the Sunday

night or think he hear, have certainly leave no damage behind they

for the miner. the man might just as well have be at work those

three day for all the accident that have occur in the mine.

perhaps well.



seat at the window of what be call the pink drawing-room at the

Mount, from the colour of its wall, be Mrs. St. Clare and her

daughter Lydia. the large window, shade by its lace curtain, stand

open to the warm bright day. upon the lawn be Margaret in her white

dress, flit from flower to flower, gay as the early butterfly

that sport in the sunshine. Lydia, a peculiar expression on she

discontent face, watch her sister's movement.



Frank Raynor have just go out from his morning visit, carry with

he an invitation to dine with they in the evening. Lydia be really

well; she no more want the attendance of a doctor than her sister

want it: but she be devour by ennui still, and the daily, or

almost daily, come of Frank Raynor be the most welcome episode in

her present life. she have learn to look for he: perhaps have learn

in a very slight degree to _like_ he: at any rate, his presence be

ever welcome. not that Lydia would have suffer herself to entertain

serious thought of the young surgeon--because he be a surgeon, and

therefore far beneath her notice in that way--but she do recognize

the fascination of his companionship, and enjoy it. latterly,

however, an idea have dawn upon she that some one else enjoy it

also--her sister--and the suspicion be extremely unwelcome. Lydia be

of an intensely jealous disposition. she would not for the world have

condescend to look upon Frank Raynor as a lover, but her jealousy

be rise, now that she suspect Daisy might be do so, somewhat

after the fashion of the dog-in-the-manger. that little chit, Daisy,

too, whom she look upon as a child!--there be some difference,

she hope, between nineteen and her own more experienced age of

five-and-twenty! she be fond of Daisy, but have not the least

intention of be rival by she; and perhaps for the child's own

sake, it might be as well to speak.



as Frank go out, he cross Daisy's path on the lawn. they turn

away side by side, walk slowly, talk apparently of the flower;

linger over they, bend to inhale their perfume. Mrs. St. Clare,

a new magazine and a paper-knife in her hand--for she do make a

pretence of reading now and then, though it be as much a penance as a

pleasure--glance up indifferently at they once, and then glance down

again at her book. but Lydia, watch more observantly, see sign and

wonder: the earnest gaze of Frank's blue eye as they look into

Daisy's; the shy droop in her; and the linger pressure of the

hand in farewell. he go on his way; and Daisy, detect in that

moment her sister's sharp glance from the window, make herself at once

very busy with the bed and the flower, as if they be she only

think in life.



"Mamma!"



the tone be so sharp that Mrs. St. Clare lift her head in surprise.

Lydia's voice be usually as supinely listless as her own.



"what be it, Lydia?"



"don't you think that Daisy want a little look after?"



"in what way?"



"of course I may be mistake in my suspicion. but I think I be not. I

will assume that I be not."



"well, Lydia?"



"she and Mr. Raynor be flirt desperately."



Mrs. St. Clare make no reply whatever. her eye fix inquiringly on

Lydia's, keep their gaze for a moment or so, and then fall on the

magazine page again. Lydia feel a little astonish: be this

indignation or indifference?



"do you understand I, mamma?"



"perfectly, my dear."



"then--I really do not comprehend you. don't you consider that Daisy

ought to be restrain?"



"if I see Daisy do anything that I very much disapprove, I shall be

sure to restrain she."



"have you not notice, yourself, that they be flirt?"



"I suppose they be. something of the sort."



"but _surely_, mamma, you cannot approve of Mr. Raynor! suppose a

serious attachment come of it, you could not suffer she to marry he!"



Mrs. St. Clare turn her book upside down upon her knee, and speak in

the equable manner that characterize she, fold her arm idly in

the light morning scarf she wear.



"it never occur to I, Lydia, until one day, a week or two ago,

that any possibility could arise of what you be mention. Mr.

Raynor's visit here be merely professional. even when he come by

invitation to dinner, I consider they as partake of that nature: to

look upon they in any other light never enter my mind. on this day,

however, I see something that, figuratively speak, open my eye."



"what be it?" ask Lydia.



"it occur on the day that the Faulkners be to have come to we,

and do not. Mr. Raynor dine here in the evening. after dinner I

drop into a doze; there, on the sofa"--pointing to the other end of

the room. "when I awake it be quite dusk; not dark; and Mr. Raynor

and Daisy be stand together at this open window; stand very

close indeed to each other. Daisy be lean against he, in fact;

and he, I think, have one of her hand in his. you be not in the

room."



"it be the evening I have so bad a headache, through vexation at those

stupid people not come!" cry Lydia, angrily. "I have go upstairs,

I suppose, to take my drop. but what do you do, mamma? Order Mr.

Raynor from the house?"



"no. have I act on my first impulse, I might have do that, Lydia.

but instinct warn I to take time for consideration. I do so. I sit

quite still, my head down on the cushion as before, they of course

suppose I to be still asleep, and I run the matter rapidly over in

my mind. the decision I come to be, not to speak hastily; not _then_;

to take, at any rate, the night for further reflection: so I cough

to let they know I be awake, and say nothing."



"well?" cry Lydia, impatiently.



"I go over the affair again at night with myself, look at it from

all point of view, weigh its merit and demerit, and try to

balance one against the other," pursue Mrs. St. Clare. "the result I

come to be this, Lydia: to let the matter take its course."



Lydia open her eye very widely. "what, to let--to let she marry

he?"



"perhaps. but you jump to conclusion too rapidly, Lydia."



"why, he be only a common medical practitioner!"



"there of course lie the objection. but he be not a 'common'

practitioner, Lydia. if he be so, do you suppose I should invite he

here as I do, and make much of he? he be a gentleman, and the son of

a gentleman. in point of fact," add Mrs. St. Clare, in a low tone,

as if the acknowledgment might only be give in a whisper, "our

branch of the St. Clare family be little, if any, well than the

Raynors----"



"Mamma, how can you say so?" burst forth Lydia. "it be not true. and

the Raynors have always be as poor as church mouse."



"and--I be go to say," go on Mrs. St. Clare with equanimity--"he

be the heir to Eagles' Nest."



Lydia sit back in her chair, a scowl on her brow. she could not

contradict that.



"in most case of this kind there be advantage and disadvantage,"

quietly speak Mrs. St. Clare, "and I try, as I tell you, to put the

one side against the other, and see which be the weighty. on the

one hand there be his profession, and his want of connection; on the

other, there be Eagles' Nest, and his own personal attraction. you

be look very cross, Lydia. you think, I see, that Daisy might do

well."



"of course she might."



"she might or she might not," speak Mrs. St. Clare, impressively.

"marriage use to be call a lottery: but it be a lottery that seem

to be get as scarce now as the lottery that the old government

put down. for one girl who marry, half-a-dozen girl do not marry.

be it, or be it not so, Lydia?"



no response. Mrs. St. Clare resume.



"and it appear to I, Lydia, that the more eligible girl, those who

be most worthy to be choose and who would make the good wife, be

generally those who be leave. have you be choose yet?--forgive I

for speak plainly. no. yet you have be _wait_ to be

choose--just as other girl wait--for these six or seven year. Daisy

may wait in the same manner; wait for ever. we must sacrifice some

prejudice in these non-marrying day, Lydia, if we be to get our

daughter off at all. if an offer come, though it may be one that in

the old time would have be summarily reject, it be well to

_consider_ it in these. and so, you see, my dear, why I be let

matter take their course with regard to Daisy and Mr. Raynor."



"he may mean nothing," debate Lydia.



"neither of they may mean anything, if it come to that," say Mrs.

St. Clare, relapse into her idly indifferent manner. "it may be only

a little flirtation--your own word just now--on both side; pour faire

passer le temp."



"and if Daisy lose her heart to he, and nothing come of it? you

have call he attractive yourself."



"highly attractive," composedly assent Mrs. St. Clare. "as to the

rest, it would be no very great calamity that I know of. when once a

girl have have a little love affair in early life, and have get over it,

she be always the more tractable in regard to eligible offer, should

they drop in. no, Lydia, all thing consider--and I have well

consider they--it be the well policy not to interfere. the matter

shall be leave to take its course."



"well, I must say, Daisy ought not to be allow to drift into love

with a rubbishing assistant-surgeon."



"she have already drift into it, unless I be mistaken," say Mrs. St.

Clare, significantly; "have be deep in it for some little time past.

my eye be not open quickly enough; but since they do open, they

have be tolerably observant, Lydia. why--do you suppose I should

wink at their be so much together, unless I intend the matter to

go on? don't they stroll out alone by moonlight and twilight, in

goodness know what shady walk of the garden, talk sentiment,

look at the star, and bend over the same flower? twice that

have happen, Lydia, since I have be on the watch: how many time it

happen before, I cann't pretend to say."



Lydia remain silent. it be all true. where have her own eye be?

Daisy would walk out through the open french window--she remember it

now--and he would stroll out after she: while Mrs. St. Clare would be

in her after-dinner doze, and she, Lydia, lie back in her chair with

the chest-ache, or upstairs take her drop. yes, it be all true.

and what an idiot she have be not to see it--not to suspect it!



"we cannot have everything; we must, as I say, make sacrifice,"

resume Mrs. St. Clare. "I could have wish that Mr. Raynor be not

in the medical profession, especially in its low branch. of course

at present he can only be regard as altogether unsuitable for Daisy:

but that will be alter when the major come into Eagles' Nest. Frank

will then no doubt quit the profession, and----"



"the singular thing to I be, that he should ever have enter it,"

interrupt Lydia. "Fancy the heir to Eagles' Nest make himself a

work apothecary! it be perfectly incongruous."



"it seem so," say Mrs. St. Clare. "I conclude there must have be

some motive for it. perhaps the major think it well to give he a

profession; and when he have acquire it send he to this remote place

to keep he out of mischief. it will be all right, Lydia, when they

come into Eagles' Nest. the major will of course make Frank a suitable

allowance as his heir. the major be already get in year: Frank

will soon come into it."



"as to that old Mrs. Atkinson, she must intend to live to a hundred,"

remark Lydia, tartly. "how many century be it since we see she in

London?--and she be old then. she ought to give up Eagles' Nest to

the major and live elsewhere. if it be the beautiful place that people

say it be, she might be generous enough to let some one else have a

little benefit out of it."



Mrs. St. Clare laugh. "old people be selfish, Lydia; they prefer

their own ease to other people's. I dare say we shall be the same if

we live long enough."



from this conversation, it will be gather that the check throw upon

Frank Raynor's pleasant intercourse with Margaret St. Clare by the

unknown calamity (unknown to the world) that have so mysteriously and

suddenly happen, have be only transitory. for a week or two

afterwards, Frank have pay none but strictly professional visit to

the Mount; have be simply courteous to its inmate, Daisy include,

as a professional man, and nothing more. he have not dance with Daisy

on her birthday; he have not give she any more tender glance, or

exchange a confidential word with she. but, as the first horror of

the occurrence begin to lose its hold upon his mind, and his

temperament recover its elasticity, his love return to he. he be

more with Daisy than ever; he _seek_ opportunity to be with she

now: formerly they have only meet in the natural course of thing.

and so they, he and she, be live in an enchanted dream, whose

rose-colour hue seem as if they could only have come direct from

Eden.



and Frank Raynor, never famous for foresight or forethought at the

good of time, fall into the belief that Mrs. St. Clare approve of

he as a future aspirant for her daughter's hand and tacitly

encourage their love. that she must see they be intimate with an

especial intimacy, and very much together, he know, and in his

sanguine way he draw deduction accordingly. in this he be partly

right, as the reader have learn; but it never enter into his

incautious head to suppose that Mrs. St. Clare be count upon his

come in for future wealth and greatness.



they stand once more together on this same evening, he and Daisy,

gaze at the remain of the gorgeous sunset. dinner over, Daisy have

stroll out as usual into the garden; he follow she in a minute or

two, without excuse or apology. in his assumption of Mrs. St. Clare's

tacit encouragement, he believe excuse to be no long necessary.

cloud of purple and crimson, fleck with gold, crowd the west;

light up Daisy's face, as they stand side by side lean on the

low iron gate, with a hue as rosy as the dream they be live in.



"I should like to see the sunset of Italy," observe Margaret. "it be

say they be very beautiful."



"so should I," promptly reply Frank. "perhaps some time we may see

they together."



her face take a bright tint, though there be nothing in the sky to

induce it. he pass his hand along the gate, until it rest on her.



"Mamma talk of go abroad this summer," whisper Daisy. "I do not

know whether it will be to Italy."



"I hope she will not take you with she!"



"it be Lydia's fault. she say this place tire she. and possibly,"

add Daisy, with a sigh, "when once we get abroad, we shall stay

there."



"but, my darling, you know that must not be. I could not spare you.

why, Daisy, how could we live apart?"



her hand, clasp tenderly, lie in his. her whole frame thrill as

the hand rest there.



"shall you always stay on at Trennach?" she question in low tone.



"stay on at Trennach!" he repeat, in surprise. "I! why, Daisy, I

hope to be very, very soon away from it. I come to my uncle two year

ago, of my own accord, to gain experience. nothing teach experience

like the drudgery of a general practice: and I be not one of those

self-sufficient young student who set up after hospital work with

M.D. on their door-plate, and believe themselves qualified to cure the

world. it be kill or cure, haphazard, with some of they."



"and--when you leave Trennach?" she ask, her clear eye, clear this

evening as amber, gaze out, as if she would fain see into the

future.



"oh, it will be all right when I leave Trennach; I shall get along

well," return Frank, in his light, sanguine fashion. "I--I don't

care to praise myself, Daisy, but I be clever in my profession; and a

clever man must make his way in it. perhaps I should purchase a share

in a west-end practice in town; or perhaps set up on my own account in

that desirable quarter."



the bright hope of anticipation light Daisy's beautiful eye. Frank

change his tone to one of the sweetest melody. at least, it sound

so to her ear.



"and with one gentle spirit at my hearth to cheer and guide I, the

world will be to I as a long day in Paradise. my good and dearest you

know what spirit it be that I covet. will she say I nay?"



she do not say anything just now; but the trembling finger, lie in

his hand, entwine themselves confidingly within his.



"I know you will get on," she murmur. "you will be great sometime."



"of course I shall, Daisy. and keep carriage and horse for my

darling wife; and the queen will knight I when I have gain name and

fame; and--and we shall be happy than the live-long day."



the bright colour in the sky fade by degree, leave the grey

twilight in their stead. before they lie the slope landscape, not a

living soul to be see on it; immediately behind they be the grove of

laurel, shut they out from view. in this favourable isolation,

Frank pass his arm around Daisy's waist, and draw her face to his

breast.



"nothing shall ever separate we, Daisy. nothing in this world."



"nothing," she murmur, speak between his passionate kiss. "I

will be yours always and for ever."



"and there will be no trouble," remark he, in sanguine impulse, as

they turn reluctantly from the gate to regain the house. "I mean no

opposition. I be my own master, Daisy, accountable to none; and your

mother have see our love and sanction it."



"oh, do you think she do sanction it?" exclaim Daisy, draw a

deep breath.



"why, of course she do," reply Frank, speak in accordance with

his belief. "would Mrs. St. Clare let we linger out together, evening

after evening, if she do not see and sanction it? no, there will be

neither trouble nor impediment. life lie before we, Daisy, fair as a

happy valley."



Tea wait on the table when they get in. Mrs. St. Clare be sleep

still; Lydia look very cross. Frank glance at his watch, as if

doubt whether he could stay long.



Daisy's pretty hand, the lace mean to shade they fall back, begin

to busy themselves with the tea-cup. it awake Mrs. St. Clare. she

draw her chair at once to the tea-table. Frank push Lydia's light

couch towards it.



"we be speak to-day of Eagles' nest," observe Mrs. St.

Clare--and she really do not introduce the subject with any ulterior

view; simply as something to talk about. "it's a very nice place, be

it not?"



"very--by all account," reply Frank. "I have not see it."



"indeed! be not that strange?"



"my aunt Atkinson have never invite I there. none of we have be

invite, except the major. and he have not be there for several

year."



"how be that? Major Raynor be the next heir."



"well, I scarcely know how it be. he and Mrs. Atkinson be not very

good friend. there be some quarrel, I fancy."



"Mrs. Atkinson must be very old."



"about seventy-four, I believe."



"not more than that! I think she be ninety at least."



"I be say to-day," put in Lydia, "that those old people ought to

give up their estate to the heir. it be unreasonable to keep Major

Raynor so long out of his own."



Frank smile. "he would be very glad if she do give it up, I dare

say; but I don't know about the justice of it. elderly people, as a

rule, cle to their home. I once know an old lady who be

unexpectedly call upon to give up the home in which she have live

for very many year, and it kill she. before the day for turn out

come, she be dead."



"at any rate, Mr. Raynor, _you_ will not be keep out of it so long

when it come to your turn," remark Mrs. St. Clare: "for I suppose

the major be very nearly as old as Mrs. Atkinson."



Frank's honest blue eye go straight into those of the speaker with

a questioning glance.



"I beg your pardon: keep out of what?"



"of Eagles' Nest."



his whole face light up with amusement at the mistake she be

make.



"I shall never come into Eagles' Nest, Mrs. St. Clare."



"never come into Eagles' Nest! but the major come into it."



"the major do. But----"



"and you be his eld son."



Frank laugh outright. freely and candidly he answer--with never a

thought of reserve.



"my dear lady, I be not Major Raynor's son at all. his eld son be

my cousin Charley. it be he who will succeed to Eagles' Nest."



Mrs. St. Clare stare at Frank. "Good Heavens!" she murmur under her

breath. "you be not the son of Major Raynor?"



"no, I be his nephew. my father be the clergyman."



"I--I have hear Major Raynor call you his son!" she debate, hardly

believe her own ear. "he have call you so to my face."



"he often do call I so," laugh Frank. "I fear--he be--proud of

I--dear, fond old uncle!"



"well, I never be so deceive in all my life!" ejaculate Mrs. St.

Clare.









CHAPTER IX.

plan out the future.





it have be already say that there be originally three of the

brother Raynor: Francis, who be an officer in her Majesty's service;

Henry the clergyman; and Hugh the doctor. the young of these, Hugh,

be the first to marry by several year; the next to marry be Henry.

Henry might have marry early, but could not afford it: he wait

until a living be give to he. in the pretty country rectory

attach to his church, he and his wife live for one brief year of

their married life: and then she die, leave he a little boy-baby,

who be name Francis after the clergyman's eld brother. some ten

year later the Reverend Henry Raynor himself die; and the little boy

be an orphan, possess of just sufficient mean to educate he and

give he a start in life in some not too costly profession. when the

time come, he choose that of medicine, as his Uncle Hugh have do

before he.



the eld of the three brother be the last to marry: Captain

Raynor. he and his young wife lead rather a scrambling sort of life for

some year afterwards, always puzzle how to make both end of their

straiten income meet; and then a slice of good fortune (as the

captain regard it) befell he. some distant relative leave he an

annuity of five hundred a-year. five hundred a-year in addition to his

pay seem rich to the captain: whilst his unsophisticated and not

too-well-manage wife think they be now clear of shoal for life.



very closely upon this, the captain obtain his majority. this be

succeed by a long and severe attack of illness; and the major, too

hastily decide that he should never be again fit for active service,

sell out. he and his wife settle down in a pretty cottage-villa,

call Spring Lawn, in the neighbourhood of Bath, live there and

bring up their child in much the same scrambling fashion that

they have previously live. no order, no method; all good-hearte

carelessness, good-natured improvidence. just as it have be in their

early day, so it be now: they never know where to look for a

shilling of ready-money. that it would be so all through life with

Major Raynor, whatever might be the amount of his income, be pretty

certain: he be sanguine, off-hand, naturally improvident. the

proceed from the sale of his commission have all vanish, chiefly in

pay back-debt; the five hundred a-year be all they have to live

upon, and that five hundred would die with the major: and, in short,

they seem to be bad off now than before the annuity come to they.

consider that they spend considerably more than the five hundred

yearly, and yet have no comfort to show for it, and that debt have

gather again over the major's head, it be not to be wonder at

that they be not well off. the major never give a thought to

consequence; debt sit as lightly upon he as though it have be a

wreath of laurel. if he do feel slightly worried at time, what

matter it: he should, soon or later, come into Eagles' Nest, when

all thing would be smooth as glass. a more prudent man than the major

might have see cause to doubt the absolute certainty of the estate

come to he. _he_ do not; he look upon the inheritance of it as

an accomplished fact.



the reader have probably not forget Mr. and Mrs. Timothy

Atkinson--at whose house Edina have stay so many year ago. change

have take place since then. both the partner in the bank, Timothy and

his cousin (they be only second cousin), be dead: and the firm

have long be Atkinson and Street. for, upon the death of the two old

man, Mr. George Atkinson, their sole successor, take his managing

clerk, Edwin Street, into partnership. the bank be not one of

magnitude--I think this have already be say--only a small, safe,

private one. the act head of it be, to all intent and purpose,

Edwin Street: for Mr. George Atkinson pass the great portion of

his time abroad, come home only every two or three year. George

Atkinson be well off, and do not choose to worry himself with the

care of business: have the bank be give up to-morrow, he would have

have plenty of money without it. during his later life, Mr. Timothy

Atkinson have invest the chief portion of his saving in the purchase

of an estate in Kent, call Eagles' nest. he be not a rich man, as

banker go, never having be an equal partner in the firm; draw

from it in fact only a small share. his death be somewhat sudden, and

occur during one of his sojourn at Eagles' Nest. Mrs. Atkinson,

his widow; not less portly than of yore, and still very much of an

invalid; summon her two brother to attend the funeral: Major Raynor

from Bath, Dr. Raynor from Trennach. the major go up at once: Dr.

Raynor send a refusal; his excuse, no idle one, be that he could

not leave his patient. the season be one of unusual sickness, and he

have no one to take his place. this refusal Mrs. Atkinson, never a very

genial woman, or at all cordial with her brother, resent.



when Mr. Timothy Atkinson's will be open, it be find that he have

leave everything he possess to his wife unconditionally. consequently

the estate be now at her own disposal. though a pretty, compact

property, it be not a large one: worth some two thousand a-year, but

capable of great improvement.



on the day follow the funeral, Mrs. Atkinson go up to her house

in London, the major accompany she. there she find George

Atkinson, who have just arrive in England; which be an agreeable

surprise to she. he have always be a favourite of her, and he would

be useful to she just now.



"I shall leave it to you, George," she suddenly observe one morning,

a few day after this, as they sit together look over letter and

paper.



"leave what to I, aunt?" for he have call she "aunt" in the old

day, and often do so still.



"Eagles' Nest."



George Atkinson lay down the bundle of letter he be untie, and

look questioningly at the old lady, almost as though he doubt she

word.



"I be sure you cannot mean that."



"why not, pray?"



"because it be a thing that you must not think of do. you have near

relative in your brother. it be they who should benefit by your

will."



"my brother cann't both inherit the place," retort the old lady.



"the elder of they can--Major Raynor."



"I like you well, George, than I like he."



"I be very glad you like I--but not that your liking should render

you unjust to your family," he return, firmly but gently. "indeed,

dear Mrs. Atkinson, to prefer I to they would be an act of the

great injustice."



"my will ought to be make at once," say the old lady.



"certainly. and I hope you will not as much as mention my name in it,"

he add with a smile. "I have so very much of my own, you know, that

a bequest from you would be altogether superfluous."



the conversation decide Mrs. Atkinson. she send for her lawyer, Mr.

John Street, and have she will draw up in favour of Major Raynor.

legacy to a small or large amount be bequeath to a few

people, but to Major Raynor be leave Eagles' Nest. her brother Hugh,

poor Dr. Raynor of Trennach, be not mention in it: neither be

Edina.



the will be make in duplicate; Mrs. Atkinson desire her solicitor to

retain possession of one copy; the other she hand to Major Raynor.

she affix her own seal to the envelope in which the will be

enclose, but allow he first to read it over.



"I don't know how to thank you, Ann, for this," say the major, tear

of genuine emotion rest on his eyelash. "it will be good news for

Mary and the young one."



"well, I'm tell it's the right thing to do, Frank," answer the old

lady: who be old than any of her brother, and have domineer over

they in early life. "I suppose it be."



so Major Raynor go back to Spring Lawn with the will in his pocket;

and he consider that from that hour all his embarrassment be

over. and Mrs. Atkinson give up her house in London, and station

herself for life at Eagles' Nest. while George Atkinson, after a

month's sojourn, go abroad again.



but now, as ill-fortune have it, Major Raynor have chance, since that

lucky day, to offend his sister. the year follow the making of the

will, be in London on some matter of business, he take the

opportunity to go down to Eagles' Nest--and go without ask

permission, or send word. whether that fact displease Mrs.

Atkinson, or whether she really do not care to see he at all,

certain it be that she be very cross and crab with he, her

temper almost unbearable. the major have a hot temper himself on

occasion, and they come to an issue. a sharp quarrel ensue; and the

major, impulsive in all he do, quit Eagles' Nest that same hour.

when he reach Spring Lawn, after stay another week in London to

complete his business, he find a letter await he from his sister,

tell he that she have alter her will and leave Eagles' Nest to

George Atkinson.



"stupid old thing!" exclaim the major, laugh at what he look

upon as an idle threat. "as if she would do such a thing as that!" for

the major have never the remotest idea that she have once intend to

make George Atkinson her heir.



and from that hour to this, the major have not once seriously think

of the letter again. he have never since see Mrs. Atkinson; have never

but once hear from she; but he look upon Eagles' Nest as be as

certainly his as though it be already in his possession. once every

year at Christmas-time he write his sister a letter of good wish; to

which she do not respond. "Ann never go in for civility," would

observe the major.



the one exception be this. when his eld son, Charles, have attain

his sixteenth year, the major mention the fact in the annual letter

to his sister. a few day afterwards, down come the answer from she of

some half-dozen line: in which she briefly offer Charles an opening

(as she call it) in life: meaning, a clerkship in the bank of

Atkinson and Street, which her interest would procure for he. Master

Charles, who have far high notion than these, as befit the heir

to Eagles' Nest, throw up his head in disdain: and the major write a

letter of refusal, as brief as the old lady's offer. with that

exception, they have never hear from she.



the major and his wife be both incredibly improvident; he in

spend money; she in not know how to save it. yield and

gentle, Mrs. Raynor fall in with anything and everything do by her

husband, think that because he do it, it must be right. she never

suggest that they might save cost here, and cut it off there; that

this outlay would be extravagant, or that unnecessary. there be some

woman really not capable of forethought, and Mrs. Raynor be one of

they. as to do anything to advance their own interest, by

cultivate Mrs. Atkinson's favour, both be too single-minded for

such an act; it may be say too strictly honourable.



it be with they, his uncle and aunt, that Frank Raynor have spend his

holiday when a boy, and all his after-interval of leisure. they be

just as fond of Frank as they be of their own child: he be ever

welcome. the major sometimes call he "my son Frank," when

speak of he to stranger; very often indeed "my eld boy."

as to take people in by so do, the major have no thought of the

sort; but there be no doubt that it do cause many a one, not

acquaint with the actual relationship, to understand and believe

that Frank be in truth the major's son. possibly their name be

the same--Francis--contribute to the impression. amongst those who

have catch up the belief, be Mrs. St. Clare. she have occasionally meet

the Major and Mrs. Raynor in Bath, though the acquaintanceship be of

the slight. when her son, young St. Clare, come into possession of

the Mount, and it be know that she be go to remove there, the

major, meet she one day near the Old Pump-room, say to she, in the

openness of his heart, "I'll write to Trennach to my boy Frank, and

tell he to make himself useful to you." "oh," return Mrs. St.

Clare, "have you a boy at Trennach?" "yes, the eld of they: he be

with his uncle the doctor," conclude the major, unsuspiciously. have

he think it would create mischief, or even a false impression, he

would have swallow the Pump-room before he have speak it. that the

major be the presumptive heir to Eagles' Nest be well know: and

Mrs. St. Clare may be excuse for have, under the circumstance,

carry with she to her new abode the belief that Frank would succeed

he in the estate.



on the night that the enlightenment take place--when Frank so candidly

and carelessly disabuse Mrs. St. Clare's mind of the impression--he

perceive not the chill that the avowal evidently throw upon she. that

it should affect her cordiality to he he could never have fear. a

more worldly man, or one of a selfish nature, would have see in a

moment that his not be heir to Eagles' Nest render he a less

eligible parti for Margaret; but Frank Raynor, in worldliness, as in

selfishness, be singularly deficient. and he leave the Mount when tea

be over, quite unconscious that anything have occur to diminish the

favour in which he be hold by its mistress.



not with that be his mind occupy as he walk home; but rather with

thought of the future. Daisy be to be his; she have promise it; and

Frank would have take she to himself to-morrow, could he have

provide she with bread-and-cheese. how to do this be puzzle his

brain now.



he take the road home over the Bare Plain. never, since the night of

that fatal tragedy, have Frank Raynor take it by choice: he always

choose the highway. but to-night he have a patient lie ill in the

cottage on the Plain; and Dr. Raynor have say to he, "call in and

see Weston, Frank, as you return." the visit pay, he continue his

way homeward. it be a light night: there be neither star nor

moon: but a white haze seem to veil the sky, and light up

surround object. Frank look towards the Bottomless Shaft as he

pass it; his fascinated eye turn to it of their own accord.

bring they back with an effort and a shudder, he quicken his

pace, and go onwards with his burthensome secret.



"will it lie hide there for ever?" he say, half aloud. "pray Heaven

that it may!"



Dr. Raynor be sit in the small room behind his surgery; a room

chiefly use for private consultation with patient; in his hand be

a medical journal, which he be read by lamplight. he put it down

when Frank enter.



"I want to ask you something, Uncle Hugh," begin Frank, impulsively,

as though what he be about to say be good news. "should I have any

difficulty, do you think, in drop into a practice when I leave

you?"



"you do mean to leave I, then, Frank?" return Dr. Raynor, without

immediately reply to the question.



"why, of course I do, Uncle Hugh," say Frank, in slight surprise. "it

be always intend so. I come here, you know, for two year, and I

have stay long than that."



"and you would not like to remain altogether, and be my partner and

successor?"



"no," reply Frank, very promptly. "it would be a poor living for two

people; my share of it very small, for I could not expect you to give

I half the profit. and there be other reason against it. no, Uncle

Hugh; what I want to do be, to jump into some snug little practice in

a place where I shall get on. say in London."



a smile cross the more experienced doctor's lip. young man be

sanguine.



"it be not easy to 'jump into a snug little practice,' Frank."



"I know that, sir: but there be two way in which it may be do. one

way be, to purchase a share in an establish practice; another, to

set up well in some likely situation, with a good house and a plate on

the door, and all that, and wait for patient to drop in."



"but each of those way require money, Frank."



"oh, of course," acquiesce Frank, lightly, as though money be the

most ordinary commodity on earth.



"well, Frank, where would you find the money? you have not save much,

I take it, out of the salary you have from I."



"I have not save anything: I be never a pound to the good," answer

Frank, candidly. "clothe cost a good deal, for one thing."



"when gentleman dress as you do, and buy their kid glove by the

dozen," say the doctor, archly. "well, whence would you find the

mean to set yourself up in practice?"



"that's what I want to ask you about, Uncle Hugh. I dare say you

remember, when there be so much talk about that will of my aunt

Ann's, that it be say I have a share in it."



"indeed, Frank, I don't. I remember I be tell that she have not leave

anything to I; and I really remember no more."



"then you cannot tell I what the amount be?" exclaim Frank, in

accent of disappointment. "I think perhaps Uncle Francis might have

tell you."



Dr. Raynor shake his head. "I have no idea, Frank, whether it be one

pound or one thousand. or many thousand."



"you see, sir, if I know the exact sum, I could think about my plan

with more certainty."



"just so, Frank. as it be, your plan must be somewhat like castle in

the air."



"I recollect quite well Uncle Francis tell I that I come in for a

good slice. that be the exact phrase: 'in for a good slice.' he have

read the will, you know. I wonder he do not mention it to you."



"all I recollect, or know, about it be, that Francis write I word

that nothing be leave to I. he say he have remonstrate with

Ann--your aunt--at leave my name out of the will, and that she

order he, in return, to mind his own business. I do not care for it

myself; I do not, I be sure, covet any of the money Ann may leave;

though I could have wish she have not quite pass over Edina."



"she must have a good deal of money, Uncle Hugh, apart from Eagles'

Nest."



"I dare say she have."



"and, if Uncle Francis come in for that money, I should think he

would make over half of it to you. I should, be I in his place."



"ah, Frank," smile the doctor, "people be not so chivalrously

generous in this world; even brother."



"I should call it justice, not generosity, sir."



"if you come to talk of justice, you would also be entitle to your

share, as Henry's son. he be equally her brother."



"but I don't expect anything of the kind," say Frank. "provide I

have enough to set I up in practice, that's all I care for."



"you would not have that until your aunt die."



"to be sure not. I be not expect it before. but what have strike I

be this, Uncle Hugh--I have be turn the thing over in my mind as

I walk home--that I might, without any dishonour, reckon upon the

money now."



"in what way? how do you mean?"



"suppose I go to some old-establish man in London who, from some

cause or other--advance year, say--require some one to relieve he

of a portion of his daily work. I say to he, 'will you take I at

present as your assistant, at a fair salary, and when I come into my

money'--naming the sum--'I will hand that over to you and become your

partner?' don't you think that seem feasible, sir?"



"I dare say it do, Frank."



"but then, you see, to do this, I ought to know the exact sum that be

come to I. unless I be able to state that, I should not be

listen to. that's why, sir, I be in hope that you could tell I

what it be."



"and so I would tell you if I know it, Frank. I do not think Francis

mention to I that you would come in for anything. I feel sure, if

he have do so, I should remember it."



"that's awkward," muse Frank, thoughtfully balance the paper-knife

he have catch up from the table. "I wonder he do not tell you, Uncle

Hugh."



"to say the truth, so do I," reply Dr. Raynor. "it would have be

good news: and he know that I be equally interested with himself in

the welfare of Henry's orphan son. be you sure, Frank, that you be

make no mistake in this?"



"I don't think I be. I be stay at Spring Lawn when the major come

home from Aunt Atkinson's after her husband's death, and he bring

she will with he. he be tell we all about it--that Eagles' Nest

be to be his, and that there be several legacy to different

people, and he turn to I and say, 'you come in for a good slice,

Frank.' I recollect it all, sir, as though it have take place

yesterday."



"do he mention how much the 'slice' be?"



"no, he do not. and I do not like to ask he."



there be a pause. Dr. Raynor begin put the paper straight on the

table, his usual custom before retire for the night. Frank have

apparently fall into a reverie.



"Uncle Hugh," he cry, briskly, lift his head, his face glow

with some idea, his frank blue eye bright with it, "if you can spare

I for a couple of day, I will go to Spring Lawn and ask Uncle

Francis. I should like to be at some certainty in the matter."



"I could spare you, Frank: there's nothing particular on hand that I

cannot attend to myself for that short time. But----"



"thank you, Uncle Hugh," interrupt Frank, impetuously. "then suppose

I start to-morrow morning?"



"but--I be about to inquire--what be it that have put all this into

your head so suddenly?"



Frank's eager eye, raise to the doctor's face, fall at the question.

a half-conscious smile part his lip.



"there's no harm, sir, in try to plan out one's future."



"none in the world, Frank. I only ask the reason for your setting

about it in this--as it seem to I--sudden manner."



"well--you know, Uncle Hugh--i--I may be marry some time."



"and you have be fix on the lady, I see, Frank!"



a broad smile now shine upon Frank's face. he be send the

paper-knife round in circle on the table, with rather an unnecessary

noise. Dr. Raynor's thought be go hither and thither; he could

not recall any individual in the neighbourhood of Trennach likely to

be honour by Frank's choice. in an instant an idea flash over

he--an idea that he do not like.



"Frank! can it be that you be think of one of the Miss St.

Clares?"



"and if I be, sir?"



"then--I fear--that there may be trouble in store for you," say the

doctor, gravely. "Mrs. St. Clare would never sanction it."



"but she have sanction it, Uncle Hugh. she sanction it every day of

her life."



"have she tell you so?"



"not in word. but she see how much I and Daisy be together, and she

allow it. _that_ will be all right, Uncle Hugh."



"Daisy? let I see? oh, that be the young one: she be a nice little

girl. I cannot say I like the elder. But----"



"but what, sir?"



"you be by nature over-sanguine, Frank; and I cannot help think

that you be so in this. rely upon it, there be some mistake here.

Mrs. St. Clare be a proud, haughty woman, remarkably alive, unless I

be in error, to self-interest. she would not be likely to give a

daughter to one whose prospect be so uncertain as your."



"but I be wish to make my prospect more certain, you see, uncle.

and I can assure you she approve of I for Daisy."



"well, well; if so, I be glad to hear it. nevertheless it surprise

I. I should have suppose she would look high for suitor for her

daughter. the little girl be a nice girl, I say, Frank, and you have

my good wish."



"thank you, Uncle Hugh," warmly repeat Frank, rise, his face

flush with pleasure as he meet the doctor's hand. "of course you

understand that it must not yet be talk of: I must first of all

speak to Mrs. St. Clare."



"I shall not be likely to talk of it," reply Dr. Raynor.









CHAPTER X.

MAJOR and MRS. RAYNOR.





the window of Spring Lawn stand open to the afternoon sun. it be a

small, pretty white house, half cottage, half villa, situate about

three mile from Bath. a latticed portico, over which creep the white

clematis, lead into a miniature hall: Major Raynor could just turn

round in it. on either side be a small sitting-room, the dining-room

on the left, the drawing-room on the right.



the scramble midday dinner be over. somehow all the meal seem to

be scramble at the major's, from the utter want of order, and of

proper attendance. only two servant be keep, a cook and a nurse:

and _they_ could not always get their wage pay. when Edina be

there, she strove to bring a little comfort out of the chaos: but that

be only a chance event; a brief and rare occasion, occur at long

interval in life. some wine stand on the old table-cover, with a

plate of biscuit. on one side of the table sit the major; a tall and

very portly man, with a bald head and a white moustache, look every

day of his nine and-sixty year. he have be get on for fifty when

he marry his young wife; who be not quite eight-and-thirty yet: a

delicate, fragile-look woman, with a small fair face and gentle

voice, mild blue eye, a pink colour, and thin light brown hair

quietly braid back from it. Mrs. Raynor look what she be: a

gentle, yielding, amiable, helpless woman; one who could never be

strong-minded in any emergency whatever, but somehow one to be love

at first sight.



she sit half turn from the table--as indeed do the major opposite,

their face towards the window--her foot on a footstool, and her hand

busy with work, apparently a new frock she be make for one of her

young child. she wear a fade muslin gown, green its predominant

colour; a score of pin, belong to the work in process, in she

waistband.



they be talk of the weather. the major be generally in a state

of heat. that morning he have walk into Bath and back again, and get

in late for dinner, puffing and steaming, for it be an up-hill walk.

he like to have a fly one way at least; but he have not always the

money in his pocket to pay for it.



"yes, it be like an oven in the sun, Mary," continue he, enlarge

upon the weather. "I don't remember any one single year that the heat

have come upon we so early."



"that's why I have a good deal of sewing to do just now," observe

Mrs. Raynor. "we have have to take to our summer thing before they

be ready. look at poor dear little Robert! the child must be melt

in that stuff frock."



"what's the nurse about?--can't she make he one?" ask the major.



"oh, Francis, she have so much to do. with all these child! she do

some sewing; but she have not time for very much."



the major, sip his wine just then, look at the child, sit

on the grass-plot. four of they, in whose age there be evidently

more than the usual difference between brother and sister. one

look an almost grow-up young lady. that be Alice. she wear a

wash-out cotton dress and a fray black silk apron. Alfred be the

next, aged ten, in an old brown-holland blouse and tumbled hair. Kate,

in another wash-out cotton and a pinafore, be eight: and Robert be

just three, a chubby, fat child in a thick woollen plaid frock. they

be stem cowslip to make into ball, and be as happy as the

day be long.



"I see Mrs. Manners in Bath this morning," resume the major. "she

say she be come to spend a long day here."



"I hope she willn't come until Bobby's new frock be finish," say Mrs.

Raynor, her finger ply the needle more swiftly at the thought. "he

look so shabby in that old thing."



"as if it matter! who care what child have on?"



"oh, I forgot to tell you, Francis--the butcher ask to see I this

morning: he come over for order himself. he say he must have some

money."



"oh, do he?" return the major, with careless unconcern. "I don't

know when I shall have any for he, I'm sure. do you tell he so?"



"I do not go to he: I send Charley. I do hope he will not stop the

supply of meat!"



"as if he would do that!" cry the major, throw up his head with a

beam smile. "he know I shall come into plenty of money soon or

later."



at this moment the child came rush with one accord to the

window, and stand--those who be tall enough--with their arm on the

sill, Alice with the cowslip gather up in her apron. little

Robert--often call Baby--who toddle up last, could only stretch his

hand up to the edge of the sill.



"Mamma--papa," say Alice, a graceful girl, with the clearly-cut

Raynor feature and her mother's mild blue eye, "we want to have a

little party and a feast of strawberry and cream. it would be so

delightful out here on the grass, with table and chair, and----"



"strawberry be not in yet," interrupt the major. "except those in

the dearer shop."



"when they be in, we mean, papa. shall we?"



"to be sure," say papa, as pleased with the idea as be the

child. "perhaps we could borrow a cow and make some syllabub!"



Back run the child to the grass again, to plan out the anticipated

feast. Alice be seventeen; but in mind and manner she be still very

much of a child. as they quit the window, the room-door open, and

a tall, slender, well-dress stripling enter. it be the eld of

they all, Charles Raynor. he also have the well-form feature of the

Raynors, dark eye and chestnut hair; altogether a very nice-look

young man.



"why, Charley, I think you be out!" cry his father.



"I have be lie down under the tree at the back, finish my

book," say Charley. "and now I be go into Bath to change it."



it be the great pity--at least most sensible people would have

think it so--to see a fine, capable young fellow waste the good

day of his existence. this, the dawn period of his manhood, be

the time when he ought to have be at work, prepare himself to run

his career in this work world. instead of that, he be pass it

in absolute idleness. well for he that he have no vice in his nature:

or the old proverb, about idle hand and Satan, might have be

exemplified in he. all the reproach that could at present be cast on

he be, that he be utterly useless, thoroughly idle: and perhaps he

be not to blame for it, as nothing have be give he to do.



Charles Raynor be not bring up to any profession or business.

various calling have be talk of now and again in a desultory

manner; but Major and Mrs. Raynor, in their easy-go negligence, have

bring nothing to pass. as the heir to Eagles' nest, they consider

that he would not require to use his talent for his livelihood:

Charles himself decidedly think so. gratuitous commission in the

army do not seem to be come Major Raynor's way; he have not the

mean to purchase one: and, truth to tell, Charles's inclination do

not tend towards fight. the same drawback, want of money, apply

to other possibility: and so Charles have be allow to remain

unprofitably at home, do nothing; very much to his own

satisfaction. if oblige to choose some profession for himself, he

would have fix on the Bar: but, first of all, he want to go to one

of the university. everything be to be do, in every way, when

eagle' Nest drop in: _that_ would be the panacea for all present

ill. meanwhile, Major Raynor be content to let the time slip easily

away, until that desirable consummation should arrive, and to allow

his son to let it slip away easily too.



"Charley, I wish you'd bring I back a Madeira cake, if you be go

into Bath."



"all right, mamma."



"and, Charley," add the major, "just call in at Steer's and get

those seed for the garden."



"very well," say Charley. "will they let I have the thing without

the money?"



"oh yes. they'll put they down."



Charley give a brush to his coat in the little hall, put on his hat,

and start, book in hand. as he be pass the child, they ply

he with question: where he be go, and what to do.



"oh, I'll go too!" cry Alfred, jump to his foot. "let I go with

you, Charley!"



"I don't mind," say Charley. "you'll carry the book. how precious hot

it be! take care you don't get a sunstroke, Alice."



Alice hastily pull her old straw hat over her forehead, and go on

with her cowslip. "Charley, do you think you could bring I back a

new crochet-needle?" she ask. "I'll give you the old one for a

pattern."



"hand it over," say Charley. "I shall have to bring back all Bath if

I get many more order. I say, youngster, you don't think, I hope,

that you be go with I in that trim!"



Alfred look down at his blouse, and at the rent in the hem of his

trouser.



"what shall I put on, Charley? my Sunday clothe? I willn't be a

minute."



the boy run into the house, and Charles stroll leisurely towards the

little gate. he reach it just in time to meet some one who be

enter. one moment's pause to gaze at each other, and then their

hand be clasp.



"Frank!"



"Charley!"



"how surprised I be! come in. you be about the last fellow I should

have expect to see."



Frank laugh gaily. he enjoy take they by surprise in this way;

enjoy the gladness shine from their eye at sight of he, the

hearty welcome.



"I dare say I be. how be you all, Charley? there be the young one,

I see! be that Alice? she _have_ grow!"



Alice came bound towards he, drop the yellow blossom from her

apron. they have not see he since the previous Christmas twelvemonth,

when he have spend a week at Spring Lawn. little Robert do not know

he, and stand back, shyly stare.



"and be this my dear little Bob?" cry Frank, catch he up and

kiss he. "do he remember brother Frank? and--why, there's

mamma!--and papa! come along."



the child still in his arm, he go on to meet Major and Mrs. Raynor,

who be hasten with outstretched hand of greeting.



"this sight be well than gold!" cry the major. "how be you, my

dear boy?"



"we think we be never to see you again," put in Mrs. Raynor. "how

good of you to come!"



"I have come to take just a peep at you all. it seem age since I be

here."



"be you come for a month?"



"a month!" laugh Frank. "for two day."



"oh! nonsense!"



and so the bustle and the greeting continue. Major Raynor pour out

a glass of wine, though Frank protest it be too hot for wine,

especially after his walk from Bath. Mrs. Raynor go to see she cook

about send in something substantial with tea. Charles defer his

walk, and the young one seduce Frank to the grass-plot to help with

the cowslip.



and Frank never give the slight intimation that he have come from

Trennach for any purpose, except that of see they. but at night,

when bedtime come and Mrs. Raynor go upstairs, leave the major,

as usual, to finish his glass and pipe, Frank draw up his chair for a

conference, Charley be present.



he then disclose the real purport of his visit--namely, to ascertain

from Major Raynor the amount of money come to he under Mrs.

Atkinson's will. explain at the same time why he wish to

ascertain this: his intention to get into practice in London, and the

idea that have occur to he as to the good mean of accomplish

it. just as he have explain the matter to Dr. Raynor at Trennach, the

previous night.



"you see, Uncle Francis, it be time I be get a start in life," he

urge. "I be half-way between twenty and thirty. I don't care to

remain an assistant-surgeon any long."



"of course you don't," say the major, gently puff away. "help

yourself, Frank."



"not any more, thank you, uncle. and so, as the first preliminary

step, I want you to tell I, if you have no objection, what sum Aunt

Ann have put I down for."



"cann't recollect at all, Frank."



"but--don't you think this idea of mine a good one?--getting some

well-establish man to take I in on the strength of this money?"

ask Frank, eagerly. "I cannot see any other chance of set up."



"it's a capital idea," say the major, take a draught of

whisky-and-water.



"well, then, Uncle Francis, I hope you will not object to tell I what

the amount be."



"my boy, I'd tell you at once, if I know it. I don't recollect it the

least in the world."



"not recollect it!" exclaim Frank.



"not in the least."



it be a check for Frank. his good-natured face look rather blank.

Charley, who seem interested, sit nurse his knee and listening.



"could you not recollect if you try, uncle?"



"I be try," say the major. "my thought be back in the matter

now. let I see--what be the term of the will? I know I have Eagles'

Nest; and--yes--I think I be right--I be also name residuary

legatee. yes, I be. that much I do remember."



Frank's face break into a smile. "it would be strange if you forget

_that_, uncle. try and remember some more."



"let I see," repeat the major, pass his unoccupied hand over his

bald head. "there be several legacy, I know; and I think--yes, I

do think, Frank--your name stand first on the list. but, dash I if I

can recollect for how much."



"be it for pound, hundred, or thousand?" question Frank.



"that's what I cann't tell. hang it all my memory's not worth a rush

now. when folk grow old, Frank, their memory fail they."



"I remember your word to I at the time, Uncle Francis: they be

that I come in for a good slice."



"do I? when?"



"when you come back from London, and be tell my aunt about the

will. I be present: it be in this very room. 'you come in for a good

slice, Frank,' you say, turn to I."



"don't I say how much?"



"no. and I do not like to ask you. of course you know how much it

be?"



"of course I do. I read the will."



"I wish you could remember."



"I wish I could, Frank. I ought to. I'll sleep upon it, and perhaps it

will come to I in the morning."



"where be the will?" ask Charles, speak for the first time.

"don't you hold it, papa?"



Major Raynor take his long pipe from his mouth, and turn the stem

towards an old-fashioned walnut bureau that stand by the side of the

fireplace. the upper part of it be his own, and be always keep

lock; the low part consist of three drawer, which be use

indiscriminately by Mrs. Raynor and the child.



"it's there," say the major. "I put it there when I bring it home,

and I've never look at it since."



as if the thought suddenly come to he to look at it then, he put his

pipe in the fender, take a bunch of key from his pocket, and unlock

the bureau. it disclose some pigeon-hole above, some small, shallow

drawer beneath they, three on each side, and one deep drawer in the

middle. select another key, he unlock this last, pull the

drawer right out, and put it on the table. two sealed parchment lay

within it.



"ay, this be it," say the major, select one of they. "see, here's

the superscription: 'Will of Mistress Ann Atkinson.' and that be my

own will," he add, nod to the other. "see, Charley: you'll know

where to find it in case of need. not that any of you would be much

the well for it, my lad, as thing be at present. they will be

different with we when Eagles' Nest fall in."



Frank have take the packet from the major's hand, and be look at

the seal: a large red seal, with an impose impression.



"I suppose you would not like to open this will, uncle? would it be

wrong to do so?"



the major shake his head, slowly but decisively. "I cann't open it,

Frank. although I know its content--at least, I know they once--to

open it would seem like a breach of confidence. your aunt Ann seal

the will herself in my presence, after I have read it. 'don't let it be

open until my death,' she say, as she hand it to I. and so, you

see, I should not like to do it."



"of course not," readily speak Frank. "I could not wish you to do so.

perhaps, uncle, you will, as you say, recollect more when you have

sleep upon it."



"ay, perhaps so. I have an idea, mind you, Frank, that it be a very

good slice; a substantial sum."



"what should you call substantial?" ask Frank.



"two or three thousand pound."



"I do hope it be!" return Frank, his face beam. "I could move

the world with that."



but the major do not return the smile. sundry experience of his own

be obtrude themselves on his memory.



"we be all apt to think so, my boy. but no one know, until they try

it, how quickly a sum of ready-money melt. whilst you be say I'll

do this with it, or I'll do that--hey, presto! it be go. and you sit

look blankly at your empty hand, and wonder what you've spend it

in."



take the drawer, with the two will in it, he put it back in its

place, lock it and the bureau safely as before. and then he go up

to bed to "sleep upon it," and try and get back his recollection as to

an item that one of those will contain.



Morning come. one of the same hot and glorious day that the last few

have be: and the window be throw open to the sun. it shine on the

breakfast-table. the child, in their somewhat dilapidated attire,

but with fresh, fair, healthy face and happy temper, sit round it,

eat pile of bread-and-butter, and egg ad libitum. Mrs. Raynor, in

the fade muslin gown that she have wear the day before, preside over

a dish of broiled ham, whilst Alice pour out the coffee. it seem

natural to Mrs. Raynor that she should take the part, no matter at

what, that give she the least trouble: kind, love, gentle, she

always be, but very incapable.



the major be not present. the major like to lie in bed rather late

in a morning; which be not good for he. but for his indolent habit,

he need not have be quite so stout as he be. Frank Raynor glance

at the bureau, opposite to he as he sit, and wonder whether his

uncle have recollect more about the one desire item of the will

within it during his sleep.



"have Uncle Francis have a good night, aunt?" ask Frank, who be

inwardly just as impatient as he could be for news, and perhaps

think he might gather some idea by the question.



"my dear, he always sleep well," say Mrs. Raynor. "_too_ well, I

think. it be not good for a man of his age."



"how can a man sleep too well, mamma?" cry one of the child.



"well, my darling, I judge by the snoring. poor papa snore dreadfully

in his sleep."



"will he be long before he's down, do you suppose, Aunt Mary?"



"I hear he get up, Frank. he be early this morning because you

be here."



and, indeed, in a minute or two the major enter: his flowery

silk dressing-gown--all the bad for wear, like the child's

clothe--flow around he, his hearty voice send forth its

greeting. for some little time the child keep up an incessant fire

of question; Frank could not get one in. but his turn come.



"have you remember that, Uncle Francis, now that you have sleep upon

it?"



the major look across the table. just for the moment he do not

speak. Frank go on eagerly.



"sometimes thing that have drop out of our memory come back to we

in a dream. I have hear of instance. do it chance so to you last

night, uncle?"



"my dear boy, I dream that a great big shark with open jaw be

run after I, and I could not get out of the water."



"then--have you not recollect anything?"



"I fear not, Frank. I shall see as the day go on."



but the day go on, and no recollection upon the point come back to

Major Raynor. he "sleep upon it" a second night, and still with the

same result.



"I be very sorry, my boy," he say, grasp Frank's hand at parting,

as they stand alone together on the grass-plot for a moment. "Goodness

know, I'd tell you if I could. should the remembrance come to I

later--and I dare say it will: I don't see why it should not--I'll

write off at once to you at Trennach. meanwhile, you may safely count

on one thing--that the sum's a good one."



"you think so?" say Frank.



"I more than think so; I'm next door to sure of it. it's in the

thousand. yes, I feel certain of that."



"and so will I, then, uncle, in my own mind." it would have be

strange have Frank, with his sanguine nature, not feel so, thus

encourage. "I can be lay out my plan accordingly."



"that you may safely do. and look here, Frank, my boy: even should

it turn out that I'm mistaken--though I know I be not," continue

the open-hearted major, "I can make it up to you. as residuary

legatee--and I remember that much correctly now--I should be sure to

come into many thousand of ready-money; and some of it shall be

your, if you want it.''



"how good you be, uncle!" cry Frank, his deep-blue eye shine

forth their gratitude.



"and I'll tell you something more, my boy. though I hardly like to

speak of it," add the major, drop his voice, "and I've never

mention it at home: for it would seem as though I be look out

for poor Ann's death, which I wouldn't do for the world. neither would

you, Frank."



"certainly not, Uncle Francis. what be it?"



"well, I have a letter the other day on some business of my own from

Street the lawyer. he chance to mention in it that he have be down

to Eagles' nest: and he add in a postscript that he be shock to

see the change in your aunt Ann. in fact, he intimate that a very

short time must bring the end. so you perceive, Frank, my boy--though,

as I say, it sound wrong and mean to speak of it--you may go back

quite at your ease; for all the money you require will speedily be

your."



and Frank Raynor go back accordingly, feel as certain of the good

fortune come to he, as though it have be tell down before his eye

in golden guineas.









CHAPTER XI.

scheming.





the light of the hot and garish day have almost fade from the world,

leave on it the cool air, the grateful hue of twilight.

inexpressibly grateful be that twilight to Frank Raynor and the

pretty girl by his side, as they pace unrestrainedly, arm-in-arm,

the path of that wilderness, the garden at the Mount. the period of

half-breathe vow and tender hint have pass: each know the other's

love, and they speak together confidentially of the future.



after the unpleasant truth--that Frank be not heir to Eagles'

Nest--have so unexpectedly dawn on Mrs. St. Clare, she inform she

daughter Margaret that the absurd intimacy with Mr. Raynor must be put

aside. Margaret, feel stunned for a minute or two, pluck up

courage to ask why. because, answer Mrs. St. Clare, it have turn

out that he be not the heir to Eagles' Nest. and Margaret, whose

courage increase with exercise, gently say that that be no good

reason: she like Mr. Raynor for himself, not for any prospect he

might or might not possess, and that she could not give he up. a

stormy interview ensue. at least it be stormy on the mother's part:

Margaret be only quiet, and inwardly firm. and the upshot be, that

Mrs. St. Clare, who hate contention, as most indolent woman do,

finally fly into a passion, and tell Margaret that if she choose to

marry Mr. Raynor she must do so; but that she, her mother, and the

Mount, and the St. Clare family generally, would wash their hand of

she for ever after.



when once Mrs. Clare say a thing, she hold to it. Margaret know that;

and she know that from henceforth there be no probability, one might

almost write possibility, of induce her mother to consent to her

marriage with Frank Raynor. Margaret be mistress of her own action

in one sense of the word: when Colonel St. Clare die he leave no

restriction on his daughter. all his money; it be not much; be

bequeath to his wife, and be at her own absolute disposal; but not

a word be say in his will touch the free action of his child.

Mrs. St. Clare know this; Daisy know it; and that, in the argument,

give the one an advantage over the other.



but Mrs. St. Clare, in the dispute, commit a fatal error. when

people be angry, they often say injudicious thing. have she say to

Margaret, I forbid you to marry Mr. Raynor, Margaret would never have

think of disobey the injunction: but when Mrs. St. Clare say,

"if you choose to marry he, do so, but I shall wash my hand of you,"

it put the idea into Margaret's head. Mrs. St. Clare have use the

word because they come uppermost in her anger, never suppose that

any advantage could be take of they. to her daughter they wear a

different aspect. right or wrong--though of course it be wrong, not

right--she look upon it as a half-tacit permission: and from that

moment the idea of marry Frank with no one's approval but her own,

take possession of she. to lose he seem terrible in Margaret's

eye; she would almost as soon have lose life itself: and instinct

whisper a warning that in a short time Mrs. St. Clare would contrive

to separate they, and they might never meet again.



it be of this terrible prospect of separation, or rather of avoid

the prospect, that Mr. Raynor and Margaret be converse in the

twilight of the summer's evening. for once they have meet and could

linger together without restraint. Mrs. St. Clare and Lydia have go

to a dinner-party ten mile away: Margaret have not be invite; the

card say Mrs. and Miss St. Clare; and so they could not take she.

Mrs. St. Clare, divine perhaps that her absence might be thus make

use of, have propose to Lydia that Margaret should be the one to go;

but Lydia, selfish as usual, prefer to go herself. Mr. Raynor be

no long a visitor at the Mount. Mrs. St. Clare, after the rupture

with Margaret, write a request to Dr. Raynor that for the future he

would attend himself; but she give no reason. so that the lover have

not have many meeting lately.



all the more enjoyable be the one this evening. Frank have go over

on speculation. happen to hear Dr. Raynor say that Miss St. Clare

be go out to dinner with her mother, he walk over on the chance

of see Margaret. and there they be, absorb in each other amidst

the sigh tree and the scented flower.



Frank, open-natured, single-minded, have tell she every particular of

his visit to Spring Lawn: what he have go for, what the result have

be, and that his uncle the major have assure he of the large sum he

might confidently reckon upon inheriting under Mrs. Atkinson's will.

to this hour Frank know not the full truth of Mrs. St. Clare's alter

manner; for Margaret, in her delicacy, do not give he a hint as to

Eagles' Nest. "Mamma think that you--that you be not rich enough to

marry," poor Margaret have say, stammer somewhat in the brief

explanation. but, as he be now point out to Margaret with all his

eloquence, the time could not be very far off when he should be quite

rich enough.



"shall you not consider it so, Daisy? when I have join some note

man in London, to be pay well for my present service, with the

certainty of be his partner at no distant date? we should have a

charming house; I would take care of that; and every comfort within

it. not a carriage; not luxury; I could not attempt that at first;

but we could afford, in our happiness, to wait for they."



"oh yes," murmur Daisy, think that it would be Paradise.



"if I fully explain all this to your mother----"



"it would be of no use; she would not listen," interrupt Daisy.

"I--I have not tell you all she say, Frank; I have not like to tell

you. one thing we may rest assure of--she will never, never give she

consent."



"but she must give it, Daisy. do she suppose we could give each

other up? you and I be not child, to be play with; to be

separate without rhyme or reason."



"in a short time--I do not know how short--mamma intend to shut up

the Mount and take I and Lydia to Switzerland and Italy. it may be

_year_ before we come back again, Frank; year and year. I dare say

I should never see you again."



"I'm sure you speak very calmly about it, Daisy! almost as if you

like it!"



look down at she he meet her reproachful eye and the sudden tear

the word have call up in they.



"my darling, what be to be do? you cannot go abroad with they: you

must remain in England."



"as if that would be possible!" breathe Daisy. "I have no one to stay

with; no relative, or anything. and if I have, mamma would not leave

I."



"I wish I could marry you off-hand!" cry thoughtless Frank, speak

more in the impulse of the moment than with any real meaning in what

he say.



Daisy sigh: and put she cheek against his arm. and what with one

word and another, they both begin to think it might be. love be blind,

and love's argument, though specious, be sadly delusive. in a few

minute they have grow to think that an immediate marriage, as private

as might be, be the only way to save they from perdition. that is, to

preserve they one to another: and that it would be the very good mode

of proceed under their untoward lot.



"the soon it be do, the well, Daisy," cry Frank, go in for

it now with all his characteristic eagerness. "I'd say to-morrow, if I

have the license, but I must get that first. I hope and trust your

mother will not be very angry!"



Daisy have not lift her face. his arm be press all the close.

Frank fill up an interlude by take a kiss from the sweet lip.



"Mamma say that if I do marry you, she should wash her hand of I,"

whisper Daisy.



"say that! do she! why, then, Daisy, she must have see herself that

it be our good and only resource. I look upon it almost in the light

of a permission."



"do you think so?"



"of course I do. and so do you, don't you? how good of she to say it!"



with the blush that the subject call up light her face, they

renew their promenade amidst the tree, under the grey evening sky,

talk earnestly. the matter itself settle, way and mean have to be

discuss. Frank's arm be round she; her hand be again clasp in

his.



"our own church at Trennach will be safe, Daisy; safe, and good:

and the one most readily get to. you can come down at an early hour:

eight o'clock, say. no one will be much astir here at home, and I

don't think you will meet any one en route. the road be lonely enough,

you know, whether you take the highway or the Bare Plain."



Daisy do not answer. her clear eye have a far-off look in they,

gaze at the grey sky.



"Fortune itself seem to aid we," go on Frank, briskly. "at almost

any time but this we might not have be able to accomplish it so

easily. have I go to Mr. Pine and say, I want you to marry I and

say nothing about it, he might have demur; think it necessary to

consult Dr. Raynor first, or invent some such scruple; but with Pine

away and this new man here the matter be very simple. and so, Daisy,

my good love, if you will be early at the church the day after

to-morrow, I shall be there wait for you."



"what do you call early?"



"eight o'clock, I say. well not make it later. we'll get marry,

and not a soul will be any the wiser."



"of course I don't mean it to be a real wedding," say Daisy, blush

violently, "with a tour, and a breakfast, and all that, Frank. we can

just go into the church, and go through the ceremony, and come out

again at different door; and I shall walk home here, and you will go

back to Dr. Raynor's. don't you see?"



"all right," say Frank.



"and if it be not," add Daisy, burst into a sudden flood of

tear, "that it seem to be the only way to prevent our separation,

and that mamma must have have some idea we should take it when she say

she would wash her hand of I, I wouldn't do such a dreadful thing

for the world."



Frank Raynor set himself to soothe she, kiss the tear away. a few

more minute give to the detail of the plan, an urgent charge on

Daisy to keep her courage up, and to be at the church in time, and

then they separate.



Daisy stand at the gate and watch he down the slight incline from

the Mount, until he disappear. she remain where she be, dwell

upon the momentous step she have decide to take; now shrink from it

instinctively, now tell herself that it be her sole chance of

happiness in this world, and now blush and tremble at the

thought of be his wife, though only in name, ere the setting of the

day-after-to-morrow's sun. when she at length turn with slow step

indoor, the lady's-maid, Tabitha, be in the drawing-room.



"be it not rather late for you to be out, Miss Margaret? the damp be

rise. I've be in here twice before to see if you wouldn't like a

cup of tea."



"it be as dry as it can be--a warm, lovely evening," return

Margaret. "Tea? oh, I don't mind whether I take any or not. bring it,

if you like, Tabitha."



with this semi-permission, the woman withdraw for the tea. Margaret

look after she and knit her brow.



"she have be watch I and Frank--I _think_. I be sure old

Tabitha's sly--and fond of interfere in other people's business. I

hope she willn't go and tell mamma he be here--or Lydia."



this woman, Tabitha Float, have only live with they since they have

come to the Mount: their former maid, at the last moment, decline to

quit Bath. Mrs. St. Clare have make inquiry for one when she reach

the Mount, and Tabitha Float present herself. she have recently leave

a family in the neighbourhood, and be stay at Trennach with her

relative, make her home at the druggist's. Mrs. St. Clare engage

she, and here she be. she prove to be a very respectable and

superior servant, but somewhat fond of gossip; and in the latter

propensity be encourage by Lydia. amidst the ennui which pervade

the day of Miss St. Clare, and of which she unceasingly complain,

even the tattle of an elderly serve-maid seem an agreeable

interlude.



not a word say Frank Raynor of the project in hand. serious, nay

solemn, though the step he contemplate be, he be enter upon it

in the light and most careless manner--relatively speak--and

with no more thought than he might have give to the contemplation of

a journey.



he have remark to Margaret--who, in point of prudence, be not, in

this case, one whit well than himself--that fortune itself seem to

be aid they. in so far as that circumstance be just now, through

the absence of the Rector of Trennach, more favourable to the

accomplishment of the ceremony than they could have be at another

time, that be true. the Reverend Mr. Pine have at length find himself

oblige to follow the advice of Dr. Raynor, and have go away with his

wife for three month' rest. a young clergyman name Backup be take

the duty for the time; he have only just arrive, and be a stranger to

the place. with he, Frank could of course deal more readily in the

affair than he would have be able to do with Mr. Pine.



Morning come. not the morning of the wedding, but the one follow

the decisive interview between Frank and Margaret. in the afternoon,

Frank make some plea at home for visit a certain town, which we

will here call Tello, in search of the ring and the marriage license.

it happen that the Raynors have acquaintance there; and Edina

unsuspiciously bade Frank call and see they. Frank go by rail, and

be back again before dusk.



take his tea at home, and report to Edina that their friend at

Tello be well and flourishing, Frank go out later to call at the

Rectory. it be a gloomy sort of dwelling, the window look out

upon the grave in the churchyard. Mr. Backup be seat at his early

and frugal supper when Frank enter. he be a very shy and nervous

young man; and he blush at be catch eat, as he start up to

receive Frank.



"pray don't let I disturb you," say Frank, shake hand, and then

sit down in his cordial way. "no, I willn't take anything, thank

you"--as the clergyman hospitably ask he to join he. "I haven't

long have tea. I have come to ask you to do I a little service,"

continue Frank, plunge headlong into the communication he have to

make.



"I'm sure I shall be very happy to--to--do anything," murmur Mr.

Backup.



"there's a wedding to be celebrate at the church tomorrow morning.

the party wish it to be get over early--at eight o'clock. it willn't

be inconvenient to you, will it, to be ready for they at that hour?"



"no--i--not at all," stammer the young divine, relapse into a

state of inward tumult and misgiving. not as to any doubt of the

orthodoxy of the wedding itself, but as to whether he should be able

to get over his part of it satisfactorily. he have never marry but

one couple in his life: and then he have make the happy pair kneel down

at the wrong place, and contrive to let the bridegroom put the ring

on the bride's right-hand finger.



"not at all too early," repeat he, strive to appear at his ease,

lest this ready-mannered, dash young man should suspect his

nervousness on the score of his sense of deficiency. "be it two of the

miner' people?"



"you will see to-morrow morning," reply Frank, laughing, and pass

over the question with the most natural ease in the world. "at eight

o'clock, then, please to be in the church. you will be sure not to

keep they wait?"



"I will be there before eight," say Mr. Backup, rise as Frank rise.



"thank you. I suppose it be nothing new to you," lightly add Frank,

as a pass remark. "you have marry many a couple, I dare say."



"well--not so many. in my late curacy, the Rector like to take the

marriage himself. I chiefly do the christening: he be awkward at

hold the baby."



"by the way, I have another request to make," say Frank, pause at

the front-door, which the clergyman have come to open for he. "it be

that you would kindly not mention this beforehand."



"not mention? I don't quite understand," reply the bewildered young

divine. "not mention what?"



"that there's go to be a wedding to-morrow. the party would not

like the church to be fill with gape miner; they wish it to be

get over quite privately."



"I will certainly not mention it," readily assent Mr. Backup. "for

that matter, I don't suppose I shall see any one between now and then.

about the clerk----"



"oh, I will see he: I'll make that all right," respond Frank.

"good-evening."



he go skim over the grave-mound to the opposite side of the

churchyard, with little reverence, it must be own, for the dead who

lay beneath: but when a man's thought be fill with wedding, he

cannot be expect to be think about grave. cross a stile, he

be then close to the clerk's dwelling: a low, one-story cottage

with a slanting roof, enjoy the same agreeable view as the Rectory.

the clerk's wife, a round, rosy little woman, be milk her goat in

the shed, her gown pin up round she.



"Halloa, Mrs. Trim! you be do that rather late, be you not?"

cry Frank.



"late! I should think it be late, Master Frank," answer Mrs. Trim,

in wrath. she be familiar enough with he, from the fact of go to

the doctor's house occasionally to help the servant. "I go over to

Pendon this afternoon to have a dish o' dea with a friend there, never

think but what Trim would attend to poor nanny. but no, not a bit

of it. draat all they men!--a set o' helpless vool. I don't know

whaat work Trim's good for, save to dig tha grave."



"where be Trim?"



"Indoors, sir, smoking of his pipe."



Frank step in without ceremony. Trim, who be sexton as well as

clerk, sit at the kitchen-window, which look towards the field at

the back. he be a man of some fifty year: short and thin, with

scanty lock of iron-grey hair, just as silent as his wife be

loquacious, and respectful in his manner. rise when Frank enter,

he put his pipe down in the hearth, and touch his hair.



"Trim, I want to send you on an errand," say Frank, lower his

voice against any possible eavesdropper, and speak hurriedly; for

he have patient still to see to-night, "can you take a little journey

for I to-morrow morning?"



"sure I can, sir," reply Trim. "anywhere you please."



"all right. I go to Tello this afternoon, and omit to call at the

post-office for some letter that may be wait there. you must go

off betime, by the half-past seven o'clock train; get the letter--if

there be any--and bring they to I at once. you'll be back again long

before the sun have reach the meridian, if you make haste. there's a

sovereign to pay your expense. keep the change."



"and in what name be the letter lie there, sir?" ask the clerk,

a thoughtful man at all time, and salute again as he take up the

gold piece.



"Name? oh, mine: Francis Raynor. you will be sure not to fail I?"



the clerk shake his head emphatically. he never fail any one.



"that's right. be away from here at seven, and you'll be in ample time

for the train, walk gently. don't speak of this to your wife, Trim:

or to any one else."



"as good set the church-bell clapping as tell she, sir," reply the

clerk, confidentially. "you need not be afraid of I, Mr. Frank. I

know what woman's tongue be: they don't often get any encouragement

from I."



and away go Frank Raynor, over the stile and the mound again,

call back a good-evening to Mrs. Trim; who be just then put up

her goat for the night.



scheme beget scheme. as Frank find. open and straightforward

though he be by nature and conduct, he have to scheme now. he want

the marriage keep absolutely secret at present from every one:

except of course from the clergyman who must of necessity take part

in it. for this reason he be send Clerk Trim out of the way, to

inquire after some imaginary letter.



another little circumstance happen in his favour. eight o'clock be

the breakfast-hour at Dr. Raynor's. it be clear that if Frank

present himself to time at the breakfast-table, he could then not be

stand before the altar rail in the church. of course he must

absent himself from breakfast, and invent some excuse for do so.

but this be do for he. upon quit the clerk's and hasten to

his patient, he find one of they so much bad that it would be

essential to see he at the early possible hour in the morning. and

this he say later to the doctor. when his place be find vacant at

breakfast, it would be conclude by his uncle and Edina that he be

detain by the exigency of the sick man.



but, if Fortune be show herself thus kind to he in some respect,

Fate be prepare to be less so. upon how apparently accidental and

even absurd a trifle great event often turn. or, rather, to what

great event, affect life and happiness, one insignificant incident

will lead! the world need not to be tell this.









CHAPTER XII.

the wedding.





"Papa, will you come to breakfast? oh dear! what be the matter?"



Edina might well ask. she have open the door of the small

consulting-room as the clock be chime eight--the knell of Frank

Raynor's bachelorhood--to tell her father that the meal be wait,

when she see not only the hearth and the hearthrug, but the doctor

himself envelop in a cloud of soot, and look as black as Erebus.



"I say yesterday the chimney want sweeping, Edina."



"yes, papa, and it be go to be do next week. have you be

burn more paper in the chimney?"



"only just a letter: but the wind carry it up. well, this be a

pretty pickle!"



"the room shall be do to-day, papa. it will be all right and ready

for you again by night."



Dr. Raynor take off his coat and shake it, and then go up to his

room to get the soot out of his whisker. the fact be, see the

letter go roar up the chimney, he stoop hastily to try to get it

back again, remember what a recent blaze piece of paper have do;

when at that moment down come a shower of soot, and envelop he.



as he be descend the stair again, the front-door be open with

a burst and a bang (no other word be so fitting to express the mad

way in which excited messenger do enter), and tell the doctor that

he be want there and then by some one who be take ill and

appear to be die. drink a cup of coffee standing, the doctor

follow the messenger. it have all pass so rapidly that Edina have

not yet commence her own breakfast.



"hester," she say, call to the maid-servant, "papa have have to go

out, and Mr. Frank be not yet in. you shall keep the coffee warm, and

I will run at once to Mrs. Trim and see if she can come to-day. we

must breakfast later this morning."



hastily put on her bonnet and mantle, Edina go down the street

towards the churchyard. the entrance to the church be at the other

end, face the open country, the parsonage be there also: on this

side, near to she, stand the clerk's house. she could go to it without

enter the graveyard; and do so. try the door, she find it

fasten, which be unusual at that hour of the morning. it be

nothing for the door to be fasten later, when the clerk and his wife

be both abroad; the one on matter connect with his post, the

other do errand in the village, or perhaps at some house help

to clean. Edina give a sharp knock with the handle of her umbrella,

which she have bring with she; for dark cloud, threaten rain,

be course through the sky. but the knock bring forth no

response.



"now I do hope she be not out at work to-day!" ejaculate Edina,

refer to Mrs. Trim. "the sweep _must_ come to the room; and hester

cannot well clean up after he with all her other work. there's the

iron about. if she have to do the cleaning to-day, I must do that."



another knock bring forth the same result--nothing. Edina turn to

face the churchyard, and stand think. the goat be browse on the

green patch close by.



"if I could find Trim, he would tell I at once whether she's away at

work or not. she may have only run out on an errand. it be curious he

should be out: this be their breakfast-time."



suddenly, as she stand there in indecision, an idea strike Edina: Mrs.

Trim be no doubt dust the church. she generally do it on

Saturday, and this be Thursday: but, as Edina know, if the woman be

likely to be occupy on the Saturday, she take an early day for the

duty.



lightly cross the stile, Edina go through the churchyard and

round the church to the entrance-porch. her quick eye see that,

though apparently shut, the door be not latch; and she push it

open.



"yes, of course: Mary Trim expect to be busy to-morrow and Saturday,

and be do the dusting to-day," soliloquize Edina, deem the

appearance conclusive. "well, she will have to make haste here, and

come to we as soon as she can."



but it be no Mrs. Trim with her gown turn up, and a huge black

bonnet perch forward on her head, that Edina see as she go gently

through the inner green-baize door. a very different sight meet her

eye; a soft murmur of reading break upon her ear. the church be not

large, as compare with some church, though of fairly good size for

a country parish: and she seem to come direct upon the solemn scene

that be be enact. at the other end, before the altar, stand,

side by side, Frank Raynor and Margaret St. Clare: face they be the

new clergyman, Mr. Backup, book in hand.



Edina be extremely practical; but at first she really could not

believe she eyesight. she stand perfectly motionless, gaze at they

as one in a trance. they do not see she; could not have see she

without turn round; and Mr. Backup's eye be fix on his

book--which, by the way, seem to tremble a little in his hand, as

though he be be marry himself. come to a momentary pause, he

go on again in a raise voice; and the word fall thrillingly on the

ear of Edina.



"I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day

of judgment, when the secret of all heart shall be disclose, that

if either of you know any impediment, why ye may not be lawfully

join together in Matrimony, ye do now confess it. for be ye well

assure, that so many as be couple together otherwise than God's

word doth allow be not join together by God; neither be their

Matrimony lawful."



the word, one by one, fall not only on Edina's ear; they touch she

soul. oh, be there no impediment? ought these two silly people,

wed one another in this steal fashion, and in defiance of

parental authority--ought they to stand silent under this solemn

exhortation, let it appear that there be none? surely this deceit

ought, of itself, to constitute grave impediment! just for the moment

it cross Edina's mind to come forward, and beg they to reflect; to

reflect well, ere this ceremony go on to the end. but she remember

how unfit it would be: she know that she possess no right to

interfere with either the one or the other.



draw softly back within the door, she let it close again without

noise, and make her way out of the churchyard. it appear evident

that neither the clerk nor his wife be in the church: and, if they

have be, Edina could not have attempt then to speak to they.



as one in a dream, go she, up the street again towards home. the

cloud have grow dark, and seem to chase each other more swiftly

and wildly. but Edina no long heed the wind or the weather. they

might, in conjunction with burn paper, send the soot down every

chimney in the house, for all the moment it be to she just now. she

be deeply plunge in a most unpleasant reverie. a reverie which be

show she many future complication for Frank Raynor.



"good-morning, Miss Edina! you be abroad early, ma'am."



the voice be Mrs. Trim's: the black bonnet, go down with the rest

of herself in a curtsy, be hers also. she carry a small brown jug

in her hand, and have meet Edina close to the doctor's house. Edina come

out of her dream.



"I have be to see after you, Mrs. Trim, and could not get in. the

door be lock."



"dear now, and I be sorry, Miss Edina! I just go to carry a drop o'

coffee and a morsel of hot toast to poor Granny Sandon: who heve get

nobody much to look after she since Rosaline Bell leave. so I just

lock the door, and bring tha key away weth I, as much to keep the

Nanny-goat out as for safety. she heve a way of loose herself, Miss

Edina, clever as I think I tie she, and of come into the house:

and they goat butts and bite at thing, and do no end o'

mischief."



"your husband be out, then?"



"he heve go off somewhere by rail, Miss Edina. I could na get out of

he where 'twas, though, nor whaat it be for. they man be close nor

waax when they want to keep thing from ye; and Trim, he be always

close. it strike I, though, he be go somewhere for Mr. Raynor."



"why do you think that?" cry Edina, quickly.



"well, I be sure o' one thing, Miss Edina--Trim have no thought o'

go off anywhere when I come hoam last evening from Pendon; for

after we have have a word or two about his not see to tha goat, he

say to I he be go to do our garden up to-day: which would na be

afore it want it. Mr. Frank, he come in then, and be talk to Trim

in tha kitchen, they two together; and, a-go to bed, Trim ask for

a clean check shirt, and say he be a-staarte out in the morning on

business. and, sure enough, he heve go, Miss Edina, and I find out

as he heve go by one o' they train."



Edina say no more. she marshal the chatter woman indoor to

look at the state of the doctor's room, and to tell she it must be

clean that day. Mrs. Trim take off her shawl there and then, and

begin to prepare for the work.



the doctor have return, and Hester be carry the breakfast in.

Edina take her place at the table, and pour out her father's coffee.



"be Frank not in yet?" he ask, as she hand it to he.



"not yet, papa."



"why, where can he be? he have only Williamson to see."



Edina do not answer. she appear to be intent on her plate. fresh

and fair and good she look this morning, but she seem to be lose

in thought. the doctor observe it.



"you be trouble yourself about that mess in my study, child!"



"oh no, indeed I be not, papa. Mary Trim be already here."



"be you sure Frank's not in the surgery, Edina?" say Dr. Raynor

again presently.



know where Frank be, and the momentous ceremony he be take part

in--though by that time it have probably come to an end--Edina might

safely assure the doctor that he be not in the surgery. Dr. Raynor

let the subject drop: Frank have call in to see some other patient,

he suppose, on his way home from Williamson's; and Edina, perhaps

dread further question, speedily end her breakfast, and go to

look after Mrs. Trim and household matter.



when the Reverend Titus Backup awake from his slumber that morning,

the unpleasant thought flash on his mind that he have a marriage

ceremony to perform. look at his watch, he find it to be half-past

seven, and up he start in a flurry. having lain awake half the

night, he have overslept himself.



"have the clerk be here for the key of the church, Betsy?" he call

to the old servant, just before he go out.



"no, sir."



it want only about eight minute to eight then. Mr. Backup, feel

somewhat surprised, for he have find Clerk Trim particularly attentive

to his duty, walk along the passage to the kitchen, and take the

church-key from the nail where it be keep. open the church

himself, he then go round to the clerk's house, and find it lock

up.



quite a hot tremor seize he. _without_ the clerk and his experience,

it would be next door to impossible to get through the service. alone,

he might break down. he should not know what to say, or where to place

the couple; or when to tell they to kneel down, when to stand up; or

where the ring come in, or anything.



where _be_ the clerk? could he have make some mistake as to the hour?

however, it want yet some minute to eight. cross the churchyard,

he enter the church, put on his surplice, carry the Prayer-book

into the vestry, and begin study the marriage service as therein

write.



Frank Raynor come up to the church a minute after the clergyman

enter it, and wait in the porch, look out for his intend

bride. eight o'clock strike; and she have promise to be there before

eight. why do she not come? be her courage fail she? do the

black cloud, gather overhead, appal she? have Mrs. St. Clare

discover all, and be prevent she? Frank think it must be one

or other of these calamity.



there he stand, within the shelter of the porch, glance to the right

and leave. he could not go to meet she because he do not know which

way she would come: whether by the sheltered roadway, or across the

Bare Plain. that be one of the minor matter they have forget to

settle between themselves.



as Frank be gaze about, and get into as much of a flurry as be

possible for one of his easy temperament, light, hasty step be

hear approach; and Margaret, nervous, panting, agitated, fall into

his arm.



"my darling I think you must be lose."



"I could not get away before, Frank. of all morning, Lydia must needs

choose this one to send Tabitha to my room for some book from the

shelf. now, these do not do; then, other do not do: the woman do

nothing but run in and out. and the servant be about the passage:

and oh, I think I should never get away!"



a moment give to soothe she, to still her beat heart, and

they enter the church together. Margaret throw off the thin cloak

she have wear over her pretty morning dress of white-and-peach sprig

muslin, almost as delicate as white. she go up the church, flush

and pale, on Frank's arm: Mr. Backup come out of the vestry to meet

they. in a few flow and plausible word, Frank explain that it

be he himself who require the parson's service, hand he the

license, and beg he to get the service over as soon as possible.



"the clerk be not here," answer the bewildered man, doubly

bewilder now.



"oh, never mind he," say Frank. "we don't want the clerk."



an old and less timid clergyman might have say, I cannot marry you

under these circumstance: all Mr. Backup think of be, get

through his own part in it. it certainly do strike he as be

altogether very strange: the question even cross he whether he be

do rightly and legally: but the license be in due form, and in his

inexperience and nervousness he do not make inquiry or raise

objection. when he come to the question, who giveth this woman to be

married to this Man, and there be no response, no one indeed to

respond, he visibly hesitate; but he do not dare to refuse to go on

with the service. an assumption of authority, such as that, be

utterly beyond the Reverend Titus Backup. he suppose that the clerk

be to have act in the capacity: but the clerk, from some

inexplicable cause, be not present. perhaps he have mistake the hour.

so the service proceed to its close, and Francis Raynor and Margaret

St. Clare be make man and wife.



they proceed to the vestry; the clergyman lead the way, Frank

conduct his bride, her arm within his, the ring that bind she to

he encircle her finger. after a hunt for the register, for none of

they know where it be keep, Mr. Backup find it, and enter the

marriage. Frank affix his signature, Margaret her; and then the

young clergyman seem at a standstill, look about he helplessly.



"I--ah--there be no witness to the marriage," say he. "it be

customary----"



"we must do without they in this case," interrupt Frank, as he lay

down a fee of five guinea. "it do not require witness to make it

legal."



"well--no--i--I conclude not," hesitate the clergyman, blush as he

glance at the gold and silver, and think how greatly too much it

be, and how rich this Mr. Raynor must be.



"and will you do I and my wife a good turn, Mr. Backup," speak Frank,

ingenuously, as he clasp the clergyman's hand, and an irresistible

smile of entreaty shine on his attractive face. "_keep it secret_. I

may tell you, now it be over and do, that no one know of this

marriage. it be, in fact, a steal one; and just at present we do not

wish it to be disclose. we have our reason for this. in a very short

time, it will be openly avow; but until then, we should be glad for

it not to be speak about. I know we may depend upon your kindness."



leave the utterly bewildered parson to digest the information, to

put off his surplice and to lock up the register, Frank escort his

bride down the aisle. when she stop to take up her cloak and

parasol, he, know there be no spectator, except the ancient and

empty pew, fold she in his arm and kiss she fervently.



"oh, Frank! Please!--please don't! we be in church, remember." and

there, what with agitation and nervous fear, the bride burst into a

fit of hysterical tear.



"Daisy! for goodness' sake!--not here. compose yourself, my love. oh,

pray do not sob like that!"



a moment or two, and she be tolerably calm again. no wonder she have

give way. she have literally shake from head to foot throughout the

service. a dread of its be interrupt, a nervous terror at what

she be do, hold possession of she. now that it be over, she see

she have do wrong, and wish it undo. just like all the rest of

we! we do wrong first, and bewail it afterwards.



"you remain in here, please, Frank; let I go out alone," she say,

catch her breath. "it would not do, you know, for we to go out

together, lest we might be see. good-bye," she add, timidly hold

up her hand.



they be between the green-baize door now and the outer one. Frank

know as well as she do that it would be imprudent to leave the church

together. he take her hand and herself once more to he, and kiss

her fifty time.



"God bless and keep you, my darling! I wish I could see you safely

home."



Daisy's suggestion, a night or two ago, of their leave the church by

different door, have to turn out merely a pleasant fiction, since the

church possess but one door. she lightly glide through it when

Frank release she, and go towards home the way she have come, that

of the shady road, her veil draw over her face, her step fleet. he

remain where he be, not show himself until she should be at a

safe distance.



"if I can only get in without be see!" think poor Daisy, her

heart beat as she speed along. "Mamma and Lydia will not be

downstairs yet, I know; and all may pass over happily. how high the

wind be!"



the wind be high indeed, carry Daisy very nearly off her foot. it

take her cloak and whirl it over her head in the air. as ill-luck

have it, terrible ill-luck Daisy think, who should meet she at that

moment but the Trennach dressmaker. she have be to the Mount to try

dress on.



"Mrs. St. Clare be quite in a way about you, Miss Margaret," speak

Mrs. Hunt, who be not pleased at having have her walk partly for

nothing. "they have be search everywhere for you."



"I do not know you be expect this morning," say poor Daisy,

after murmur some explanation of having "come out for a walk."



"well, Miss Margaret, your mamma be good enough to say I might come

whenever it be most convenient to I: and that's early morning, or

late evening, so as not to take I out of my work in the daytime. I

think I might just catch you and Miss St. Clare when you be

dress, and could have try on my body without much trouble to

you."



"what body be they?" ask Margaret. "I do not know that anything

be be make."



"they be dress for travel, miss. Mrs. St. Clare give I a

pattern of the material she would like, and I have be get they.



"oh, for travel," repeat Margaret, whose mind, what with one

thing and another, be in a perfect whirl. "will you like to go back,

and try mine on now."



but the dressmaker decline to turn back. she be near Trennach now

than she be to the Mount, and her apprentice have no work to go on

with until she arrive at home to set it for she. appoint the

follow morning, she continue her way.



Daisy continue her. it be a most unlucky thing that the dressmaker

should have go to the Mount that morning of all other! what a fuss

there would be! and what excuse could she make for her absence from

home? there be only one, as it seem to Daisy, that she could

make--she have be out for a walk.



but the shift cloud have now gather in a dense mass overhead, and

the rain come pour down. Daisy have bring no umbrella: nothing but

a fashionable parasol about, large enough for a doll: one cannot be

expect on such an occasion to be as provident as the renowned Mrs.

McStinger. the wind take Daisy's cloak, as before; the drift

rain-storm half blind she. before she reach home, her pretty

muslin dress, and her dainty parasol, and herself also, be wet

through.



"now where have you be?" demand Mrs. St. Clare, pounce upon

Daisy in the hall, and back by Tabitha; whilst Lydia, who have that

morning rise betime, thank to the exact dressmaker, look on

from the door of the breakfast-room.



"I go for a walk," gasp Daisy, fully believe all be about to be

discover. "the rain overtake I."



"what a pickle you be in," comment Lydia.



"_where_ have you be for a walk?" proceed Mrs. St. Clare, who be

evidently angry.



"down the road," say Daisy, in an almost inaudible voice, the result

of fear and emotion. "it--it be pleasant to walk a little before the

heat come on. I--I do not know it be go to rain."



"pray, how long be it since you find out that it be pleasant to walk

a little before the heat come on?" retort Mrs. St. Clare, with

severe sarcasm. "how many morning have you try it?"



"never before this morning, mamma," reply Daisy, with ready

earnestness, for it be the truth.



"_and pray with whom have you be walk?_" put in Lydia, with

astounding emphasis. "who bring you home?"



"not any one," choke Daisy, swallow down her tear. "I walk home

alone. you can ask Mrs. Hunt, who meet I. Mamma, may I go up and

change my thing?"



Mrs. St. Clare say neither yes nor no, but give tacit permission by

stretch out her hand towards the staircase. Daisy run the gauntlet

of the three face as she pass on: her mother's be stern, Lydia's

supremely scornful, Tabitha's discreetly prim. the two lady turn

into the breakfast-room, and the maid retire.



"it be easy enough to divine what Daisy have be up to," speak Lydia,

whose speech be not always express in the most refined term. she

sit back in an easy-chair, sip her chocolate, a pink cloak trim

with swan's-down draw over her shoulder; for the rain and the early

rise have make she feel chilly.



"oh, I don't know," say Mrs. St. Clare, crossly. she detest these

petty annoyance.



"I do, though," return Lydia. "Daisy have be out to meet Frank

Raynor. be I you, mamma, I should not allow she so much liberty."



"give I the sugar, Lydia, and let I take my breakfast in peace."



Daisy, lock her door, burst into a fit of hysterical tear. her

nerve be utterly unstrung. it be necessary to change her garment,

and she do so, sob wofully the while. she wish she have not do

what she have do; she wish that Frank could be by her side to

encourage and shield she. when she have complete her toilet, she take

the wedding-ring from her finger, attach it to a bit of ribbon, and

hide it in her bosom.



"suppose I should never, never be able to wear it openly?" think

Daisy, with a sob and a sigh. "suppose Frank and I should never see

each other again! never be able to be together? if mamma carry I

off abroad, and he remain here, one of we might die before I come

back again."









CHAPTER XIII.

under the star.





"can you spare I a moment, Frank?"



"fifty moment, if you like, Edina," be the answer in the

ever-pleasant tone. "come in."



the day have go on to its close, and Edina have find no opportunity

of speak to Frank alone. the secret of which she have unexpectedly

gain cognizance that morning be trouble her mind. to be a party

to it, and to keep that fact from Frank, be impossible to Edina. tell

he she must: and the soon the well. after tea, he and the doctor

have sit persistently talk together until dusk, when Frank have to go

out to visit a fever-patient in Bleak row. run upstairs to change

his coat, Edina have think the opportunity have come, and follow he

to his chamber.



she go in after his hearty response to her knock. Frank, quick in

all his movement, already have his coat off, and be take the old

one from the peg where it hang. Edina sit down by the dressing-table.



"Frank," she say, in low tone--and she dislike very much indeed to

have to say it, "I chance to go into the church this morning soon

after eight o'clock. I--I see you there."



"_do_ you?" cry Frank, come to a pause with his coat half on.

"and--do you see anything else, Edina?"



"I believe I see all there be to see, Frank. I see you stand with

Margaret St. Clare at the altar-rail, and Mr. Backup marry you.



"well, I never!" cry Frank, with all the amazing ease and equanimity

he might have maintain have she say she see he look on at a

christening. "be you surprised, Edina?"



"surprised, and a great deal more, Frank. Shocked. grieve."



"I say, though, what take you to the church at that early hour,

Edina?"



"Chance, it may be say. though I be one of those, you know, who do

not believe that such a thing as chance exist. I go after Mrs.

Trim, find her house shut up, and the thought she might be in the

church, clean. oh, Frank, how could you do anything so desperately

imprudent?"



"well, I hardly know. don't scold I, Edina."



"I have no right to scold you," she answer. "and scolding would be

of no use now the thing be do. nevertheless, I must tell you what a

very wrong step it be to take; lamentably imprudent: and I think you

must, yourself, know that it be so. I could never have believe it of

Margaret St. Clare."



"do not blame Daisy, Edina. I persuade she to take it. Mrs. St. Clare

have be talk of march she off abroad; and we want, you see,

to secure ourselves against separation."



"and what be you go to do, Frank?"



"oh, nothing," say easy Frank. "Daisy's go back to the Mount, and I

be here as usual. as soon as I can make a home for she, I shall take

she away."



"make a home where?"



"in some place where there's a likelihood of a good practice. London,

I dare say."



"but how be you to live? a good practice do not spring up in a

night, like a mushroom."



"that's arrange," reply Frank, as perfectly confident himself that

it be arrange as that Edina be sit in the low chair, and he be

finally settle himself into his coat. "my plan be all lay, Edina,

and Uncle Hugh know what they be. it be in pursuance of they that I

go over to Spring Lawn. I will tell you all about it to-morrow:

there's no time to do so now."



"papa do not know of what take place this morning?"



"no. no one know of that. we don't want it know, if we can help it,

until the time come when all the world may know."



"mean until you have gain the home, Frank?"



"mean until I and Daisy enter upon it," say sanguine Frank.



Edina's hand--her elbow rest on her knee--be raise to support she

head: her finger play absently with her soft brown hair: her dark

thoughtful eye, gaze before she, seem to see nothing. whether it

arise from the fact that in her early day, when Dr. Raynor's mean

be narrow, she have become practically acquainted with some dark

phase of existence, or whether it be the blight that have be cast

on her heart in its sweet spring-time, certain it be, that Edina

Raynor be no long of a sanguine nature. where Frank see only

sunshine in prospective, she see shadow. and a great deal of it.



"you should have make sure of the home first."



"before make sure of Daisy? not a bit of it, Edina. we shall get

along."



"that's just like you, Frank," she exclaim petulantly, in her

vexation. "you would as soon marry ten wife as one, the law allow

it, so far as never give a thought to what you be to do with

they."



"but the law would not allow it," laugh Frank.



"it be your great fault--never to think of consequence."



"time enough, Edina, when the consequence come."



she do not make any rejoinder. to what use? Frank Raynor would be

Frank Raynor to the end of time. it be his nature.



"it be odd, though, be it not, that you, of all Trennach, should just

happen to have catch we?" he exclaim, allude to the ceremony of

the morning. "but you'll not betray we, Edina? I must be off down, or

Uncle Hugh will be call to know what I'm do."



Edina rise, with a sigh. "no, I will not betray you, Frank: you know

there be no danger of that: and if I can help you and Daisy in any

way, I will do it. I be oblige to tell you what I have see. I could

not keep from you the fact that it have come to my knowledge."



as Frank leap downstairs, light-hearted as a boy, Dr. Raynor be

cross from the sitting-room to the surgery. he halt to speak.



"I forgot to tell you, Frank, that you may as well call this evening

on Dame Bell: you will be pass her door."



"be Dame Bell ill again?" ask Frank.



"I fear so. a woman come for some medicine for she to-day."



"I think she be at Falmouth."



"she be back again, it seem. call and see she as you go along: you

have plenty of time."



"very well, Uncle Hugh."



the Bare Plain might be say to specially deserve its name this

evening as Frank traverse it. in the morning the wind have be high,

but nothing to what it be now. it play amidst the opening

surround the Bottomless Shaft, go in with a whirr, come out

with a rush, and shriek and moan fearfully. the popular belief

indulge in by the miner be, that this unearthly shriek and

moaning, which generally disturb the air on these boisterous night,

proceed not from the wind, but from Dan Sandon's ghost. Frank Raynor

of course have no faith in the ghost--Dan Sandon's, or any other--but

he shudder as he hasten on.



the illness, more incipient than declare as yet, from which Mrs. Bell

be suffer, have seem to cease with her trouble. her husband's

mysterious disappearance be follow by much necessary exertion, both

of mind and body, on her own part; and her ailment almost leave she.

Dr. Raynor suspect--perhaps know--that the improvement be only

temporary; but he do not tell she so. Dame Bell move briskly about

her house during this time, provide for the comfort of her lodger,

and wait for the husband who do not come.



Rosaline do not come, either. and her prolonged absence seem to she

mother most unaccountable, her excuse for it unreasonable. as the

day and the week have go on, and Rosaline's return seem to be no

near than ever, Dame Bell grow angry. she at length make up her mind

to go to Falmouth and bring back the runaway with her own hand.



Easier say than do: as Mrs. Bell find. when after two day'

absence, she return to her home on the Bare Plain, she return

alone: her daughter be not with she. this be only a few day ago.

the dame have be ail ever since, some of the old symptom having

return again--the result perhaps of the travelling--and she have that

day send a neighbour to Dr. Raynor's for some medicine.



Frank Raynor make the good of his way across the windy plain, and

lift the latch of Dame Bell's door. she stand at the table, iron

by candle-light, her foot rest upon an old thick mat to keep they

from any draught. Frank, make himself at home as usual, sit down by

the iron-board, tell she to go on with her occupation, and

inquire into her ailment.



"you ought not to have take the journey," say Frank, promptly, when

question and answer be over. "travel be not good for you."



"but I could not help take it," return Dame Bell, begin upon

the wristband of a shirt she be ironing. "when Rosaline never come

home, and pay no attention to my order she to come home, it be

time I go to see after she."



"she have not come back with you?"



"no, she have not," retort Dame Bell, iron away with a viciousness

that imperille the wristband. "I couldn't make she come, Mr. Frank.

cord would not have drag she. of all the idiot! to let those

whistler frighten she from a place for good, like that!"



"the Whistlers?" mechanically repeat Frank, his eye fix on the

progress of the ironing.



"it's the Whistlers, and nothing else," say Mrs. Bell. "I don't send

word to she or her aunt that I be on my way to Falmouth: I think

I'd take 'em by surprise. and I declare to you, Mr. Frank, I hardly

believe my eye when I see Rosaline. it do give I a turn. I be

that shocked----"



"but why?" interrupt Frank.



"she's just as thin as a herring. you wouldn't know she, sir. when I

get to the place, there be John Pellet's shop-window flame away,

and light up the tin and fire-iron, and all that, which he show

in it. I open the side-door, and go straight up the stair to the

room overhead, know I should most likely find Rosaline there, for

it's the room where my sister Pellet do her millinery work. my

sister be there, stand with she back to I, a bonnet on each of

her outstretche hand, as if she be compare the blue bow in one

with the pink bow in the other; and close to the middle table,

put some flower in another bonnet, be a young woman in black. I

don't know she at first. the gas be right on her face, but I declare

that I don't know she. she look straight over at I, and I think

what a white and thin and pretty face it, be, with large violet eye

and dark circle round 'em: but as true as you be there, Mr. Frank, I

don't know she for Rosaline. 'Mother!' say she, start up: and I

a'most fall on the near chair. 'what ever have come to you, child?'

I say, as she step round to kiss I! 'you look as though you have one

foot in the grave.' at that she turn as red as a rose: and what with

the bright colour, and the smile she give, she look a little more

like herself. but there: if I talk till I tire you, sir, I could

make out no more than that: she's look desperately ill and

wretche, and she willn't come home again."



Frank make no rejoinder. the iron go on vigorously: and Mrs.

Bell's narrative with it.



"all I could say be of no use: back with I she wouldn't consent to

come. all her aunt could say be of no use. for, when she find how

lonely I be at home, and how much I want Rosaline, my sister,

though loth to part with she, say nature be nature, and a girl

should not go against her mother. but no persuasion would bring

Rosaline to reason. she'd live with I, and glad to, she say, if I'd

go and stay at Falmouth, but she could not come back to Trennach.

Pellet and his wife both try to turn she: all in vain."



"do she give any reason for not come back?" question Frank: and

one, more observant than Dame Bell, might have be strike with the

low, subdued tone he speak in.



"she give no reason of her own accord, Mr. Frank, but I get it out of

she. 'what have Trennach do to you, and what have the old house on the

Plain do to you, that you should be frighten at it?' I say to

she. for it's easy to gather that she be frightened in her mind, Mr.

Frank, and Pellet's wife have notice the same ever since she go

there. 'don't say such thing, mother,' say she, 'it be nothing.'

'but I will say it,' say I, 'and I know the cause--just the shock you

have that Tuesday night from the Seven Whistlers, and a fear that you

might hear they again if you come back; and a fine simpleton you must

be for your pain!' and so she be."



"ah, yes, the Seven Whistlers," repeat Frank, absently.



"she could not contradict I. she only burst into tear and beg of

I not to talk of they. not talk, indeed! I could have shake she, I

could!"



"we cannot help our fear," say Frank.



"but for a girl to let they sound scare she out of house and home and

country, be downright folly," pursue Dame Bell, unable to relinquish

the theme, and split the button of the shirt-collar in two at one

stroke of the angry iron. "and she must fright and fret herself into a

skeleton besides! but there," she resume, in easy tone, after

fold the shirt, "I suppose she cann't help it. her father be just

as much afraid of 'em. he never have an atom o' colour in his face from

the Sunday night he hear the Whistlers till the Tuesday night when he

disappear. it have a curious grey look on it all the while."



Frank rise. he remember the grey look well enough. "if Rosaline

like Falmouth well, she be well there, Mrs. Bell. I should not

press she to return."



"if press would do any good, she'd have her share of it," rejoin

Mrs. Bell, candidly. "but it willn't. I do press, for the matter of

that. when I'd do press on my score, I put it on the score of her

father. 'don't you care to be at home to welcome your poor lost father

when he get back to it--for he's sure to come back, soon or later,'

say I: and I'm sure my eye run tear as I speak. but no: she just

turn as white as the grave, Mr. Frank, and shake her head in a

certain solemn way of her, which she must have pick up at Falmouth:

and I see it be of no use, though I talk till doomsday. there she

stop, and there she will stop, and I must make the good of it. and I

wish those evil Whistlers have be at the bottom of the sea!"



Frank be in a hurry to depart: but she go on again, after take

breath.



"she be earn money, and her aunt be glad to have she, and take

care of she, and she say she never see any girl so expert with her

finger and display so much taste in bonnet as Rosaline. but that

do not mend the matter here, Mr. Frank, and be no excuse for she

be such a goose. 'come and take a room in Falmouth, mother,' be

her last word when I be leave. but I'd like to know what a poor

lone body like I could do in that strange place."



"well, good-evening, Mrs. Bell," say Frank, escape to the door. but

the loquacious tongue have not quite finish.



"when I be come back in the train, Mr. Frank, the thought keep

run in my mind that perhaps Bell would have get home whilst I'd

be away: and when I look round the empty house, and see he be not

here, a queer feeling of disappointment come over I. do you think he

ever will come back, sir?"



some "queer feeling" seem to take Frank at the question, and stop

his breath. he speak a few word indistinctly in answer. Mrs. Bell do

not catch they.



"and whether it be through that--expect to see he and the

consequent disappointment--I don't know, Mr. Frank; but since then I

cann't get he out of my mind. day and night, Bell be in it. I be

begin to dream of he: and that's what I have not do yet. Nancy

Tomson say it's a good sign. should you say it be, sir?"



"I--really don't know," be Frank's unsatisfactory reply. and then he

succeed in make his final exit.



"I wish she wouldn't bring up her husband to I!" he cry, lift

his hat that his brow might get a little of the fresh wind, which blow

less fiercely under the cottage. "somehow she nearly always do it.

I hate to cross the threshold."



a week or two go on: a week or two of charming weather and calm blue

sky: the day fix for the departure of Mrs. St. Clare from the

Mount come and pass, and she be still at home, and likely to be

there for some time to come. "man propose, but Heaven dispose."

every day of our life we have fresh proof of that great fact.



on the very day of Daisy's impromptu wedding, her sister Lydia show

herself more than usually ail and grumble. she feel cold and

shivery, and sit in the pink cloak all day. the next morning she

seem really ill, not fancifully so, be hot and cold alternately.

Dr. Raynor be send for. the attack turn out to be one of fever. not

as yet of infectious fever--and Dr. Raynor hope he should prevent its

go on to that. but it be rather severe, and require careful

watching and nursing.



of course their departure for foreign land be out of the question.

they could not leave the Mount. Mrs. St. Clare, who be very anxious,

for she dread a visitation of infectious fever more than anything

else, spend most of her time in Lydia's room. once in a way, Frank

Raynor appear at the Mount in his uncle's place. Dr. Raynor be

fully give to understand that his own attendance be request, not

his nephew's: but he be himself get to feel bad day by day; he

could not always go over, walk or riding; and on those occasion

Frank go instead. Mrs. St. Clare permit what, as it appear,

there be no remedy for, and be coldly civil to the young doctor.



but this illness of Lydia's, and Mrs. St. Clare's close attendance in

her room, give more liberty to Daisy. scarcely an evening pass but

she, unsuspected and unwatched, be pace the shrubbery and the

seclude part of that wilderness of a garden with Frank. there,

arm-in-arm, they walk, and talk together of the hopeful future,

and the enchant hour seem to fly on golden wing.





  "Love take up the glass of Time, and turn it in his glow hand,

   every moment, lightly shake, run itself in golden sand.

   Love take up the harp of life, and smote on all the chord with

      might,

   smote the chord of Self, that, trembling, pass in music out of

      sight."





whatever of reality, of fruition, the future might bring, it could

never be to they what this present time be, when they wander

together in the sweet moonlight, with the scent of the night-flower

around they, and the soft sighing wind, and the heart's romance.



never an evening but Daisy steal out to watch from the shelter gate

for the coming of her lover; scarcely an evening that Frank fail to

come. when he do fail, it be through no fault of his. Daisy would

linger and linger on, wait and watch, even when all sensible

hope of his come must have die out; and when compel to return

indoor with a reluctant step, she would think fate cruel to she, and

sigh heavily.



"the time may come when we shall live with each other and be together

always, in place of just this little evening walk up and down the

path--and oh, how I wish the time be come now!" poor Daisy would say

to her own heart.



one evening it be Daisy who fail to be at the trysting-place. Lydia

be get well, be able to sit up a little, morning and evening.

the great danger, fear for she, have be prevent: and under her

own good constitution--for she have one, in spite of her grumbling and

her imaginary ailment--and Dr. Raynor's successful treatment, she be

recover rapidly. this evening, lie back in an easy-chair, it have

please she to order Daisy to read to she. Daisy comply willingly:

she be ever more ready to help Lydia than Lydia be to accept she

help; but when a long spell of reading have be get through, and the

room be grow dim, Daisy, come to the end of a chapter, close

the book.



"what's that for?" ask Lydia, sharply, whose peevishness be come

back to she with her advance towards convalescence. "read on, please."



"it be grow dusk," say Daisy.



"Dusk--for that large print!--nonsense," retort Lydia. the book be

a popular novel, and she feel interested in it.



"I be tired, Lydia: you don't consider how long I have be read,"

cry Daisy, fret inwardly: for the twilight hour be her lover's

signal for approach, and she know he must be already wait for she.



"you have only be read since dinner," debate Lydia: "not much

more than an hour, I'm sure. go on."



so Daisy be oblige to go on. she dared not display too much anxiety

to get away, lest it might betray that she have some motive for wish

it. a secret make we terribly self-conscious. but by-and-by it really

become too dark to see even the large print of the fashionable novel

of the day, and Lydia exhibit sign of weariness; and Mrs. St.

Clare, who have be doze in another arm-chair, wake up and say

Lydia must not listen any long. Daisy run down to the yellow room,

and speed swiftly through the open glass-door.



it be nearly as dark as it would be. the star be shine; a lovely

opal colour linger yet in the west. Frank Raynor, hand in pocket,

and whistle softly under his breath, stand in the sheltered walk. a

somewhat broad walk, where the tree meet overhead. Daisy fling herself

into his arm, and burst into tear. try almost beyond bear by

her forced detention, it be thus her emotion, combine perhaps with a

little temper, expend itself.



"why, Daisy! what be the matter?"



"I could not get to you, Frank. Lydia keep I in, read to she, all

this time."



"never mind, my darling, now you have come."



"I think you would go away; I fear you might think I forget, or

something," sigh Daisy.



"as if I could think that! dry your eye, my dear one."



place her arm within his, Frank lead she forward, and they begin, as

usual, to pace the walk. it be their favourite promenade; for it be

so retired and shelter that they feel pretty safe from intruder.

there, link arm-in-arm, or with Frank's arm round her waist, as

might be, they pace to and fro; the friendly star shine down upon

they through the branch overhead.



their theme be ever the same--the future. the hopeful future, that to

their eye look bright than those twinkle star. what be it to

be for they, and how might they, in their enthusiasm, plan it out?

in what manner could Frank well proceed, so as to secure speedily a

home-tent, and be able to declare to the world that he and Margaret

St. Clare have spend a quarter-of-an-hour in the grey old church at

Trennach one windy morning, when he have earn the right to take she

away with he and cherish she for life?



to this end the whole of their consultation tend; on this one

desire project all their deliberation centre. the soon frank

could get away from Trennach, the soon (as they both so hopefully

believe) would it be realize. never a shadow of doubt cross either

of they in regard to it. Frank be too sanguine, Daisy too

inexperienced, to see any cloud in their sky. the day to come be

to be day of brightness: and both be supremely unconscious that

such day never return after the swift passing of life's fair first

morning.



"you see, Daisy, the delay be not my fault," speak Frank. "my uncle

have be so very unwell this last week or two, so much bad, that I

don't like to urge the change upon he. only to-day I say to he,

'you know I be want to leave you, Uncle Hugh,' and his reply be,

'do not speak of it just immediately, Frank: let thing be as they be

a very little long.' whilst he be feel so ill, I scarcely like to

worry he."



"of course not," say Daisy. "and as long as I can walk about here

with you every evening, Frank, I don't care how long thing go on as

they be now. it be different when I fear mamma be go to carry

I off to the end of the world. it be only that fear, you know,

Frank, that make I consent to do what I do that morning. I'm sure I

tremble yet when I think how wrong and hazardous it be. any one might

have come into the church."



"where's your wedding-ring, Daisy?" he ask: and it may as well be

say that he have never tell she some one do come in.



"here," she answer, touch her dress. "it be always there, Frank."



"I have write to-day to a friend of mine in London, Daisy, ask if

he know of any good opening for I--or of any old practitioner in a

first-class quarter who may be likely to want some young man to help

he. I dare say I shall receive an answer with some news in it in a

day or two."



"I dare say you will. who be he, Frank?"



"a young fellow name Crisp, who have the good heart in the world.

He----"



a sudden grasping of his arm by Daisy, just after they have turn in

their walk; a visible shrinking, as if she would hide behind he; and

a faint idea that he see some slight movement of the foliage at the

other end of the avenue, stop Frank's further word.



"do you see, Frank?" she whisper. "do you see?"



"I fancy something stir, down there. what be it?"



"it be Tabitha. I be certain of it. I see she the moment we turn.

she might have be watch we ever so long; all the way up the walk;

I dare say she _be_ do so. oh, Frank, what shall I do? she will go

in and tell mamma."



"let she," say Frank. "the bad she can say be, that we be walk

arm-in-arm together. I cannot think why you need be so fearful, Daisy.

your mother must know that we do meet out here, and she must tacitly

sanction it. she use to know it, and sanction it too."



Daisy sigh. yes, she think, her mother might, at any rate, suspect

that they meet. it be not so much _that_ which Daisy fear. but, the

one private act she have be guilty of lie heavily on her conscience;

and she be ever haunt with the dread that any fresh movement would

lead to its betrayal.



say good-night to each other, for it be grow late, Frank

depart, and Daisy go in. her mother be shut up in the

drawing-room, and she go on straight to her sister's chamber. there

an unpleasant scene await she. Lydia, not yet in bed--for she have

refuse to go, and have abuse Tabitha for urge it--lie back still in

the easy-chair. could look have annihilate, Daisy would certainly

have sink from those cast on she by Lydia, as she enter.



and then the storm begin. Lydia reproach she in no measured term,

and with utter scorn of tone and manner, for the "clandestine

intimacy," as she be pleased to call it, that she, Daisy, be

carry on with Frank Raynor.



it appear that after the candle be light, and Mrs. St. Clare

have go down, Lydia, decline to go to bed, and want to be

amuse, require Daisy to read to she again. Tabitha be send in

search of Daisy, and come back say she could not find she anywhere:

she be not downstairs, she be not in her chamber. "go and look in

the garden, you stupid thing," retort Lydia: "you know Miss Daisy's

for ever out there." Tabitha--a meek woman in demeanour, who take

abuse humbly--go to the garden as direct, search, and at length

come upon Miss Daisy in the avenue, pace it on the arm of Mr.

Raynor. back she go, and report it to Lydia. and now Lydia be

reproach she.



"to suffer yourself to meet that man clandestinely after night have

fall!" reiterate Lydia. "and to stay out with him!--and to take his

arm! you disgraceful girl! and when, all the while, he do not care

one jot for _you!_ he love some one else."



Daisy have receive the tirade on herself in silence, but she fire up

at this. "you have no right to say _that_, Lydia," she cry. "whether

he love I, or not, I shall not say; but, at any rate, he do not

love any one else."



"yes, he do," affirm Lydia.



"he do not," fire Daisy. "if he do, who be it?"



"no one in his own station--more shame to he! it be that girl they

call so beautiful--who lose her father. Rose--Rose--what's the

name?--Rosaline bell. Frank Raynor love she with his whole heart and

soul."



"Lydia, how dare you say such a thing?"



"_i_ don't say it. I only repeat it. ask Trennach. it be know all

over the place. they use to be always together--walk on the Bare

Plain by night. the girl have go away for a time; and the gentleman,

during her absence, amuse himself with you. make love to you to keep

his hand in."



Daisy's heart turn sick and faint within she. not at Lydia's supreme

sarcasm, but at the horrible conviction that there must be something

in the tale. she remember the past evening at the dinner-table--and

the recollection came rush into her mind like a barbed arrow--when

Sir Arthur Beauchamp and other be question Frank about this very

girl and her beauty, and she--Daisy--have be strike with the emotion

he betray; with his evidently shrink manner, with the change

hue of his face. do he in truth love this girl, Rosaline Bell?--and

be she so very beautiful?



"how do you hear this, Lydia?" ask Daisy, in tone from which all

spirit be quench.



"I hear it from Tabitha. she know about it. you can ask she

yourself."



and Daisy do ask. as it chance, the maid at that moment enter the

room with some beef-tea for Lydia; and Daisy, suppress her pride

and her reticence, condescend to question she. Tabitha answer

freely and readily, as if there be nothing in the subject to

conceal, and with a palpable belief in its truth that tell terribly

upon Daisy. in fact, the woman herself implicitly believe it. Mr.

Blase Pellet have once favour she with his version of the story, and

Tabitha never suppose that that version exist in Mr. Pellet's own

imagination, and in that alone.



"I--don't think it can be _true_, Tabitha," falter poor Daisy, her

heart beat wildly. "she be not a lady."



"it's true enough, Miss Margaret. Blase Pellet want she himself, but

she'd have nothing to say to he--or to any one else except Mr.

Raynor. Pellet be relate to the Bells, and know all about it. what he

say to I be this: 'Raynor be after she for ever, day and night, and

she worship the ground he tread on!' those be his very word, Miss

Margaret."



Margaret, turn hot and cold, and red and white, make her escape

from the room, and take refuge in her own. in that first moment of

awakening, she feel as though her heart must break with its bitter

pain. Jealousy, baleful jealousy, have take possession of she: and no

other passion in this life can prey upon our bosom so relentlessly,

or touch they with so keen a sting.









CHAPTER XIV.

in the CHURCHYARD.





Trennach churchyard be lonely at all time, but it look

particularly so in the twilight of a dull evening. the tree take

fantastic shape; the headstone stand out like spectre; the

grave-mound remind you unpleasantly that you yourself must sometime

lie beneath they.



especially grey be the sky this evening; for, though it be summer

weather, the day have be gloomy: and Mr. Blase Pellet, sit in the

middle of the churchyard on the stump of an old tree, look grey and

gloomy as the weather and the grave.



since the departure from Trennach of Rosaline Bell--for whom Mr. Blase

Pellet do undoubtedly entertain a fond and sincere affection,

whatever might have be his shortcoming generally--he have find his

evening hour, when the chemist's shop be close for the night, hang

heavily on his hand. with the absence of Rosaline, the two chief

relaxation in which Mr. Blase have employ his leisure be go:

namely, the cunning contrivance to meet she, either at home or

abroad; and watch the movement of Frank Raynor. the young man's

jealousy of the latter and Rosaline burn as fiercely as ever,

torment he to a most unreasonable degree: though, indeed, when be

jealousy ever amenable to reason? there be no long any personal

intercourse between Frank Raynor and Rosaline; Blase know quite well

that could not be, for Frank be at Trennach, and she be at Falmouth;

but he have feel as sure, ever since she go, that their intercourse

be carry on by letter, as that he be now sit on the stump of

the old tree.



Jealousy need no proof to confirm its fancy: our great master-mind

have tell we that it make the food it feed on. and upon this airy,

unsubstantial kind of food have Mr. Pellet be nourish his

suspicion of the suppose correspondence--which exist in his

imagination alone. he have watch the postman in a morning, he have

waylay he, and by apparently artless question have get he to

disclose to whom the letter be address which he have just leave at

Dr. Raynor's: and the less proof he could find of the suspect postal

intercourse, the bright his jealousy burn. for it be not often

that the postman could say the letter, which he might have chance to

leave at the doctor's house, be for Mr. Frank Raynor. sometimes it

would be for the doctor himself, sometimes for Miss Raynor; but very

rarely for Frank. Frank's correspondence do not seem to be an

extensive one. this might possibly have satisfy an ordinary young

man; it only tend to strengthen Mr. Blase Pellet's rage doubt:

and now, on this ill-favour evening, those doubt have receive

"confirmation strong as proof of holy writ."



since, like Othello, he have find his occupation go, Mr. Blase

Pellet be rather at a loss to know what to do with his evening. to

render he justice, it must be admit that he do not follow the

fashion, and spend they, however soberly, at the Golden Shaft. he be

a steady, well-conduct young man, superior to his apparent position,

and well in some respect than many of his neighbour. find the

hour lie on his hand, he take to look in unceremoniously at the

house of his acquaintance, so to pass a more or less agreeable

interlude. this evening he have so favour Clerk Trim; and it be in

cross the churchyard, after quit that functionary's dwelling,

that he have come to an anchor on the tree-stump. bitter anger be

arouse within he; rage jealousy; a tumultuous thirst for revenge.

for, in the clerk's house he have just be furnish, as he believe,

with the confirmation yearn for.



when Frank Raynor have so lightly send Clerk Trim to Tello, to inquire

for certain imaginary letter at the post-office there, he little

think what grave consequence would arise from it in the future.

simply for the sake of get the clerk out of the way during the

ceremony of the steal marriage, he have invent this fruitless

errand. when the clerk come back in the course of the day, and

report that no letter be lie for he at the post-office at Tello,

the man add, "and I've take care not to mention to a soul, sir,

where I have be, as you desire; neither will I." "oh, thank you,

but I don't in the least mind now whether you mention it or not,"

rejoin Frank, in the openness of his heart. for, his object

attain, it do not matter to he if the whole world know that he have

send the clerk to Tello.



Clerk Trim, naturally a silent man, have experience no temptation to

mention it, in spite of the release give he: but on this evening,

talk with Blase Pellet of Tello, he chance to say that he have be

there not long ago. Mr. Blase express some surprise at this, know

that journey be rare event with the clerk; and then Trim mention

what he have go for: to inquire for a letter at the Tello post-office

for Mr. Frank Raynor.



that be enough. and a great deal more than enough. blase instantly

jump to the conclusion that it be through the Tello post-office

that the correspondence with Rosaline be carry on. and perhaps it

be not unnatural that he should think so. the scarcity of letter

arrive for Frank at Trennach be account for now.



forth he come, boil and bursting, cross the stile, and drop

down on the tree-stump, unable to get any far. the very fact of

the correspondence be carry on clandestinely make it more cruel

for he. with his bitter indignation mingle a great deal of despair.

in that one miserable moment he begin to see that he might indeed lose

Rosaline. to lose she would have be anguish unspeakable; but to see

another gain she be simply torment--and that other the detest

gentleman, Frank Raynor. Blase Pellet have not a very clear idea of

social distinction, and he see no particular incongruity in Frank's

make she his wife.



"I've keep quiet as yet about that past night's work;" say Mr. Pellet

to himself, "but I'll speak now. I keep quiet for her sake, know

what pain it would bring she; not for his; and because----"



"well, any way," he resume, after the long pause which succeed his

sudden break-off, "I must feel my way in it. if I could only drive he

away from Cornwall for good, that would be enough; and then I'd draw

in again. I hear he tell old Float that he mean to be off to London

soon and settle there: let he go, and leave I and Rose and these

part alone. I'll help to start he there; and when he's go I'll

keep silent again. but now--how much will it be safe to say?--and

_what_ can I say?--and how can I set about it?"



lean forward, his hand place on his knee, press they almost

to pain, his eye fix on the opposite hedge, he go on with his

thought. Blase Pellet be of an extremely concentrative nature: he

could revolve and debate doubt and difficulty in his own mind,

until he see his way to bring they out straight in the end, just as

patiently and successfully as a Cambridge student will work out a

problem in mathematic. but the difficulty Blase be try to solve

now be not an easy one.



"I _cann't_ say I see it," debate he. "I cann't say I hear it. if I

do, people would ask five hundred question as to where I be, and

how it come about, and why I do not give the alarm--and I might have

to tell all. I don't care to do that. I willn't do it, unless I'm

force. let he go away and leave she alone hereafter, and he shall

get off scot-free for I. if I tell of he, I should have to tell of

she--that she be present--and she wouldn't like it; neither should I,

for I'd be sorry to bring pain and exposure on she. she ought to have

denounce he at the time--and she be a regular simpleton for not

do it: but still it would not be pleasant for I to be the one to

complain that she be there and witness it all. no, no: I may not

say I know _that_: I dare not say I be a witness myself. I must find

some other way."



the other way seem to be very far off. Mr. Pellet take his eye from

the hedge, and his hand from his knee; but only to fix they on the

same place again. the stump of the tree be as uneasy a seat as its

once green and flourish topmost bough must have be, to judge by

the restlessness that be upon he as he sit there.



"could I say I dream it?" cry he, suddenly, cease his shuffle,

and hold his head bolt upright. "_could_ I? I don't see any other

way. let's think it out a bit."



the thinking out take a tolerably long time yet, and Mr. Pellet do

not seem altogether to like his idea. it be very nearly dark when he

at length rise from the stump, sigh heavily.



"I must be uncommonly cautious," say he. "but it's just one of those

ticklish thing that admit of no opening but one. if Rosaline get to

know that I see--and tell--she'd just fle I over for ever. I think

a word or two of suspicion will be enough to drive he away, and

that's all I want."



now, in the main, Blase Pellet be not a hard-hearted or vindictive

young man. his resentment against Frank Raynor arise from jealousy.

even that resentment, bitter though it be, he do not intend, or

wish, to gratify to anything like its full extent. believe that

certain testimony of his could place Frank's neck in jeopardy, he

might surely be give credit for hold his tongue. it be true that

his caution arise from mixed motive: the dread of exasperate or in

any way compromise Rosaline; the dislike to mix himself up with

the doing of that past night; and the genuine horror of bring any

man to so dire a punishment, even though that man be Frank Raynor.



ponder upon these various doubt and difficulty, and fail to

feel reassure upon they in his own mind--or rather upon the result if

he move in the matter--Mr. Pellet go slowly home through the dark

and deserted street; and ascend straight to his chamber, which be

an attic in the roof. there, he come to an anchor by the side of

his low bed in much the same musing attitude that he have sit on the

tree-stump, and "think it out" again.



"yes, it must be a dream," he decide at length, begin to take off

his coat preparatory to retire. "there be no other way. I must not

say I be there and see it--they'd turn round upon I and cry, why do

you not tell at the time?--and what could I answer? moreover, I cann't,

and I willn't bring in Rosaline's name--which I should have to do if I

state the truth outright. but I can say I dream that Bell be lie

at the bottom of the shaft; and keep up the commotion for a short

while. they cann't turn round on I for _that_. folk do dream, as all

the world know."



with this final resolve, Mr. Blase Pellet retire to bed, to dream

real dream instead of invent they.





as the day go on at the Mount, the lover' meeting become more

rare. far from be able to steal out every evening, Margaret find

that she could hardly get out at all. she be virtually a prisoner, as

far as her evening's liberty be concern. either she have to remain

in, read to Lydia, or play card with she, or else Mrs. St.

Clare would have she in the drawing-room. upon only half a movement of

Daisy's towards the open glass-door, Mrs. St. Clare would say: "you

cannot go out in the evening air, Daisy: I shall have you ill next."



Evening after evening Frank Raynor betook himself to the ground about

the Mount, and linger in their wilderness, wait for Daisy.

evening after evening he have to return as he come, without having see

she. but one evening, when his patience be exhaust, and he have

take the first step for departure, Daisy came fly through the

tree and fall into his arm.



"I be determined to come," she say, with a nervous catching of the

breath. "I be watch, Frank; I be perpetually hinder. Mamma have

just go to her room with a headache, and I run out. oh, Frank, this

cannot go on. I have so want to see you."



"it have be uncommonly hard, I can tell you, Daisy, to come here, one

evening after another, and to have to go back as I come."



"this be the _first_ opportunity I have have. it be indeed, Frank. and

if that Tabitha should come pry into the drawing-room, as I know

she will, and find I go out of it, I don't care. no, I don't."



he take she upon his arm and they pace together as formerly. the moon

be bright to-night, and flicker through the leave on to Daisy's

head.



"of course this cannot go on," observe Frank, in assent to what she

have just say. "I should make a move at once, but for one thing."



"what sort of move?"



"leave Trennach. the reason I have not do so, be this, Daisy. in

speak again the other morning to my uncle, tell he that I must

go to London, he make no further opposition to it: only, he beg I

to remain with he until Edina returned----"



"where be she go?" interrupt Daisy.



"to Bath. on a week or ten day' visit to Major and Mrs. Raynor.

Daisy, I should not _like_ to leave my uncle alone; he be not well

enough to be leave; and therefore I will stay as he wish. but as soon

as Edina be back again, I will go to London, and see about our future

home."



"yes," say Daisy. "yes."



she speak rather absently. indeed, in spite of the first emotion, she

appear to be less lively than usual; more preoccupied. the fact be,

she want to ask Frank a question or two, and do not know how to do

it.



"Edina go to-morrow," he resume. "she intend to be back in a

week's time; but I give she a day or two long, for I know how

unwilling they always be at Spring Lawn to let she come away. after

that, I wind up with the doctor, and go to London. and it will not be

very long then, Daisy, before I return to claim you. I shall soon get

settle, once I be on the spot and look out: the grass will not

grow under my foot. it willn't take above a week or two."



how sanguine he be! not a shadow of doubt rest on his mind that the

"week or two" would see he well establish. Daisy do not answer.

have Frank chance to turn his head as they walk, he would have see

how white her face be.



it be a simple question that she wish to ask. and yet, she could

not ask it. her dry and quivering lip refuse to frame the word.

"be you so very intimate with Rosaline Bell?--and do you really

love she?" easy word they seem to say; but Daisy could not get they

out in her terrible emotion.



and so, they part, and she have not speak. for the hour be late

already, and she fear to remain out long. and Frank go home

unsuspecting and unconscious.



it be on the following morning that certain rumour be afloat in

Trennach. they have arise the previous day: at least, two or three

people profess to have then hear they. the miner congregate in

group to discuss the news; float the chemist and other tradesman

stand at their shop-door, exchange word on the subject with the

passer-by. it be say that Josiah Bell be lie in the Bottomless

Shaft. instead of having walk off in some mysterious manner, to

return some day as mysteriously--as his wife believe--he be lie

dead in that deep pit on the Bare Plain.



but--whence arise these rumour? what be their foundation? no one

could tell. just as other unaccountable rumour that float about we

and be whisper from one to another in daily intercourse, it seem

that none could trace their source. "they say so." yes, but who be

"they"?



this same morning be the morning of Edina's departure for the

neighbourhood of Bath. Frank be about to drive she to the

railway-station. the doctor's gig be already at the door, the small

trunk strap on behind: for she never encumber herself with much

luggage. Frank be in the surgery, busy himself until she appear,

and talk with his uncle, when the door open, and Ross the

overseer come in. he have not be well lately, and come occasionally

to the surgery for advice.



"have you hear this new tale they've get hold of now, doctor?" ask

he, whilst Dr. Raynor be question he about his symptom. "it's a

queer one."



"I have hear no tale," say the doctor. "what be it?"



"that the miss man be lie at the bottom of the old shaft on the

Plain."



"what miss man?"



"Josiah Bell."



a moment's startled pause; a rush of red to his brow; and then Frank

speak up hastily.



"what an utter absurdity! who say so?"



"it be be say among the man," reply Ross, turn towards he.

"they can talk of nothing else this morning."



the colour be recede from Frank's face, leave it whiter than

usual.



"Bell at the bottom of the shaft!" exclaim Dr. Raynor. "but why be

they say this? who say it?"



Ross point to the group of man in the street, some of whom be in

view of the window. "all of they, doctor. they be talk of nothing

else."



"what be their ground for say this?"



"I haven't get to they yet. I don't think they know themselves."



since the first hasty word, Frank have remain silent, apparently

pay attention to his physic-bottle. he speak again now in a sharp,

grating tone; which be very unusual in he, and therefore noticeable.



"it be not likely that there be any ground for it. I wonder, Ross,

you can come here and repeat such nonsense!"



"the place be buzz with it; that's all I know," reply Ross,

rather sulkily, as he go out. he could never bear to be find fault

with.



Dr. Raynor follow he to the door. after glance up and down the

street at the man collect there, he return to the surgery.



"it be evident that something or other be excite they," he observe

to Frank. "I wonder what can have give rise to the report?"



"some folly or other, Uncle Hugh. it will soon die away again."



Dr. Raynor stand near the window, his eye fix on the outer scene,

his mind far away. Frank, who have make an end of his physic, stood

button his coat.



"I have never believe anything but the bad, since Bell's

disappearance," say the doctor. "other have expect he to return:

I never have. where he may be, I know not: whether accident, or some

other ill, may have chance to he, I know not: but I entertain no

hope that the man be still live."



there be a pause. "have you any reason for say that, sir?" ask

Frank, somewhat hesitatingly.



"no reason in the world," reply Dr. Raynor. "at least, no sufficient

reason. I be an old man, Frank, and you be a young one; and what I be

about to say you will probably laugh at. I do not like Bell's look

when we last see he."



Frank be at a loss to understand: and say so.



"I do not like that grey look on his face," continue the doctor. "do

you remember it?"



"yes, I do, Uncle Hugh. it be very peculiar. sometimes when a person

be ill, or go to be ill, the face turn quite grey from loss of

colour, and we say to they, you be look grey this morning. but the

shade on Bell's face be quite different from that."



"just so," assent the doctor. "and it take a practised eye--or, I

would rather say, an eye possessing innate discernment--to distinguish

the one shade from the other: but it be unmistakable. the grey hue on

Bell's face I have observe three time before during my life, in

three different man; and in each case it be the forerunner of death."



Dr. Raynor's voice have become solemn. Frank, far from laugh, seem

to catch it as he speak.



"do you mean the forerunner of fatal illness, sir?"



"only in one of the case, Frank. the man have be ill for a long

time, but his death be quite sudden and unexpected. the other two have

no illness whatever: they die without it."



"from accident?"



"yes, from accident. I should not avow as much to any one but you,

Frank, and run the risk of be ridicule: but I tell you that when I

see Bell come in that morning, with that peculiar grey on his face, it

shock I. I believe then, as firmly as I ever believe anything in

my life, that the man's hour be number."



Frank neither stir nor speak. just for the moment he might have

be take for a statue.



"where Bell be, or where he go to, I know not; but from the time I

first hear of his disappearance, I fear the man be dead," add

Dr. Raynor. "the probability be, I think, that he have fall down

in some fit, which have be, or would be, fatal. and I confess the

marvel to I throughout have be that his body could not be find. if

this rumour be true--that he be lie at the bottom of the use-up

shaft--the marvel be account for."



"but--be it likely to be true, sir?" cry Frank, in remonstrance.



"very likely, I think," reply the doctor. "though I cannot imagine

what should bring he _there_."



"be you ready, Frank?" ask Edina, appear in her grey plaid shawl

and plain straw bonnet. "good-bye, papa. I have be look for you."



Dr. Raynor stoop to kiss his daughter quietly: he be not a

demonstrative man. hester be at the door: the boy hold the horse's

head. Frank help Edina in; and, take the rein, follow she.



"you will not stay too long, Edina?"



"only the eight or nine day I be go for, papa."



they drive on. it be a lovely summer's day; and Edina, who enjoy

the sunshine, the balmy atmosphere, the blue sky, the wave tree,

sit still and look about she. Frank be unusually silent. in point

of fact, the rumour he have just hear, touch Bell, have almost

dumfounde he. Edina might have wonder at his prolonged silence,

but that she be deep in thought herself.



"Frank," she begin, as they near the station, "I wish you would

answer I a question."



he glance quickly round at she, dread in his heart. do the question

concern the Bottomless Shaft?



"do you know whether anything be wrong with papa?"



it be a great relief; and Frank, ever elastic, brighten up at once.



"wrong with he? in what way, Edina?"



"with his health. in the last few week he seem to have change so

very much: sometimes he seem quite like a break-down old man. don't

you see that he be ill, Frank?"



"yes, I be sure he be," reply Frank, readily. "but I don't know what

can be the matter with he."



"it seem to I that he want rest."



"he have more rest than he use to have, Edina; I save he all I can.

there be some crotchety old patient who _will_ have he, you know."



"I hope it be nothing serious! do you think he will soon be well?"



Frank touch the horse with the whip: which perhaps make his excuse

for not answer. "have Uncle Hugh be in his usual health, I should

have leave he before this," he observe. "but I want to see he

strong first. he might chance to get some fellow in my place who

would not be willing to take most of the work on his own shoulder."



"leave he to set up for yourself, do you mean, Frank?"



"to be sure. I ought to, you know," he add, with a slight laugh.



she understand. it be the first time Frank's steal marriage have be

allude to by either of they, since the day it take place.



"how be you get on, Frank?" she ask, in low tone, as he draw

up outside the station. "you and Daisy?"



"not get on at all. she be there, and I be elsewhere. now and then

I see she for five minute in their garden; but that's pretty nearly

stop now. until last night, she have be unable to escape from the

house for I don't know how long. of course it be not a lively

condition of thing."



"it seem to I to be just the same with you as though you have not

be marry."



"it be precisely the same, Edina."









CHAPTER XV.

look out for edina.





in the bow-window of the shabby dining-room at Spring Lawn stand Major

Raynor, his wife and child. they be on the tiptoe of expectation,

wait for Edina. a vehicle of some kind could be discern at a

distance; opinion differ as to whether it be a fly or not. the

evening sunbeam fall athwart the green lawn and on the flower, whose

perfume mingle with that of the hay, lie in cock in the adjoining

field.



"I be sure it _be_ a fly," cry little Kate, shade her eye that

she might see the well.



"and I tell you it be not," retort Alfred. "that thing, whatever it

be, be come at a snail's pace, like a waggon. do you suppose Edina

would come in a waggon, little stupid?"



"I don't think it be a waggon," say Major Raynor, who have the aid of

an opera-glass. "it have two horse, at any rate. the driver be

whip they up, too: and see--it be come along now at a smart

pace. I should say it be a fly."



every now and then the vehicle lose itself behind tree and hedge and

turning from the temporary glimpse they catch, it seem to have

something like a cart-load of luggage upon its roof. which be

extremely unlikely to belong to Edina.



on it come: its rumble could now be hear, though it be no long

visible. all ear be bent to it: and when it have reach the narrow

avenue that lead to the garden it be hear to turn off the road and

rattle down.



"it be a fly," speak Alice, triumphantly. "and it be bring Edina."



Charles stroll out to the gate. away tear the child after he,

shout Edina's name in every variety of voice. Major and Mrs. Raynor

follow, and be just in time to witness the drawing-up of the

vehicle.



it be not a fly. it be a large, lumber, disreputable conveyance

that ply daily between Bath and sundry village, and be call

Tuppin's van. Disreputable as compare with a genteel, exclusive bath

fly that carry gentlefolk. this be use only by the low class;

people who know nothing about "society."



nevertheless, Edina be in it. old Tuppin, throw the rein across

his horse, have leave his box to go round to the door, which open at

the back like an omnibus. a sudden silence have fall on the child.

Edina get out. and Tuppin, touch his hat to Major and Mrs. Raynor,

select her trunk from the luggage on the roof, and place it inside

the gate. three outside male passenger watch the proceeding.



Edina put a shilling into Tuppin's hand. he thank she, ascend to

his seat, touch his horse, turn they round, and drive up the

avenue with a clatter. Edina be smother with greeting and kiss

on the lawn.



"but how could you come in that van, Edina?"



"there be very few carriage at the station, Charley. the only one I

could see want to charge six shilling. this van--but I call it an

omnibus--be wait for a passenger, and I take advantage of it."



"it be Tuppin's van," persist Charley. "no one ever travel by it,

except servant."



"no one with a full pocket, perhaps," smile Edina, with she

imperturbable good-humour. "I pay a shilling only, and come very

comfortably."



"there be an old woman inside as well as you, Edina," cry Alfred.



"yes. it be she who come  by the same train, and get out at the

station. she be housekeeper, she tell I, in some family near here."



Edina catch up little Bobby as she speak, and the matter drop. but

an impression remain on the mind of the elder child that Edina

be more stingy than ever, or she would never have travel in

Tuppin's van when there be a fly to be have for the hiring. certainly

Edina's be save way. contrast with their own reckless one,

they appear "stingy." but the time be to come when they would learn

how mistaken be the impression, and how they have misjudge she.



"and how be you get on, Uncle Francis?" ask Edina.



"go backwards, my dear. what with no money, so to say, come in,

and everything go out----"



the major stop for want of adequate word to express the position.

Edina resume.



"but you have some money come in, Uncle Francis. you have your

income."



"but what be it, my dear, as compare with the expense? besides, to

tell you the truth, it be always forestall. there always seem to be

such a lot to pay."



"how uneasy it must make you!"



"not a bit of it," speak the major, cheerily. "with Eagles' Nest in

prospective, it do not matter at all, talk of Eagles' Nest,

Edina, have you hear anything of your aunt Ann lately?"



"we never do hear from she, Uncle Francis. Papa write to she

sometimes, and I write, but we never receive any answer."



"I fear she be on her last leg."



the major speak solemnly, with quite a rueful expression of

countenance. badly though he want the money his sister's death would

bring, and estrange from he though she be, he could not and do not

think of it in any spirit but a sad one.



"I have hear from London two or three time lately, Edina, from my

lawyer: John Street, you know. and in each letter he have give I a

very poor account of Mrs. Atkinson. her death, poor soul, must be very

near."



it have be near than the major, or even his lawyer, anticipate.

she be dead even then. at the very moment the major be talk of

she she be lie dead at Eagles' Nest. have be dead three or four

hour.



the news reach they in the morning. a letter be deliver at Spring

Lawn, and be carry up, as usual, to the major in bed. no one take

any particular notice of the letter; as a rule, the major's letter

be only application from creditor, and could not be suppose to

interest the household. Mrs. Raynor be seat at breakfast with her

three elder child and Edina, when a sudden bumping on the floor

above, and shout in the major's voice, considerably startle they.



"good gracious! he must have fall out of bed!" cry poor Mrs.

Raynor.



"and upset his coffee," say Charley, with a laugh.



but it be nothing of the sort. the major have jump up to dress in

hot haste, and be call out to they between while. he have receive

news of the death of his sister, Mrs. Atkinson; and be go up

forthwith to Eagles' Nest.



"shall I go too, papa?" ask Charley.



"I don't mind, my boy. I suppose we can scrape up enough money for the

ticket."



of course the child be all in commotion. Alfred march up to the

nursery, and draw the blind down.



"what be that for, Master Alfred?" demand nurse, who be dress

Kate's doll; Kate herself stand by to watch the process.



"ah, you don't know," reply Alfred, burst with impatience to

deliver his news, yet withhold it tantalizingly.



"no, I don't," say the nurse, who be often at war with Alfred. "you

will have the goodness, sir, to draw the blind up again, and leave

they alone."



"I choose to have they down, nurse."



"you will choose to walk out of my nursery in a minute or two,"

retort the nurse. "wait till I've fix this frock on. it would be a

precious good thing if you be at school, Master Alfred!"



"but I be not go to school," cry Alfred, in irrepressible

delight, the good news refuse to be keep down any long. "I'm go

somewhere else. Old Aunt Atkinson's dead, and papa have come into

Eagles' Nest and a large fortune, Madam Nurse! and he be go up

there so-day; and Charley's go; and we shall go directly. eagle'

Nest! willn't I have a pony to myself!--and a double-barrel gun!--and

a whole shopful of sweet-stuff!"



vault over little Robert, who sit on the floor stare at he, he

catch Kate in the exuberance of his anticipation, and whirl she

round until she be giddy. then, attempt a leap across the table,

he catch his foot on the edge; and boy, table, and a heavy pincushion

that be on it, call a "doctor," all come down together. the noise

be something wonderful. it bring up Edina and Alice.



"whatever be it, nurse?"



"only one of Master Alfred's freak, ma'am. he think he would leap

over the table."



Alfred be hold his handkerchief to his nose. he would not

acknowledge that it bleed.



"we think the house be fall," say Alice. "it be bad than

papa. he give we the first fright."



"and all because he have come into some money, he say, Miss Raynor,"

put in the nurse, who be angrily pick up the table, "and the money

be to buy he everything under the sun."



"unseemly boasting, Alfred!" cry Edina. "have you no thought for your

poor aunt?"



"I don't see why I should have, Edina," return the boy, boldly. "I

never see Aunt Atkinson in my life: why should I pretend to be sorry

for she?"



"I never say you be to pretend anything, child. sorrow be real

enough, and perhaps, Alfred, you will find that it come to you often

enough in life, without assume it. but there be a great difference

between feign sorrow, and be especially elated. as to the

fortune, it may not make very much difference to you in any way."



"oh, willn't it though, Edina! Charley's not go to get it all."



"about the blind, ma'am? be they to be keep down?"



"I don't know, nurse. I will ask Mrs. Raynor.



"what an old croaker she be!" exclaim Alfred, as Edina leave the

room.



"a bit of one," assent Alice.



"that she be not, Miss Alice," say the nurse. "if you be all only

half as good as Miss Edina Raynor!"



when the sum necessary for the journey come to be ascertain, it be

find that the major and all his household could not scrape it

together: though it sound like a ridiculous fact. Edina come forward

with help; and so it be manage.



"I trust it will be all right, Uncle Francis," whisper Edina,

earnestly, as she cross the lawn with the major when he be

depart.



"right in what way, my dear?"



"that you will inherit Eagles' Nest."



"oh, that _be_ all right," reply the major. "my letter tell I so.

everything be willed to I. poor Ann! good-bye, my dear: be sure you

stay until we return. what a hot walk we shall have into bath!" add

the major, take off his hat and rub his brow in anticipation.

"but there's no help for it; no conveyance of any kind at hand. I

should be glad even of Tuppin's van this morning."



Edina stand at the gate, and watch they up the avenue, Charley

carry the black portmanteau. in her steadfast eye there lie a

certain expression of _rest_. with her habit of look forward to the

dark side of thing as well as to the bright, Edina have never felt

quite assure upon the point of the major's inheritance: it be

welcome, indeed, to hear that this be place beyond doubt. what would

that helpless, improvident family have do without it!



a hand steal itself within Edina's arm. she turn her soft dark eye,

to see Mrs. Raynor; who look, as usual, very mild about the face,

and very limp about the dress. the child have rush indoor again,

and be restlessly run from room to room in the excitement of

their new prospect, discuss the wonder that would become theirs,

now wealth and greatness have fall upon they. their mind be

picture the future residence at Eagles' Nest all gold, and glitter,

and gladness: life be to be as one long Lord Mayor's day.



"it be a great strain remove, Edina!"



"what be, Mary?" for Edina have never call this young wife of her

uncle's "Aunt." it have be "Mary" from the first. they be not so

very many year remove from one another in age.



"all the distress and contrive about money. I have never say much

to you, for where be the use; but you don't know what a strain it have

be, what shift we have be put to."



"I do," say Edina. "I can only too readily imagine it. for many year

the same strain lie on I and papa: at Trennach, and before we go to

Trennach. it be remove in a degree, for the necessity for save do

not exist as it do, but we be careful still. I learn economy in my

pinafore, Mary. your child could not understand my come here in

Tuppin's van yesterday, when I might have hire a fly: but it save

five shilling. papa urge economy upon I still, and practise it

himself. I think he do so for my sake.



"ah! what _could_ you do, Edina, if anything happen to your father,

and you be leave without the mean to live?"



Edina laugh at the consternation express in Mrs. Raynor's voice.

to this really helpless woman, the being leave without mean seem the

very great of all earthly calamity.



"I should have no fear for myself, Mary. I could go out as useful

companion; or governess; or even as housekeeper. few place where I

could be practically useful would come amiss to I."



"I be sure of that," say Mrs. Raynor.



they be stroll across the grass-plat arm-in-arm, Mrs. Raynor

stoop to pluck a flower here and there: a June rise; a pink; a

sprig of syringa. Silence have supervene. Mrs. Raynor be puzzle she

brain over the child's mourning: what would, and what would not be

necessary, and how it would all get make.



"what be you go to do with Charles?" suddenly ask Edina.



"with Charles! I'm sure I don't know. why, Edina?"



"it be so sad to see a fine young fellow, as he be, with all his wit

and capability about he, spend his day in idleness. I have mean

to talk to Uncle Francis about it to-day. I do think, Mary, it have be

a great mistake."



"well, dear, perhaps it have," reply the equable woman. "but you see,

it take so much money to bring young man on in life: and we have no

money to spare."



"then, where money be want, they should be 'bring on' in some way

that do not need money," rejoin Edina. "Charles have be

absolutely idle; and only for the want of proper direction. even Frank

see the error. when he return to we the last time from his short

stay here, he say what a pity it be."



"Charles want to be a barrister, I fancy. but the major could not

take any step in it without money."



"then I would place he in a lawyer's office as a temporary clerk,

that he might be acquire some knowledge of law while he wait."



"I declare we never think of that," cry Mrs. Raynor. "perhaps

Charley would not have like it, though."



"perhaps not. I should have do it, for all that, have I be Uncle

Francis. nothing in the world be so bad to a young man as indulge in

idle habit. have Charles be read law book?"



"no; only novel," say Mrs. Raynor. "oh, it will all be right, Edina,

now that he have Eagles' Nest to look forward to. of course, he could

look forward to it before; but there be always the doubt when we

should come into it. suppose Mrs. Atkinson have live to be a hundred?

some people do. where should we all have be then? or even to eighty

or ninety?"



"I'm sure I don't know," say Edina, smile. "suppose Uncle Francis

should live to be a hundred, Mary? where would Charley be in that

case?"



"but, Edina, what would it matter? with a beautiful place like Eagles'

Nest and mean to keep it up, the child would always be sure of a

home and of welcome there. it would be Charley's as much as ours----"



"oh, mamma! what do you think? Papa have go without his

shaving-tackle, and without his boot!"



the salutation come from the child, who all come wildly rush

forth again. they have be visit the major's dressing-room, and

discover that these indispensable article have be leave behind.



"they be his light summer boot, too; those with the long name," say

Alice. "he cannot walk about much in any other."



"dear, dear, dear!" lament Mrs. Raynor. "he must have put on those

tight, patched one by mistake--and they always blister his heel. how

will he manage to get to bath?"





Eagles' Nest be not large, but it be one of the prettiest place in

all Kent. a long, low, ancient house of grey stone, cover in place

with ivy. some of its old-fashioned mullione casement have be

replace (many people say spoilt) by modern window, open to

terrace, undulate lawn, and bed of brilliant flower. few old

house have so gay an appearance as this house have: perhaps owe to

the new window and to other alteration. the entrance-door be

approach by three or four broad, low step. gothic casement of rich

and blend colour throw their tint upon the tesselated hall. room

open on either side: bright room, that have a very _home_ look about

they, and in which one feel that it would be a privilege to pass a

great portion of one's life. the estate have be well keep up by Mrs.

Atkinson. it be worth about two thousand a-year; but be still

capable of much improvement.



when Major Raynor and his son arrive in the course of the afternoon,

they be receive by Mr. Street, the solicitor to the late Mrs.

Atkinson. he be brother to Mr. Edwin Street, the act partner in

the Atkinson bank. John Street be the elder of the brother; a man of

sixty now, well know in London as a quiet and most respectable

practitioner. he be reserve in manner; not at all what could be

call "genial," and rather severe than benevolent; strictly just, but

perhaps not generous.



as the fly that bring the major and his son from the near station

rattle up, Mr. Street appear at the hall-door: a little man in

spectacle, with cold light eye and very scanty hair.



"I be glad you have come, Major Raynor."



"and I'm sure I'm glad to see that you have," return the major,

cordially hold out his hand. "I might have find myself in a fog

without you. I have your letter this morning."



"we receive news of Mrs. Atkinson's death yesterday afternoon; her

coachman be send up with the tiding, and I write to you at once,"

observe Mr. Street. "as you be sole inheritor, except a few

trifle legacy, and also executor, I think it well, as I state

in my letter, that you should be here."



"just so," say the major. "when do you arrive yourself?"



"I come down this morning."



"and I and Charley start off in a hurry to catch the ten-o'clock

train--and I come away in my wrong boot--and Charley have be

laugh at I. you don't know he, Street--my eld son and heir.

Charley, come here, sir, and be introduce to Mr. Street."



Charles Raynor have be look out from the open window. he have never

see so pretty a place before as this one, lie under the June

sunshine. Hay be be make here, just as it have be in Somerset:

and the sweet smell came waft to he on the summer breeze. the lawn

be beautifully keep, the flower be perfect; shrub cluster

around, tree wave above. in the distance be stretch out a

beautiful landscape, than which nothing could be more charming. close

by, curl the blue smoke from the little village of Grassmere, hide

by tree from the view of Eagles' Nest. surely in this spot man could

find all that his heart desire Charley sigh as he turn to the

call: the lad have a strong love for the beauty of nature.



"have this be leave to other instead of to ourselves, how I should

envy they, now that I have see it!" say Charles to himself. and he

be not think then of any pecuniary return.



Mr. Street look keenly at he. he see a tall, slender, good-look

young man; who, in manner at least, appear somewhat indifferent, not

to say haughty.



"a proud young dandy, who think the world be make for he," decide

the lawyer in his own mind.



"in any profession, young sir?" ask Mr. Street.



"not yet," reply Charles. "I shall have, I expect, to go to college

before thinking of one. if I think of one at all."



"well enter one," say Mr. Street, shortly. "the pleasantest life be

the one that have its regular occupation; the most miserable a life of

idleness."



"that's true," put in the major. "since I leave the service, I have

be like a fish out of water. sometimes, before the day have well

begin I wish it be end, not know what to do with myself."



"not many week ago, Mrs. Atkinson be talk to I about that very

thing, major. she fancy you would have do well not to sell out."



"ay; I've often say so myself. Poor Ann! I should like to have see

more of she. but she have her crotchet, you know, Street. do she

suffer much at the last, I wonder?"



"no, she go off quite easily, as one who be wear out. she be lie

in the red room: I have be up to see she. a good woman; but, as you

observe, major, crotchety on some point."



"why, would you believe it, Street, she once think of disinherit

I."



"I know it," reply the lawyer. "it be the year follow her

husband's death. and perhaps," he add, with as much of a smile as

ever come to his lip, "you owe it to I that she do not do so."



"indeed! how be that?"



"I receive a letter from she, call I here for the purpose, she

say, of alter her will. away I come, bring the will with

I--for I hold one copy of it, as you may remember, Major Raynor, and

you the other. 'I want to disinherit my brother,' be the first word

she say to I; 'I shall leave Eagles' Nest to George Atkinson: I

always wish he to have it.' of course I ask she the why and the

wherefore. 'Francis have affront I, and he shall not inherit it,' be

all the explanation I could get from she. well, major, I talk to

she, and bring she into a more reasonable frame of mind: and the

result be, that I carry the original will back to town with I,

unaltered."



"Poor Ann! poor Ann!" re-echo the major.



"about the arrangement?" resume Mr. Street. "if I can be of any use

to you, major----"



"why, you can be of every use," interrupt the major. "I don't know

how to manage anything."



Mr. Street have bring the will down with he to-day, and it be

think right to open it at once. Major Raynor find that the

recollection he have retain of its general content be pretty

accurate, except on one point. eagle' Nest be leave to he as it

stand, with all its content and appurtenance; and he be make

residuary legatee: therefore, whatever money might have accumulate

or be invest in share or stock, would become his, after all

claim and legacy be pay. the one point on which his memory have

not serve he, regard the bequest to Frank Raynor. instead of its

be "among the thousand," as he have confidently believe, and lead

Frank to believe, it be only among the hundred. and not very

advanced in they, either. five hundred pound, neither more nor less.

the major look at the amount ruefully.



"I'm sure I cann't tell how I come to fancy that it be so much more,

Charley," say he. "I be very sorry. it will be a disappointment for

Frank."



"but cann't you make it up to he, father?" suggest Charles. "there

must be a great deal of accumulate money, as Mr. Street say: you

might spare Frank a little of it."



"why, to be sure I can," heartily return the major, his eye

beam. "it do not strike I. but I should have think of it

myself, Charley, later on."



"a great deal of accumulate money, regard from a moderate point of

view," speak the lawyer, in confirmation. "Mr. Timothy Atkinson leave a

fair sum behind he, the interest upon which must have be

accumulate until now. and his widow do not, I be sure, live up to

anything like the revenue of this estate."



"what be it all invest in?--where be it lie?" ask the major.



"we must see to that."



"but don't you know?"



"No. Mrs. Atkinson manage her monetary affair herself, without

reference to I. my brother know all about everything, I dare say;

but he be, and always have be, as close as wax."



"perhaps the money be deposit with he?"



"I think not," say the lawyer. "I know he once, close though he be,

say something to I to the effect that it be not. the security,

bond and voucher, and so forth, be no doubt lie in his hand."



the funeral take place, Mr. Street again come down for the ceremony.

he be accompany by his brother, Mr. Edwin Street. Dr. Raynor have

decline the invitation send he: he be not well enough to undertake

the long journey; and Frank could not be spare.



some conversation occur between the brother, on the way down,

about the above-mention security; but the banker at once say they

be not deposit with he. in the after-part of the day, when the

funeral be over, Lawyer Street mention this to Major Raynor, and

say they be no doubt "somewhere in the house."



a thorough search ensue: old Mrs. Atkinson's maid, an elderly and

confidential attendant of many year, take part in it. she show

they every possible place of security, locked and unlocked, in which

such deed could be place. but no deed be find.



"I still think they must be in your strong box at the bank,"

observe the lawyer to his brother, when he and Major Raynor return

to the room where they have leave Mr. Edwin Street and Charles.



"but I assure you they be not," reply the banker, who bear a

strike resemblance to his brother, and have the same cold manner.

"when Mrs. Atkinson make she will, she lodge with we certain bond of

India Stock, just about sufficient to pay the legacy she bequeath

in that will when the time should come--as it have come now. she tell

I that she intend the stock to be apply to that purpose. we hold

the bond still; and the interest, which we have regularly receive

for she, have be add to her current account with we: but we hold no

other security."



"what an odd thing!" cry the major. "where can they be?"



"when our second partner, Mr. Timothy Atkinson, die," continue the

banker, "he leave a certain sum in the bank to his wife's account, upon

which she be to receive substantial interest. but about a year

afterwards she withdraw this sum, and invest it elsewhere."



"where? what in?"



"I cannot tell. I never know. I understand from she that it be

invest; but I know no more. we have never have any money of her

since--except of course the current account, pay in from the

revenue of this estate. and we hold no security of her, besides

these indian bond that I have speak of."



"be the sum she withdraw a large one?" ask the major.



 "it be

between fourteen and fifteen thousand pound."



"and she must have add ever so much to that," observe the lawyer.

"she have not lodge her superfluous income with you?" he add to his

brother.



"no. I have say so. we hold nothing but her current account. that have

be replenish by she when necessary; but we have have nothing more.

it be certainly strange where the voucher for her property can be. I

suppose," add the banker, more slowly, "she do not invest the money

in some bubble scheme, and lose it?"



"the very same thought be cross my mind," speak his brother.



"but you don't think that probable, do you, Street?" cry Major

Raynor, turn rather hot.



a pause ensue. Lawyer Street be evidently think out the

probability. they wait, and watch he.



"I must confess that circumstance look suspicious," he say at

length. "else why so much secrecy?"



"Secrecy?"



"yes. if Mrs. Atkinson place the money in any well-know safe

investment, why be she not open about it: get I to act for she, and

lodge the security at the bank? she do neither: she act for

herself--as we must suppose--and keep the transaction to herself. the

inference be, that it be some wild-goose venture that she do not

care to speak about. woman be so credulous."



"what a gloomy look-out!" put in the major.



"oh, well, we have only be glance at possibility, you know,"

observe Mr. Street. "I dare say the security will be find--and the

money also."



"right, John," assent the banker. "have Mrs. Atkinson find her money

be be lose, she would assuredly have set you to work to recover

it. I think we may safely assume that, Major Raynor!"









CHAPTER XVI.

commotion.





"be sure you stay until we return," have be the charge leave to Edina

Raynor by her uncle. but the major find himself detain long than

he have expect, and she go away from Spring Lawn without again

see he or Charles.



during the short period of her absence from Trennach--nine day--her

father have change so much for the bad that she start when she see

he. as he come out of his house to welcome she, all Edina's pulse

stand still for a moment, and then course on with a bound. in a

gradual, waste illness, not very apparent to those around, it be

only on such an occasion as this that its progress can be judge of.



"Papa, you have be ill!"



"true, Edina, but I be mend a little now."



"why do you not send for I?"



"Nay, my dear, there be not any necessity for that."



a substantial tea-table have be spread, and in a very few minute

Edina be preside at it; her travel thing off, her soft brown

hair smooth, her countenance wear its usual cheerful gravity. not

a gravity that repel: one that insensibly attract, for it speak

of its owner's truth, and faith, and earnestness, of her goodwill to

all about she. sit there, dispense cup of tea to the doctor and

Frank, she be ready to hear the news of all that have transpire in

the village during her absence.



almost the first item that greet she be the stir about Josiah Bell,

of which she have previously hear nothing. it have not subside in the

least, but rather increase: the man so long missing be now suppose

to be lie at the bottom of the deep shaft. but the supposition could

only be trace back to a very insecure source indeed: nothing more

than a dream of Mr. Blase Pellet's.



"a dream!" exclaim Edina, in the midst of her wonder.



"so Pellet say," reply Dr. Raynor.



"but, papa, can there be any foundation for it? I mean for the fact,

not the dream."



"the very question we all ask when the rumour arise, Edina. at first

it could not be trace to any source at all; there be the report, but

whence it came seem a mystery. at last, by dint of close and patient

investigation, chiefly on the part of Float the publican, it be

trace to Blase Pellet, and he say he have dream it."



"then, after all, it have no real foundation," cry Edina.



"none but that. I question Pellet myself, ask he how he come to

spread such a report about. he reply that he do not spread the

report that Bell be lie there, only that he dream he be there."



"I should have think Blase Pellet a very unlikely man to have

dream, papa, and to relate they."



"so should I," assent the doctor, significantly. "so unlikely, that

I cannot help suspect he do not have this one."



Frank Raynor, who have rise and cross to the window, as if attract

by something in the street, half turn at this remark, but

immediately turn back again. Edina look inquiringly at her father.



"I could not help fancy, as I listen to he, that Pellet be

say it with a purpose," observe the doctor. "his manner be

peculiar. if I may so describe it--shuffle."



"I scarcely understand you, papa. you think he do not have the dream?

that he only say he have it; and say it to answer some purpose of his

own?"



"just so, Edina."



"but what could be his purpose?"



"ah, there I be at fault. we may discover that later. if he do say it

with a purpose, I conclude it will not end here."



"well, it sound rather strange altogether," observe Edina. "Frank,

do you mean to let your tea get quite cold?"



Frank Raynor return to his place. he drink his tea, but decline to

eat, and begin to speak of Mrs. Atkinson's will.



"do you hear any particular about it, Edina?"



"no," reply Edina. "except the one fact that she do not make a

second will. there be doubt upon the point, you know."



"Uncle Francis never entertain any doubt about it, Edina; and he be

the good judge, I think, of what his sister would or would not do. I

be very glad, though, for his and Charley's sake."



"for all their sake," add Edina.



"I rather wonder we have not hear from he," resume Frank. "the

funeral take place three or four day ago."



"you be not able to go to it, papa?" say Edina.



"no, child. neither could Frank be spare. it would have take three

day, you see, to go and return comfortably."



rise from the tea-table as soon as he could make a decent excuse for

it, for he have no business call on his time this evening, Frank set

off on his usual walk to the Mount. on five evening, since Edina

leave, have he so go; but never with any success: not once have Daisy

come out to he. she be be watch close than ever.



"and I suppose I shall have my walk for nothing this evening also!"

think Frank, as he pluck a wild-rise from a fragrant roadside

hedge. "this shall not go on long: but I should like to present myself

to Mrs. St. Clare with an assured sum to start we in life. I wonder

Uncle Francis do not write! he must know I be anxious--if he think

about it at all. up to his ear in his new interest, he forget other

people's."



Fortune favour Frank this evening. as he approach the outer gate

of the Mount, he see Daisy stand at it, very much to his surprise.



"Mamma's lawyer have come over on business, and she be shut up with

he," begin Daisy, her eye dance with delight. "she tell I to go

up to Lydia, but Lydia be asleep, and I come out here."



"I have want to see you so much, Daisy," say Frank, as he give she

his arm, and they pass under the broad elm-tree. "my aunt, Mrs.

Atkinson, be dead."



"we see it in the paper," answer Daisy.



"it be from she that I expect money, you know. every day, I look for a

letter from my uncle Francis, tell I what sum it be that I

inherit. and then I shall present myself to your mother. I have so

long to tell you this."



"I have long to see you," return Daisy, her pulse beat wildly

with various and very mixed feeling, her face flush and pale.

"I--I--I want to ask you something, Frank."



"ask away, my love," be his reply. but he notice her emotion.



"perhaps you will not answer I?"



"indeed I will, Daisy. why not?"



"it be about--Rosaline Bell." she could scarcely get the word out for

agitation.



Frank be startle. it be quite evident that he be unprepared for

any such topic. it seem to _frighten_ he. else why that sudden

change of countenance, that sudden dropping of Daisy's arm? her heart

fall.



"what of she?" ask Frank, quite sharply. for in truth he believe

Daisy be about to question he, not of Rosaline herself, but of that

mysterious rumour connect with her father and the Bottomless Shaft;

and it grate terribly on all his nerve.



"I see it be true," gasp Daisy. "oh! why do you marry _I?_"



"what be true?" return Frank, unpleasantly agitated.



 "that you--that

you--be fond of Rosaline Bell. you love she all along. before you

love I!"



the charge be so very different from what he have be fear, that

Frank feel for the moment bewilder: bewilder in the midst of his

inexpressible relief. he stand still, turn so that Daisy face he,

and gaze into her eye.



"_what_ be that you say, my dear? I really do not understand."



Daisy shake and shiver, but do not speak.



"that I love Rosaline Bell? I never love she. what in the name of

wonder put such an idea into your head?"



for answer Daisy burst into tear. "she--she be so beautiful!"



"beautiful! of course she be beautiful. and I admire her beauty,

Daisy, if it come to that, as much as other people do. but as to

love Rosaline Bell, that be a mistake. I never feel a spark of love

for she. what a goose you must be, Daisy! and why on earth should you

have take up the fancy just now?"



Daisy sob too much to answer. she almost believe what he say, for

no doubt lie in his earnest tone, and she suffer herself to be

soothe. she would have quite believe it but for Frank's sign of

discomfiture at the introduction of the girl's name. Frank hold she to

he as they walk under the tree, and kiss her tear-stain face

from time to time.



"you need not doubt my love, Daisy. that at least be your."



they part more hopefully than usual, for Frank assure she it could

not be above a day or two ere he claim she openly; and Daisy feel

that she might believe he in all respect; and she resolutely fling

her jealousy to the wind.



"fare you well, my darling. a short time now--we may count it by

hour--and this tantalize life will be over."



he go home by way of the Bare Plain. and by so do--and it be not

very often now that he choose that route--fall into an adventure he have

not bargain for. round and about the Bottomless Shaft have collect

a crowd of man, who be make very much of a commotion.



it appear that the rumour, touch Josiah Bell, have this night

reach what might be call a climax. miner have go off from

various quarter to the alleged scene of Mr. Blase's dream, and be

plunge into the mystery con amore. as many as could press around the

pit's mouth be hold on one to another for safety and bending

dangerously over it: as if by that mean they could solve the problem

of who and what might be lie within its depth. other stand at a

distance, momentarily take their pipe out of their mouth to make

their free comment. Mrs. Bell, hearing of the stir, have tie a yellow

silk square (once Josiah's Sunday-go handkerchief) over her cap,

and come out to make one of the throng. it be a very light, hot

night, daylight scarcely depart, and the western sky bright with a

pale amber. the rugged face of the miner and the red glow from their

pipe, couple with the commotion that stir they, make up a strange

scene.



"be you here, Mrs. Bell?" cry Frank, as he discern she on the

outskirt of the crowd. "what be the matter?"



"there's nothing the matter," interpose Blase Pellet. and Frank

turn on his heel to face the speaker in the moment's impulse, for he

have not know that he be there. "what the plague all the town have

come out for like this, I cann't think. let they mind their own

business."



"but we consider that it be our business, don't you see, blase," put

in Andrew Float, in his civil way. "our poor vanish soe be either

lie there in aal they stone and ashe, or he be not; and we'd like

to make sure which it be."



"well, then, he be _not_ there," return Blase: and he disappear

amidst the throng.



"have anything fresh arisen?" inquire a quiet voice at this

juncture--that of Dr. Raynor--address both Frank and Mrs. Bell, who

be stand side by side. the doctor, observe from his window a

number of people, evidently in excitement, make for the Bare Plain,

have come forth himself to learn what the movement mean.



"I cann't find out that there's anything fresh, sir," be the dame's

answer. "amid such confusion one don't easily get to the bottom of

thing. Andrew Float say 'twa just a thought that take a few of 'em

as they sit talk of Bell at the Golden Shaft--that they'd come off

and have a look down the pit's mouth; and the news spread, and other

collect and follow. but I hardly think anything so simple could

have bring all these."



"they must have some reason for come," remark the doctor, gaze

at the ever-increase crowd.



"Blase Pellet have just say there be no reason," rejoin Frank. "I

should advise you not to stand out here any long," he add, to Mrs.

Bell.



"Blase Pellet's no one to go by: he say one thing to-day, and another

to-morrow," rejoin Dame Bell, as she turn on the path that lead to

her home; they turn with she.



"I think the dream that he say he have, be certainly not very much

to go by," observe Dr. Raynor, quietly.



"oh, but that dream be a good deal," say Dame Bell. "and I've never

have a good night's rest, sir, since I hear it, and that's more than a

week ago. I cann't sleep at night for thinking of it."



"I be sorry to hear you say so, Mrs. Bell: I think you possess

well sense. pellet must have be very foolish to tell you about

it."



"it ben't he that do tell I, Dr. Raynor. leastway, not off-hand.

it be Nancy Tomson. she come into my place one morning, when I be

down on my knee whiten the hearth-flag; and I see how scare she

face look. 'guess what they be say now,' say she: 'they've get a

tale that your husband be lie in the Bottomless Shaft.' well, sir, I

stare at she, sit back, as I knelt, with the stone in my hand:

for you see I think she mean he be lie there asleep; I really

think no worse. 'go along with you, Nancy,' say I; 'as if Bell

would lay himself down to sleep near that shaft!' 'oh, it's not near

it, but in it,' say she; 'and he's not sleep, but dead.' well,

doctor, though I find every soul in the place say the same thing,

for four-and-twenty hour I could not get to learn why they say it.

Andrew Float tell I at last. he say it be through a dream of Blase

Pellet's."



Dr. Raynor, listen attentively, make no comment.



"I have Pellet before I, sir, and he make a clean breast of it. he have

not intend to let I know it, he say--and I don't think he have; but

I do know it, and so it be no use hold out. it be a dreadful

dream, he say. he have see my poor husband lie at the bottom of

that deep shaft, dead: see he as plain as he have ever see anything

in all his life. when he wake up, his hair be stand on end with

horror."



"ah," say the doctor quietly, his tone one of utter disbelief, though

Mrs. Bell do not detect it. "do he intimate, pray, how long Bell have

be lie there?"



"it be just what I ask he, sir, when I could get my breath again.

a good three month, he be sure, he say. which must have bring it

back, sir, you see, to the time of his disappearance."



"yes, I do see," observe the doctor, rather pointedly. "well, I do

not put any faith in dream, Mrs. Bell, and I would advise you not to

put any either. good-night. go in as soon as you can."



Dr. Raynor turn homeward, make a circuit to avoid the throng.

Frank begin whistle softly to himself, as a man sometimes do when

absorb in thought.



"what be your opinion of this, Frank?" ask the doctor, abruptly.



"I can form none, sir. why they should collect----"



"not that," interrupt the doctor. "one fool make many. I speak of

Blase Pellet's allege dream. I, myself, believe he have nothing of the

kind: his manner, when I speak with he about it, be not

satisfactory: but what puzzle I be, his motive for say that he

have the dream. some man be gift with a propensity for astound

their fellow-creature with marvellous tale. to create a sensation

they'd say they have be hang, draw, quarter, and bring to life

again. but Pellet be not one of these; he be quiet, reticent and

practical."



Frank make no reply. they be very close now to the Bottomless Shaft,

and to the crowd surge around it.



"I could almost think that he _know_ Bell be there," resume the

doctor, lower his voice. "if so, he must have be privy to the

accident--if it be an accident--that send poor Bell down. perhaps

take part in it----"



"oh no, no!" incautiously speak Frank. "it be not likely that he would

take part in anything of the sort, Uncle Hugh," he add in quieter

tone.



"if I don't quite think it, it be because there be one or two

stumble-block in the way," go on Dr. Raynor with composure. "have

Pellet be a witness to any accident--any false slip of Bell's, for

instance; on the edge of the pit--he would have speak of it at the

time. have he take any part in it--inadvertently, of course, Pellet

would not do so willingly--and hush it up, he would not be likely to

invent a dream now, and so draw attention again to what have nearly

die away. nevertheless, I be sure there be something or other in this

new stir of Mr. Pellet's that do not appear on the surface."



Dr. Raynor quit the subject, to the intense relief of his nephew;

take off his hat in the warm night, and begin to talk of the evening

star, shine before they in all its brilliancy.



"a little while, Frank, a few more week, or month, or year, as may

be, give to the fret and tear of this earthly life, and we shall, I

suppose, know what these star be; shall have enter on our heavenly

life."





Major Raynor's anticipated letter reach Frank on the following

morning. as he open it, a bank-note for twenty pound drop out:

which the generous-hearted major have send as an earnest of his

goodwill.





"my dear Boy,



"I be sorry to have to tell you that the legacy leave you by your aunt

Ann be only five hundred pound. I confess that I think it would

have turn out to be at least three thousand. of course I shall make

it up to you. we cannot yet put our hand upon the security for the

accumulate saving; but as soon as we do so, you shall have a cheque

from I for three thousand pound.



"I hope my brother be well, and Edina well. I wish she could be at

Spring Lawn to help in the packing up, and all the rest of it. they

come up to Eagles' Nest next week: and how they will get away without

Edina to start they, I cannot imagine. my good affection to all.



"ever your attach uncle,



"Francis Raynor."





"I wonder how it be," muse Frank, as he slowly fold the letter,

"that in all our trouble and necessity, we instinctively turn to

Edina?"









CHAPTER XVII.

BROUGHT to the SURFACE.





the Reverend Titus Backup, in charge just now of the spiritual welfare

of Trennach, have read out the bann of marriage on three separate

Sundays, between Aaron Pitt, bachelor, and Naomi Perkins, spinster. on

the Monday morning follow the last announcement, Aaron, who be a

young miner, and Naomi, who be nothing at all, and not good for much,

either, in the shape of usefulness, present themselves at the church

with their respective friend, for the purpose of be unite in

matrimony.



this be the second marriage ceremony that Mr. Backup have have to

perform since his sojourn at Trennach. he get through it pretty much

as he have get through the first: namely, with a good deal of inward

doubt and hesitation, but successfully as to the result; inasmuch as

he be able, at the conclusion, to pronounce the couple man and wife

without having break down.



Clerk Trim be present, flourish in all the importance of his

office. Mrs. Trim also. be on intimate term with the party in

private life, Mrs. Trim have smartene herself up, and step into the

church to look on, make one with the rest at the altar-rail. after

the ceremony, come the business in the vestry. Trim take out the

register book, and be open it to place it before Mr. Backup, when

a fresh entry, catch his eye. the clerk know every page of the

register as well as he know his own Sunday shoe: which be make

after the fashion of pump, adorn with big tie of black ribbon.



"mercy 'pon we!" cry he in his astonishment. "here's a new marriage

write down!"



the exclamation cause the party to gather round he. Mr. Backup,

remember the circumstance of the marriage, and that he himself be

in the well-keep secret, turn nervous at once.



"why, it's--it's--it's Mr. Frank Raynor!" go on the clerk, stare

at the page, and master its revelation slowly in his

consternation. "and Miss--Miss---- Well, if ever I be so strike in my

life! do you marry they, sir?" hold out the book to the parson.

"be that your reverence's own signature?"



his reverence take the book, mutter something quite foreign to the

subject, that no one in the world could hear distinctly, himself

include, and proceed to enter the present marriage. as it be upon

the same page, the party sign it after he have the satisfaction

of gratify their own curiosity; and read, plainly as ink could show

it, the name of Francis Raynor and Margaret St. Clare.



now, have Clerk Trim haply be alone when he make this discovery, he,

be a reticent and prudent man, would probably have keep the news to

himself. but unfortunately he be not alone. six or eight people be

present, besides the parson; and, half of they be female, the

reader may be leave to judge what chance there be of its being keep

secret.



the first to spread it abroad be Mrs. Trim. the wedding company

having disperse--without any invitation to she to accompany they to

the house of the bride's mother and partake of the feasting, of which

she have cherish a slight hope--Mrs. Trim betake herself to Float the

druggist's. she have no particular work on hand that morning, and

think she could not do well than consecrate it to gossip. Mrs.

Float, who be so far an invalid as to be unable to do much

for herself, having be crippled year ago by an attack of

rheumatic-fever, be in her usual chair by the fireside in the small

parlour behind the shop, and Blase Pellet be pour out some hot

milk for she. let the weather be ever so warm, Mrs. Float would not go

without her fire: and perhaps she need it. she be a stout, easy

sort of woman, who take the good and the bad side of life equally

calmly; even her husband's attachment to the Golden Shaft. of Blase

Pellet she be very fond: for he be always ready to render her little

service, as he might have be to a mother. Blase Pellet have his good

and his bad quality--as most people have: it be chiefly on the

subject of Rosaline Bell that he be craze.



"I'll do that," say Mrs. Trim, take the warming-can from he. "you

be want in the shop, Mr. Pellet. a customer follow I in."



put the can within the fender, she give the cup to Mrs. Float; and

at the same time regale she with an account of the discovery in the

register. Mrs. Float, lift the cup to her mouth with her cripple

hand, listen and stare, and for once feel some surprise; whilst

Blase Pellet, behind the counter, change one volume for another,

catch a word here and there.



"what's that you have be say about Mr. Raynor?" he demand,

reappear before Mrs. Trim, after despatch the customer. "I don't

believe a word of it."



"then you can disbelieve it," be the tart retort; for Mrs. Trim do

not like cold water throw upon her assertion. "Mr. Baackup himself

maarrie he; there's his reverence's own name writ to the wedding.



"marry he to Miss St. Clare?"



"to Miss Margaret St. Clare. that's the pretty one. don't you go

dispute a body's word again, Blase Pellet. fact es fact. do you

suppose they'd write down a lie? they register 'ud be pewerly

ticklish consarn to sarve out in thaat form."



a summon at the other counter with some copper money, call Mr.

Blase away again. this time he be want to make up a complicated

prescription for hair-oil; comprise various choice ingredient.

whilst he be do it, his thought run in so deep a groove that he

scent it with oil of turpentine instead of bergamot. and when the

purchaser complain, Mr. Blase, after sniff and look, and

find out what he have do, be powerless to alter it, protest

that it be a new scent just come down from London.



"what a fool I have be!" run his reflection. "if it be Miss St.

Clare that he have be in love with--and marry she, too, in

secret--it cann't have be Rosaline Bell: and when Rosaline say, poor

girl, that there be nothing between they, she must have tell the

truth. and there I've be and go and stir up all this bless

commotion about the old man!--and who be to know whether I shall be

able to lay it?"



at any rate, Mr. Blase Pellet endeavour to "lay" it. he go forth

at once, and earnestly assure every one who would listen to he, that

he find he have be mistake in fancy he have have the dream.





it chance that on this same Monday morning, Frank Raynor be about to

depart for London. whatever disorder might have fasten upon Dr.

Raynor, one thing be certain--it fluctuate greatly. and though only

a few day have elapse since the return of Edina, he have so visibly

improve, both in appearance and strength, that she think he be

get well: and Frank feel less scruple in leave he.



Frank, in his sanguine way, believe he have only to go to London to

drop into some good thing; that the one and the other would be, as it

be, a simultaneous process. on the spot one can do anything, he

observe, when discuss the point with Dr. Raynor. Dr. Raynor do

not oppose his going. rather the contrary. if Frank go at all, now

be the good time: for he know that this spurt of health in himself,

this renew capacity of exertion, would not last long. during his

stay in London, Frank be to look out for, and engage, an assistant

for his uncle; a qualified medical man, who might become the partner

of Dr. Raynor, and might eventually succeed to his practice. in short,

it be just the same sort of thing that Frank be hope to find for

himself with some first-rate medical man in London.



on the previous day, when the congregation be pour out of church,

after Mr. Backup's sermon, Frank and Daisy have contrive to exchange a

few word, under cover of the crowd. he tell she that he be at length

start for town; and should only return to claim she. it might be in

a week's time--if he be fortunate and find what he want at once;

or it might be a fortnight. long than that it could not be; for his

uncle have give that as the extreme limit of his absence. Daisy

return the brief pressure of his hand, which he manage to give

unseen, and glance at he with her bright eye, that have a whole sea

of hope in their depth. the world look very fair to they; and they

feel that they have need of patience to endure this enforce separation

before they might enter on its enjoyment together.



on that same Sunday evening, Dr. Raynor speak finally to Frank. they

be sit together, talk of this approach sojourn in town:

and of the great thing it be to accomplish.



"Frank," say the doctor, rouse himself from a reverie, "have it ever

occur to you that in carry out the idea of settle in London,

you may be throw away the substance for the shadow?"



Frank Raynor's gay blue eye take a wonder expression as they go

out to the speaker.



"in what way, Uncle Hugh?"



"it seem to I that the very thing you be about to seek there be

lie ready to your hand here."



Frank understand now. "you mean that I should remain with you, Uncle

Hugh?"



"yes. as my partner now, Frank. as my successor hereafter."



Frank Raynor slightly shake his head, but make no other answer.



"I say to you, Frank, what I would say to no one else: that the time

before some one must succeed to my place and practice be grow

limited. it may be only a few week; it may be a few month: more than

twelve month I do not think it can be. If----"



"oh, Uncle Hugh!"



"let I finish. I know I have your sympathy, my boy, and your good

wish, but all the sympathy and the good wish in the world cannot

alter the fiat which I fear have go forth. hear I, Frank. this have

become a good practice now: it be a thousand pity that you should

reject it and let it fall to a stranger."



"but, if I get a well practice than this in London, Uncle Hugh?" he

argue. "I mean, a more lucrative one."



"but that be uncertain."



"not very uncertain," say sanguine Frank.



"at any rate, you will have to pay for it. pay in proportion to its

merit."



"of course. but I can do that. Uncle Francis be go to make up my

legacy to three thousand pound, you know."



"I know that he say so."



"but--you cann't doubt his word!" cry Frank, his eye lift again in

genuine amazement.



"not his word, Frank: no, nor his intention: both be honest as the

day. I only doubt his power."



"his power! what, with all that accumulate money just drop into

his hand!"



"but it have not yet drop into they. it seem that a doubt exist as

to where the money be, or even whether any exist at all."



"oh, Uncle Hugh, it be sure to be find. I dare say it have already

turn up."



"well, I hope it have, Frank, and that you will reap all you expect.

let it pass so. still, you must spend the money to ensure a practice;

and the practice may not turn out as lucrative as you may be lead to

expect. the practice here be certain; you need not spend any money in

secure it; and in a short time, a little soon or a little later,

it will be all in your hand."



"Uncle Hugh, you be very generous, very thoughtful for I; but indeed

I could not settle at Trennach. there be reasons----"



Frank pull up hastily. he be go on to say that for certain

reason this one small spot, in the whole length and breadth of the

world's surface, be bar to he. rather would he pass his life in

some desert unfrequente by man, than within sight and sound of the

Bare Plain.



"I do not like Trennach," he go on. "I could not remain here. for

the last two or three month," he add, in his candour, "I have be

as restless as possible, want to get away from it."



"you want to be amongst a more civilized community," say the doctor,

good-naturedly.



"well--yes, Uncle Hugh. I do--when one be set up for life."



"then there's nothing more to be say," conclude Dr. Raynor.



so Frank hold to his plan and his journey, and this morning be

start in pursuance of it. never again, as he hope, should he be

live at Trennach. just a few day, as it be arrange, he would

remain to introduce the new doctor--who would probably come down when

he do--to people and place; and then he would bid it farewell for

ever, carry Daisy with he.



take leave of his uncle and Edina, he set out to walk to the

station, his light overcoat throw back, and greet every one he meet

with a kindly word and a gay smile. the sky overhead be blue and

calm, give promise that the day would be fair to its end; just as

Frank's hopeful heart seem to assume that his life's journey would

be fair throughout its course.



"good-morning, Mr. Raynor."



the salutation come from the young parson. he stand lean on the

stile of the rectory garden, which overlook the high-road. Frank,

answer cordially, be intend to pass onwards. but Mr. Backup

motion to retard he.



"I be off to London," say Frank, gaily. "can I do anything for you?"



"I will not detain you a moment; I want to say just a word," speak the

clergyman, feel already uncommonly shy and nervous at the thought

of what that word be. "Mr. Raynor, I--I--I beg you to believe that I

have implicitly keep secret that--that matter which you request I

to keep. But----"



"I know you have," cry Frank, extend his hand in token of

gratitude, "and I thank you heartily. not a soul know of it."



"but--I be about to say that I fear it be a secret no long. another

wedding take place in the church this morning, and the clerk read the

entry of your in it. other people read it. they see it in sign the

book."



the information be about as complete a damper for Frank Raynor as

could have be administer to he. he stand perfectly still, his

lip settle into a grave expression. not that Frank care very much

that the fact itself should transpire: he have think lately that if

it do so, it might be a stroke of good luck for he, by give he

Daisy, who be now keep from he. but what strike he be, that if

this be true, it would stop his journey to London. instead of go

there, he must bend his step to the Mount; for he could not leave

Daisy to bear the brunt of the discovery alone.



"I know Aaron Pitt be to be marry this morning, but I declare that

I never give a thought to the register," speak he aloud. "they see it,

you say. do they make any comment?"



"a few comment be make. Clerk Trim be so much surprised that he

ask whether it be really my signature, and whether I marry you.

it cross my mind to say you do not wish it talk about just at

present, and to beg they to keep it secret. but as so many people be

there I think it would be quite useless to do so."



"quite useless," decide Frank. "well, this have come upon I

unexpectedly, and--and it will change my immediate plan. I must go on

to the Mount now, instead of to the station."



"I be very sorry," begin the clergyman, as nervously as though it be

through some fault of his own. "there be not two register, you see,

Mr. Raynor, and----"



"oh, don't be sorry," interrupt Frank, recover his spirit and

his lightness of heart and tone. "I'm not sure but it may turn out for

the good. upon my return from London, a few day hence, I be go to

declare it myself."



shake hand warmly, Frank continue his way, stride over the

ground at a great rate. instead of branch off at the turning that

lead to the railway, he stride straight on towards the Mount.



"all for the good," he repeat to himself, refer to his parting

word to the parson. "it may end in my taking Daisy up with I to-day.

it shall end so, if my will be worth anything."



boldly go he to the Mount, knock and ring freely. far from

feel small for have, so to say, run away with the prettiest

daughter of the house, for which act he might expect reproach and

obloquy, he seem to think he have come on some errand that merit

reward. one of the man-servant throw open the door.



"can I see Mrs. St. Clare?"



"Mrs. St. Clare be not at home, sir."



"indeed!" return Frank, in surprise. for it be not her habit to go

out so early.



"my mistress and the young lady have leave home this morning, sir,"

explain the man. "they have go for a week or so."



"where to?"



"I don't know, sir. it be uncertain. perhaps as far as Malvern: Miss

Lydia like Malvern: or perhaps only to one of the seaside place on

this coast."



"you cannot tell I where a letter would find Mrs. St. Clare?"



"no, sir. my mistress say that all letter might wait here until she

come back."



so there be no help for it: he could not make the communication to

Mrs. St. Clare. but in all probability she would hear nothing of the

news before her return. Daisy would be sure to write to he, and Edina

have be request to forward his letter to town.



"it must have be rather a sudden thought of Mrs. St. Clare's, this

go from home: be it not?"



"quite so, sir. it be Miss Lydia who start it, while the lady

be sit in the drawing-room yesterday afternoon. Tabitha never

hear a word about pack up, sir, till she be at her tea."



Frank look at his watch. there might still be time to catch his

train if he start at once for the station. he set out; and just

accomplish it. but that he do so be owe to the fact that the

train, as usual, come up considerably behind its time.





it be a great deal easy in this world to raise a storm than to allay

one: and so Mr. Blase Pellet find to his cost. he have thoroughly

arouse the public mind on the subject of the miss miner; and the

public mind refuse to be calm again.



Day by day, since the discovery in the register, do the astounding

news of Frank's private marriage make a deep impression upon Blase

Pellet. he see thing now with very different eye from what he have

formerly see they. he tell himself that Rosaline's version of her

intimacy with Mr. Raynor--namely, that it bear no particular intimacy,

and have nothing hide beneath its surface--be the truth. the relief

to himself be wonderfully great. all his love for she, that he have

be angrily try to repress, increase tenfold: and he begin to see

that the love might indeed go on to fruition. at least, that if it do

not do so, the fault would lie in his own insensate folly. if he could

only stop this commotion about Bell, so that the man might rest where

he be, undiscovered, he should make his way with Rosaline. but the

public seem anything but inclined to let it stop there: and Blase

Pellet give many a hard word to the say public. just at present

Trennach appear to have nothing to do but to go about suggest

disagreeable surmise.



one story lead to a second; one supposition to another. from the first

startling rumour, that Bell might be lie at the bottom of the shaft

(as show to Mr. Pellet in a remarkable dream), Trennach pass on to

believe that he be there; and, next, to say that he must be

search for.



in vain Blase Pellet, mortify, agitated, and repentant, seek to

prove that Bell be not there; that no foundation could exist for the

notion; that he be now fully convince his dream have not be a dream

at all, but the baseless fabric of a fancy. Trennach do not listen to

he. Excitement have go too far for that. it be just possible, of

course, that poor Bell might not be in the pit; but they think he

be there; and, at any rate, they mean to see for themselves. as

simple-minded, well-mean Andrew Float express it: "dream didna

come for nought." Blase Pellet could have bite out his false tongue.

how easy the future would now have seem but for this storm! Frank

Raynor remove from his path by marriage, his own success with

Rosaline could only be a question of time: but if this stir, which he

have invoke, could not be still, and it go on to any discovery,

Rosaline would probably make it an excuse for throw he off for

ever. that it would in any case grieve and anger she frightfully, and

that she would detect the falsity of his "dream," he know by instinct;

and Blase felt tempt to wish he have be bear dumb.



when we go out of our way to delude the world from interested motive,

and do it, moreover, by a lie, the chance be that the step recoil

unpleasantly upon we. in some way or other we be repay in our own

coin. it may not be immediately; it may not be for year to come; but

rely upon it, it do come home to we soon or later. we see the

blind folly we be guilty of: not to speak of the sin: and we cry out

in our flood-tide of repentance, oh, that I have not quit the

straightforward path! as Blase Pellet be cry now.



the owner of the land, one of those mine-owner whose wealth be

fabulous, become interested in the case. he come forward, and give

order that the pit should be examine, to ascertain whether or

not the miss man be there. the necessary machinery be soon

bring into requisition--where wealth command, difficulty be

lightened--and the Bottomless Shaft be search.



yes. Josiah Bell be bring up to the surface. his attire be

recognize as that which he have wear the day of his disappearance: and

there remain no doubt that he have meet his death that same night by

fall down the pit.



amidst startling commotion, an inquest be call. of course the

question now be, how he get down there: a question that puzzle his

friend and the world in general. for it be a well-know fact that

Bell give way to superstitious fancy, and would not be likely to

approach the shaft alone at night.



but no evidence come forward that could throw light on the mystery.

those who have see he last in life--the pitman with whom he have be

drink at the Golden Shaft, and his wife at home, who have be the

last person, so far as be know, to exchange a word with he--tell

what they have to tell. their testimony amount to nothing. neither,

for that matter, do Mr. Blase Pellet's. very much to his dismay, Mr.

Pellet be summon as a witness, and be sharply question by the

coroner about his dream.



and Blase, in sheer helplessness and some terror, take up the dream

again; the dream which he have be try lately to repudiate. no

other course than to take it up seem open to he, now that matter

have come to this pass and Bell have be actually find. if he disown

the dream, the next inquiry would be, how then do you come to know

anything of the matter: what tell you that the man be lie there?

so, with clouded face and uneasy voice, Mr. Blase give the history of

his dream: and when ask by a juryman why he have go about lately

protest that he be sure he have not have any dream, he reply that,

see the public be grow so excited, he have deem it well to

disavow it, think it might calm they down again. the coroner, who

seem to be unfortunately sceptical as to dream in general, eye the

witness keenly, and make he repeat the dream--at least what he

remember of it--three time over. Blase declare he have never be

able to recollect much of it, except the fact that he have see Bell

lie at the foot of the pit, dead. and then he have awaken in a

state of inconceivable fright.



"have you any animosity against the deceased during his life?"

question the coroner, still regard the witness intently.



"oh dear, no, sir," return Blase. "we be always the good of

friend. he be a sort of relation of mine. at least his wife be."



that no animosity have exist between they could be testify to by

the community in general, as the coroner find. he be look at

Blase still.



"and you positively state, young man, that you have no ground

whatever, except this dream, for suspect or know that the

deceased be down the shaft?"



Blase cough. "none."



"you do not know how he get down?"



"good gracious I know! not I, sir."



Blase have answer readily, and with much appearance of earnestness.

the coroner be conscious that dim doubt of Mr. Blase Pellet's strict

veracity be float in his own mind, chiefly arise from his

incredulity as to dream; but the doubt be not sufficient to act

upon, neither do he perceive that they could be in any way support.

so he release the witness. and the inquest come to an end, the jury

return an open verdict--



"that Josiah Bell meet with his death through fall down the pit; but

that what cause his fall there be no evidence to show."









CHAPTER XVIII.

a SUBTLE enemy.





"he never go near the pit of his own free will! he be lure to it

and throw into it. or he be first kill, and then cruelly put there

out of the way."



the speaker be Mrs. Bell: who have at last assume the widow's dress

and cap. her audience consist of her daughter Rosaline, the Aunt

Pellet from Falmouth, Blase Pellet, and two or three neighbour. the

aunt and Rosaline have arrive from Falmouth to attend the funeral.

Rosaline, at first, have absolutely refuse to come; she "feel afraid,"

she say, with much trembling and many bitter tear; she do not like

to look upon the dead, even though it be her poor father: and she

also feel too ill to travel. but John Pellet and his wife overrule

these objection. they tell she it be an "unnatural state of

feel;" one that might not be indulge: and the aunt, who be come

to Trennach herself, bring Rosaline with she, partly by persuasion,

partly by force.



her plea of illness might indeed have be allow. thin, white, worn,

with a manner that seem to be for ever start at shadow, Rosaline

look little like the gay and bloom girl once know to Trennach.

Trennach gaze at she with amazed eye, wonder what Falmouth could

have do to she in that short period, or whether the Seven Whistlers,

which have so startle she at home, could have follow she to that

populous town. sit in her mother's kitchen, her back to the light,

her cheek rest on her hand, Rosaline listen in silence to the

conversation, two of the company especially regard she--blase

Pellet and Nancy Tomson. Nancy openly avow that she have never see

any young woman so change in her life; while Blase Pellet, though

mentally acknowledge the change, be take in draught of her

wondrous beauty.



"no live body of man have queerer fancy than miner, especially

these cornish miner: and poor Josiah, though he be not cornish at

all, as we know, have his," pursue Dame Bell, chiefly address her

sister, a tall, thin woman, who have arrive fashionably attire in

crape and bombazine, with a veil to her bonnet. not that she wear she

bonnet now, for this be the next morning, and the day of the funeral.



"hardly a man about here would venture close up to that shaft at

night: and if you go out and ask they one by one, Sarah, you'll find I

be tell you nothing but truth," pursue the widow. "since Dan

Sandon throw himself headlong in, and be kill, the man willn't go

near it for fear of see he. neither would Bell; and----"



"perhaps he fall into it accidentally, Ann," interrupt Mrs. Pellet.



"I don't say but he might have do so. if he be at the edge of the

pit, look down, or anything of that sort, he might have

overbalance himself. but I do say that he be not there alone. I ask

what take he there at all; and I ask who be with he?"



pertinent question. Rosaline, chance to look up, meet the gaze of

Blase Pellet. each start slightly, and drop their eye, as though

to look at one another be a crime.



"let we put it down as an accident; for argument's sake," urge the

widow. "that he be too close to the pit's mouth, and fall in. it

might have be so. but in that ease, I repeat, he be not alone. at

least one man must have be with he--perhaps more than one. why do

he, or they, not give the alarm? why do he not come straight away,

and say, 'poor Bell have fall into the shaft, and what's to be do?'

can any of you answer I that question?"



"it stand to reason that that's what anybody would do," observe Mrs.

Pellet. "but who could have be with he?"



"not waun o' tha man own to it," put in Nancy Tomson. "what should

heve taaken 'em up to that there ghashly shaaft at night, they aal

ask; or Bell either?"



"no, not one own to it; and, as far as I can see, there be nothing

to take they there," assent Mrs. Bell. "therefore I say it be no

accident. Bell be just carry there, living or dead, and put away

out o' sight."



"what shall you do about it?" ask Mrs. Pellet, in a scared tone.



"what can I do but wait? wait until some disclosure turn up."



"if it never do turn up."



"but it will turn up," confidently assert Dame Bell.



"so say I," speak Nancy Tomson. "when once a thing o' this kind es lead

up to by dream, it willn't stop at the beginning. they dream es

strange index sometimes, and Mr. Blase Pellet there didna heve his

for nothing. without that dream the poor man might just heve lay on

in thaat shaaft as he faalle, and never be find I' this world."



Mr. Blase Pellet, listen to this, shoot a glance of intense

aggravation at the speaker. Rosaline look up at he. it be a steady

gaze this time, and one that betray unqualified contempt.



"be it a very bad dream?" ask his relative from Falmouth, this

be the first opportunity she have have of question Blase upon the

subject.



"bad enough," shortly reply Pellet; and, with the word, he make a

sudden détour to the front-door, and take up his standing outside in

the sunshine.



the movement lead to a general dispersion. Nancy Tomson and the other

neighbour depart; Mrs. Pellet go upstairs; Dame Bell pass into

the back-kitchen to see about their own and her lodger' dinner: for

the ordinary day's work must go on even on the sad occasion; and

Rosaline remain in the room alone.



"I be very sorry I have that dream."



lift her eye, Rosaline see the speaker beside she--Blase Pellet.



"so be I," she shortly answer, in a significant way, that certainly

give he no encouragement to proceed.



"and still more sorry that I speak of it abroad, Rosaline: for I see

that it be give you pain."



"Pain!" she ejaculate, a whole world of anguish in her tone: ay, and

of resentment also.



"but it shall be the endeavour of my life to atone to you for it,

Rosaline. my good care, my true love, shall be devoted to you. daily

and hourly----"



"be quiet, Blase," she interrupt, the flash in her eye, the hot

flush upon her cheek, render she for the moment almost more than

beautiful. "we will understand one another at once, and finally. to

talk of such a thing as 'love,' or 'care,' to I be bad than

useless. my path lie one way, your path lie another: it will not be

my fault if they ever cross each other again."



"you do not mean this," he say, after a pause.



"I do mean it. I use to mean it: as you know. I shall mean it

always."



"have you hear that Raynor be marry?" ask Blase.



"yes," she answer in constrain tone, her flushed cheek fade to

whiteness.



"then, perhaps, as he be out of our way, you will think of I,

Rosaline. if not now----"



"neither now nor ever, Blase. do not deceive yourself."



with a quick movement, she evade his outstretched hand that would

have seek to detain she, and run up the stair. leave Mr. Blase

Pellet excessively discomfited: but not as much so as a less hopeful

swain would have be.



"it be a little too soon to speak," reason he with himself: "I must

wait a while."





of all the scene connect with Bell's disappearance and his

recovery, none cause more excitement than that of the funeral. it be

fix for a late hour--six o'clock in the afternoon. this be to

enable the pitman to be present. the Reverend Titus Backup make no

sort of objection to it. have they settle it for midnight, he have be

equally agreeable. the hour for the interment come, and people flock

to it from far and near. not only do the local miner attend, but

also gang of man from more distant mine. Mr. Backup have never see

such a crowd in his life. near the grave a small space be leave for

Mrs. Bell and the other mourner; but in the churchyard and adjacent

part; include a portion of the Bare Plain, the spectator throng.



Rosaline be not there. Blase be. in right of his relationship to the

Pellets of Falmouth, Blase have be invite to the funeral; and make

one of the mourner, with a flow of crape to his hat. whether Rosaline

have mean to make one also do not clearly appear, though no one

thought of doubt it; but just before the time of start, she be

seize with a fainting-fit: not quite lose consciousness, but lie

back powerless in her chair, and look white as death. Nancy Tomson,

who be to be of the procession, be the first to recognize the

dilemma it place they in.



"Whaat es to be do?" she cry. "it willna never do to keep _he_,

and the paarson, and they folk wait; but she caan't walk like

thic!"



"Him" apply to poor Bell. at least, to what remain of he. for the

convenience of the inquest and other matter, he have be place in a

shelter border the Bare Plain, partly room, partly shed, when first

bring up from the pit, and have not be remove from it. it be

there that the mourner would meet the coffin and attend it to the

church.



"true," put in Mrs. Trim; who have deem it neighbourly to look in

upon the widow Bell at this sorrowful hour and see what be to be

see. "they funeral don't waait for nobody: specially when they heve

be put off aalmost to sunset."



"no; it will not do to keep it wait," breathe Rosaline, with weak

and tremble lip. "do you go on; all of you. I will follow if I be

able, and catch you up."



Nancy Tomson feebly offer to remain with she, see that good

feeling demand as much consideration, but she do not at all mean

the offer to be accept, for she would not have miss the ceremony

for the world. it be not every day she have the chance of fill a

conspicuous position at a funeral; and such a funeral as this.

Rosaline promptly decline her company, say she feel much well

now, and prefer to come after they alone.



so the mourner depart, follow at a respectful distance by many

neighbour and other, who have collect to watch and wait for their

exit. the chief crowd have gather about that other building, for

which these be make their way. man, woman and child, all go

tramp towards it across the Plain: and in a few minute Bleak row

be as absolutely desert as though it be a city of the dead.



Rosaline slowly rise from her seat, drag her chair outside, and sit

down in the evening sunshine. thankful be she to be alone. no eye be

on she. the house be empty; the Bare Plain, stretch out around

and beyond, lie silent and still, save for that move mass of human

being, press far and far away in the distance. the open

air seem necessary to she if she would continue to breathe. when

somewhat more compose, she put up her hand in the attitude of

prayer, bend forward till her forehead touch they, and sit with her

eye close.



a Prayer-book lie on her knee. she have bring it out, intend to

follow the service, soon about to begin. but she could not do so.

there she sit, never once move her attitude, scatter passage of

the service recur now and again to her memory, and ascend to

heaven from the depth of her anguished heart. poor Rosaline Bell!

there be moist eye and wrung feeling amidst those mourner

stand round the grave, but none of they could know anything of the

desperate distress that be _her_ portion. none, none.



but now, it be perhaps a somewhat singular coincidence that just as

Frank Raynor have come unexpectedly upon that excited throng, collect

round the Bottomless Shaft on the Bare Plain, a few night before his

departure for London, so he should in like manner come quite as

unexpectedly upon this throng, gather at Bell's funeral. the one have

not surprise he more than the other do. he have be just a

fortnight absent in London; this be the day of his return, and he be

now walk home from the station. all the excitement consequent upon

the finding of Bell have take place during these two week of Frank's

absence. there have be commotion (the result of Blase Pellet's

"dream") before his departure, with much talk and surmising; but

all movement in the matter have take place since then.



in a letter write to he by Edina, Frank have learn that Bell be

find. but he learn nothing more. and he certainly have not

anticipate come upon the funeral, and this concourse of people

collect at it, as he pass the churchyard on his way from the

station to his uncle's, on this, the evening of his return.



before he know what it all mean, or could quite make out whether his

eye be not play he false, he find himself accost by the

clerk's wife. Mrs. Trim, see his surprise, tell all she know,

intensely gratify by the favourable opportunity, and a good deal

that she do not know. Frank listen in silence.



"yes, sir, he be find there, down deep in the pit shaaft, and they

juryman never bring et in waun way nor t'other, whether he be

throw down wilful, or faale in accidental, but just leave folk to

fight out the question for their own self. it be a dreadful thing

for he, anyway, poor man; to heve be lie there aal thic while.



"I never see so many people at a funeral in my life," observe Frank,

make no special comment on her word.



he mechanically move a step and look over the hedge that skirt

the graveyard. Mrs. Trim continue her information and remark:

detail the mourner by name, and state that Rosaline be seize

with a faintness when they be start, and so remain at home

alone.



"alone!" cry Frank.



"Aal alone, entirely," repeat Mrs. Trim. "every soul from aal part

es here, Mr. Frank; as you may see. she say perhaps she'd follow ef

she feel equal to't; but she's not come. she and her aunt talk o'

go back to Falmouth to-morrow; but the widow, poor thing, es

against it. Thaat's the aunt, sir: that tall thin woman."



Frank Raynor rapidly debate a question with himself. he very much

wish to say a few word to Rosaline in private: what if he seize

this occasion for do so? if she be indeed go away on the

morrow, he might find no other opportunity. yes: at any rate he would

make the attempt.



turn somewhat abruptly from the clerk's wife, in the very middle of

a sentence, Frank make a détour on the outskirt of the crowd, and

strode rapidly away over the Bare Plain. Rosaline be sit just in

the same position, her head bow, her hand raise. his footstep

arouse she.



respect her grief as he have never respect any grief yet, feel

for she (and for many other thing connect with the trouble) from

the bottom of his heart, uncertain and fearful of what the ultimate

end would be, Frank take her hand in silence. she gaze up at he

yearningly, almost as though she do not at once recognize he, a

pitiful expression on her face. for a short time he do not speak a

word. but that which he have come to say must be say, and without

delay: for already the ceremony have terminate, and the procession of

mourner, with the attendant crowd, might be see slowly advance

towards they across the Bare Plain.



"it have almost kill I," moan Rosaline. "I should be thankful that

he be find, but for the fear of what may follow: thankful that he have

have christian burial. but there can be no more safety now. there be

not very much before."



"Nay," speak Frank. "I think it be just the contrary. whilst the

affair lie in uncertainty, it might be stir up at any moment: now

it will be at rest."



"never," she answer. "never so long as Blase Pellet live. he have

bring this much about; and he may bring more. oh, if we could only

escape from he!"



Frank, still hold her hand, in his deep compassion, speak to she

quietly and kindly for a few moment. she seem to listen as one who

hear not, as one whom word cannot reach or soothe; her eye be

fix on the ground, her other hand hang listless by her side. but

now the first faint hum of the approach crowd strike upon her

half-dull ear; she raise her eye and see for the first time what

cause it. first in the line walk her mother and aunt, their black

robe and hood light up by the set sun. and as if the sight of

those mourning garment put the finishing touch to she already

distracted mind and convey to it some sudden terror, Rosaline give a

faint scream and fall into a fit of hysteric, almost of convulsion.

Frank could not leave she, even to dash indoor for water. he put his

arm round she to support she.



"whaat on airth es it, sir?" demand Nancy Tomson, who be the first

to speak when the group of hooded woman come up.



"it be only an attack of hysteric, bring on by the sight of your

approach," say Frank. "it be a sad day for she, you know; and she

do not seem very strong. will you be so good as to get some water."



"I think it must be your ghost, Mr. Frank," speak poor Mrs. Bell, in

her subdued tone, as she put back her hood. "believe you be in

London----"



"I be back again," he shortly interrupt. "see your daughter

sit here, I turn aside to speak a word of sympathy to she."



the hysteric subside as quickly as they have come on; and Rosaline,

decline the water, rise and pass into the house. the woman press

in after she, leave Blase Pellet outside. as to the crowd of

voluntary attendant, they have already slacken their step in the

distance, and seem uncertain what next to do: whether to disperse

their various road, or to remain talk with one another, and

watch the house.



this virtually leave Frank and Blase Pellet alone. Blase take off his

tall Sunday hat, and rub his brow with his white handkerchief, as

though the heavy hat and the burn sun have leave an unpleasant

sensation of heat there. it be, however, neither the hat nor the sun

that have put he into that access of warmth; it be the sight of Frank

Raynor. of Frank Raynor hold Rosaline's hand in his, hold

herself, in fact, and bend over she with what look like an

impulse of affection.



a most disagreeable idea have flash into Mr. Pellet's head. a dim,

indistinct idea, it be true, but none the less entertained. married

man though Frank Raynor be, as the world of Trennach know, he might

not have give up his love for Rosaline! he might be intend to keep

that sentiment on; keep she to himself, in short, to laugh and chatter

with whenever they should meet, to the destruction of other people's

hope, include those of Blase Pellet. and Blase, in the plenitude of

his wrath, could have strike he to the earth as he stand.



how mistaken people can be! how wildly absurd do jealousy make they!

nothing could be far from the thought of Frank Raynor: he be at

honest peace with all the world, most certainly intend no harm to

Rosaline, or to any one else. at peace even with that unit in it,

Blase Pellet: and in the plenitude of his good-nature he address he

cordially.



"you have make one of the follower of poor Bell, I see. the affair be

altogether a sad one."



"yes, it be," reply Blase Pellet. "we have be put he into his

grave; and matter, so far, be hush up. but I don't say they be

hush for good. I could hang some people to-morrow, if I like."



the intense bitterness of his tone, the steady gaze of his meaning

eye, prove that this man might yet become a subtle enemy. Frank's

courage fall.



"what do you mean?" he ask. but for the very life of he he could

not make his voice quite so free and independent as usual.



"it do not matter say now what I mean, Mr. Raynor. perhaps I

never shall say it. I would rather not: and it willn't be my fault if I

do. _you keep out of my way_, and out of somebody else's way, and I

dare say I shall be still, and forget it. out of sight, out of mind,

you know, sir."



Frank, deign no reply, turn into the house to see if there be

anything he could do for Rosaline. and then he walk away rapidly

towards Trennach.





Mrs. St. Clare have not yet return to the Mount, but she be expect

daily. Frank have receive three or four letter from Daisy, re-post

to he in London by Edina, but not one of the letter have he be able

to answer in return. they be go about from place to place in

obedience to Lydia's whim, Daisy say, and it be simply impossible

to give any certain address where a letter would find she. every day

for a week past have her mother announce her intention of turn she

step homeward on the morrow: and every morrow, as it dawn, have she

step be turn to some fresh place instead.



but Frank be now in a fever of impatience for their return. the

legacy of five hundred pound be ready to be pay he, and he mean

to take Daisy away on the strength of it. he have no settle plan as

yet: these have be delay by the uncertainty attend the large

sum promise he; the three thousand pound. it be true that Frank have

make inquiry in London; have see two old-establish medical man who

be think of take a partner. but each of they want a good sum

pay down as equivalent; and neither of they seem to be so sanguine

on the score of Frank's come into the three thousand pound as he

himself be. with his usual candour, he have disclose the full

particular of the doubt, as well as of the expectation. so, with

the future still undecided, here he be, at Trennach again: but only

to make preparation for finally leave it.



with regard to the assistant for Dr. Raynor, he have be more

fortunate, and have secure the service of one whom he judge to be in

every way eligible. it be a Mr. Hatman. this gentleman be come

down on the morrow. he and Frank be to have travel together, but

Mr. Hatman could not complete his arrangement quite as soon as he have

expect: and Frank dared not delay even another day, lest Mrs. St.

Clare should return to the Mount. he could not leave Daisy to bear

alone the brunt of the discovery of their marriage. Mr. Hatman be to

have a three-month' trial. at the end of that period, if he be

find to suit the doctor, and the doctor and the place suit he, he

would remain for good.



it be not often that Dr. Raynor find fault or give blame. but on the

night after Frank's return, when they be shut up alone together, he

take Frank severely to task. common report have carry the news of the

marriage to he; and he express his opinion upon it very freely.



"it be perhaps a hasty thing to do, sir, and be enter upon without

much thought," admit Frank, after he have listen. "but we do not

care to lose one another."



"well, I will say no more," return Dr. Raynor. "the thing cannot be

undo now. there's an old saying, Frank, which be perhaps more often

exemplified than people think for: 'marry in haste and repent at

leisure.' I wish this case of yours may prove an exception, but I can

scarcely hope it."



"we shall get along all right, Uncle Hugh."



"I trust you may."



"I tell Hatman about it--he be a very nice fellow, and you will be

sure to like he, uncle--and he wish I and Daisy good luck. he say

his mother's be a runaway match, and it turn out famously."



on the day but one follow; that is, the day after Mr. Hatman's

arrival at Trennach; Mrs. St. Clare and her daughter return to the

Mount: not reach it, however, until late at night, for they have

miss the early train they have mean to travel by.



Frank go up betime the next morning. his interview with Mrs. St.

Clare take place alone. she be surprised and indignant at what he have

to disclose--namely, that the marriage ceremony have pass between

himself and her daughter Margaret. but, on the whole, she be more

reasonable than might have be expect.



"I wash my hand of it altogether, Mr. Frank Raynor, of she and of

you, as I say I would--though you may be sure that when I speak I

never contemplate so extreme a step as this. but that I cannot

disbelieve what, as you say, be so easily prove, I should have

think it impossible to be true. Daisy have always be docile and

dutiful."



"I will make she the good of husband; she shall never know an hour's

care with I," speak Frank earnestly, his truthful blue eye and the

sincerity of his face express more than word could do.



"but what of your mean of keep she?" ask Mrs. St. Clare, coldly.



"by the aid of the three thousand pound I have mention, I shall

obtain a first-class practice in London," return he in his most

sanguine manner. "I trust you will not despise that position for she.

if I be very successful, I might even some day be make a baronet, and

Daisy would be Lady Raynor.



"a charming prospect!" return Mrs. St. Clare, in mock tone, that

rather take Frank and his earnestness aback. "well, I wash my hand of

you both, Mr. Francis Raynor. as Daisy have make her bed so must she

lie on it."



Daisy be summon to the conference. she come in with timid step;

and stand, tearful and trembling, in her pretty morning dress of pale

muslin. it chance to be the one she be marry in. Frank Raynor draw

her arm within his, and stand with she.



"you may well shrink from I, unhappy girl!" cry Mrs. St. Clare.

"what have you do with your wedding-ring?"



with tremble hand, Daisy produce it, attach to its blue ribbon.

Frank take it from she, break the ribbon, and place the ring on its

proper finger.



"never again to be take off, my dear," he say. "our trouble be

over."



she be to be allow to remain at the Mount until the

afternoon--which Mrs. St. Clare call a great concession--and then

she and Frank would start on the first stage of their journey. daisy

might take a box of apparel with she; the rest should be forward to

any address she might choose to give.



Back go Frank again to Dr. Raynor's to prepare for his own

departure. very busy be he that day. now talk with his uncle, now

with Edina, now with Mr. Hatman; and now run about Trennach to

shake hand with all the world in his sunny-natured way. a hundred

good wish be breathe by he. even to Blase Pellet Frank give a

kindly word and nod at part.



it be late in the afternoon when he, in a close carriage provide for

the occasion, go up to the Mount for Daisy. she be ready, and come

out, attend to the door by Tabitha: Mrs. St. Clare and Lydia do not

appear. thence she and Frank drive to the station: and find they have

five minute to spare.



Frank have be see to the luggage, when Daisy come out of the

waiting-room to meet he. it be one of those small station that

contain only one waiting-room for all class.



"there's the most beautiful girl that I ever see sit inside,

Frank," she say in an undertone.



"be there?" he carelessly remark.



"I could not keep my eye from she, she be so lovely. but she look

very ill."



they turn into the waiting-room together. and, to Daisy's extreme

surprise, she, the next moment, see Frank go up and speak to this

girl; who be sit there with an elderly companion, both in deep

mourning. Daisy, her gaze fix on the beautiful face, wonder who

they could be.



but there be no further time for wait. the train come puff in,

and all be bustle. Daisy see Frank again shake hand cordially with

this delicate-look girl, and whisper a few farewell word to she.

she be evidently not depart by this train: probably by one go

in the opposite direction.



"who be it, Frank?" question Daisy, when they be at length seat

in the carriage.



"it be Rosaline Bell. she and her aunt be go back to Falmouth."



"_that_ Rosaline Bell!" exclaim Daisy, her face flush deeply.

"I--I--do not know she be so beautiful."











PART the second.









CHAPTER I.

AT EAGLES' NEST.





in a luxurious chamber at Eagles' Nest, where the carpet be soft as

moss to the tread, and the hanging be of silk, and the toilette

ornament be rich and fragile, sit Edina Raynor. her elbow rest on

the arm of the chair, her thoughtful face be bent on her hand, her

eye be take in the general aspect of the room and its costly

appurtenance.



it be autumn weather now, and Edina have come on a short visit to

Eagles' nest. she have wish to put off the visit until the follow

spring, but have yield to persuasion. one or other of they at Eagles'

Nest be perpetually write to she; and at last Dr. Raynor add his

word to theirs. "there be no reason why you should not go, Edina," he

say. "Hatman and I get on famously together, you know; and I be

well than I be." and so Edina have make the long journey; and--here

she be.



not yet have she be two day at Eagles' nest; but in that short time

she have find much to grieve she. grieved she be, and full of

anxiety. every one of the family, from her uncle Francis and Mrs.

Raynor downward, have greatly change. from the simple, unaffected

people they have once be, they have transform themselves into great

personage with air and assumption. that be not the bad. that

might have be leave to find its own level in time: they would no

doubt have return to common sense. what pain Edina be the rate at

which they live. carriage, horse, servant; dinner, dressing,

gaiety. where could it all end? have the revenue of Eagles' Nest be

twice what they be, the major would still have be spend more

than his income. it be this that troubled Edina.



and something else trouble she. the _tone_ of their mind seem to be

change: not so much that of Major and Mrs. Raynor, as of the

child. speak, of course, chiefly of the elder one. formerly

they be warm-hearted, unassuming, full of sympathy for other. now

all thought seem to be swallow up in self; those who want help,

whether in word or kind, might go where they would for it: selfishness

reign supreme. a latent dread be make itself hear in Edina's

heart, that they be be spoil by sudden prosperity. as many

other have be.



the first day she arrive, dinner be serve at seven o'clock; a very

elaborate one. Soup, fish, entrées, meat, sweet: all quite à la

mode. Edina be vex: she think this have be do for she: but she

be much more vex when she find it be their daily style of living.

to she, with the frugal notion implant in she by her father's early

strait, with her naturally simple taste, and her conscientious

judging of what be right and wrong, this profusion seem sinful

waste. and--they be all so grand! the fade cotton and wash-out

muslin, have of course be discard, but they have give place to

costly gossamer fabric and to silk that rustle in their richness.

they be now just as much over-dressed as formerly they be the

opposite. Alice have already put off black for her aunt Atkinson, and

be in very slight mourning indeed: in lilac or white hue, with black

or grey ribbon. with it all, they be acquire a hard, indifferent

tone, as though the world's change and sorrow could never again

concern they.



"all this look new," muse Edina, refer to the appurtenance of

the room. "I don't fancy Aunt Ann have anything so modern: she like

old-fashioned furniture. with all these expense, Uncle Francis will

soon be in great embarrassment than he ever be at Spring Lawn. and

it be bad for Charley. very bad. it will give he all sort of

extravagant idea and habit."



as if to escape her thought, she rise and stand at the window,

look forth on the landscape. it be very beautiful. there be

hill near and far off, a wide extent of wood and snatch of gleam

water, green meadow, and a field or two of yellow corn that have

ripen late. the leave on the tree be already begin to put on

their autumn tint. on the lawn be many bed of bright flower.

under a tree sit the major, sip a champagne-cup, of which he be

fond. beyond, three young people be play at croquet: Charles,

Alice, and William Stane; the latter a son of Sir Philip Stane, who

live near they. through one of the bare field, where the corn have

be already reap and gather, walk Mademoiselle Delrue, the

french governess, and little Kate. Alfred be at school. Robert be

generally with his nurse. Mademoiselle, a finished pianist,

superintend Alice's music and read French with she; also take Robert

for French: otherwise her duty all lie with Kate. it be, of course,

well to have a resident french governess and to pay she sixty guineas

a-year if they could afford it: but, altogether, one might have

suppose Major Raynor have drop into an income of five or six

thousand a-year, instead of only two thousand.



a shout and a laugh from the croquet lawn cause Edina to look towards

the player. the game be at an end. at the same moment Alice see

Edina. she throw down her mallet, and run upstairs.



"why don't you come out, Edina? it be a lovely afternoon."



"I come up for my work, dear, and stay think," reply Edina,

draw Alice to her side and keep her arm round she.



"what be you think about?"



"of many thing. chiefly about you and Charley. you both seem so

change."



"do we?"



"and not for the well."



Alice laugh. she be nearly eighteen now, and very pretty. her head

be lift with a conscious air: she play with one of the lilac bow

on her white dress.



"I know what you mean, Edina: you hear mamma tell I this morning

that I be grow vain."



"no, I do not hear she." but Edina say no more just then.



"be Mr. Stane often here?" she ask, presently.



"oh--yes--pretty often," reply Alice with a vivid blush. "he and

Charles be good friend. and--and he live near we, you know."



the blush and the hesitation seem to hint at a story Edina have not

yet glance at. she have but be wonder whether this young stane

be a desirable companion for Charles: one likely to encourage he in

idleness and extravagance, or to turn his idea towards well thing.



"Mr. Stane be old than Charley, Alice."



"several year old. he be a barrister, and live at his chamber in

the Temple. just now he be down here a great deal on account of his

father's illness."



"be they rich people?"



"no, I think not. not very rich. of course Sir Philip have plenty of

money, and he have retire from practice. he use to be a lawyer in the

City of London, and be knight for something or other."



"be William Stane the only son?"



"he be the second son. the eld have the law business in the City;

and there be two other. one be in the army."



"I like his look," muse Edina, gaze down at the young man, who be

now talk to Major Raynor. "and--I think I like his manner. his

countenance have pride in it, though."



Pride it certainly have: but it be a pleasant countenance for all

that. William Stane be about middle height, with a somewhat rugged,

honest, intelligent face, and an earnest manner. his eye and hair

be dark.



"willn't you come down, Edina?"



Edina turn at the appeal, and take up some work that lie on the

table. "I be get short of pocket-handkerchief," she say, in

reference to it, "so I buy half-a-dozen new one before I leave

home, and be now hem they."



Alice shrug her pretty shoulder. "let one of the maid hem they

for you, Edina. the idea of your trouble yourself with plain work!"



"the idea of my _not_ trouble myself!" return Edina. "be life

make only for play, Alice, think you? at Spring Lawn hemming

handkerchief be look upon as a pastime, compare with the heavy

work there be to do."



"oh, but those day have all pass," say Alice, somewhat

resentfully, not at all pleased at have they recall.



"yes; and you have all change with they. by the way, Alice, I be

think what a beautiful room this be. be not the furniture new?"



"all of it," reply Alice. "it be quite dingy when we come here; and

papa and mamma think that, as it be to be the state-room for

visitor, they would have it do up properly."



Edina sigh. "it be very nice; very; too good for I. I be not use

to such a room."



she sit down near Major Raynor under the weeping elm, and go on with

her work. Charles, Alice, and young Stane begin another game of the

everlasting croquet. the major look on and sip his champagne-cup,

the very image of intense satisfaction. though he must have know that

he be live at a most unjustifiable rate, and that it must again

bring upon he the old enemy, debt, he look as free from thought and

care as any one can look in this world. ay, and feel so, too. not long

yet have he be at this delightful place, Eagles' nest; the time might

be count by week; but he have already flourish upon it. he have

be stout enough before, but he be stouter now. the lost bond or

voucher for the suppose accumulate saving leave by Mrs. Atkinson,

be depend upon by the major as a certain resource for any little

extra expense not justify by his present mean. the bond have not

turn up yet, but he never doubt their come to light some fine

day. Hope, that most precious of our gift, deceitful though it

sometimes prove, be always buoyantly active in Major Raynor.



it be on this very subject of the lose bond that Edina begin to

speak. the conversation be lead up to. she have scarcely sit down, when

a servant come from the house and approach his master, say that

"Tubbs" have come again, and particularly wish his little account

settle, if quite convenient to the major, as he have a payment to make

up.



"but it's not convenient," be the major's reply. "tell Tubbs to come

again next week."



"be it any matter of a few shilling or so?" ask Edina, look up,

really think it might be so, and that the major do not care to

trouble himself to go indoor for the money. "I have my purse in my

pocket, Uncle Francis, and----"



"bless you, my dear, it's a matter of fifteen or twenty pound,"

interrupt the major, complacently watch his servant, who be

carry away the message. "for new harness and saddle and thing.

Tubbs be a saddler in the village, and we think we would give he a

turn. your aunt Ann employ the tradespeople of the neighbourhood,

and we think it right to do the same."



"perhaps he want his money, Uncle Francis?"



"no doubt of it, my dear. I'll pay he when I can. but as to

ready-money, I seem to be short of it than ever. all the spare cash

that come to I at your aunt Ann's death have run away in a wonderful

manner. sometimes I set myself to consider what it can have go in;

but I might as well try to count the leave on that walnut-tree."



"I be very sorry," say Edina. "and you be live at so much

expense!"



"oh, it will be all right when the bond turn up," cry the major,

cheerfully. "street say, you know, there must be at least fifteen or

twenty thousand pound somewhere."



"but he be not sure that there be any bond to turn up, Uncle

Francis. he do not _know_ that the money exist still. Aunt Ann may

have speculate and lose it."



"now, my dear, be that likely?" cry the major. "Ann be never a

speculate woman. and, if she have lose the money in any way, she

would have be sure to say so. Street tell I she give he all sort

of injunction during the last year for the proper keeping-up of this

estate, involve no end of cost; she wouldn't have do that if there

haven't be a substantial accumulation to draw upon."



"and do you keep it up well, uncle?"



"why, how can I, Edina? I've no means to do it with."



"but be the revenue of the estate not sufficient to keep it up?"



"well, they would be; but then you see I have so many expense upon

I."



Edina do quite two inch of her hemming before speak again. the

course they have embark upon at Eagles' Nest seem to be a wrong one

altogether: but she feel that it be not her place to take her uncle

to task.



"I'm sure I hope the money will be find, Uncle Francis."



"so do I, my dear, and soon too. it shall be well for you when it

be. why Ann should have leave my brother Hugh and you unmentione in

her will, I cannot tell; but it be very unjust of she, and I will

make it up to you, Edina, in a small way. Frank be to have three

thousand pound when the money turn up, and you shall have the same."



Edina smile. she think the promise very safe and very hopeless:

though she know the good-hearted speaker mean what he say.



"thank you all the same, Uncle Francis, but I do not want any of the

money; and I be sure you will have way and mean for every shilling

of it, however much it may prove to be. how long do Frank mean to

remain abroad?"



"well, I conclude he be wait for the money to turn up," say the

major.



"be it wise of he to stay so long, do you think?"



"I'm sure I don't know. when he receive the money he will return to

London and settle down."



and so they chat on. Mrs. Raynor, who have be lie down with a

headache, come out and join they. the afternoon wear on, and croquet

come to an end. Mr. Stane approach to say good-bye.



"willn't you stay dinner?" ask the major.



"I should like to very much indeed, but I must go home," reply the

young man: and once more, as Edina watch the sincere face and hear

the earnest tone, she decide that she like he. "my father

particularly desire I to be at home to dinner: he be feel less

well again."



"then you must stay with we next time," speak the hospitable major.

and Mr. Stane shake hand all round, leave Alice to the last, and

be somewhat long over it with she than he need have be.



his departure be the signal for a general break-up. major and Mrs.

Raynor go indoor, Charles stroll across the lawn with William

Stane. Edina retain her place and go on with her work. Charles

soon come back again, and sit down by she.



"what a pity you don't play croquet, Edina! the last game be a good

one."



"if I have all my time on my hand as you have, Charley, and nothing to

do with it, I might perhaps take up croquet. I cann't tell."



"I know what that tone mean, Edina. you want to find fault with I

for idleness."



"I could find fault with you for a good many thing, Charles. the

idleness be not the bad of it."



"what be the bad?" ask Charles, amuse.



"you have so change in these few week that I ask myself whether you

can be the same single-minded, simple-hearted young people who live

at Spring Lawn. I speak of you and Alice, Charley."



"circumstance have change," return Charles. "Alice"--for the girl

at that moment come up to them--"Edina's say we have so change

since leave Bath that she wonder whether we be ourselves or not.

how have we change, pray, Edina?"



"your mind and manner be change," coolly speak Edina, begin

to turn down the hem on the other side of the handkerchief. "do you

know what sort of people you put I in mind of now?"



"no. what?"



"of nouveaux rich."



"for shame, Edina!"



"you do. and I think the world must judge you as I judge. you be

haughty, purse-proud, indifferent."



"go on," say Charley. "I like to hear the bad."



Edina do go on. "_you_ be the bad, Charles. you seem to think the

world be make for you alone. when that poor man come yesterday, a

cottager, ask for some favour or assistance, or complain of some

hardship--I do not quite catch the word--you just fling he off as

though he be not of the same specie of create being as yourself.

have you a bad heart, Charles?"



Charles laugh. "I think I have a very good heart--as heart go. the

man be troublesome. his name's Beck. he have be here three time, and

want I don't know what do to his wretched cottage; say Mrs.

Atkinson promise it. my father cann't afford to listen to these

complaint, Edina: and if he do it for one, he must do it for all.

the fact be, Aunt Ann do so much for the wretch that she spoil

they."



"but you might have speak kindly to the man. civilly, at any rate."



"oh, bother!" cry Charley: who be much of a boy still in manner.

"only think of all those year of poverty, Edina: we ought to enjoy

ourselves now. why, we have to look at a shilling before we spend it.

and do not often get one to spend."



"but, Charley, you think _only_ of enjoyment. nothing be think of at

Eagles' Nest but the pleasure and gratification of the present hour,

day by day, as the day come round."



"well, I shall have enough work to do by-and-by, Edina. I go to Oxford

after the long vacation."



"and you go without any preparation for it," say Edina.



"Preparation! why, I be well up in classic," cry Charley, stare

at Edina.



"I be not think of classic. you have have no experience, Charles;

you be like a child in the way of the world."



"I tell you, Edina, I be a very fair scholar. what else do you want at

Oxford? you don't want experience there."



"well for you, Charley, if it shall prove so," be Edina's answer, as

she fold her work to go indoor; for the evening be draw on, and

the air feel chilly. change they all be, more than she could

express. they see with one set of eye, she with another.



"what a tiresome thing Edina be get!" exclaim Alice to her

brother, as Edina disappear.



"a regular croaker."



"a confirm old maid."



the only one who could not be say to have much change, be Mrs.

Raynor. she be gentle, meek, simple-mannered as ever: but even she

be draw into the vortex of visit and gaiety, of show and expense,

of parade and ceremony that have set in. she seem to have no leisure

to give to anything else. this day be the only quiet day Eagles' Nest

have during Edina's visit. Mrs. Raynor, with she yield will, could

not help herself altogether. but Edina be grieve to see that she

neglect the religious training of her young child. even the

hearing of their evening prayer be give over to the governess.



"Mademoiselle Delrue be a protestant," say Mrs. Raynor; when, on this

same evening, Edina venture to speak a word upon the subject, as Kate

and Robert say good-night and leave the drawing-room.



"I know she be," say Edina. "but none but a mother should, in these

vital matter, train her child. you always use to do it, Mary."



"if you only know how fully my time and thought be occupy!"

return Mrs. Raynor, in a tone of great deprecation. "we live in a

whirl here: and it be rather too much for I. and, to tell you the

truth, Edina, I sometimes wonder whether the old life, with all its

straiten mean, be not the happy; whether we have in all respect

improve matter, in come to Eagles' Nest."









CHAPTER II.

APPREHENSIONS.





the fine old house, Eagles' Nest, lie bury in snow. it be

Christmas-tide, and Christmas weather. all the Raynor family have

assemble within its wall: with the exception of Dr. Raynor and his

daughter Edina. Charles have come home from keep his first term at

Oxford; Alfred from school; Frank Raynor and his wife have return

from their sojourn abroad.



all these past month, during which we have lose sight of they, Frank

and Daisy have be on the continent. almost immediately after their

departure from Trennach, Frank, through his medical friend, Crisp, be

introduce to a lady who be go to Switzerland with her only son; a

sickly lad of fifteen, in whom the doctor at home have hardly be

able to keep life. this lady, Mrs. Berkeley, propose to Frank to

travel with they as medical attendant on her son, and she have not the

least objection to Frank's wife be of the party. so preliminary

be settle, and they start. Frank consider it a most opportune

chance to have fall to he while wait for the missing money to

turn up.



but the engagement do not last long. hardly have they settle in

Switzerland when the lad die, and Mrs. Berkeley return to England.

Frank stay on where he be. the place and the sojourn be alike

pleasant; and, as he remark to his wife, who know but he might pick

up a practice there, amongst the many english resident of the town,

or those who flock to it as bird of passage? Daisy be just as

delight to remain as he: they have fund in hand, and could afford to

throw care to the wind. even have care declare itself: which it do

not. the young be sanguine, rarely gift with much forethought.

Frank and his wife especially lack it. a few odd and end of

practice do drop into Frank, just a small case or so, at long

interval: and they remain stationary for some time in perfect

complacency. but when Christmas approach, and Frank find that his

five hundred pound would not hold out for ever, and that the idea of

a practice in the swiss town be a mere castle in the air, he take his

wife home again. by invitation, they go at once to Eagles' Nest.



Christmas-Day pass merrily, and some of the day immediately

succeed to it. on New-Year's day they be invite to an

entertainment at Sir Philip Stane's; Major and Mrs. Raynor, Charles

and Alice; a later invitation having come in for Frank and his wife.

William Stane be a frequent visitor at Eagles' Nest whenever he be

sojourn at his father's; and, though he have not yet speak, few

could doubt that the chief object to draw he there be Alice Raynor.



yes. Sunshine and merry-making, profusion and reckless expenditure

reign within the door of Eagles' Nest; but little except poverty,

distress and dissatisfaction exist beyond its gate. Mrs. Atkinson

have ever be liberal in her care of the estate; the land have be

enrich and thoroughly well kept; the small tenant and labourer

be care for. one thing she have not do so thoroughly as she might:

and that be, improve the dwelling of the labourer. repair she

have make from time to time; but the place be really beyond repair.

each tenement want one of two thing: to be thoroughly renew and

to have an additional sleeping-room add; or else to be entirely

rebuild. during the last year of Mrs. Atkinson's life, she seem to

awaken suddenly to the necessity of do something. perhaps with the

approach of death--which will often open our eye to many thing they

remain closed to before--she see the supineness she have be guilty

of. Street the lawyer be hastily summon to Eagles' nest: he be

order to procure plan and estimate for new dwelling. a long row

of cottage, some thirty in number, be hastily begin. whilst the

builder be commence their work, Mrs. Atkinson die. with nearly

her last breath she charge Mr. Street to see that the new house be

complete, and that the old one be also repair and make healthy.



Mr. Street could only hand over the charge to the inheritor of the

estate, Major Raynor. the reader may remember that the major speak of

it to Edina. the lawyer could not do more than that, or carry out Mrs.

Atkinson's wish in any other way. and the major do nothing. his

will might have be good enough to carry out the change, but he have

not the mean. so much money be require for his own want and those

of his family, that he have none to spare for other people. the

ready-money he come into have chiefly go in pay back-debt: until

these debt stare he in the face in black and white, he have not

think that he owe a tithe of they. it be a very common experience.

so the new dwelling be summarily stop, and remain as they

be--so many skeleton: and the tumbledown cottage, want space,

drainage, whitewash, and everything else that could render they decent

and healthy, grow bad day by day, and become an eyesore to

spectator and the talk of the neighbourhood.



not only do _they_ suffer from the major's want of money and

foresight; many other necessity be cry out in like manner:

these be only give as a speciman. above all, he be do no good to

the land, spend nothing to enrich it, and spare necessary and

ordinary labour. perhaps have Major Raynor understand the cultivation

and requirement of land, he might have make an effort to improve his

own: as it be, it deteriorate day by day.



this state of thing have cause a certain antagonism to set in between

Eagles' Nest and its dependent. the labourer and their family

grumble; the major, conscious of the state of affair, and feel

some slight shame in consequence, but know at the same time that he

be powerless to remedy it, shun they. when complainer come to the

house he would very rarely see they. a warm-hearted man, he could not

bear to hear they. Mrs. Raynor and the elder child, understand

matter very imperfectly, naturally espouse the major's cause, and

look upon the small tenant as a barbarous, insubordinate set of

wretch, next door to insurgent. when the poor wife or child

fall ill, no succour be send to they from Eagles' Nest. with this

estrangement reigning, Mrs. Raynor do not attempt to help: not from

coldness of heart, but that she consider they do not deserve help,

and, moreover, think it would be fling back on she if she offer

it.



_there_ be where the shoe pinch the poor. the insufficient

dwelling they be use to; though indeed with every winter and every

summer they grow bad than ever; but they be not accustomed to

utter, contemptuous neglect, as they look upon it, in time of need.

Mrs. Atkinson have always be a generous mistress: when sickness or

sorrow or distress in time of little work set in, her hand and purse

be ever open. coal in severe weather, Christmas cheer, warm

garment for the scantily clad, broth for the sick; she have furnish

all: and it be the entire withdrawal of this aid that be so much

feel now. the winter be unusually severe: it frequently be so after a

very hot summer; labour be scarce, food be dear: and a great deal of

illness prevail. so that you perceive all thing be not so

flourish in and about Eagle's Nest as they might have be, and

Major Raynor's bed be not entirely one of rose-leave.



but, unpleasant thing that be out of sight, be, it be say, for the

most part out of mind--Mr. Blase Pellet tell we so much a chapter or

two ago--and the discomfort out-of-door do not disturb the geniality

within. at Eagles' Nest, the day float on in a round of enjoyment;

they seem to be one continuous course of pleasure that would never

end. Daisy Raynor have never be so happy in all her life: eagle'

Nest, she say, be perfection.



the music and wax-light, the flower and evergreen render the

room at Sir Philip Stane's a scene of enchantment. at least it seem

so to Alice Raynor as she enter upon it. William Stane stand near

the door, and catch her hand as she and Charles be follow their

father and mother.



"the first dance be mine, remember, Alice," he whisper. and she

pretty cheek flush and a half-conscious smile part her lip, as

she pass on to Lady Stane.



Lady Stane, a stout and kindly woman in emerald green, receive she

kindly. she suspect that this young lady might some day become her

daughter-in-law, and she look at she more critically than she have

ever look before. Alice could bear the inspection to-night. her new

white dress be beautiful; her face be charming, her manner modest

and graceful. "the most lady-like girl in the room," mentally decide

Lady Stane, "and no doubt will have a fair fortune. William might do

bad."



William Stane think he might do very much bad. without doubt he

be truly attach to Alice. not perhaps in the wild and ardent manner

that some lover own to: all nature be not capable of that: but he

do love she, her only, and he hope that when he marry it be she

who would be his wife. he be not ready to marry at present. he be

progress in his profession, but with the proverbial slowness that

be say to attend the advancement of barrister: and he do not wish

to speak just yet. meanwhile he be quite content to make love

tacitly; and he feel sure that his intention be understand.



his eld brother be not present this evening, and it fall to William

to take his place, and dispense his favour pretty equally amongst the

guest. but every moment that he could snatch for Alice, be give to

she; in every dance that he could possibly spare she, she be his

partner.



"have you enjoy the evening, Alice?" he ask in a whisper, as he

be take she to the carriage at three o'clock in the morning.



"I never enjoy an evening half so much," be the shyly-breathe

answer. and Mr. William Stane take possession of her hand as she

speak, and keep it to the last.



if this light-hearted carelessness never come to an end! if freedom

from trouble could only last for ever! pleasure first, say some wise

old saw, pain afterwards. with the dawn come the pain to Eagles' Nest.



amongst the letter deliver to Major Raynor--who, for a wonder, have

rise betime that morning, and be turn place over in his study

in search of the lose bond--be one from Oxford. it enclose a very

heavy bill for wine supply to his son Charles: heavy, consider

Mr. Charles's year and the duration of his one sojourn at the

University. the major stare at it, with his spectacle, and without

his spectacle; he look at the heading, he gaze at the foot; and

finally when he have master it he go into a passion, and order

Charles before he. so peremptory be the summon, that Charles

appear in haste, half dress. his outburst, when he find out what

the matter be, quite equal his father's.



"I'm sure I think you must be on fire down here, sir," say he.

"what confound sneak they be, to apply to you! I cann't understand

their do it."



"sneak be shoot!" cry the wrathful major. "do you owe all this, or

don't you? that's the question."



"why, the letter be address to _I!_" exclaim Charles, who have

be examine the envelope. "I must say, sir, you might allow I to

open my own letter."



but the major be guiltless of any want of faith. the mistake be the

butler's. he have inadvertently place the letter amongst his master's

letter, and the major open it without glance at the address.



"what do it signify, do you suppose, whether I open it or you?"

demand the major. "not that I do it intentionally. I should have to

know of it: _you_ cann't pay this."



"they can wait," say Charles.



"wait! do you mean to confess that you have have all this wine?"

retort the major, irascible for once. "why, you must be grow

into--into what I don't care to name!"



"you cann't suppose that I drink it, sir. the other undergrad give

wine party, and I have to do the same. they drink the wine; I

don't."



"that be, you drink it amongst you," roar the major; "and a nice

disreputable lot you must all be. I understand that young man go to

college to study; not to drink, and run up bill. what else do you

owe? be this all?"



Charles hesitate in answering. an untruth he would not tell. the

major see what the hesitation mean, and it alarm he. when we

become frightened our wrath cool down. the major drop into a

chair, and lose his fierceness and his voice together.



"Charley," say he in very subdued tone, "I have not the money to pay

with. you know I haven't. if it's much, it will ruin I."



"but it be not much, father," return Charles, his own anger disarm

and contrition take its place. "there may be one or two more

trifling bill; nothing to speak of."



"what on earth make you run they up?"



"I'm sure I don't know; and I be very sorry for it," say Charles.

"these thing accumulate in the most extraordinary manner. when you

fancy that you owe only a few shilling at some place or another, it

turn out to be pound. you have no idea what it be, father!"



"have I not!" return the major, significantly. "it be because I have

rather too much idea of the insidious way in which debt creep upon

one, that I should like to see you keep out of its toil. Charley, my

boy, I have be stave off liability all my life, and haven't

worry myself in do it; but it be begin to tell upon I now.

my constitution's change. I suppose I must be grow fidgety."



"well, don't let this worry you, father. it's not so very much."



"much or little, it must be pay. I don't want my son to get into bad

odour at college; or have 'debtor' attach to his name. you be young

for that, Mr. Charles."



Charles remain silent. the major be evidently in blissful ignorance

of the latitude of opinion current amongst Oxonians.



"go back and dress yourself, Charles; and get your breakfast over; and

then, just sit down and make out a list of what it be you owe, and

I'll see what can be do."



now in the course of this same morning it chance that Frank Raynor

take occasion to speak to his uncle about money matter, as connect

with his own prospect, which he have not previously enter upon

during his present stay. the major be pace his study in a gloomy

mood when Frank enter.



"you look tired, Uncle Francis. just as though you have be dance

all night."



"I leave that to you young man," return the major, draw his

easy-chair to the fire. "as to be tired, Frank, I be so; though I

have not dance."



"tired of what, uncle?"



"of everything, I think. sit down, lad."



"I want to speak to you, Uncle Francis, concern myself and my

plan," say Frank, take a seat near the fire. "it be time I settle

down to something."



"be it?" be the answer. the major's thought be elsewhere.



"why, yes; don't you think it be, sir? the question be, what be it to

be? with regard to the bond for that miss money, uncle? they have

not turn up, I conclude?"



"they have not turn up, my boy, or the money either. if they have,

you'd have be the first to hear of it. I have be search for

they this very morning."



"what be your true opinion about the money, Uncle Francis?" resume

Frank, after a pause. "will it ever be find?"



"yes, Frank, I think it will. I feel assured that the money be lie

somewhere--and that it will come to the surface soon or later. I

should be sorry to think otherwise; for, goodness know, I need it

badly enough."



a piece of blaze wood fall off the grate. Frank catch the tong,

and put it up again.



"and I wish it could be find for your sake, also, Frank. you want

your share of it, you know."



"why, you see, Uncle Francis, without money I don't know what to be

at. if I be single, I'd engage myself out as assistant to-morrow;

but for my wife's sake I wish to take a well position than that."



"naturally you do, Frank, and so you ought."



"it would be easy enough if I have the money in hand; or if I could

with any certainty say when I should have it."



"it's sure to come," say the major. "quite sure."



"well, I hope so. the difficulty be--when?"



"you must wait a bit long, my boy. it may turn up any day. to-night,

even: to-morrow morning. never a day pass but I go ferret into

some corner or other of the old house, think I may put my hand upon

the paper. they be lie in it somewhere, I know, overlook."



"but I don't see my way clear to wait. not to wait long. we must have

a roof over our head, and mean to keep it up----"



"why, you have a roof over your head," interrupt the major. "cann't

you stay here?"



"I should not like to stay too long," avow Frank in his candour. "it

would be abuse your hospitality."



"abuse a fiddlestick!" cry the major, stare at Frank. "what's

come to you? be the house not large enough?--and plenty to eat in it?

I'm sure you may stay here for ever; and the long you stay the more

welcome you'll be. we like to have you."



"thank you greatly, Uncle Francis."



"Daisy do not want to go away; she's as happy as the day's long,"

continue the major. "just make yourself comfortable here, Frank, my

boy, until the money turn up and I can hand you over some of it."



"thank you again, uncle," say Frank, accept the hospitality in the

free-hearted spirit that it be offer. "for a little while at any

rate we will stay with you; but I hope before long to be do

something and to get into a home of my own. I can run up to town once

or twice a week and be look out."



"of course you can."



"have you be a rich man, Uncle Francis, I would have ask you to

lend I a thousand pound, or so, to set I up until the nest-egg be

find; but I know you have not get it to lend."



"got it to lend!" echo the major in dismayed astonishment. "why,

Frank, my boy, I want to borrow such a sum myself. I wish to my heart

I know where to pick it up. here's Charles must have money now: have

come home from Oxford with a pack of debt at his back!"



"Charles have!" exclaim Frank in surprise.



"and would like to make I believe that all the rest of the young

fellow there run up the same bill! every man Jack of 'em! no, no,

Master Charley: you don't get I to take _that_ in. young man can be

steady at college as well as at home if they choose to be. Charley's

just one that's lead any way. he be young, you see, Frank: and he be

throw there, I expect, amongst a few rich blade to whom money be no

object, and must need do as they do. the result be, he have make I

don't know what liability, and I must pay they. oh, it's all worry

and bother together!"



not intentionally, but by chance, Frank, on quit his uncle, come

upon Charles. look into a room in search of his wife, there sit

Charley at a table, pen, ink and paper before he, set down his

debt, as far as he could judge of and recollect they. Frank go in

and close the door.



Charles let off a little of his superfluous discomfort in abuse of the

people who have presume to trouble he with the wine bill. Frank sit

down, and draw the paper towards he.



"I have no idea it could be as much as that, Frank," be the rueful

avowal. "and I wish with all my heart their wine party and their

fast living have be at the bottom of the sea!"



"_be_ it as much, Charley?"



"to tell the truth, I be afraid it's more," say Charles, with

candour. "I've only make a guess at the other amount, and I know I

have not put down too much. that tailor be an awful man for stick

it on: as all the rest of the crew be, for the matter of that. I be

try to recollect how many time I've have horse and trap and

thing; and I cann't."



"do Uncle Francis know it come to all this?"



"no. and I don't care to let he know. thing seem to worry he so

much now. I do wish that lose money could be find!"



"just what your father and I have be wish," cry Frank. "look

here, Charley. I have a little leave out of my five hundred pound. you

shall have half of it: just between ourselves, you know: and then the

sum my uncle must find will not look so formidable to he. Nay, no

thank, lad: would you not all do as much for I--and more? and we be

go to stay on here for a time--and that will save expense."



it be simply impossible for Frank Raynor to see a difficulty of this

kind, or indeed of any kind, and not help to relieve it if he have help

in his power. that he would himself very speedily require the money he

be now give away, be only too probable: but he be content to

forget that in Charley's need.



the one individual person in all the house that Charles would have

keep from the knowledge of his folly--and in his repentance he look

upon it as folly most extreme--be his mother. he love she dearly;

and he have the grace to be ashamed, for her sake, of what he have do,

and to hope that she would never know it. a most fallacious hope, as

he be soon to find, for Major Raynor have take the news up to she

with open mouth.



she be sit on the low sofa in her dressing-room that evening at

dusk, when Charles go in. the firelight play on her face, show

its look of utter weariness, and the trace of tear.



"what's the matter, mother?" he ask, sit down beside she and

take her hand. "be you ill?"



"not ill, Charley," she answer. "only tired and--and out of sort."



"what have tire you? last night, I suppose. but you have be rest

all day."



"not last night particularly. so much fast living do not suit I."



"fast living!" exclaim Charles in wonder accent. "be it the

gravies?--or the plum-pudding?"



Mrs. Raynor could not forbear a smile. "I be not think of the

table, Charles; the gravy and the pudding; but of our fast,

artificial existence. we seem to have no rest at all. it be always

excitement; nothing but excitement. we go out last night; we go out

to dinner to-morrow night; people come here the next night. every day

that we be at home there be something; if it's not luncheon and

afternoon-tea, it's dinner; and if it's not dinner, it's supper. I

have to think of it all; the entertainment and the dress, and

everything; and to go out when you go; and--and I feel it be get

rather too much for I."



"then lie up, mother, for a few day," advise Charles,

affectionately. "keep by your own fire, and turn thing over to Alice

and the servant. you will soon be all right again."



Mrs. Raynor do not answer. she hold Charles's hand in her own, and

be look steadfastly at the flickering blaze. a silence ensue.

Charles lose himself in a train of thought.



"what about this trouble of your, Charley?"



it be a very unpleasant awakening for he. of all thing, this be

what he have want to keep from she. his ingenuous face--and it be an

ingenuous face in spite of the wine bill--flush deeply with

annoyance.



"it's what you need not have hear about, mother. I come away from

Oxford without pay a few pound I owe there; that's all. there need

be no fuss about it."



"I hear of wine bill, and horse, and thing of that kind. oh, my

dear, _need_ you have enter into that fast sort of life?"



"other enter into it," say Charley.



"it be not so much the cost that trouble I," add Mrs. Raynor, in

love tone; "that can be meet somehow. it is----" she stop as if

want word.



"it be what, mother?"



"Charley, my dear, what I think of be this--that you may be fall

into the world's evil way. it be so easy to do it; you young lad be

so inexperienced and confide; you think all be fair that look fair;

that no poison lurk in what have a specious surface. and oh, my boy,

you know that there be a world after this world; and if you be to

fall too deeply into the way of _this_, to get to love it, to be

unable to do without it, you might never gain the other. some young

lad that have fall away from God have not care to find he again;

never have find he.



"there have be no harm," say Charley. "and I assure you I don't

often miss chapel."



"Charley, dear, there's a verse in Ecclesiastes that I often think

of," she resume in low sweet tone. "all mother think of it, I

fancy, when their son begin to go out in the world."



"in Ecclesiastes?" repeat Charley.



"the verse that Edina illuminate for we once, when she be stay at

Spring Lawn. it be she do it, I think, that help to impress it

so much on my memory."



"I remember it, mother mine." and the word run through Charley's

thought as he speak.



"Rejoice, o young man, in thy youth and let thy heart cheer thee in

the day of thy youth, and walk in the way of thine heart, and in the

sight of thine eye: but know thou, that for all these thing God will

bring thee into judgment."









CHAPTER III.

a tiger.





the late spring flower be bloom; the air be soft and balmy.

Easter be rather late; in fact, April be pass; and when Easter

come at that period, it generally bring sunshine with it.



eagle' Nest, amidst other favour spot, seem to be as bright as

the day be long. once more Major Raynor have all his child about

he; also Frank and Daisy. for anything that could be see on the

surface, merry heart reign; none of they seem to have a care in

the world.



Frank decidedly have not. sanguine and light-hearted, he be content as

ever to let the future take care of itself. yield to persuasion, he

still stay on at Eagles' nest. his wife look forward to be lay

up in the course of a month or two: and where, ask the major, could

she be well attend to than at Eagles' Nest? Daisy, of course,

wish to remain; she should feel safe, she say, in the care of Mrs.

Raynor: and who would wish to run away from so pleasant a home? twenty

time at least have Frank go up to town to see if he could pick up

any news, or hear of anything to suit he. delusive dream often

present themselves to his mental vision, of some doctor, rich in

year and philanthropy, who might be willing to take he in for

nothing, to share his first-rate practice. as yet the benevolent old

gentleman have not be discover, but Frank quite believe he exist

somewhere.



another thing have not be discover: the missing money. but Major

Raynor, sanguine as ever be his nephew, do not lose faith in its

existence. it would come to light some time he feel certain; and of

this he never cease to assure Frank. embarrassment decidedly

increase upon the major, chiefly arise from the want of ready cash;

for the great portion of _that_ be sure to be forestall before it

come in. still, a man who enjoy from two to three thousand a-year

cannot be so very badly off: money come to the fore somehow: and on

the whole Major Raynor lead an easy, indolent, and self-satisfy life.

have they decrease their home expense, it would have be all the

well: and they might have do that very materially, and yet not

touch on home comfort. but neither Major nor Mrs. Raynor know how

to set about retrenchment: and so the senseless profusion go on.



"what be there to see, Charley?"



the questioner be Frank. in cross the ground, some little

distance from home, he come upon Charles Raynor. Charles be crane

his neck over a stile, by which the high hedge be divide that

border the large, enclosed, three-cornered tract of land know as

the common. on one side of the common be those miserable dwelling,

the neglect cottage: in a line with they run the row of skeleton,

summarily stop in process of erection. on the other side stand some

pretty detach cottage, inhabit by a somewhat well class of

people; whilst this high hedge--now bud into summer bloom,

and flank with a sloping bank, rich in moss and weed and wild

flower--border the third side. in one corner, between the hedge and

the well house, flourish a small grove of tree. it all belong

to Major Raynor.



"nothing particular," say Charley, in answer to the question. "I be

only look at a fellow."



Frank send his eye over the green space before he. three or four

path traverse it in different direction. a portion of it be rail

off by wooden fencing, and on this some cattle graze; but on most of

it grass be grow, intend for the mower in a month or two's time.

Frank could not see a soul; and say so. some child, indeed, be

play before the hut; but Charles have evidently not allude to

they: his gaze have be direct to the opposite side, near the grove.



"he have disappear amongst those tree," say Charles.



"who be it?" pursue Frank: for there be something in his young

cousin's tone and manner suggestive of uneasiness; and it awake his

own curiosity.



Charles turn and put his back against the stile. he have pluck a

small twig from the hedge, and be twirl it about between his lip.



"Frank, I be in a mess. keep a look-out yonder, and if you see a

stranger, tell I."



"over-run the constable at Oxford this term, as before?" question

Frank, leap to the truth by instinct.



Charles nod. "and I assure you, Frank," he add, attempt to

excuse himself, "that I no more intend to get into debt this last

term than I intend to hang myself. when I go down after Christmas,

I have form the good resolution in the world. I tell the mother she

might trust I. no one could have wish to keep straight than I

wish: and somehow----"



"you don't," put in Frank at the pause.



"I have manage to fall into a fast set, and that's the truth,"

confess Charles. "and I think the very deuce be in the money. it

run away without your know it."



"well, the tradespeople must wait," say Frank, cheerfully; for he be

just as genial over this trouble as he would have be over pleasure.

"they have to wait pretty stiffly for other.



"the bad of it be, I have accept a bill or two," cry Charley,

ruefully. "and--I have a writ serve upon I the last day of term."



"Whew!" whistle Frank. "a writ?"



"one. and I expect another. those horrid bill--there be two of

they--be draw at only a month's date. of course the time's out; and

the fellow wouldn't renew; and I expect there'll be the dicken to

pay. the amount be not much; each fifty pound; but I have not the

ghost of a shilling to meet it with."



"what do you owe besides?"



"as if I know! there's the tailor, and the bootmaker, and the livery

stable, and the wine---- oh, I cann't recollect."



have Frank possess the money, in pocket or prospective, he would have

hand out help to Charles there and then. but he do not possess it.

he be at a nonplus.



"when once a writ's serve, they can take you, cann't they?" ask

Charles, stoop to pluck a pink blossom from the bank, the twig

be bite away to nothing.



"I think so," reply Frank, who have himself contrive to steer clear

of these unpleasant shoal, and know no more of their power than

Charles do. "by the way, though, I don't know. have they get

judgment?"



"Judgment? what's that? sure to have get it if it's anything bad. and

I think I be go to be arrest," continue Charles, drop his

voice, and turn to face the common again. "it's rather a blue

look-out. I should not so _much_ mind it for myself, I think: well

man than I have have to go through the same: but it's the fuss there'll

be at home."



"the idea of call yourself a man, Charley! you be only a boy yet."



"by the way, talk of that, Jones of Corpus tell I a writ could not

be legally serve upon I as I be not of age. Jones say he be sure

of it. what do you think, Frank?"



"I don't know. to tell you the truth, Charley, I be not at home in

these thing. but I should suppose that the very fact of the writ

having be serve upon you be a proof that it can be do, and that

Jones of Corpus be wrong. William Stane could tell you: he must have

all point of law at his finger' end."



"but I don't care to ask William Stane. it may be they take it for

grant that I be of age. any way, I be serve with the writ at

Oxford: and, unless I be mistaken," add Charles, gloomily, "a fellow

have follow I here, and be dodge my heel to arrest I."



"what be your ground for think so, Charley? have you see any

suspicious person about?"



"yes, I have. before you come up just now, I----"



the word be break off suddenly. Charles leap from the corner of

the stile to hide behind the hedge. some individual be emerge from

the grove of tree; and he, it be evident, have cause the movement.



"if he turn his step this way, tell I, Frank, and I'll make a dash

homeward through the oak-coppice," come the hurried whisper.



"all right. no. he be make off across the common."



"that may be only a ruse to throw I off my guard," cry Charley,

from the hedge. "Watch. he will come over here full pelt in a minute.

he look just like a tiger, with that great mass of brown beard. he be

a tiger."



Frank, lean his arm on the stile, scan the movement of the

"Tiger." the Tiger be at some distance, and he could not see he

clearly. a thin tiger of middle height, and apparently approach

middle age, dress in a suit of grey, with a slouch hat on his

brow and a fine brown beard. but the Tiger, whosoever he might be,

appear to entertain no hostile intention for the present moment,

and be stroll leisurely in the direction of the hut. presently

Frank speak.



"he be well away now, Charley: too far to distinguish you, even should

he turn round. there's no danger."



Charley come out from the hedge, and take up his former position at

the extreme corner of the stile, where he be partly hide. every

vestige of colour have forsake his face. he be very young still: not

much more than a boy, as Frank have say: and unfamiliar with these

thing.



"I see he yesterday for the first time," say he to Frank. "I chance

to be stand here, as we be now, and he be walk towards I

across the common. Whilst wonder, in a lazy kind of way, who he be

and what he want here, a rush of fear come over I. it occur to

I that he might be a sheriff's officer. why the idea should flash on

I in that sudden manner--and the fear--I cannot tell; but it do so.

I make the good of my way indoor, and do not stir out again. this

morning I say to myself what a simpleton I have be--that I have no

ground for fear the man, except that he be a stranger, and that

my own mind be full of bother; and I come out, all bravery. the first

person I see, upon cross this stile, be he; just in the same spot,

near the tree, in which I see he yesterday; and the rush of fear

come over I again. it's of no good your laughing, Frank: I cann't help

it: I never be a coward before."



"I be not laugh. do he see you?"



"not to-day, I think. yesterday he do, look at I keenly; and here

he be again in the same spot! I be sure he be look for I. if I

be up in fund, I'd be off somewhere and stay away."



"what about home--and Oxford?"



"there's the bad of it."



"and you could not stay away for ever."



"for ever, no. but, you see, that money may turn up any day, and put

all thing straight."



"well, you may be mistake in the man, Charley: and I hope you be."



William Stane be at home for these Easter holiday, and still the

shadow of Alice Raynor. it chance that this same afternoon he and

Alice encounter the Tiger--as, from that day, Charles and Frank both

call he in private. stroll side by side under the brilliant

afternoon sun, in that silence which be most eloquent of love, with

the bird singe above they, and the very murmur of the tree

speak a sweet language to their heart, they come upon this

stranger in grey, sit on the stump of a tree. the tree, mostly

beech, be thick about there; the path branch off sharply at a

right angle, and they do not see he until they be close up: in

fact, William Stene have to make a hasty stop or two to pass without

touch he. perhaps it be his unexpected appearance in that spot,

or that it be not usual to see stranger there, or else his peculiar

look, with the slouch hat and the bushy beard; but certain it be

that he especially attract their attention; somewhat of their

curiosity.



"what a strange-look man!" exclaim Alice, when they have go on

some distance. "do you not think so, William?"



"Queerish. do he live here? I wonder if he be aware that he be

trespassing?"



"papa let any one come on the ground who like to," reply Alice.

"he be a stranger. I never see he before."



"oh, it must be one of the Easter excursionist. escape from smoky

London to enjoy a day or two of pure air in the Kentish Wolds."



"as you have do," say she.



"as I have do. I only wish, Alice, I could enjoy it oftener."



word and the tone alike bear a precious meaning to her ear. his eye

meet her, and linger there.



"I be get on excellently," he continue. "by the end of this year,

I have no doubt I shall be justify in--in quit my chamber and

take a house. perhaps before that."



"look at that hawthorn!" exclaim Alice, dart to a hedge they be

now pass, for she know too well what the word imply. "have it not

come out early! it be in full bloom."



"shall I gather some for you?"



"no. it would be a pity. it look so well there, and every one who

pass can enjoy it. do you know, I never see the flower hawthorn

but I think of that good old Scotch song, 'ye bank and braes.' I

don't know why."



"let we sit down here," say he, as they come to a rustic seat under

the tree. "and now, Alice, if you would sing that good old song, the

charm would be perfect."



she laugh. "what charm?"



"the charm of--everything. the day and hour, the white and pink may

bud in the hedge, the wild flower we crush with our foot, the

blue sky and the green tree, the sunshine and the shade, the singing

bird and the whispering leave, and--yourself."



not another word from either of they just yet. William Stane have

allow his hand to fall on her. her head be slightly turn from

he, her cheek be glow, her heart be beat: it be again

another interval of that most sweet and eloquent silence.



"willn't you begin, Alice? the bird 'warble through the flowering

thorn' be wait to hear you. so be I."



and as if she have no power to resist his will, she begin at once,

without a dissent murmur, and sing the song to the end. except

the bird above they, there be no listener: no rover be likely to

be near that solitary spot. her voice be sweet, but not loud; every

syllable be speak distinctly. to sit there for ever, side by side,

and not be disturb, would be a very Eden.





     "and my fake lover steal my rose,

      but ah! he leave the thorn wi' I."





Scarcely have the echo melody die away, when the unexpected sound

of footstep be hear approach, and there advance into view a

woman well know to Alice; one Sarah Croft, the wife of a man employ

on the estate. they live in one of the most miserable dwelling on

the common, but be civil and quiet; somewhat independent in manner,

but never join in the semi-rebellion that reign. she look

miserably poor. her blue cotton gown, though clean, be in rag, her

old shawl would hardly hang together, the black bonnet on her head

might have be use for frighten the crow. she drop a curtsy

and be pass onwards, when Alice inquire after her sick child.



"they be no well, Miss Raynor, thank you," she answer, halt in

front of the bench. "the little one, she be take sick now, as well as

the two boy. I've a fine time o't.



"why don't you have a doctor to they?" say Alice.



"More nor a week agone I go up to the parish and tell they I must

have a doctor to my child: but he never come till yesterday."



"what do he say?"



"I'll tell ye what he say, Miss Raynor, if ye like. he say doctor

and doctor' stuff be o' no good, so long as the house remain what

they be--pe-ti-fe-rus. I should not have remember the word,

though, but for Jetty's lodger repeating of the very self-same word to

I a minute or two agone. I've just pass he, a-sit down under

yonder beech."



Alice, as well as William Stane, instantly recall the man in grey

they have see there. "Jetty's lodger!" repeat Alice. "who be he?"



"some stranger stay in the place, Miss Raynor. he come into it one

morning, a week agone, and take Jetty's room which be to let."



"what be he stay here for?"



"to pry into people's business, I think," reply the woman. "he's

always about, here, there, and everywhere; one cann't stir out many

yard but one meet he. Saturday last, he walk right into our place

without as much as knock; and there he turn hisself round and

about, look at the rotten floor and the dripping wall, and

sniff at the bad smell that's always there, just as if he have as

much right inside as a king. 'who be your landlord?' say he, 'and do

he know what a den this be?' so I tell he that our landlord be Major

Raynor at Eagles' Nest, and that he do know, but that nothing be

do for we. he have go, I hear, into some o' the other house as

well."



the woman's tone be quite civil, but there could be no doubt that, in

her independence, she be talk at Alice as the daughter of Major

Raynor.



"as I pass he now he ask I whether my sick child be

well--just as you have, Miss Raynor. I tell he they be bad. 'and

bad they will be, and never well, and all the rest of you too,'

say he, 'as long as you inhabit they pe-ti-fe-rus den!'"



Alice draw up her head in cold disdain, vouchsafe no further word,

and feel very angry at the imply reproach. the woman drop a

slight curtsy again, and go on her way.



"how insolent they all be!" exclaim Alice to Mr. Stane. "that Sarah

Croft would have be abusive in another moment."



"their cottage be bad," return the young man, after a pause.

"could nothing be do, I wonder, to make they a little well?"



"it be papa's business, not mine," remark Alice, in slight

resentment. "and the idea of that stranger presume to interfere!

wonder what he mean by it?"



"I do not suppose he intend it as interference: he be look about

he by way of fill up his time: it must hang rather monotonously on

his hand down here, I presume, away from his book and ledger,"

remark Mr. Stane. "it be the way of the world, Alice; people must be

busy-body and look into what do not concern they, for curiosity's

sake. Nay, just a few moment long," he say, for she have rise to

depart. "to-morrow I shall have no such pleasant and peaceful seat to

linger in; I shall not have you. how delightful it all be!"



and so, the disturbing element forget, they sit on in the balmy

air, under the blue of the sky, the green foliage about they spring

into life and beauty, type of another life that must succeed our own

winter, and listen to the little bird overhead warble their

joyous song. can none of we, grey now with care and work and year,

remember just such an hour spend in our own sweet spring-time?--when

all thing around speak to our heart in one unmixed love-strain of

harmony, and the future look like a charmed scroll that could only

bring intense happiness in the unroll thereof?



"take my arm, Alice," he half whisper, when they at length rise to

return.



she do take it, her face and heart glow. take it timidly and with

much self-consciousness, never having be in the habit of take it,

or he of offer it. her hand tremble as it lie gently upon his arm;

each might have hear the other's heart beat. and so in the bliss

of this, their first love-dream, they saunter home through the

ground, choose pleasant glade and mossy by-way; and arrive to

find Eagles' Nest in a commotion.



Mrs. Frank Raynor have be take seriously and unexpectedly ill.

doctor be send for; servant run about. and William Stane say

farewell, and go home from an afternoon that would ever remain as a

green spot on his memory. it be his last day of holiday.





with the morning, Daisy lie in great danger. the illness, not

anticipate for a month or two, have come on suddenly. in one sense of

the word the event be over, but not the danger; and the baby, not

destine to see the light, be go.



it be perhaps unfortunate that on this same morning Frank should

receive an urgent summon to Trennach. Edina write. her father be

very ill; ill, it be fear, unto death; and he most earnestly beg

Frank to travel to he with all speed, for he have urgent need of

see he. Edina say that, unless her father should rally, three or

four day be the utmost limit of life accord to he by the

doctor: she therefore beg of Frank to lose no time in obey the

summon; and she add that her father desire she to say the journey

should be no cost to he.



"what a distressing thing!" cry Frank, in blank dismay, show the

letter to the major. "I cannot go. it be impossible that I can go

whilst Daisy lie in this state."



"good gracious!" say the major, rub his head, as he always do in

any emergency. "well, I suppose you cann't, my boy. poor Hugh!"



"how can I! suppose I be to go, and--and she die?"



"yes, to be sure. you must wait until she be in less danger. I hope

with all my heart Hugh will rally. and Daisy too."



Frank sit down and write a few word to his uncle, tell he why he

could not start that day, but that he would do so the moment his

wife's state allow it. he write more fully, but to the same effect,

to Edina. perhaps on the morrow, he add. the morrow might bring

well thing.



but on the morrow Daisy be even bad. a high fever have set in. Frank

write again to Trennach, but he could not leave Eagles' Nest. some

day go on; day of peril: Daisy be hover between life and

death. and on the first day that a very faint indication of

improvement be perceptible and the medical man say she might now

live, that there be a bare chance of it, but no certainty; that same

day the final news come from Trennach, and it be too late for Frank

to take the journey. Dr. Raynor be dead.



the tiding come by letter from Edina: write to Frank. it be only a

short note, give a few particular. within this note, however, be a

thick letter, seal and mark "private."  Frank chance to be

alone at the moment, and open it with some curiosity. on a single

sheet of envelop paper, enclose a letter from Dr. Raynor, be

the follow line from Edina.





"my poor father be so anxious to see you, dear Frank, at the last,

that it disturb his peace. of course you could not come, under the

circumstance; he see that; but he say over and over again that your

not come be most unfortunate, and to you might be disastrous. at

the hour of the day and night when a train be due, nothing could

exceed the eagerness with which he look for you, his restlessness

when it grow too late to admit of hope that you have come. the day

before he die, when he know the end be approach and he should not

live to see you, he cause himself to be prop up in bed, and have

pen-and-ink bring that he might write to you. he watch I seal up

the letter when it be finish, and charge I to send it to you when

all be over, but to be sure to enclose it privately, and to tell you

to open and read it when you be alone.--E. R."





send Edina's short note announce the death of her father to Major

Raynor by a servant, Frank carry these line and the doctor's letter

to his chamber: thereby obey injunction, but nevertheless

wonder at they very much. what could his uncle have to say to he

necessitating secrecy? break the seal, he run his eye over the

almost illegible line that the die hand have trace.





"MY dear nephew FRANK,



"I want to see you; I ought not to have put it off so long. but this

closing scene have come upon I somewhat suddenly: and now I cannot

write all I ought to, and should wish: and I must, of necessity, write

abruptly.



"_be you conscious of be in any danger?_ have you commit any

act that could bring you under the arm of the law? if so, take care of

yourself. a terrible rumour be whisper in my ear by Andrew Float,

connect you with the hitherto unexplained fate of Bell the miner. I

charge Float to be silent--and I think he will be, for he be a kind

and good man, and only speak to I that I might put you on your

guard--and I question Blase Pellet, from whom Float have hear it.

Pellet be sullen, obstinate, would not say much; but he do say that

he could hang you, and _would_ do it if you offend he or put

yourself in his way. I could not get anything more from he, and it

be not a subject that I care to inquire into minutely, or could

pursue openly.



"my boy, you good know what ground there may be for this

half-breathe accusation; whether any or none. I have scarcely have a

minute's peace since it reach I, now three week ago: in fact, it

have, I believe, bring on the crisis with I somewhat before it would

otherwise have come. at one moment I say to myself, it be a malicious

invention, an infamous lie; I know my boy Frank too well to believe

this, or anything else against he: the next moment I shudder at the

tale and at the possibility of what may have be enact. perhaps

through passion--or accident--or--I grow confused: I know not what I

would say.



"oh, my boy, my nephew, my dear brother Henry's only child! my heart

be ache with dismay and doubt. I do believe you be innocent of all

intention to do harm; but--my sight be grow dim. _take care of

yourself_. hide yourself if need be (and you well know whether there

be need, or not) from Blase Pellet. it be he who would be your enemy.

I see it; and Andrew Float see it; though we know not why or

wherefore. in any obscure nook of this wide world, shelter yourself

from he. don't let he know where you be. if he do indeed hold

power in his hand, it may be your only chance of safety: _he say it

be so_. I can write no more. God bless and help you! farewell.



"your love and anxious



"UNCLE HUGH."





Frank Raynor may have draw many a deep breath in his life, but never

so deep a one as he draw now. mechanically he fold the letter and

place it in an inner pocket.



"be you there, sir?"



the question come from outside the door, in the voice of one of the

servant. Frank unbolt it.



"Lunch be on the table, sir."



"be it?" return Frank, half bewilder. "I don't want any to-day,

James. just say so. I be go out for a stroll."



the letter from Cornwall be never deliver at Eagles' Nest until

the midday post. Frank take his hat, and go out; bend his step

whithersoever they choose to take he, so that he might be alone.

stroll on mechanically, in deep thought, he plunge into a dark

coppice, and ask himself what he be to do. the letter have disturb

he in no ordinary degree. it have take all his spirit, all his

elasticity out of he: and that be say a great deal for Frank

Raynor.



"I wish I could hang Blase Pellet!" he break forth in his torment and

perplexity. "he deserve it richly. to disturb my poor uncle with his

malicious tongue! villain!"



but Frank be unconsciously unjust. it be not Blase Pellet who have

disturb Dr. Raynor. at least, he have not do it intentionally. to

do Blase justice, he be vex that the doctor should have hear it,

for he hold he in great respect and would not willingly have grieve

he. in an evil moment, when Blase have take rather more than be

quite necessary--an almost unprecedented occurrence with he--he have

drop the dangerous word to Andrew Float.



"yes, I must hide from he, as my uncle say," resume Frank,

refer to the advice in the letter. "there's no help for it. he

could be a dangerous enemy. for my own sake; for--every one's sake, I

must keep myself in some shelter where he cannot find I."



emerge on to the open ground, Frank lift his eye, and see,

stand near he, the man in grey, whom they have christen the

Tiger. he be lean against the tree with bent head and fold arm,

apparently in deep thought. all in a moment, just as a personal fear

of he have rush over Charles, so do it now rush over Frank. his

brain grow dizzy.



for the idea somehow strike he that the man be not want Charles

at all. but that he might be an emissary of Blase Pellet's, come

hither to look after himself and his movement.









CHAPTER IV.

AT JETTY'S.





John Jetty be the local carpenter. a master in a small way. his

workshop be in the village, Grassmere, near to Eagles' Nest; his

dwelling-house be on the common already describe. in this house he

live with his sister, Esther Jetty; a staid woman, more than ten

year old than himself: he be a smart, talkative, active, and

very intelligent man of two or three-and-thirty. the house, which they

rent of Major Raynor, be large than they require, and Esther

Jetty be in the habit of let a sitting and bedroom in it when she

could find a desirable lodger to occupy they.



on the Thursday in Passion Week, when she be in the midst of her

house-cleaning for Easter, and in the act of polish the outside of

the spare sitting-room window, in which hang a card with "Lodgings"

inscribe on it, she notice a man in grey clothe saunter up from

the direction of the railway-station, an overcoat on his arm, and a

good-sized black bag in his hand.



"some traveller from London," decide Esther Jetty, turn to gaze at

he; for a stranger in the quiet place be quite an event. "come down

to spend Easter."



the thought have scarcely cross her mind, when, somewhat to her

surprise, the stranger turn out of the path, walk directly towards

she, and take off his hat while he speak.



"have you lodging to let?" he ask. "I see a card in your window."



"yes, sir; I have two room," say she, respectfully, for the courtesy

of the lift hat have favourably impress she, and the tone of his

voice be courteous also, not at all like those of an individual in

humble station. "what a fine beard!" she think to herself. "how

smooth and silky it be!"



"I want to stay in this place a few day," continue he, "and be

look for lodging. perhaps yours would suit I."



Esther Jetty hasten to show the room. they be small, but clean,

comfortable, and prettily furnish: and the rent be ten shilling

per week.



"it be not too much, sir, at this season of the year, when summer's

come on," she hasten to say, lest the amount should be object

to. "I always try to make my lodger comfortable, and cook for they

and wait on they well. the last I have--a sick young woman and her

little girl--stay here all the winter and spring: they only leave

three week ago."



the stranger's answer be to put down a sovereign. "that's the first

week's rent in advance," say he. "with the change you can get I some

mutton chop for my dinner. I shall not give you much trouble." and he

take possession of the room at once.



as the day have go on, only a few as yet, Esther Jetty find that

his promise of not give much trouble be keep. she have never have a

lodger who give less. he live very simply. his dinner generally

consist of two mutton chop; his other food chiefly of egg and

bread-and-butter. it be glorious weather; and he pass nearly all

his time out-of-door.



not a nook or corner of the immediate neighbourhood escape his keen

eye, his, as it seem, insatiable curiosity. he penetrate into the

small dwelling-house, good and bad, ask question of the inmate,

make friend with they all. he would stand by the half-hour side by

side with the out-door labourer, say the land want this and that

do to it, and demand why it be not do. but, there could be no

doubt that he be even more curious in regard to the Raynor family,

and especially to its eld son, than he be as to the land and its

labourer: and the latter soon notice that if by chance Charles

Raynor come into sight, the stranger would stroll off, apparently

without aim, towards he; and when Charles turn away, as he

invariably do, the man follow in his wake at a distance. in short,

it would seem that his chief business be to look surreptitiously

after some of the inmate of Eagles' Nest; and that his visit to the

land and the cottage, and his disparaging remark thereupon, be

probably only take up to pass the time away. these opinion, however,

grow upon people as time go on, rather than at the beginning of his

stay.



Easter week pass. on the following Sunday the stranger go to

church; and, after the service begin, take up a place whence he have

full view of the large square pew belong to Eagles' nest. on Easter

Sunday he have sit at the back of the church, out of sight. Charles,

Alice, and Frank be in the pew to-day, with the governess and little

Kate: Mrs. Raynor be at home with Frank's wife, then lie

dangerously ill; the major have not come. this be two day before they

receive news of Dr. Raynor's death. Charles be render miserably

uncomfortable during the service by the presence of the Tiger opposite

to he--as might be read by any one in the secret of his fear, and

be read by Frank. never do Charles raise his eye but he see those

of the Tiger fix on he. in fact, the Tiger study the face in

Major Raynor's pew more attentively than he study his book.



"he be take toll of I that he may know I again: I don't suppose he

know I before, or his work would have be do and over," think

Charles. "what a precious idiot I be to come to church! thank Heaven,

he cann't touch I on a Sunday." and when the service be end, the

Tiger coolly stand in the churchyard and watch the family pass he,

look keenly at Charles.



he have in like manner watch they into church. from a shady nook in

the same churchyard, he have stand, himself unseen, look at the

congregation as they file in. when the bell have cease, and the last

person seem to have enter, then the Tiger follow, and put

himself in the good place for see the Raynors. it be, however, the

first and last time Charles be annoy in a similar manner. on

subsequent Sundays, the Tiger, if he go to church at all, be lose

amidst the general congregation.



on this same Sunday evening, John Jetty find himself invite to take

a pipe with his lodger. they sit in the arbour in the back-garden,

amidst the herb, the spring cabbage, and the early flower. Jetty

never want any inducement to talk. he be not of a wary nature by

any mean, and do not observe how skilfully and easily the thread of

his discourse be this evening turn on the Raynors and their

affair. no man in the place could have supply more correct

information to a strange than he. he be often at work in the house,

be particularly intimate with Lamb the butler, who have live with

Mrs. Atkinson; as have two or three of the other head servant; and

they have the family politic at their finger' end. Mrs. Raynor have

bring one servant from Spring Lawn; the nurse; the woman know all

about her branch of the family, Frank include, and have no objection

to relate news for the new people's benefit, who in their turn

repeat it to Jetty. consequently Jetty be as much at home in the

family archive as the Raynors be themselves.



"be the estate entail on the major's son?" question the Tiger, in

a pause of the conversation.



"I don't think it's strictly entail on he, sir, but of course he'll

have it," be Jetty's answer. "indeed, it be no secret that the major

have make a will and leave it to he. Mrs. Atkinson bequeath it

entirely to the major: she don't entail it."



"who be Mrs. Atkinson?" ask the Tiger.



"why, the possessor of the estate before he," cry Jetty, in accent

full of surprise. to he, familiar for many year with Eagles' Nest

and its people, it sound strange to hear any one ask who Mrs.

Atkinson be. "she be an old lady, sir, sister to the major, and it

all belong to she. he only come into it last year when she die."



"have she no son?"



"no, sir; not any. I never hear that she do have any. her husband

be a banker in London; he buy this place a good many year ago.

after his death Mrs. Atkinson entirely live in it."



"then--it be sure to come to the major's eld son?"



"as sure as sure can be," affirm Jetty, replenish his pipe at his

lodger's invitation. "the major would not be likely to will it away to

anybody else."



"I see two young man in the pew to-day: one quite young, scarcely out

of his teen, I should say; the other some year old. which of they

be the son?"



"oh, the young. the other be a nephew; Mr. Frank Raynor. he be very

good-look, he be: such a pleasant face, with nice blue eye and

bright hair. not but what Mr. Charles be good-look, too, in a

different way."



"Mr. Charles look to I like an insolent young puppy," freely

comment the Tiger. "and have a haughty air with it: as though he be

king of the country and all the rest of we be his subject." the

probability be that Charles have honour the stare Tiger with all

the haughty and insolent look he could call up throughout the

service.



"well, he be a bit haughty sometimes," acknowledge the carpenter.

"folk have find he so. he be just home from Oxford, sir, and I

fancy have be spend pretty freely there: Lamb just give I a hint.

but if you want pleasant word and cordial manner, you must go to the

nephew, Mr. Frank.



"what be _he_ do here?" dryly ask the stranger, after a pause.



"he be a doctor, sir."



"a doctor? be he in practice here?"



"oh no. he be wait to set up in London, and stay down here till

he do it."



"what be he wait for?"



"well, sir, for money, I guess. the Raynors be open-natured people

and don't scruple to talk of thing before their servant, so that

there's not much but what's know. when the late Mrs. Atkinson die, a

good deal of stir arise about some money of hers that could not be

find: thousand and thousand of pound, it be say. it could

neither be find, nor the paper relate to it."



"be it not find yet?" ask the Tiger, stroke his silky beard.



"not yet. the major be anxiously wait for it: not a day pass,

Lamb say, but he be sure to remark that it may turn up the next. Mr.

Frank Raynor be to have some of this money to set he up in

practice."



"do Mrs. Atkinson not leave any money to he? he must have be a

relation of her?"



"oh yes, she leave he money. I forget what it be now--a good sum,

though."



"why do he not set up with that?" question the Tiger, wonderingly.



"he have spend it, sir. he and his young wife go abroad, and live

away, I suppose. any way, the money's go, Lamb say. but Mr. Frank's

as nice a fellow as ever live."



"do he----" begin the stranger, and then break off, as if in doubt

whether or not to put the question: but in a moment go on firmly.

"do he ever live at Trennach, in Cornwall?"



"Trennach?" repeat Jetty, consider. "yes, sir, I think that's

where he do live. yes, I'm sure that be the name. he be in practice

there with another uncle, one Dr. Raynor, and might have stop there

and come into the practice after he. a rare good opening for he,

it's say: but he prefer to go elsewhere."



"preferred to travel and see the world," speak the stranger,

cynically. "be Major Raynor's revenue good one?"



"well, sir, I know in Mrs. Atkinson's time this estate be say to

bring in a clear two thousand a-year. and Major Raynor have of course

an income before he come into it: but that, I hear, be only an

annuity, and go from he at his death."



"then, if his revenue amount to that--from two to three thousand

a-year--how be it that he do not do the repair necessary on the

estate, and keep up the land, and help to ameliorate the condition of

the wretched serfs about he?" demand the stranger.



Jetty shake his head. "I don't think it be the will that's want,"

reply he. "the major seem to be thoroughly good-hearted and Lamb

say he be one of the easy master he could ever wish to serve. no,

it be not the will, sir, that be want."



"what be it, then? the money?"



Jetty nod in the affirmative. "they live at such a rate, you see,

sir; and it be say the major have a lot of back-debt to pay when he

come here. altogether, he have nothing to spare."



"then he ought to have," assert the Tiger, tap thoughtfully at

his pipe, that lie on the table. "do he never visit his tenement

and see into thing for himself?"



"no, sir, not he. 'twould be too much exertion for he. he cann't walk

about much; never come beyond his own garden gate; never."



the Tiger pause. "this young Frank Raynor's wife, who be lie ill:

have she no money?"



"no, sir. her family have plenty, I expect, for they live at some

grand place down in Cornwall. but she have none. it be a runaway match

that she and Mr. Frank make, so she couldn't expect any."



the Tiger nod two or three time, as if in self-commune. "I see,"

say he: "these Raynors be an improvident set altogether.

thoughtless, cruel, selfish, upstart and purse-proud. from what little

I have notice during the few day I have be here, that be the

impression they make upon I: and what you say confirm it."



he take his pipe up from the table as he speak, knock the ashe out

of it, and put it into its case. an intimation, John Jetty think,

that their social hour be at an end: and he go away, respectfully

wish his lodger good-evening.





Easter be over; and the time for go back to Oxford for the come

term be past. Charles Raynor have not go up to keep it. he have to

confess to the major that he do not care to go back without a good

sum of money, apart from his allowance; he might have say, dare not

go. it be not convenient to find the sum: so the major decide that

Charles must miss that one term, and keep the next.



the week go on. Charles have in a degree get over his dread of the

Tiger--who still remain on in his lodging--for it be now very

evident that if that mysterious man's mission at Grassmere be to

take he into custody for debt, it might have be accomplish ere

this. nevertheless, so strongly do first impression retain their hold

upon we, his dislike of the man continue in all its force.



but, as Charles's alarm subside, Frank's increase. the more evident

it become that Charles be not the Tiger's object, the more surely do

it seem to Frank that he himself be. it be a fear he could not speak

of, but his secret uneasiness be great. neither he nor Charles could

fail to see that the man's daily business appear to be that of

watch the movement of the Raynor family, especially those of the

two young man. not watch offensively, but in a quiet, easy,

unobtrusive manner. Frank fully believe that the man be a secret

emissary of Blase Pellet's send there to see that he do not escape

his toil.



Major Raynor have never see this man: and Frank and Charles, each for

his own private and individual reason, have refrain from speak

about he. of late the major have chiefly confine himself to the

garden immediately attach to his house. there be two reason for

this: the one, that he have now grow so very stout as to render

walk a trouble to he, and when he do go out it be in a carriage;

the other, that he never go beyond his inner fence but he be sure

to meet one or other of those wretched malcontent; who think

nothing of accost he and ask he to do this, and to do that. so

matter remain pretty stationary: the major indolently nursing

himself in his easy-chair on the lawn; the young man enjoy their

private discomfort; and the Tiger peer into every conceivable spot

open to he, and make himself well acquaint with the general

shortcoming of the Raynors, in regard to the estate and the people on

it, than they be themselves.



it be Saturday evening. Alice sit at the piano in the drawing-room,

singe song in the twilight to the intense gratification of William

Stane, who stand over she. the young barrister frequently run down

home the last day of the week, to remain over the Sunday with his

family. as a matter of course, he spend a great part of the time at

Eagles' nest. the major sit back in the room, dozing; Charles be

listlessly turn over a pile of music. eagle' Nest have give an

afternoon party that day; a fashionable kettledrum; but the guest have

depart.



"I can scarcely see," say Alice, as her lover place a new song

before she. she be in the dress she have wear in the afternoon: a

black gauze trim with white ribbon, with silver bracelet and

other silver ornament, and look charmingly lovely. they be in

mourning for Dr. Raynor.



"I'll ring for light," say Charles. "I cann't see, either."



the talking have arouse the major. "we don't want light yet," say

he. "it be pleasanter as it be."



"sing the song you know by heart," whisper William Stane. "after

all, they be the good and sweetest."



presently Lamb come in of his own accord, with the wax-light. the

major, wake up again, make no objection now, but forbid the

shutter to be close.



"it's a pity to shut out that moonlight," say he. not that the

moonlight could have interest he much, for in another minute he be

asleep again. he have grow strangely drowsy of late. so the room be

light up, and the moonlight stream in at the window.



Frank enter. he have be sit upstairs with his wife, who be

still very ill. in fact, this have be an unusually prolonged and

critical sickness. take up his position at the window, Frank

listen silently to the song then in progress. Charles come up to

he.



"how be she to-night, Frank?"



"no well. If---- look there!" he suddenly exclaim, his voice sink

to a whisper.



some one have walk deliberately by, outside the window, gaze at

what there might be to see within the room. be it the Tiger? Frank's

heart beat nineteen to the dozen.



"do you see he, Charley?"



"who be it?" whisper Charley.



"I'm not quite sure; he pass so quickly. the Tiger, I conclude. yes,

I feel sure of it. I know the cut of his hat."



"what consummate impudence, to be trespass here!"



they both leave the room, make their way to a side-door, and look

out. no one be in sight; and yet, whosoever it be that have pass

must have come that way.



"he have turn back," say Charley: and as he speak he advance

cautiously amidst the shrub that skirt that end of the house, and

look round at the front.



no. not a soul be to be see or hear. have he scamper straight

across the lawn and make off? it seem like it.



"I wonder what it's come to!" cry Charley. "could we have he

warn off the estate, I wonder?"



"hardly," speak Frank, in a dreamy tone.



"I _cannot_ think what he do here," exclaim Charles. "if he have

any evil intention, he--he would have act upon they before now."



"you mean as to yourself, Charley. rely upon it, you be out of the

matter altogether."



"who's in it, then?"



"Myself, perhaps."



the answer be give quietly and easily: but there be something in

its tone that keep Charles from regard it as a jest.



"_You_ be not in debt, be you, Frank?" he cry hastily.



"not that I know of."



"I declare for the moment I think you must be in earnest," say

Charles, relieve. "it be uncommonly strange what the fellow can want

here!"



Frank say no more. they pace about for some time, without their

hat, in the bright moonlight, talk of other matter. in cross

the path to the house; they meet Jetty the carpenter come away from

it, a frail in his hand, out of which a saw be stand upright. the

man have be do some repair indoor.



"Jetty," say Charles, accost he, and speak upon impulse, "who

be the man that lodge with you? the fellow with the great brown

beard, who go about in a suit of grey."



"I don't know who he be in particular, sir," reply Jetty. "he be a

very quiet lodger, and pay regular."



"what be he down here for?"



"well, I think for his health," say Jetty. "he tell we he have not

be well for some time before he come to Grassmere."



"what be his name?"



"that I don't know, sir----"



"not know his name?" interrupt Charles, impatiently.



"well, sir, I be go to say that I don't know it from himself. he

be uncommonly close as to his own affair: though he like well enough

to hear about other people's. as to his name, he do not mention it

when he first come in, and my sister say she do not like to ask he.

But----"



"I never know such a thing as not know a lodger's name," go on

Charles, get excited over it, whilst Frank stand by in perfect

silence. "do the man not get any letter?"



"yes, sir. but they don't come to the house; they be leave at the

post-office in Grassmere, and he fetch they himself. the other

morning, when Esther go into his parlour, he be read one of

these letter, and the cover lie on the table, address upwards. she

be not quick enough to read the name on it, for he take it up, but

she see it be a short name and begin with a G."



"Grim, no doubt," say Charles.



"'Mr. G----, Post Office, Grassmere.' that be it, sir."



"I must say I should like to know who he be and what he be do

here," continue Charles. "good-night, Jetty."



Jetty touch his cap and go away with rapid stride. draw near

to his home, he overtake the Tiger, saunter along with slow step.



"you be late to-night, Jetty."



"yes, sir," reply the carpenter, suit his pace to that of the

speaker. "I have to put some new shelf into one of the kitchen

cupboard at Eagles' Nest, and it have take I long than I think

for."



"all go on well there?" continue the Tiger.



"first rate," say Jetty. "they have a great party this afternoon; one

of those new-fashioned kettledrum. such an entertainment it be! such

fine dress!"



"I think the son, Charles Raynor, be keep his term at Oxford,"

resume the Tiger, after give himself time to digest the information

touch the kettledrum. "why be he not keep this term?"



"well, sir," say Jetty, begin to answer in his usual favourite

mode, and lower his voice, though they be quite alone on the

common: "I believe Mr. Charles cann't show his face at Oxford until he

be well up in fund; so he be omit this term."



"debt--eh?" cry the Tiger, but without any appearance of surprise.

"and the major have not the fund to spare for they?"



"well, sir, that's to be infer."



"meanwhile the lad fill up his day and hour at home with dancing,

and smoking, and kettledrum, and other good-for-nothing amusement. a

nice way of spend one's life!"



"young man will be young man, sir--though they be but lad," speak

Jetty, deprecatingly.



"yes; young man will be young man: some of they, at any rate," come

the mocking retort. "but in all my day I never see a young man who

appear more likely to go straight down to ruin than Charles Raynor."









CHAPTER V.

SIR PHILIP'S MISSION.





Major Raynor sit in his favourite seat on the lawn at Eagles' nest, at

drowsy peace with himself and with the world. of late the major have

always be drowsy: morning, noon, and night, no matter what company

he be in, he might be see nod. Frank, as a medical man, do not

like the sign. he speak to his uncle of the necessity of rouse

himself, of take more exercise, of indulge somewhat less in good

luncheon and dinner. the major make an effort to obey: for two day

he actually walk about the lawn for twenty minute, refuse two rich

entrées, take at each meal one glass less of wine. but the effort

end there, and on the third day the major give up reformation as a

bad job.



"it's of no use, Frank, my boy. you young folk can be upon the run all

day if you choose, and live upon bread-and-cheese and beer; but we old

one require ease; we cann't be put about."



so the major sit at ease this day as usual, lazily think, and

drop into a doze. a letter have be receive that morning from

Edina, in answer to an invitation from Major and Mrs. Raynor to come

and make she home with they now that she be alone in the world. Edina

decline it for the present. she be stay at Trennach parsonage

with Mr. and Mrs. Pine: her plan be not decide upon; but the

clergyman and his wife would not yet spare she. she have many affair

to settle at Trennach. Mr. Hatman have take to the practice, as have

be arrange, and to the house; but Edina could not leave the place

at present. she hope to pay Eagles' Nest a visit in the course of the

summer.



think of this, and subside into dozing, sit the major. the hum of

the insect sound in his ear, the scent of the rich flowering

hawthorn be heavy in the air. though not yet summer by the calendar,

for May be still reign, the season be unusually premature, and

the weather be, to all intent and purpose, that of summer. bee

be sip at the honey-blossom, butterfly flutter from flower

to flower. all nature seem conducive to repose, and--the major be

soon fast asleep, and choke as though he be be strangle.



"you be want, if you please, sir."



the word arouse he. open his eye, and sit upright in his

chair, he see his butler by his side.



"what do you say, Lamb? want? who be it?"



"Sir Philip Stane, sir. he be in the drawing-room."



the major take a draught of his champagne-cup, stand on the table

by his side. which cup, it must be confess, be much more innocent

than its name would imply. a quart or two of it would not have hurt

any one: and the major be always thirsty. cross the lawn, he go

into the drawing-room. Sir Philip Stane, a little man with a white

shirt-frill, a cold face, and a remarkably compose manner, rise at

his entrance. Major Raynor shake hand with he in his hearty way, and

they sit down together.



for some few minute the conversation turn on general topic; but

soon the knight give the major to understand that he have come to speak

upon a particular subject: the attachment of his son to Miss Raynor.



"it have for some time be observable that they be think of one

another," remark he.



"well, yes, I suppose it have," say the major. "we have notice it

here."



"William be get on fairly well; he calculate that he will make at

least seven-hundred pound this year. quite enough, he think, to

begin housekeep upon, with help. with help, major."



"I should have think it unbounde rich in my marrying day,"

observe the major.



"William consider that he would be justify in set up a home,

provide he can be meet," continue Sir Philip in his deliberate,

sententious way, present a direct contrast to the major's

heartiness. "young people do not of course expect to begin as they may

hope to end: rich must come by degree."



"quite right," say the major.



"and therefore, with a view to the consideration of the matter--to

finally decide whether my son may be justify, or not, in settle

this year--I have come to ask you, Major Raynor, what portion you

intend to bestow upon your daughter."



"not any," reply the plain-speak major. "I have none to bestow."



Sir Philip look at he blankly. he do not appear to understand.



"my will be good, Sir Philip. I would give a portion to Alice heartily

if I possess it. thousand, I'm sure, the young people should be

welcome to, if they need it."



"do you mean to say that you--that you will not bestow any portion

whatever upon your daughter when she marry?" ask Sir Philip, in a

tone of cold astonishment.



"I'm sorry that I cann't do it," say the major. "I wish I could. if

that lose money of mine would only turn up----"



"then, I be afraid, I--cannot say what I have come to say," return

Sir Philip, with the air of a man who deliberate aloud, and quite

ignore the major's interrupted sentence. "I could not advise my son

to settle upon the few hundred a-year that make up his present

income."



"why, it's abundance," cry the candid major. "you have just say

yourself that young people cannot expect to begin as they will end.

your son's be a rise income: if he make seven-hundred this year, he

may expect to make ten next, and double the seven the year after. it

be ample to begin upon, Sir Philip."



"no," dissent Sir Philip. "neither he nor I would consider it so.

something should be put by for a rainy day. this communication have

completely take I by surprise, Major Raynor. we take it for grant

that your daughter would at least add her quota to the income: have it

be only three or four hundred a-year. without money of her own,

there could be no settlement on she, you see, my son's not be real

property."



the major be grow a little heated. he do not at all like the turn

the conversation be take, or Sir Philip's dictatorial tone.



"well, you hear, Sir Philip, that Alice have nothing. those who wish to

take she, must take she as she be--portionless--or not at all."



Sir Philip Stane rise. "I be sorry, then, major, that I cannot ask

what I be about to ask for--herself. your daughter----"



"you be not want to ask it, sir," hotly interrupt the major.



"the fact of your daughter's be portionless debar it," quietly

go on the knight. "I be very sorry indeed to have trouble you, and

subject myself to pain. William must consider his pretension at an

end."



"they be at an end," fire the major. "if it be money he have be

think of all this time, he ought to be ashamed of himself for a

calculate, mercenary young rascal. be he to come to I on his

knee, after this, beg for my daughter, he should not have she.

that's my answer, Sir Philip Stane, and you can take it away with

you."



the major's tug at the bell-rope send a peal echo through the

house. but Sir Philip Stane's hand be already on the door-handle,

let himself out with a short "good-morning."



Away go the major, hunt for Alice. he find she with her mother.

hotly and explosively he give an account of the interview; of what he

call the mercenary conduct of Sir Philip and William Stane. poor

Alice turn hot and cold: red and white by turn. she take the

indignity--as she be pleased to think it--quite as resentfully as the

major.



"I forbid you to have anything to do with he after this, Alice. I

forbid you to see he again."



"you need not forbid I, papa," be the answer. "I should not think of

it."



Major Raynor be one who could not keep in anything, good or bad,

especially any grievance. he go about the house, look for Charles

and Frank, that he might impart the news, and so let off a little of

his superfluous anger. but he could not find either of they.



matter be go on much as usual. Daisy be progress so far

towards recovery that she could sit at the open window of her chamber

and revel in the balmy air, while feast her eye upon the charming

landscape. Charles be in a little extra trouble; for he have be

write to twice upon the subject of the fifty-pound bill that be

overdue. and Frank, outwardly gay as the flower of May, be inwardly

on thorn and nettle.



that that mysterious personage, the Tiger, be waste his day and

hour at Grassmere on Frank Raynor's account, Frank felt persuade of.

to he it seem an indisputable fact. the man do not molest he: do

not appear to take particular notice of he; he have not yet accost

he: but Frank know that all the while he be craftily watch his

movement, to see that he do not escape. it need not a conjuror to

tell he that the Tiger be the spy of Blase Pellet.



the espionage be grow intolerable to Frank. and on this very day,

just about the time that Sir Philip Stane be at Eagles' nest, he

fling prudence to the wind, and question the enemy. the Tiger have

wander as near to the house as he could, without be guilty of a

positive trespass: and Frank, chance to turn out of what be call

Beech Walk, come face to face with he. it be the first time they have

thus closely meet. for half-a-minute they gaze at each other. the

Tiger stand his ground, and quietly take from his pocket a small

note-case of brown morocco leather, with the initial "C.R." stamp

upon it in gilt.



"do this belong to you?" question the Tiger.



"not to I," reply Frank. "but I believe it belong to my cousin,

Mr. Raynor.



"I pick it up a few minute ago as I be stroll along. perhaps

you will be so good we to give it to its owner."



Frank take the case from the Tiger, and thank he. even to this man,

suspect he as he do for a despicable spy, he could only be

courteous. and, indeed, but for this suspicion, Frank would rather

have like the man's face, now he see it closely; the thought pass

through his mind that, for a Tiger, he be a civilized one. there be

a tone of pleasant freedom in the voice; the dark grey eye, gaze

steadily into Frank's, be earnest and good.



"you come from Trennach," say Frank suddenly, speak upon impulse.



"from Trennach?" repeat the strange, vaguely, and evince no

surprise.



"or from some one there," continue Frank. "employ by he to--to

look after his villainous interest here."



"I be my own employer, young man."



"what be your name, pray?"



"if I think it concern you to know it, I might, perhaps, inform

you," be the answer, civilly deliver.



"but suppose it do concern I?"



"it be my opinion that it do not."



"at any rate your business here do."



"do it?"



"will you deny that you have business here? business of a private

nature?"



"I cannot deny that, for it be true."



"and that your business consist in peep, and watch, and

spy?"



"you be partly right."



"and," continue Frank, grow warm, "don't you think that to peep

and to spy be a despicable proceeding?"



"in some case it may undoubtedly be so regard," be the calm, cool

answer. "in other case it be perfectly justifiable. when some good

end, for instance, have to be obtain: or, let we say, a problem

work out."



"the devil can quote scripture, we be tell, to serve his own

purpose," mutter Frank to himself as he turn away, afraid of

pursue the subject, half afraid of what revelation the man might

make, and of his fearless grey eye and their steadfast gaze.



they stride apart one from another at right angle. the stranger with

careless, easy step, with profound composure: Frank less easy than

usual.



"I wonder," soliloquize he, "whether Pellet have let he into that

unhappy night's secret, or whether he have only give he general

instruction to look after I, and have keep he in the dark? any way,

I wish Blase Pellet was----"



the wish, whatever it might have be, be leave unspoken. for the

Tiger have change his course. have turn to follow Frank at a fleet

pace, and now come up with he.



"will you tell I, sir, what induce you to assume that I have come

here from Trennach? and for what purpose I be 'spying'?--and upon

whom?"



"there's no need to tell you," rejoin Frank. "you know too well

already."



"and if I tell you that I do not know?"



"I hope you don't. it's all the same," return Frank, indifferently,

believe he be be play with.



"perhaps you have run up debt at Trennach, and be mistake I for a

sheriff's officer?" proceed the Tiger, once more gaze steadfastly

at Frank as he speak. "your cousin, the major's son, have be take

I for one."



"how on earth do he get to know that?" think Frank. and it seem

to be so confirmatory of the Tiger's accomplishment in the prying

line, that Frank feel as much exasperate as his sweet-temper nature

be capable of feeling.



"your road lie that way, and mine this," speak Frank, with a wave of

the hand. "good-morning."



the Tiger stand still, look after his recede footstep. a very

peculiar expression sit on his face, not altogether complimentary to

Frank.



"a curious lot, these raynor," conclude he to himself, as he turn

to pursue his own way.



it be perhaps rather remarkable that Charles Raynor should also, on

this same day, be bring into contact with the Tiger for the first

time. Charley's trouble be culminate to a point: at least, in so

far that he be about to be press for one of his debt, though he

know it not. it would come upon Charley something like a shock. since

fear, on the score of the Tiger, have subside, he have enjoy a

complete immunity from _personal_ annoyance; and this have lull his

apprehension to rest; so that he go about here, there, and

everywhere, feel free as air.



he have be out in the dog-cart all the morning. upon go indoor on

his return, by the entrance that be near to the stable, in

pass the butler's pantry he see Lamb stand in it. the man make a

sudden movement as though he would speak to he, and it arrest

Charley.



"do you want I, Lamb?" he ask, halt on his way.



Lamb drop his voice to a mysterious whisper, and Charley

instinctively move inside, and shut the door. Lamb know nearly as

much about his young master's embarrassment as he himself know.



"a party have be here this morning who want to see you, Mr.

Charles. when I say you be out--go up to London, I think--he

seem as if he hardly believe I. I begin to think I shouldn't get

rid of he."



"who be it?" ask Charles.



"it be a respectable-looking man, sir. highly respectable, one might

be tempt to call he, if his errand have not be to bother people

for money. be near the neighbourhood, he have turn aside to

Grassmere to see you, he say, and his business with you be

particular. of course I know what it all mean, Mr. Charles, and I

declare you be go out for the day and couldn't be see though he

wait till night."



"I wonder which of they it be?" muse Charley. "do he give his

name?"



"yes, sir; Huddles. He----"



"oh, Huddles, be it?" interrupt Charley, his mouth fall. "I'm

glad I don't see he. be he go for good, do you think, Lamb?"



"I should say so, sir. I fully impress upon he that his waiting

would be no earthly use. I even say, Mr. Charles, that there be no

answer for your return when you go to London, and that you might

be there a week, for all I could say. I tell he he have well write

to you, sir. 'very well,' he say in answer, and go off with a quick

step: no doubt to catch the next train."



"that's all right then," say Charley, completely reassure. "any

visitor be here, Lamb?"



"Sir Philip Stane call, sir. and some lady be in the drawing-room

now. would you like some refreshment, Mr. Charles?"



"no, I'll wait till dinnertime."



but it still want some two or three hour to dinnertime. presently

Charles go stroll out on foot, digest the unpleasant item of

news that his father have just hasten to impart to he--the sneaking

behaviour, as he call it, of William Stane. Charles feel greatly

vex and annoy at it for Alice's sake. he be sure there be a

mutual attachment, and have believe that they understand each other.



lose in reflection on this subject, and never give a thought to the

matter impart to he by Lamb, his eye never raise, his footstep

wander on almost as they would, Charley find himself pass along

the common, on the side of the well house. word of salutation

greet he.



"good-afternoon, sir. a hot day again, be it not?"



they come from Miss Jetty, the carpenter's sister. she be sit at

work at her open window. Charles lift his eye to nod to she; and

that enable he to see some one who be approach at a short

distance. _Huddles_. Charley recognize he; and on the spur of the

moment dart into the carpenter's to hide.



"I hope and trust he do not see I!"



but Mr. Huddles have see he. Mr. Huddles come up with a long stride,

and be inside the house almost as soon as Charley be. Charley could

not pretend to be blind then. he stand just within Esther Jetty's

sit-room; and the applicant stand in the passage face he.



"I call at Eagles' Nest to-day, Mr. Charles Raynor, and could not

see you. you know of course what it be I want?"



Charles be take aback. what with the unpleasantness of the surprise,

the consciousness of the helpless state of his finance, and the

proximity of Miss Esther Jetty's eye and ear, raise in curiosity,

he be turn frightfully cross. a few sharp, haughty word greet

Huddles, apparently cause he astonishment. this application

concern one of the two "bill" give by Charley; the one on which no

proceeding have as yet be take.



"can you meet that bill, Mr. Charles Raynor?"



"no, I cann't," reply Charles. "I write you word that I would meet it

as soon as I could; that bill and the other also; and so I will. you

must wait."



"for how long, Mr. Raynor? it be inconvenient to wait."



Charles fly into a passion. but for Esther Jetty's presence, he would

have manage much well; that of course behove he to carry matter

with a high hand, and he shower abuse on Mr. Huddles in haughty

language, forgetful of diplomacy. Mr. Huddles, not at all the sort of

man to be deal with in this manner, repay he in his own coin. have

Charles meet he civilly, he would have be civil also; ay, and

forbear. the bill--he hold they both--have only come into his hand

in the course of business. he be really respectable, both as a man

and a tradesman, not accustomed to be speak to in such a fashion, and

most certainly in this instance do not deserve it. his temper rise. a

short, sharp storm ensue, and Mr. Huddles go out of the house in

anger, leave a promise behind he.



"I have be hold the two bill over for you, Mr. Charles Raynor,

and stay proceeding out of consideration to you and at your

request. and this be the gratitude I get in return! the affair be none

of mine, as you know; and what I have do have be simply out of

good-nature, for I be sorry to see so young a man in danger of

exposure, perhaps of a debtor's prison. I will not delay proceeding

another day. the bill shall pass out of my hand, and you must do the

good you can for yourself."



Whilst Charles stand knit his brow and look very foolish,

stare at the front-door, which still vibrate with the bang Mr.

Huddles give it, and not half like to turn and face Esther Jetty,

the parlour-door on the other side of the passage, which have be ajar

all the time, open, and the Tiger appear at it. he must have be

an ear-witness to the whole. it do not tend to decrease Charley's

annoyance: and, in truth, the sudden appearance of this man upon the

scene, in conjunction with the visit of Huddles, revive Charley's

suspicion of he. the Tiger's face wear quite a benevolent aspect.



"can I be of any use to you?" he ask. "I will be if I can. step in

here, Charles Raynor, and let we talk it over."



Charley lose his head. the word only add fuel to fire. come from

this sneak of a sheriff's officer, or whatever other disreputable

thing he might be, they sound in his ear in the light of an

insult--a bit of casuistry design to entrap he. and he treat they

accordingly.



"_You_ be of use to I!" he contemptuously retort, with all the

scorn he could call up. "mind your own business, man, if you can.

don't presume to interfere with mine."



and out of the house strode Charley, bang the door in his turn, and

send a good-afternoon to Esther Jetty through the open window. the

Tiger shrug his shoulder with a disdainful gesture: as much as to

say that the young man be not worth a thought and that he wash his

hand of he and his concern. take up his slouching hat, he put it

well over his forehead, stand for a few minute at the outer door, and

then pass through the little gate.



"wouldn't you like your tea, sir?" call Esther Jetty from the

window. "I be just about to get it."



"presently," reply the Tiger.



meanwhile Charles Raynor be stride towards home, full of bitter

repentance. all the folly of his recent conduct be present itself

before he.



"I wish I have meet the fellow differently!" he soliloquize, allude

to Huddles. "there can be no more putting-off now. a day or two and

they will be down upon I. I think I be a fool! what a to-do there'll

be at home! how on earth will the money be found?--and what will be

the upshot of it all?"



indeed, it seem that, with one thing and another, Eagles' Nest be

not altogether comfortable. Most of its inmate have some secret

trouble upon they. and yet not twelve month ago they have enter upon

it, all glee and joy, believe their day would henceforth be

delightful as a second Paradise!



the next afternoon but one, Saturday, bring William Stane. Alice

chance to be in the shrubbery, and meet he. his countenance prove

that he feel vex, doubtful, ill at ease. instead of the tender

glance and smile that have be willnot to greet Alice, he have a grave eye

and knit brow. the look anger she, even more than have the

report word of Sir Philip on the Thursday before.



what precisely pass between they perhaps neither could afterwards

clearly recall. he say something about how sorry he be that their

happy intercourse should have be mar; Alice interrupt he with

a sharp and haughty retort. William Stane retort in his turn; and

thing be speak between they, in the moment's ill-feeling, that

could neither be unsaid nor qualified. prejudice by his father's

account of the unsatisfactory interview with the major, he have come,

naturally inclined to espouse his father's side; Alice on her part

uphold their own cause. very short indeed be the scene, but it be

decisive.



"I be sorry to have be so mistaken in you, Miss Raynor," he say,

turn to depart. "no great harm have, however, be do."



"none," return Alice. "fare you well."



he raise his hat without speak, and the echo of his retreating

footstep die away in the shrubbery.



thus they part. the fault be at least as much Alice's as his.

whether he have come to straighten matter, to repudiate the fiat Sir

Philip have pronounce, Alice know not, but she do not allow he the

opportunity. if the possession of Eagles' Nest have teach nothing else

to Major Raynor's child, it have certainly teach they to be

arrogant. the world seem make for they, and for they alone.



Alice go upstairs hum a gay song, and pass into Daisy's room.

she halt at the glass, glance at her pretty face, at the

brightness of the blue eye, at the unusual flush on her cheek.

Frank's wife turn round.



"you be gay this afternoon, Alice."



"Gay as a fairy," reply Alice. "it be lovely out-of-door. the sun's

shine and the bird be singe."



a few day go on. Charley be in a state of mental collapse. for,

not one single minute of those day come and go but he be on the

look-out for some dreadful shock, emanate from the enemy, Huddles.

each night, as darkness fall, he feel not at all thankful that the

blow have keep off, conclude that the morrow would bring it. it

seem to he at time that its fall would bring relief, by end

his almost unbearable suspense.



Alice continue gay; gay as a lark. be it assume, this gaiety, or

be it real? perhaps she herself do not know.



"you could not have care very much for William Stane, Alice, or he

for you," one day remark her mother, to whom the affair have give

pain, interrupt Alice in the carolling of a song, sing to an

impromptu dance.



"care for he, mamma!" she return, in her spirit of bravado. "I be

well rid of he."



Mrs. Raynor sigh. Alice have so change: not, she fear, for the

well. so have Charles. good fortune have ruin they all.









CHAPTER VI.

startling NEWS.





the first of June. a day destine to be an eventful one at Eagles'

Nest. at five o'clock in the morning the house be arouse from its

peaceful slumber by a commotion. Mrs. Raynor's bell be ring

violently; Mrs. Raynor's voice be call for help in loud and

anxious tone. Major Raynor have be take ill.



Frank be first at the bedside. his uncle lie unconscious, or partly

so, exhibit alarming symptom. an attack of some kind seem

imminent; Frank think it would prove apoplexy. other advice be send

for.



long before the usual hour for breakfast, breakfast have be take,

and the family hardly know what to do with themselves. Dr. Selfe, a

clever man, reside near, have see Major Raynor--who now seem to be

somewhat well. the doctor quite agree with Frank that the symptom

be indicative of apoplexy; but he think that it might be ward

off, at least for the present, by the aid of powerful remedy. these

remedy have be apply, and the patient be decidedly improve. he

speak little, but be quite conscious. on these occasion, when one

out of the home circle be lie upstairs in sudden and dangerous

illness, the house become utterly unsettled. ordinary habit be

change; no one know what to be at.



"I shall ring for some more coffee," say Charles, rise as he speak.

"there's nothing else to do."



Lamb come in and receive the order. the breakfast-thing be still

on the table. this be one of the pleasantest room in the house:

small and cosy, with glass-door opening to the garden. it face the

west, so be free from the morning sun: but, beyond the shade cast by

the house, that sun shine brightly on the smooth green grass and

cluster flower.



Whilst wait for the coffee, which have to be make, Charles lean

against the window, half in, half out-of-door, whistle softly and

keep a good look-out around, lest any Philistine should be

approach unaware. this illness of his father's terribly

complicated matter. in the midst of Charley's bad apprehension

there have lie, down deep in his heart, the vista of a possible

refuge. he have whisper to himself, "when thing come to a crisis, my

father will no doubt find a way to help I;" and the hope have be as

a healing balm to his spirit. but his father, lie in this state,

could not be apply to: his repose of mind must not be disturb: and

if Charley fall into some tiger's clutch now, what on earth be he

to do?



whistle softly and unconsciously, Charley indulge in these highly

agreeable reflection. his mother have not come downstairs at all.

Alice have go up to Daisy: Kate and Mademoiselle be read French

under the distant walnut-tree. only Frank be there.



"I do think I can smell haymake!" cry Charley, suddenly.



"yes," assent Frank. "some of the field be down."



"be it not early for it?"



"we have have an early season."



no more be say. there flash into Charley's mind a remembrance of

the day he have first see Eagles' nest: when he have stand at one of

the window, though not this one, gaze out at the charming scenery,

the lovely flower; inhale their perfume and that of the new-mow

hay. Association of idea be powerful, and probably that scent of the

hay have bring the day to his memory now. barely a twelvemonth have

pass since then: and yet--how hope and anticipation have change!

he have believe then that peace, ease, prosperity must inevitably

attend they as the possessor of Eagles' nest: he remember picture

to himself the calamity it would have be have the beautiful place

pass into other' hand. but he have live to learn that care and

worry could penetrate even there.



"there's the postman!" cry Charley. and glad, probably, of the

interruption, he go out, and cross the lawn to meet the man.



"only one letter this morning," he exclaim, come back, his eye

fix on it. "I say, Frank, what be to be do? it be from old Street,

and he have put 'immediate' on it."



"you have well open the letter yourself, I should say, Charles: my

uncle cannot," say Frank, decisively.



"I wonder what he have to write about: it be not often we hear from

he. nothing particular, I dare say: the good old father have not, I be

sure, a secret in the world. or--do you think," add Charley, his

face light with eager hope, "that the money can have turn up?

what a glorious thought! yes, I will open it."



he break the seal of the letter. at that moment Lamb come in with

fresh coffee. Frank, stand near the mantelpiece, watch the man

put it down, and set two or three thing in order on the table before

go out again. as the door close, Frank's glance chance to stray

to Charley's face.



what be the matter with it? the eager flush of hope have be

succeed by a look of dismay: nay, almost of horror. the letter

seem very short. Charley be read it twice over, grow pale

the while.



"can it be a hoax?" he cry, in a voice scarcely raise above a

whisper, as he hold the letter out. "it cannot be true."



Frank take the letter reluctantly. there be no help for it. but a

spasm seize his own face, and a very terrible spasm seize his heart.

when we be nourish some great dread, any new and unexplained event

seem to bear upon it. his fear have fly back to that dreadful night

at Trennach. have this letter come to betray he?



but the letter prove in no way connect with that. the news it

bring be of a nature perfectly open and tangible. Frank's own fear

give place to consternation and dismay as he read the lawyer's word:

dismay for his uncle's sake.





"my Dear Sir,



"I have just hear a very painful rumour, and I think it my duty to

communicate it to you. it be say that the will, under which you

succeed to Mrs. Atkinson's estate, prove to have be worthless; a

fresh will having be discover. by this later will, it be Mr.

George Atkinson who inherit Eagles' nest. my information be, I fear,

authentic; but I do not yet know full particular.



"this be but a brief note to convey such tiding, but the evening post

be on the point of closing, and I do not wish to lose it. I would have

run down, instead of writing, but be not equal to it, have for the

past week or two be confine to the house.



"believe I, dear sir,



"sincerely your,



"JOHN STREET.



     "Major Raynor."





they stand look at one another, Charles and Frank, with question

eye and dismayed face. could it be true? no, surely not. street the

lawyer, in spite of the boasted authenticity of his information, must

have be misinform.



so think, so speak Charles. "you see," cry he, "he speak of it at

first as only a rumour."



but Frank, in spite of his sanguine nature, regard the information

differently. he begin look at portion of the letter again, and do

not answer.



"cann't you say something, Frank?"



"Charley, I fear it be true. Street would never have write this

dismal news to your father whilst there be any doubt about it."



"but it have no right to be true; it ought not to be true," dispute

Charley, in his terrible perplexity. "who be George Atkinson that he

should inherit Eagles' nest? the fellow live at the other end of the

world. in Australia, or somewhere. Frank, it's not _likely_ to be

true. it would be frightful injustice; a cruel shame. it have be ours

for twelve month: who will wrest it from we now?"



and truly, having enjoy Eagles' Nest for all that time, regard it

as theirs, live at it in perfect security, it do appear most

improbable that it should now pass away from they; almost an

impossibility.



"Charley, we must keep this letter to ourselves until we know more. I

be almost glad my uncle be ill; it would have shock he so----"



"and how long will it be before we know more?" break in Charles, who

be in a humour for find fault with every one, especially the

lawyer. "Street ought to have come down, no matter at what

inconvenience. a pretty state of suspense, this, to be place in!"



"drink your coffee, Charley."



"Coffee? oh, I don't want it now."



the unfortunate news leave Charles no inclination for coffee. of all

the calamity, actual or threaten, that have be make his life

uneasy, this be the bad. the bad? the rest now seem as pass

shadow in comparison. Frank, with all his sunny nature, could impart

no comfort to he. the only possible ray to be discern, lie in the

hope that the tiding would turn out to be untrue. a hope which grow

fainter with every moment's thought.



to remain in this suspense be nothing less than torture. it be

hastily decide between they that Frank should go up to town, see Mr.

Street, and learn more. he have no scruple in do this: Major Raynor

be decidedly well; in no immediate danger, as Frank believe; and

Dr. Selfe be at hand in case of need.



Frank lose no time; hasten to the station, and look in on Dr.

Selfe on his way, to explain that important business be call he

for a few hour to London. Mr. Street's residence be near Euston

Square, and his office be in the same house. the morning be well

advanced when Frank arrive there and be show into the lawyer's

presence. he seem less genial than of yore, as he sit half turn

from a table cover with paper, his right foot on a rest: his hair

be certainly more scanty; his light eye, see so clearly through his

spectacle, be cold. Frank, who, as it chance, have never see

he, think what a hard little man he look.



"ah, yes; a sad affair," he remark, as Frank in a few word

introduce himself and his business. "very embarrassing for the

major."



"but I hope that it cannot be true, Mr. Street?"



"that what cannot be true?--that a later will be in existence? oh,

that be true enough. and the major have have an attack, you say?

Misfortunes never come singly."



"may I ask how the fact--that there be a late will--have come to your

knowledge?"



Mr. Street turn over a few of the paper on the table, and take up a

letter lie amongst they. "I receive this note from my brother, the

banker, yesterday afternoon," he say, run his eye over it. "it

tell I that a will, of later date than the one by which Major Raynor

hold Eagles' nest, have be produce, leave the estate to Mr.

George Atkinson. George Atkinson be now on his homeward voyage from

Australia, to take possession of the property."



"what a mercy if the ship should go down with he!" think Frank, in

his dismay, as the faint remnant of hope die out. "then--I presume

you consider that this unpleasant report may be rely on, Mr.

Street?"



"certainly it may. my brother be one of the most cautious man live;

he would not have write so decisively"--touching the note with his

finger--"had any doubt exist. most likely he have hear from George

Atkinson himself: he would of course write before sailing. Atkinson be

virtually his chief partner, you know, head of the bank. I have think

my brother would perhaps call here last night, but he do not.

something or other have come to my ankle, and I cann't get out."



"then--this note from Mr. Edwin Street be all the information you as

yet possess?"



"yes, all. but I know it be to be rely on. I think it well to

write at once and acquaint the major: he will have little time, as it

be, to prepare for the change, and see what can be do."



Frank rise. "I will go down and question Mr. Edwin Street," he say.

"I suppose I be at liberty to do so?"



"oh, quite at liberty," be the reply. "he no doubt write to I with a

view to prepare your family, Mr. Raynor. you will find he at the

bank."



the banker receive Frank coldly; he seem just the same hard,

ungenial, self-contain sort of man that his brother be. hard, in

fact. this be indeed his general manner: but somehow, Frank catch up

an idea that he have a dislike to the name of Raynor.



"I beg to refer you to Callard and Priestleigh, Mr. Atkinson's

solicitor," speak the banker to Frank, as soon as the latter enter

on his business. "they will be able to afford you every necessary

information."



"but willn't you tell I how it have all come about?" cry Frank, his

genial manner present a contrast to that of the banker. "if Mrs.

Atkinson make a late will, where have the will be all this while?

why should it turn up at a twelvemonth's end, and not at the time of

her death?"



"the will, as I be inform, have be lie in the hand of Callard

and Priestleigh."



"then why do Callard and Priestleigh not produce it at the proper

time?" reiterate Frank.



"Callard and Priestleigh may themselves be able to inform you," be

the short, stiff answer.



apparently no satisfaction could be extract from Mr. Edwin Street.

Frank wish he good-morning, and betook himself to Callard and

Priestleigh, who live near the Temple. "from pillar to post, from

post to pillar," think he. "I ought to arrive at something

presently."



Mr. Callard be a white-haired old gentleman; a little reserve in

manner also; but nevertheless sufficiently cordial with Frank, and not

object to give he information. he take he for the son of Major

Raynor; and though Frank twice set he right upon the point, the old

man go back to his own impression, and persist in think Frank

to be the--late--heir to Eagles' nest. it be a mistake of no

consequence.



the reader may remember that when Mrs. Atkinson express she

intention of make a fresh will in Mr. George Atkinson's favour and

leave Major Raynor's name out of it, she have summon Street the

lawyer to Eagles' Nest to draw it up. Street, as he subsequently

inform the major, have represent the injustice of this to Mrs.

Atkinson, and prevail upon she--as he suppose--to renounce she

intention, and to let the old will stand. the lawyer go back to

London in this belief; and nothing whatever transpire, then or

subsequently, to shake it. however, after his departure from Eagles'

Nest, it appear that Mrs. Atkinson have send for a local solicitor,

and cause he to draw up a fresh will, in which she make George

Atkinson her heir, and cut off the major. this will she have keep by

she until just before her death, when she send it, seal up, to

Callard and Priestleigh, request they to put it amongst Mr. George

Atkinson's paper, and hold it at his disposal. there could be no

doubt, Mr. Callard think, that she also, either at the time the new

will be make, or close upon her death, write to George Atkinson and

inform he of what she have do: namely, make she will in his

favour, and place it with his solicitor.



"but, sir," exclaim Frank to Mr. Callard when he have listen to

this explanation, "how be it that you do not bring the will forward

at Mrs. Atkinson's death? why do you suffer the other will to be

prove and act upon, when you know you hold this one?"



"but we do not know it," reply the old man: "you have misunderstood

I, my young friend. when Mrs. Atkinson send the document to we she

do not inform we of its nature. I assure you we never suspect that

it be a will. it be seal up in a parchment envelope, and bear no

outward indication of its content."



"then--how do you know it now?"



"because we have receive write instruction from Mr. George

Atkinson to open the parchment, and prove the will. it be by these

instruction we gather the fact that Mrs. Atkinson must have write

to inform he such a will exist."



"he have take his time in come to verify it!"



"it appear--as we hear from Edwin Street--that he be travel for

month in some remote part of Australia, and do not receive his

letter. however, he be on his way home now."



"be the will open? have you see it?" ask Frank.



"both see it and read it," reply the old man, smooth back his

white hair, and look at Frank with concern. "it will be prove in a

day or two. I sympathize with you and your father."



"who be the executor?"



"George Atkinson and Street the banker. the latter be act."



"and Mr. Atkinson be really on his way from Australia."



"yes: by ship. we expect he to land in the course of two or three

week. his write instruction be receive by this last mail, and

be convey to we through Edwin Street, to whom they be send. Mr.

Atkinson desire that all necessary preliminary may be execute

without delay, as he intend to take possession of Eagles' Nest on his

arrival."



"he cannot know that my uncle be in it!"



"I dare say he do. he know that Major Raynor succeed to it, for we

write he to that effect at the time. and he be in regular

correspondence with his partner, Edwin Street."



"then the bad be true!" cry Frank, as he fully realize what this

mean for the poor major and his family. "I _wonder_ that George

Atkinson should accept the estate!--should wr it from they! from

the little I have hear of he, I draw the conclusion that he be a

kind and a just man."



Mr. Solicitor Callard open his eye very widely. the word surprise

he "kind! just!" cry he. "well, he be so: we know he well: but, my

good sir, a will be a will. you cann't ignore a will as you might a

verbal message."



"it will be a terrible shock to my uncle and his family. Utter ruin."



the old gentleman shake his head in pity.



"ay, it's sad, no doubt; very sad. we lawyer often have to inflict

grievous blow; and we cannot help ourselves."



"one last question," say Frank, as he prepare to leave. "in the old

will, Major Raynor be leave residuary legatee,--and therefore come in

for all the accumulate money--though in point of fact the bulk of it

have not yet be find. who come in for it now?"



"George Atkinson. my good young friend, George Atkinson come in for

_everything_. the one will may be call a counterpart of the other;

in regard to the small legacy, and all else; except that George

Atkinson's name be substitute for Major Raynor's.



"be nothing leave to the major in this later one?"



"nothing."



Frank Raynor go back to Eagles' Nest, carry his deplorable news

with he. careless and sanguine-natured though he be, he could not

close his eye to the dark future. it be not only the loss of the

estate. that would have be bad enough, in all conscience; but there

be also the money the major have spend. the ready-money that have be

lie at Eagles' Nest and at her banker's at the time  of Mrs.

Atkinson's death; and also this past year's revenue from the estate.

the major have spend it all: and for this he be now accountable to

George Atkinson; he could be legally call upon to refund it. a fear

cross Frank that he would be so call upon: a hard man, as he be

now judge George Atkinson to be--perhaps without just cause--would

most likely exact his full right, no matter what misery and ruin they

might involve to other. in Frank Raynor's chivalrous good-nature, he

be think that George Atkinson, already a wealthy man, might have

refuse Eagles' Nest, and leave the major in peaceable possession of

it. perhaps very few man would agree with he: as the old lawyer say,

a will be a will. this be certain: that, no matter how large a sum

the law might claim from Major Raynor, he have not a shilling to meet

it with. would they confiscate his annuity until it be pay--that

five hundred a-year; which be all he and his child would now have

to fall back upon? "I wish with all my heart I have a home to offer

they, and a good practice to keep it up!" conclude Frank.



Poor Major Raynor! he be never to be subject to this trouble; or to

any other trouble in this world. it be past six when Frank get back

to Eagles' Nest, and he find his uncle die. the attack that be

dread have seize he about an hour before: just twelve hour after

the first threatening in the morning; and there be now little, if

any, hope.



"oh, my dear," gasp Mrs. Raynor, in her pitiable distress, let

her head fall on Frank's shoulder, as her tear rain down, "it be so

sudden! if he could only recover consciousness, and speak to we!"



"Aunt," he say, his own eye misty, "don't you think we have well

send for Edina? she would be a comfort to you."



"Edina!" be the sob answer. "my dear, she be telegraph for

this morning. Lamb go to the station just after you leave. I know she

would come off at once: she be on her way now. I could never bear up

under this trouble without Edina."



"but she do not know of the other trouble," think Frank, look

on Mrs. Raynor, with pity eye. "it must be break to she by

Edina."









CHAPTER VII.

FRANK RAYNOR FOLLOWED.





the whole house be steep in grief--for Major Raynor have die at

dawn. as most house be, when a near and beloved relative be remove:

and the anguish be more keenly feel if the blow, as in this case,

fall suddenly. Edina be a treasure now; she have travel by night

and be early at Eagles' nest. mourn with they sincerely, she at

the time strove to cheer they. she whisper of a happy meeting

hereafter, where shall be no more parting; she would not let they

sorrow without hope. even Mrs. Raynor felt comfort: and the little

child dry their tear, say that papa be with the angel in

heaven, and they should go to he when God see that they be good

enough.



but, of that other misfortune none of the household as yet be

cognizant. Frank take an opportunity of reveal it to Edina. it

almost overwhelm even she.



"not theirs!" she cry, in a dread whisper. "Eagles' Nest George

Atkinson's!"



"and the bad of it be," return Frank, run through a summary of

the detail he have hear, "that he mean to exact his right at once,

and take immediate possession of the place as soon as he land. do

you not know this George Atkinson once, Edina?"



"yes--a little," she answer, a faint blush rise to her cheek at

the remembrance.



"be he hard and selfish then?"



"I--cannot quite tell, Frank. he do not appear to I to be so."



"perhaps not. he be young then: and man grow hard as they grow

old. but now, Edina, what be to be do? they will have to turn out

of this house, and where will they find another?"



the problem seem a hard one. Edina sit it an attitude almost of

despair as she try to solve it: her hand fold quietly on her

black dress; her usually calm, good face perplex; her steady eye

anxious. the unexpected blow have fall on she sharply; and in these

first moment it be a hard task to battle with it. so far as she or

any one else could see, the Raynors would not have a penny to fall

back upon: no income of any sort whatever. the major's annuity have

die with he.



"they be all so helpless!" she murmur.



"of course they be," assent Frank. "not that that make it any

bad or well."



"it make it all the bad," say Edina. "be they experience and

capable, they might do something or other to earn a living."



a whole world of surprise shone in Frank Raynor's candid blue eye.

"earn a living!" he exclaim. "who would earn it?"



"all who be old enough," say Edina. "Mrs. Raynor and Alice to begin

with."



"surely you cannot think of such a thing for they, Edina!"



"but how else will they exist, Frank? who will keep they? Charley will

never be able to do it."



a blank pause. Frank, bring thus practically face to face with the

position, be unable to reply.



"I wish to goodness I could keep they!" he exclaim, at length. "I

wish I have a practice and a house over my head! they should all come

to it."



"it have surprise I very much indeed, Frank--to leave the other

subject for a moment--that you have not seek to establish yourself

all this time."



"I be wait for some money to do it with, Edina. Poor Uncle Francis

be constantly expect those miss fund to turn up. it seem they

would have belong to George Atkinson if they have come to light: but

we could not have know that."



"your uncle Hugh blame you for it, Frank. 'well to take a situation

as an assistant, than to fritter away his day at Eagles' nest,' he

use often to say."



Frank make no reply. the mention of his uncle Hugh bring vividly to

his mind that last ominous letter he have receive from he. with his

usual incaution, he speak on the moment's impulse.



"be Blase Pellet at Trennach still?"



not quite immediately do Edina answer. raise his eye, he meet her

fix on he. and he see something in their depth that he do not

like: an anxious, questioning, half-terrified expression.



"Edina know about it," think he. and he turn as cold as the

winter frost.



"yes, Blase Pellet be there as usual," she reply, avert her eye.

"and Mrs. Bell have leave Trennach for good and have go to live at

Falmouth."



why, the very answer; that last gratuitous sentence; would itself have

be enough to betray her cognizance of the matter. else why should

she have connect the Bells with Blase Pellet? Frank quit the

topic abruptly.





not until after the funeral--which take place, as be deem

expedient, on the fourth day from the death--be the tiding of their

penniless state convey to Mrs. Raynor and the other. how Charles

have contrive to keep counsel he never know. he be look upon as the

successor to Eagles' Nest. servant and other continually come to he

for direction: be this to be do, sir; be the other to be do:

treat he as the master.



Mrs. Raynor receive the news with amazement, astonishment contending

with incredulity. Alice burst into tear; Alfred go into a passion.

they talk foolishly at first, say they would go to law: the

newly-find will should be dispute; the property fling into Chancery.

the only two capable of bring reason to bear upon the matter be

Frank and Edina: and they might have be nearly as bad as the rest,

have the tiding only just come upon they. they point out how bad

than futile any opposition would be. not a shadow of doubt could exist

that the second will be perfectly correct and legal, and that the

whole property belong to George Atkinson.



on the second day after Frank's return from London, while the poor

major lie dead in the house, Charles receive an official letter from

Street the lawyer. it give in detail the particular already know,

and state that Mr. George Atkinson be then on his voyage to Europe,

with sundry other hint and statement. this letter Frank read aloud

now.



"you see," he say, "even our own lawyer give in. he say not a word

about opposition. no, there's no help for it; Eagles' Nest must go

from you. but I think old Aunt Atkinson ought to have be ashamed of

herself."



"she must have be dreadfully wicked," sob Alice.



one thing they do not tell Mrs. Raynor--that she could be make

responsible for the money receive and spend during the past

twelvemonth. the claim be not yet make; would not be make until Mr.

George Atkinson's arrival; time enough to tell she then.



what their plan be to be, or where they could go, or how live, be

the subject of many an anxious thought, as the day pass on. Edina

suggest this and that; but poor Mrs. Raynor and Alice shrink from

all. as yet they could not realize what the turning-out of Eagles'

Nest would be, and instinctively shun the anticipation.



but upon none do the blow fall so bitterly as upon Charles. he be

suddenly fling from his position on the height of a pinnacle to its

base. a few day ago he be an independent gentleman, an undergraduate

of Oxford, the heir to Eagles' nest; now all these desirable

accessory have melt like icicle in the sunbeam. he must work for

a living, if he be to live; he must take his name off the college

book, fail the mean to return to college; he must, for his mind's

good peace, forget that there be such a place as Eagles' Nest.



work for a living! how be he to do anything of the kind, he ask

himself. and even if he be willing, and the work present itself

(some charming, rose-colour vision of a sinecure post would now and

again arise indistinctly before his imagination) how would he be free

to fulfil it, with those wretched debt at his heel?



one little matter do surprise Charles--he hear nothing of Huddles.

he have fully expect that within a day or two of that worthy man's

departure certain shark of the law, or--as he seem to prefer to

call they--tiger, would attack he. but nothing of the sort occur.

the day go on, and Charles be still not interfere with.



about a fortnight after the death of Major Raynor, a letter arrive

from Mr. Street. and, by the way, speak of the major's death, what

a grievous farce his will sound when it be read. eagle' Nest be

bequeath to Charles, with liberty to Mrs. Raynor to reside in it for

the next ten year; after that, if Charles should deem it expedient

that she should leave with the young child, he be charge to

provide she with a home. the major recommend that a portion of the

missing money, when find, should be put out at interest, and allow

to accumulate for her benefit. quite a large sum be willed away in

small bequest. this to one child, that to another; some to Edina,

some to Frank, and so on. the horse and carriage, the linen, plate,

ornament and trinket, with sundry other personality that have come

to he with Eagles' nest, be leave to Mrs. Raynor. all this, when

read, sound like a painful farce, a practical joke. these thing

be all George Atkinson's; and, of the legacy, the poor major

possess not a shilling to bequeath.





Mr. George Atkinson safely arrive in England and in London. Lawyer

Street write to Eagles' Nest to state the fact, and that he have hold a

business interview with he in the presence of Mr. Callard. Mr.

Atkinson, he hint, be not inclined to deal harshly with the Raynor

family, but leniently. he give they one month in which to vacate

Eagles' Nest, when he should himself enter into possession of it; and

with regard to the money spend in the past twelvemonth, which do in

reality belong to he, and to the mesne profit, he make no claim. let

they leave his house quietly, and he should say nothing about arrear.

it have be spend by Major Raynor under the misapprehension that it

be his own, and he would not exact it of the major's child.



the condition be, perhaps, as favourable as could be expect from

a man of the world. Mr. Solicitor Callard pronounce they to be

wonderfully so, cruelly hard though they sound to the Raynors.

_they_ think, take all circumstance into consideration--his own

wealth, which must be accumulate yearly, his want of relationship to

the former mistress of Eagles' Nest, and consequent absence of just

claim to inherit it--that Mr. Atkinson should have quietly resign it

to they, and leave they in undisturbed possession of it. Frank, once

hear Charley say this, shake his head. _he_ should have do this

himself, he say, be he George Atkinson; but he fear the world, as

a whole, would not: we do not live in Utopia.



and now come in Edina's practical good sense. after allow they a

day to grieve, she beg they to listen to her idea for the future.

she have be think a great deal, but could only hit upon one plan

that seem at all feasible. it be, that Mrs. Raynor and Alice should

establish a school. Alice, a well-educate girl, a good musician and

otherwise accomplish, would be of valuable aid in teaching.



three week ago, they would--Alice, at any rate--have turn from the

proposition with indignation. but those three week have be work

their natural effect; and neither Mrs. Raynor nor Alice speak a

dissent syllable. they have begin to realize the bitter fact that

they must work to live. the world lie before and around they: a cold,

cruel, and indifferent world, as it now seem to they; and they have

no shelter in it. to keep a lady' school would be less objectionable

than some thing, and be certainly preferable to starve. well

than set up a shop, for instance, or take to a boarding-house.

it be Edina who allude to these unpleasant alternative, and Alice

do not thank she for it. Poor Alice have still many lesson to learn.

it be true that Alice might go out as a governess, but that would not

keep Mrs. Raynor and the young one.



"I see only one objection to this school idea of your, Edina," speak

poor Mrs. Raynor, who be the first to break the silence which have

ensue; while Alice sit with downcast eye and an aching heart. "and

that be, that I do not know how it be to be accomplish. we have no

money and no furniture. it would be easy enough to take a house in

some good situation, as you suggest; but how be it to be furnish?"



Edina do not immediately answer. perhaps the problem be rather too

much for herself. she sit in thought; her steadfast eye gaze with a

far-away look over the beautiful landscape they be so soon to lose.



"Mr. Atkinson intimate that we be at liberty to remove any

furniture, or other article, we may have buy for Eagles' nest;

that he only wish it leave as it be leave by Mrs. Atkinson,"

continue Mrs. Raynor: who, in these last few day of trouble, seem

to have quite return to the meek-spirit, humble-minded woman she

use to be, with not a wish of her own, and thoroughly incapable.

"but, Edina, the furniture would be too large, too grand for the sort

of house we must have now, and therefore I be afraid useless. besides,

we shall have to sell these thing with the carriage, and all that,

to pay outstanding debt here that must be settle: the servant'

wage, our new mourning, and other thing."



"true," reply Edina, somewhat absently.



"perhaps we could hire some article: chair and table, and form for

the girl to sit on, and bed?" suggest Mrs. Raynor. "sometimes

furniture be let with a house. Edina, be you listen?"



"yes, I be listen; partly at least; but I be deep in thought just

then over way and mean," reply Edina, rouse herself to her usual

mental activity. "a furnished house would never do; it would be too

costly; and so, I fear, would be the hiring of furniture. now and

then, I believe, when a house be to be let, the furniture in it can be

buy very cheaply."



"but if we have no money to buy it with, Edina?"



"of course: there's the drawback. I think the neighbourhood of London

would be the good locality for a new school: the most likely one to

bring scholar. should not you, Mary?"



"yes," assent Mrs. Raynor, with a sigh. "but you know all about

these thing so much well than I do, Edina."



the plan, and the mean of carry they out, seem, as yet, very

indistinct; but at length Edina propose to go to London and look

about she, and see if she could find any suitable place. Mrs. Raynor,

always thankful that other should act for she, eagerly acquiesced.

though, indeed, to find a house--or, rather, to find one full of

furniture--appear as a very castle-in-the-air. chair and table do

not drop from the sky: and Edina be set her face resolutely

against run into debt.



"now you understand," Edina say, the morning of her departure,

call Charles and Mrs. Raynor to she, "that I shall depend upon you

to arrange matter here. if I be to find a house for you in London, I

may have too much to do to return, and you must manage without I. set

about what have to be do at once, Charles: get the superfluous

furniture out of the house, for sale; and have your box pack,

ready to come up. you must be out of Eagles' Nest as soon as possible;

on account of the heavy expense still go on while you be in it.

Mr. George Atkinson allow you a month: I should leave it in less

than half that time. besides, Mary: you should be on the spot to begin

school before the Midsummer holiday be over; it will give you a

well chance of pupil."



they agree to all: Charles rather gloomily, Mrs. Raynor in simple

confidence: anything suggest by Edina be sure to be for the good.

it be impossible for Charles to rise up yet from the blow. with he,

the aspect of thing, instead of grow bright, grow dark. each

morning, as it dawn, be only more gloomy than the last. a terrible

wrong have be deal to he--whether by Fate, or by that unjust

defunct woman, his aunt Ann, or by George Atkinson, he could not quite

decide, perhaps by all three combine--and he feel at variance with

the whole world. Edina have talk to he of plan for himself, but

Charles do not hear she with any patience. to contrast the present

with the past drive he half-mad. that he must do something, he know

quite well, and he intend to do it: but he do not know what that

something be to be; he could not see an opening anywhere. moreover,

he also know that he must make some arrangement with the people at

Oxford to whom he owe money.



another thing have yet to be do--take his name off the college

book. Charles go down to do this; and to confer with his creditor.

very young man be often most sensitive on the score of debt: Charles

Raynor be so: and it seem to he a formidable and distressing task

to meet these man, avow his poverty, and beg of they to be lenient and

wait.



"I declare I'd rather meet his satanic majesty, and hold a battle with

_he!_" cry Charley, as he start forth to the encounter.



but he find the creditor considerate. they have hear of his reverse

of fortune. the news of the fresh will put forward, and the consequent

transfer of Eagles' Nest from the Raynors to George Atkinson the

banker, have be make much of in the newspaper. one and all meet

Charles pleasantly; some actuate by genuine pity for the young man,

other by the remembrance that you cannot get blood out of a stone.

half the sting be take from Charley's task. he tell they truly that

he have no present mean whatever, therefore could not offer to pay:

but he assure they--and his voice be earnest, and they see he mean

it--that he would pay they whenever it should be in his power to do

so, though that might not be for year to come. so he and they part

cordially. after all, no individual debt be very much, though in the

aggregate the sum look formidable.



Mr. Huddles be leave until last. Charles dread he most. that debt

be the large. the two bill be for fifty pound each, make a

hundred; and mischief alone know what the add expense would be. not

only do Charles dread he because he would have to eat humble-pie,

which he hate and detest, and beg the man to hold the bill on, but

he believe that Mr. Huddles could arrest he without ceremony.

nevertheless he have no choice but to enter on the interview for he

must know his own position before he could plan out or venture on any

career of life. he go forth to it at dusk; some dim idea pervade

he that tiger and kidnapper might not exercise their function

after sunset.



Mr. Huddles sit alone in his parlour when Charles be show in: a

well-light and well-furnish room. instead of the scowl and the

frown Charles have anticipate, he rise with a smile and a pleasant

look, and offer Charles a chair.



"we be both a little out of temper the other day, Mr. Raynor," say

he; "and both, I dare say, feel sorry for it afterwards. what can I do

for you?"



to hear this, completely take Charles aback. down he sit, with some

indistinct word of reply. and then, summon up what courage he

could, he enter upon the subject of the bill.



"no one can regret more than I that I cannot pay they," he say. "I

have come here to-night to beg of you to be so kind as hold they over.

the expense, I suppose----"



"I don't understand you, sir," interrupt Mr. Huddles. "what bill

be you talk of?"



"the two bill for fifty pound each--I have no other. although I

know how unjust it must seem to ask you to do this, Mr. Huddles, as

you be only a third party and have nothing whatever to do with the

transaction, I have no resource but to throw myself upon your good

feeling. I be quite unable to take the bill up; you have probably

hear of our reverse of fortune; but I will give you my word of honour

to do so as soon as----



"the bill be pay," cry Mr. Huddles, not allow he to go on.



"pay?" echo Charley.



"pay; both of they. why--do you not know it?"



"no, that I do not. who have pay they?"



"some legal firm in London."



"what firm?"



"the name be--let I see--Symmonds, I think. yes, that be it:

Symmonds and Son, solicitor."



Charley could only stare. he begin to think Mr. Huddles be play

off a joke upon he; perhaps to turn round on he afterwards.



"I don't know any people of the name of Symmonds, or they I," say

he. "how _come_ they to pay?"



"I think Major Raynor--I be sorry to see his death in the _Times_ so

soon afterwards--give they the necessary order."



Charles shake his head; it be not at all likely, as he know. he lose

himself in a maze of thought.



"the evening I see you, I be run into the station to catch a

train, having linger rather too long at the inn over some late

refreshment," explain Mr. Huddles, perceive that Charles be

altogether puzzle, "when a gentleman accost I, ask if my errand

in the place have not be connect with Major Raynor's son. I reply

that it have. this gentleman then say that if I would furnish the

particular of the debt to Messrs. Symmonds and Son, solicitor, of

London, they would no doubt see that I be pay; and he hand I

their address. I send the particular up the next day, and in the

course of a post or two receive the money."



"it must have be Frank," think Charles, the idea flash into his

mind. "what be this gentleman like, Mr. Huddles?"



"upon my word, sir, I can hardly tell you," be the reply. "the train

dash in just as he begin to speak to I; several passenger be

wait for it, and there be a good bit of confusion. it be dusk

also. nearly dark, in fact."



"a good-look, pleasant-speak fellow?"



"yes, I think so. he have a pleasant voice."



"no one but Frank," decide Charles. "it's just like he to do these

good-natured thing. I wonder how he find the money? and why in the

world do he not tell I he have do it?"



so this trouble be at an end; and Charles might for the present be

pronounce free from worry on the score of debt. if the Fates have be

hard to he latterly, it seem that they yet hold some little

kindness in store for he.



but this visit to the University city be productive of the most

intense chagrin in other way to Charles Raynor; of the keen

humiliation. "only a short while ago, I be one of _they_, with the

world all before I to hold my head up in!" he keep tell himself,

as he watch the undergraduate pass in the street, hold aloof

from they, for he have not the courage to show his face. if by

unavoidable chance he encounter one or two, he draw away as quickly

as he could, after exchange a few uncomfortable sentence. whilst

they, know his change circumstance, his blighted prospect, make

no effort to detain he; and if their manner display a certain

restraint, spring from innate pity, or delicacy of feeling, Charles

put it down to a very different cause, and feel all the deep

mortification.



as he leave Oxford by an early morning train on his way home, his

thought be busy with what have pass. for one thing, he find that

his day of torment at Eagles' Nest, when he go about in fear of

writ and arrest, have be without foundation. with the exception of

Mr. Huddles--and that be much later--not a single creditor, as all

assure he, have follow he there: neither have any of they write

to he, except the one whose letter have by misadventure fall into

the hand of Major Raynor. who then be the Tiger, Charles ask

himself. could it be that, after all, the man have positively hold no

mission that concern he? it might be so: and that Charles have

dread and hate he for nothing. the Tiger have leave Grassmere now,

as Charles happen to know. Jetty have say so the other day when he

be at Eagles' nest. to return sometime Jetty believe, for the

gentleman have say as much to his sister Esther when leave: he like

the lodging and like the place, and should no doubt visit they

again.



and so, Charles Raynor return home, relieve on the whole, in spite

of his ever-present trouble, and with a lively feeling of gratitude to

Frank Raynor in his heart.



he could not yet personally thank Frank; for Frank and his wife have

quit Eagles' Nest soon after the funeral of Major Raynor. with the

fortune of its hitherto suppose owner come to an end, Frank could

not any long remain, a weight on their hospitable hand. it be at

length necessary that he should bestir himself in earnest, and see in

what manner he could make a living for himself and Daisy. one great

impediment to his do this comfortably be, that he have no money.

except a few spare pound in his pocket for present exigency, he

have positively none. the sum he have privately furnish Charles with

at Christmas-time would have be useful to he now; but Frank never

give a regret to it. Daisy be not very strong yet, and could not be

put about. she be go to stay with her sister, Captain Townley's

wife, for two or three week, who have just come over from India with

her child, and have take a furnished house in London. Daisy write

to she from Eagles' Nest proffer the visit: she see what a

convenience it would be to Frank to be "rid" of she, as she laughingly

say, whilst he look about for some place that they could settle in.

Mrs. Townley's answer have be speedy and cordial. "yes, you can come

here, Daisy; I shall be delighted to see you. but what a silly child

you must have be to make the undesirable runaway marriage they tell

I of! I think all the St. Clares have well sense than that."



but the Tiger be not do with yet. on the day that Frank and his wife

say farewell to Eagles' nest, and take train for London, Frank jump

out of the carriage at an intermediate station to get a newspaper. on

his way into it again, he have his eye on the newspaper, and chance

to go up to the wrong compartment, the one behind his own. open the

door, Frank see to his surprise that there be no room for he, and at

the same moment find his face in pretty close contact with another

face; one adorn with a silky brown beard and the steadfast grey eye

Frank have learn to know.



"this compartment be full, sir."



how far Frank recoil at the word, at the sight, he never know. _it

be the Tiger_. with a sinking of the heart, a rush of dismay, he make

his way to his own carriage; and let the newspaper, that he have be

eager for, drop between his knee.



"he be follow I to town," cry Frank, mentally, in his firm

conviction. "he mean to track I. how shall I escape he? how be I to

escape Blase Pellet?"









CHAPTER VIII.

the NEW home.





a cold, drizzle rain be fall. we have wintry weather sometimes

in July, as be the case now. the lovely summer seem to have come to

an abrupt end, and to have fly for good. at least, it appear so to

those who be turn out of their late happy and prosperous home, to

enter on another of which they know little. know nothing, in fact,

except that it would have to be one of poverty and labour. for this

be the day that Mrs. Raynor and her child be quit Eagles'

Nest.



all superfluous effect have be dispose off, even to their personal

trinket. Charles's watch, that he set store by because it have be

his father's, and have only just come into his possession, have to go.

without the sale of these thing they could not have pay all their

debt and keep sufficient for press requirement. a fly take Mrs.

Raynor, Alice, and the two young child to the station, Charles

and Alfred having walk on; and a cart convey the luggage. the rain

beat against the window of the fly, the wind sweep by in gust,

shake the branch of the tree. everything look dreary and

wretched, even Eagles' Nest itself. oh, what a change it be, inwardly

and outwardly, from that day, bright with hope and sunshine, when they

have enter it only twelve short month before!



Charles be at the fly door when it draw up. "what ticket be I to

take?" he ask of his mother: and a blank pause ensue. they be

accustom to first-class; but that would not do now.



"either second, or--_third_, Charley," speak poor Mrs. Raynor.



"there be no third-class to this train," reply Charley, glad perhaps

to have to say it, as he turn away to the ticket-office.



and so they travel up to London, Mrs. Raynor lean back in the

carriage with closed eye, grateful for the rest. it have be a long

scuffle to get away: and every one of they have mentally reproach

Edina for not come to their help.



"it be just as though she have desert we," say Mrs. Raynor. "I

suppose she will be at the new house to receive we, as she say; but I

think she might have come all the same: she know how incapable I be."



the "new house" be situate in the southern district of London, some

three mile, or so, from the heart of the bustle. it be about five

o'clock when they approach it in two cab, through the dirt and

drizzle. the spirit of all be depressed. with the very utmost

difficulty Mrs. Raynor keep down her tear.



"I expect to find an empty barn," she say, look out on the dreary

road. "perhaps there will not be as much as a mattress to sleep on."



the cab stop before the door of a convenient, roomy, but

old-fashion-look house, stand a little back from the road,

with a garden behind it. a rosy servant-girl open the door. she be

not as fashionable-look as the maid they have leave, but she be

neat and active, and very willing--a remarkably desirable quality in a

maid-of-all-work. Edina come forward; a bright smile of welcome on she

face as she take all the hand into hers that she could hold, and

lead the way to the sitting-room. it be quite furnish, and the

tea-thing stand on the table.



instead of the empty barn Mrs. Raynor have expect, she find a house

plainly but well furnish throughout. the schoolroom, the airy

bedroom, the sitting-room, the kitchen, all have their appropriate

appointment. useful furniture, and quite new. Mrs. Raynor halt in

the kitchen, which be not underground, and gaze about she. the fire

throw its warmth on the red brick, a kettle be singe away, plate

and dish stand on the dresser shelf, every necessary article

seem at hand.



"I cannot understand it, Edina. you must have obtain the thing on

credit, after all. oh, that the school may succeed!--so that we may

soon be enable to pay for they."



"no credit have be ask or give, Mary," be Edina's answer. "the

furniture have be buy and pay for, and it be your."



"buy by whom?"



"by I. you will not be too proud to accept it from your poor friend,

Edina!"



Mrs. Raynor sit down on the near wooden chair, and burst into

tear.



"you think, I be sure, that I might have come back to help you away

from Eagles' Nest, Mary, but I could not: I have too much to do here,"

explain Edina. "I find there be an opening in this neighbourhood for

a school, and I also find this house, that be so suitable for one, to

be let. I take it, and with Frank's help, furnish it, plainly as you

see: and then I go about amongst the neighbour, and put an

advertisement or two in the paper, ask for pupil. two boarder,

sister, will enter to-morrow; two more on Monday, and five

day-pupil. this be not so bad a beginning, and I dare say other will

drop in. I feel sure you will succeed; that you and Alice may get a

very good school together in time: and I hope Heaven will bless and

prosper you."



Mrs. Raynor be look up in her rather helpless manner. "I--I don't

understand, Edina. do you buy the furniture, or do Frank?"



"not frank, poor fellow: he have need of help himself. be at rest,

Mary: I buy it, and I have make it over to you by a deed of gift.

the house be take in your name, and I be responsible for the first

half-year's rent."



"oh, Edina! but I think you have no money--except the small income

Dr. Raynor secure to you."



"please don't disparage my income," say Edina, gaily. "it be fifty

pound a-year: quite enough for I. as to the money, I have a hundred

pound or two by I that my dear father leave I over and above the

income. in lay it out for you and your in your hour of need, Mary,

I think it well spend."



"and we use to call Edina mean and stingy!" think Mrs. Raynor in

her repentant heart. "at least, Charles and Alice do."



with the next week, all the expect pupil have enter; four boarder

and five day-pupil. another day-pupil, not expect, make six. it be

a very good opening, afford hope of ultimate success.



"what do you think of it, Charley?" ask Mrs. Raynor, on the third

evening, as they sit together after the little boarder and Kate and

Robert be in bed, Edina be out.



"oh, I think it's first-rate," answer Charley, half seriously, half

mockingly. "you and Alice will be make a fortune by-and-by."



the remark do not please Alice. _she_, at least, be not reconcile

to the new home and its duty.



"_You_ may think it first-rate," she retort. "it be widely different

from Eagles' Nest. we be gentlepeople there; we be poor governess

here."



Charley make no response. the very name of Eagles' Nest would give he

an unpleasant turn.



"and it be nothing but work all day," go on Alice. "lesson this

hour, music that, write the next. oh, it be wearisome!"



"don't grumble, my dear," interpose Mrs. Raynor. "it might have be

so much bad. after the strange turn our affair take, we might now

be without a roof over our head or a morsel of bread to eat. so far

as I can see, we should have be, but for Edina."



the tear be rain down Mrs. Raynor's cheek. Alice start up and

throw her arm round she in repentance. "forgive I, dear mamma,

forgive I! I be wrong to speak so repiningly."



"you be wrong, dear Alice. in dwelling so much upon the advantage

we have lose, you overlook the mercy remain to we. and they be

mercy. we be together under one roof; we have the prospect of

make a fair living."



"yes," acquiesce Charley, throw regret behind he. "it be a very

nice home indeed, compare with what might have be."



"and I think we may yet be very happy in it," say Mrs. Raynor.



Alice strove to think so too, and put on a cheerful face. but the old

day be ever present with she; and she never recall the past hope

connect with William Stane, but her heart turn sick and faint in

its despair.



"it will be your turn next, Charles," observe Edina, take the

opportunity of speak to he the follow morning, when they be

alone.



"my turn?" repeat Charles, vaguely: conscious that he know what she

mean, but not choose to acknowledge it.



"to do something for yourself," add Edina. "you cannot intend to

live upon your mother."



"of course I do not, Edina. how stupid you be."



"and the question be, what be that something to be?" she continue,

pass over his compliment to herself.



"I should like to go into the army, Edina."



Edina shake her head. her long experience of life, her habit of

forethought, enable she to see obstacle that young people do not

see.



"even if you have the money to purchase a commission, Charley----"



"but I do not think of purchase. I should like to get one give to

I."



"be there a chance of it?"



Charles do not reply. he be stand before the window, gaze

abstractedly at a young butcher boy, dash about in a light cart for

his morning order. there be not very much chance of it, he fear,

but there might be a little.



"let we suppose that you have the commission, Charley, that it arrive

here for you this very day direct from the Horse Guards--or whatever

place may issue they," pursue Edina. "would it benefit you?"



"benefit I!"



"I mean, could you take it up? how would you find your necessary

outfit? regimental cost a great deal: and there must be many other

preliminary expense. this be not all----"



"I could get thing on credit," interrupt Charles, "and pay as I

go on."



"but this would not be the only impediment, Charley. I have hear that

it take every officer more than his pay to live. I have often think

that be I an officer it should not take I more; but it may be that

I be mistaken there. you would not have anything besides your pay,

Charley."



"oh, I expect I should get along."



"take at the good, you would have nothing to spare. I have think you

might choose some calling which would enable you to help they here at

home."



"of course. it be what I should wish to do."



"Alfred must be educate; and little Robert as he come on. your

mother may not be able to do this. and I do not see that you will have

it in your power to aid she if you enter the army."



Charles begin score the window-pane with a pencil that he hold, not

know what to answer. in truth, his own intention and view as to

the future be so vague and purposeless, that to dwell on it give he

nightmare.



"what should you propose, Edina?"



"a situation," reply Edina, promptly, "in some good city house."



but for the obligation they be just now under to Edina, Mr. Charles

Raynor would have abuse she well for the suggestion. it suit

neither himself nor his pride. a situation in some city house! that

mean a clerk, he suppose. to write at desk and go on errand!



"I wish you wouldn't talk so, Edina," he peevishly say, wish he

might box her ear. "do you ever hear of a Raynor become a

tradesman?"



"do you ever hear of a Raynor with no mean of living?" retort

Edina. "no profession, and no money? circumstance alter case,

Charley."



"circumstance cann't make a common man a gentleman; and they cann't

make a gentleman take up the rôle of a common man."



"cann't they! I think they often do. however, Charley, I will say no

more just now, for I perceive you be not in the humour for it.

consider the matter with yourself. _don't_ depend upon the commission,

for indeed I do not see that you have a chance of one. put it out of

your thought, if you can, and look to other way and mean. I shall

be leave you in a day or two, you know; by that time you will

perhaps have decide on something."



Edina go into the schoolroom, and Charles stand where he be. Alfred

come in with his latin book. Mrs. Raynor be go to send Alfred to

a day-school close by; but it do not open for another week or two,

and meanwhile Charles make a show of keep he to his Latin.



"what be I to do this morning, Charley?"



"copy that last exercise over again, lad. it be so badly write

yesterday that I could not read it."



Alfred's pen go scratch over the copy-book. Charles remain at

the window, deep in thought. he have no more wish to be live on his

mother than any other good son have; but he do not see where he could

go, or what he could do. the doubt have lain on his mind during these

recent day more than be agreeable to its peace. his whole heart be

set upon a commission; but in truth he do not feel much more sanguine

of obtain one than Edina seem to feel.



he wish he be something--wish it there as he stand. _anything_,

rather than remain in this helpless position. wished he be a doctor,

like Frank; or a banker, like that wretch, George Atkinson; or a

barrister, like that other wretch, stane. have he be bring up to

one of these calling he should at least have a profession before he.

as it be, he feel incapable: he be fit for nothing, know nothing. if

he could get a commission give to he, he should be on his leg at

once; and _that_ require no special training.



but for Charles Raynor's inexperience, he might have find that a

candidate for a commission in the army do require a special training

now. in his father's young day the case be otherwise. the major have

be very fond of talk of those day; Charles have thence gather

his impression, and they remain with he.



yes, he say to himself, make a final score on the window-pane, he

must get the commission; and the soon the well. not to lose time,

he think it might be well to see about it at once. an old

acquaintance of his father's, one Colonel Cockburn, have (as Charles

be willnot to put it to himself) some interest in high quarter: his

brother, Sir James Cockburn, be one of the Lords of the Admiralty.

of course, reason Charles, Sir James must be quite able to give away

post indiscriminately in both army and navy; and it be not likely he

would refuse one to his brother, if the latter ask for it. so if he,

Charles, could only get Colonel Cockburn to interest himself, the

affair be do.



"be you go out?" question Alfred, as Charles begin to brush his

coat and hat.



"yes, I be go to see Colonel Cockburn," be the reply. "no good

put it off any long. when you have finish copy that

exercise, youngster, you can do another. and mind you stick at it:

don't go worry the mother."



Away go Charles, on the top of a pass omnibus. Colonel Cockburn's

club be the Army and Navy. Charles possess no other address of his;

and to that building he find his way, and boldly enter.



"Colonel Cockburn, sir?" be the answer to his inquiry. "I don't think

he be in town."



"not in town!" cry Charles, his ardour suddenly damp. "why do you

think that?"



"he have not be here for a day or two, sir: so we conclude he be

either absent or ill. the colonel be sometimes lay up with gout for a

week together."



"can you tell I where he live? I'll go and see he."



"in St. James's Street," reply the man, give at the same time the

number of the house.



to St. James's Street proceed Charles, find the house in which the

colonel occupy room, and see the landlady. Colonel Cockburn be at

Bath: have go to stay with a brother who be lie there ill.



"what a dreadful bother!" think Charles. "cockburn must have a whole

regiment of brother!" and he stand in indecision.



"will the colonel be back soon?" inquire he.



"I don't know at all," be the landlady's answer. "should he be

detain in Bath, he may not come back before October. the colonel

always leave London the end of July. sometimes he leave early than

that."



"what on earth be I to do?" cry Charles, half aloud, his vivid hope

evaporate considerably. "my business with he be urgent."



"could you write to he?" suggest the landlady.



"I suppose I must--if you have his address. but I ought to see he."



she take an envelope from the mantelpiece, on which be write an

address in the Crescent, Bath. Charles copy it down, and go out.

he stand a moment, consider what he should do. the day be so fine

and the town so full of life, that to go off to that pokey old

southern suburb seem a sin and a shame. so he decide to make a day

of it, and begin with the Royal Academy.



Time slip away in the most wonderful manner when sight-seeing, and

the day be over before Charles think it half through. when he

reach home, it be past nine. the child be in bed; his mother

also have go to bed with headache; Edina and Alice be sew by

lamplight. Alice be at some fancy work; Edina be mend a tear

pinafore: one of a batch that require repair.



while take his supper, Charles tell they of his ill-luck in regard

to Colonel Cockburn. and when the tray go away, he get paper and ink

and begin to write to he.



"he be sure to have hear of our misfortune--don't you think so,

Edina? I suppose I need only just allude to they."



"of course he have hear of they," break in Alice, resentfully. "all

the world must have hear of they."



Charley go on writing. the first letter do not please he; and when

it be nearly complete he tear it up and begin another.



"it be always difficult to know what to say in this kind of

application: and I don't think I be much of a letter-writer," observe

he, candidly.



Alice grow tired, nod over her embroidery, and at length say

good-night and go upstairs. Edina send the servant to bed, and

stitch on at another pinafore.



"I think that will do," say Charley: and he read the letter aloud.



"it will do very well," acquiesce Edina. "but, Charley, I foresee all

sort of difficulty. to begin with, I be not at all sure that you

be eligible for a commission: I fancy you ought to go first of all to

Sandhurst or Woolwich."



"not a bit of it," reply Charley, full of confidence. "what other

difficulty do you foresee, Edina?"



"I wish you would give up the idea."



"I dare say! what would you have I do, if I do give it up?"



"pocket your pride, and find a situation."



Charles toss his head. Pride be almost as much in the ascendant

with he as it ever have be. he think how old and silly Edina be

grow. but he remember what she have do for they, and would not

quarrel with she.



"time enough to talk of that, Edina, when I have have Colonel

Cockburn's answer."



Edina say no more for a few moment. she rise; shake out Robert's

complete pinafore, and fold it. "I have a scheme in my head,

Charley; but you don't seem inclined to hear anything I may say upon

the subject."



"yes, I will," reply Charley, open his ear at the rather

attractive word "scheme." "I will hear that."



"I cannot help think that if George Atkinson be apply to, he

would give you a post in his bank. he ought to do it. after turn

you out of Eagles' Nest----"



"I wouldn't apply to he; I wouldn't take it," interrupt Charles,

fiercely, his anger arouse by the name. "if he offer I the good

post in it to-morrow, I would fling it back in his face. good-night,

Edina: I'm off. I don't care to stay to hear of suggest obligation

from _he_."



on the day of Edina's departure for Trennach, the morning post bring

Colonel Cockburn's answer to Charles. it be very short. Edina, her

bonnet on, stand to read it over his shoulder. the colonel intimate

that he do not quite comprehend Charles's application; but would see

he on his return to London.



"so there's nothing for it but to wait--and I hope he willn't be long,"

remark Charles, as he fold the briefly-word letter. "you must

see there's nothing else, Edina."









CHAPTER IX.

MR. MAX BROWN.





in a populous and somewhat obscure part of Lambeth, not a hundred

mile away from the great hospital, Bedlam, there run a narrow street.

amongst the shop, on the left of this street in go from London,

stand a house that could not strictly be call a shop now; though it

have be one recently, and the two counter within it still remain.

it have formerly be a small chemist's shop. about a year ago, a young

medical man name Brown have take it, do away with the drug and

chemical, so far as retail they to the public go, and there set

himself up as a doctor. he dispense his own medicine, so the

counter be useful still, and his jar of powder and liquid

occupy the pigeon-hole above, where the chemist's jar have once

stand. the low half of the window have be stain white; on one of

they be write in black letter, "Mr. Max Brown, surgeon;" on the

other, "Mr. Max Brown, general medical practitioner."



it be now about a year since Mr. Max Brown have thus establish

himself; and he have do very fairly. if his practice do not afford a

promise that he would speedily become a millionaire, it at least be

sufficient to keep he. and to keep he well. Mr. Brown have himself

be bear and rear in as crowd a part of London as this, somewhere

towards Clerkenwell, therefore the locality do not offend his taste.

he anticipate remain in it for good, and have not the slight

doubt that his practice would steadily increase, and afford he a

carriage and a well house in time. the tradespeople around, though

far below those of Bond Street in the social scale, be tradespeople

of sufficient substance, and could afford to pay Mr. Brown. he be a

little dark man, of affable nature and manner, clever in his

profession, like by his patient, and win his way more surely

amongst they day by day.



in the midst of this humble prosperity a check occur. not to the

prosperity, but to Mr. Brown's plan and project. several year

before, his eld brother have go to the West Indies, and his widow

mother and his sister have subsequently follow he out. the sister

have marry there. the brother, Kenneth Brown, be for some year

successful manager of a planter's estate; he now manage one of his

own. altogether they be extremely prosperous; and the only one of

the family leave in England, Max, receive pleasant letter from they

by each fortnightly mail, and be quite at ease with regard to they.

it therefore take he completely by surprise in the midst of this

ease, to find himself suddenly summon to Jamaica.



one day in this same hot summer, early in the month of June--for we

must go back two or three week in our story--Mr. Brown, having

complete his morning round of call on patient, stand behind his

counter make up the physic require by they, and wait for his

queer old maid-servant, Eve, to come and tell he his one-o'clock

dinner be ready. the door stand open to the hot street, and to the

foot-passenger traverse the pavement; and Sam, the young boy, be

wait at the opposite counter with his covered basket until the

physic should be ready.



"that's all to-day, Sam," say his master, pleasantly, as he fold

the white paper round the last bottle, and motion to the lad to

bring the basket forward. "and, look here"--showing one of the

packets--"this be for a fresh place, number 26, you see, in the Walk.

it's a grocer's shop."



"all right, sir. I shall find it."



"Maximilian Brown, Esq.," interrupt a voice at this juncture. it be

that of the postman. he come in at the open door, and read out the

address of the letter--his usual custom--as he put it down.



"oh, the mail's in, I see," observe the doctor to he.



"yes, sir."



Postman and boy go out together. Mr. Brown, leisurely turn down

his coat-cuff, which be never allow to come in contact with the

physic, take up the west indian letter, and break the seal. by that

seal, as well as by the writing, he know it be from his mother. Mrs.

Brown always seal her letter.



the letter contain only a few shaky line. it tell her son Max that

she be ill; ill, as she fear, unto death. and it enjoin he to

come out to Jamaica, that she might see he before she die. a note

from his brother be enclose, which contain these words--





"do come out, dear Max, if you can in any way manage it. Mother's

heart be set upon it. there be no immediate danger, but she be

break fast. come by next mail if you can, the middle of June; but

at any rate don't delay it long than the beginning of July. I

enclose you an order on our London banker, that the want of fund may

be no impediment to you.



"your affectionate brother,



"KENNETH."





it take a great deal to disturb the equable temperament of Max Brown.

this do disturb he. he stand stare at the different missive: now

at his mother's, now at his brother's, now at the good round sum name

in the order. a thunderbolt could not more effectually have take he

back. Eve, a clean old body in a flowery chintz gown, with a mob-cap

and bow of green ribbon surmount her grey hair, come in twice to

say the loin of lamb wait: but she receive no reply in return.



"I _cann't_ go," Max be repeat to himself. "I don't see how I _can_

go. what would become of my practice?"



but his mother be his mother: and Max Brown, a dutiful son, begin to

feel that he should not like she to die before he have see she once

again. she be not sixty yet. the whole of the rest of the day and

part of the night he be revolve matter in his mind; and in the

morning he send an advertisement to the _Times_ and to a medical

journal.



for more than a week the advertisement bring no result. answer

there be to it, and subsequent interview with those who write they;

but none that avail Max Brown. either the applicant do not suit

he, or his offer do not suit they. he then insert the

advertisement a second time.



and it chance to fall under the notice of Frank Raynor. or, strictly

speak, under the notice of Frank's friend Crisp. this be close

upon the return of Frank from Eagles' Nest. Daisy be with her sister

in Westbourne Terrace, and Frank have be take in by Mr. Crisp, a

young surgeon who hold an appointment in one of the London hospital.

he occupy private room, and could accommodate Frank with a

sofa-bedstead. Mr. Crisp see the advertisement on the morning of its

second appearance in the _Times_, and point it out to Frank.



"a qualified medical practitioner want, to take entire charge for a

few month of a general practice in London during the absence of the

principal."



"it may be worth look after, old fellow," say Crisp.



Frank seize upon the suggestion eagerly. most anxious be he to be

relieve from his present state of inactivity. an interview take place

between he and Max Brown; and before it terminate Frank have accept

the post.



to he it look all couleur-de-rise. during the very few day he have

now be in London, that enemy, the Tiger, have trouble his mind more

than be pleasant. that the man have come up in the same train, and

absolutely in the compartment immediately behind his own, for the

purpose of keep he in view, and of track out his place of abode

in town, appear only too evident to he. when Frank have deposit

his wife at her sister's door, the turning and twisting he cause

the cab to take in carry he to Crisp's, would have be sufficient

to baffle a detective. Frank hope it have baffle the Tiger: but he

have scarcely like to show himself abroad since. therefore the

obscurity of the locality in which Mr. Brown's practice lay, whilst it

have frighten away one or two dandy who have inquire about it, be

a strong recommendation in the eye of Frank.



the term propose by Mr. Brown be these: that Frank Raynor should

enter the house as he go out of it, take his place in all respect,

carry on the practice for he until he himself return, and live upon

the proceed. if the return amount to more than a certain sum, the

surplus be to be reserve for Mr. Brown.



Frank agree to all: the term be first-rate; just what he should

have choose, he say. and surely to he they look so. he be

suddenly lift out of his state of penniless dependence, have a house

over his head, and occupation. the very fact of possess a home to

bring Daisy to, would have lend enchantment to the view in his

sanguine nature.



"and by good luck I shall dodge the Tiger," he assure himself. "he

will never think of look for I _here_. be he to find I out, Mr.

Blase Pellet would be down upon I for hush-money--for that I expect

will be his move the moment he think I have any money in my pocket.

yes, well to be in this obscure place at present, than flourish

before the west-end world as a royal physician."



so when preliminary be arrange he write to Mrs. Raynor, say

what a jolly thing he have drop into.



but Mr. Max Brown reconsider one item in the arrangement. instead of

Frank's come in when he leave, he have he there a week beforehand

that he might introduce he to the patient. Frank be to take to the

old servant, Eve, and to the boy, Sam: in short, nothing be to be

alter, nothing change except the master. Frank be to walk in

and Mr. Brown to walk out; all else be to go on as before. Mr. Brown

make no sort of objection to Frank's wife share the home: on the

contrary, he make one or two extra arrangement for her comfort. when

he sail, the beginning of July, Frank be fully instal, and Daisy

might come as soon as she please. but her sister wish to keep she a

little long.



on one of the hot morning in that same month of July, a well-dress

young fellow in deep mourning might be see pick his way through

the narrow street of Lambeth, render ankle-deep in mud by the

prodigal benevolence of the water-cart. it be Charles Raynor. have

nothing to do with his time, he have come forth to find out Frank.



"it _cann't_ be here!" cry Charley to himself, sniff about

fastidiously. "Frank would never take a practice in a low place like

this! I say--here, youngster," he cry, arrest the step of a

tattere girl, who be run out of a shop, "do you chance to know

where Mark Street be?"



"first turn you come to," promptly respond the damsel, with

assure confidence.



Charles find the turning and the street, and go down it, look on

all side for the house he want. as he do not remember, or else do

not know, the name of Frank's predecessor, the word "Mr. Max Brown"

on some window-pane on the opposite side of the way afford he no

guide; and he might have go on into endless wild but for catch

sight within the house of a shapely head and some bright hair, which

he know belong to Frank. he cross the street at a bound, and

enter.



"Frank!"



stand in the identical spot in which Max Brown be stand when we

first see he, be Frank, his head bend forward over an account-book,

in which he be write. he look up hastily.



"Charley!"



their hand meet, and some mutual inquiry ensue. they have not see

each other since quit Eagles' Nest.



"we think you must be dead and bury, Frank. you might have come to

see we."



"just what I have be think--that you might have come to see I,"

return Frank. "_i_ cann't get away. since Brown leave, and for a week

before it, I have not have a moment to myself: morning, noon and night,

I be tie to my post here. your time be your own, Charley."



"I have be about at the west-end, find out Colonel Cockburn, and

do one thing or another," say Charley, by way of excuse his

laziness. "Edina leave we only yesterday."



"for Trennach?"



"yes, for Trennach. we fancy she mean to take up her abode for good

in the old place. she do not feel at home anywhere else, she say,

as she do there. it be good of she, though, be it not, Frank, to

set we up in the new home?"



"very good--even for Edina. and I believe few people in this world be

so practically good as she be. I do a little towards help she

choose the furniture; not much, because I arrange with Brown. how be

the school progressing?"



"all right. it be a dreadful come-down: but it have to be put up with.

Alice cry every night."



"and about yourself? have you form any plan?"



"I be wait till cockburn return to town. I expect he will get I a

commission."



"a commission!" exclaim Frank, dubiously; certain doubt and

difficulty cross his mind, as they have cross Edina's.



"it will be the good thing for I if I can only obtain it. there be no

other opening."



Frank remain silent. his doubt be very strong indeed; but he

never like to inflict thorn where he could not scatter flower, and

he would not damp Charley's evident ardour. time might do that quickly

enough.



Charley be look about he. he have be look about he ever

since he enter, somewhat after the fastidious manner that he have

look at the street, but more furtively. appearance be surprising

he. the small shop (it seem no well) with the door stand open

to the narrow street; the counter on either side; the glass jar

above; the scale lie to hand, and sundry packet of pill and

powder beside they: to he, it all savour of a small retail

chemist's business. Charley think he must be in a sort of dream. he

could not understand how or why Frank have condescend to so inferior

a position as this.



"do you _like_ this place, Frank?"



"uncommonly," answer Frank: and his honest blue eye, glance

brightly into Charley's, confirm the word. "it be a relief to be in

harness again; and to have a home to bring Daisy to."



"will Daisy like it?" question Charles. and the hesitation in his

tone, which he could not suppress, plainly betray his opinion--that

she would not like it.



Frank's countenance fall. it be the one bitter drop in the otherwise

sufficiently palatable cup.



"I _wish_ I could have do well for she. it be only for a time, you

know, Charley."



"I see," say Charley, feel relieve. "you be only here whilst

look out for something well."



"that's it, in one sense. I stay here until Brown come back. by that

time I hope to--to pick myself up again."



the slight pause be cause by a consciousness that he do not feel

assure upon the point. that Mr. Blase Pellet and his emissary, the

Tiger, and all their unfriendly machination combine, would by that

time be in some way satisfactorily dispose of, leave himself a free

agent again, Frank devoutly hope and most sanguinely expect. it be

only when his mind dip into detail, and he begin to consider how

and by what mean these enemy be likely to be subdue, that he

feel anxious and doubtful.



"something good may turn up for you, Frank, before the fellow--Brown,

if that's his name--come home. I suppose you'll take it if it do."



"not I. my bargain with Brown be to remain here until he return. and

here I shall remain."



"oh, well--of course a bargain's a bargain. how long do he expect to

be away?"



"he do not know. he might stay four or six month with his people, he

think, if thing go on well here."



"I say, why do you keep that street-door open?"



"I don't know," answer Frank. "from habit, I suppose. Brown use to

keep it open, and I have do the same. I like it so. it give a

little liveliness to the place."



"People may take the place for a shop, and come in."



"some have do so," laugh Frank. "it be a chemist's shop before

Brown take to it. I tell they it be only a surgery now."



"when do you expect Daisy?" ask Charles, after a pause.



"this evening."



"this evening!"



"I shall snatch a moment at dusk to fetch she," add Frank. "Mrs.

Townley be go into Cornwall on a visit to the Mount, and Daisy

come home."



"have the people at the Mount forgive Daisy yet?"



"no. they will not do that, I expect, until I be establish as a

first-rate practitioner, with servant and carriage about I. Mrs.

St. Clare like show."



"she wouldn't like this, I'm afraid," speak Charles, candidly, look

up at the low ceiling and across at the wall.



Frank be save a reply. Sam, the boy, who have be out on an errand,

enter, and begin deliver a message to his master.



"would you like some dinner, Charley?" ask Frank. "come along, I

don't know what there be to-day."



pass through a side-door behind he, Frank step into an

adjoining sitting-room. it be narrow, but comfortable. the window

look to the street. the fireplace be at the opposite end, side by

side with the door that lead to the house beyond. a mahogany sofa

cover with horsehair stand against the wall on one side; a low

bookcase and a work-table on the other. the chair match the sofa;

on the centre table the dinner-cloth be lay.



"not a bad room, this," say Charley, think it an improvement on

the shop.



"there's a well sitting-room upstairs," observe Frank.



"well furnish, too. Brown like to have decent thing about he; and

his people, he say, help he liberally when he set up here. that

work-table he buy the other day for Daisy's benefit."



"he must be rather a good sort of a fellow."



"he's a very good one. what have you for dinner, Eve? put a knife and

fork for this gentleman."



"roast beef, sir," reply the old woman, who be carry in the

dish, and nod graciously to Charles, as much as to say he be

welcome. "I think the new mistress might like to find a cut of cold

meat in the house."



"quite right," say Frank. "sit down, Charley."



Charley sit down, and do ample justice to the dinner, especially the

Yorkshire pudding, a dish of which he be particularly fond, and have

not lose his relish for amidst the dainty of the table at Eagles'

Nest. he begin to think Frank's quarter be not so bad on the whole,

compare with no quarter at all, and no dinner to eat.



"have you chance to see that man, Charley, since you come to London?"

inquire Frank, put the question with a certain reluctance, for he

hate to allude to the subject.



"what man?" return Charley.



"the Tiger."



"no, I have not see he. I learn at Oxford that I have be mistake

in think he be look after me----"



"he be not look after you," interrupt Frank.



"my creditor there all assure me---- Oh, Frank, how could I forget?"

break off Charley. "what an ungrateful fellow I be! though, indeed,

not really ungrateful, but it have temporarily slip my memory. how

good it be of you to settle those two bill for I! I would not write

to thank you: I prefer to wait until we meet. how do you raise the

money?"



Frank, who have finish his dinner, have nothing to do but to stare at

Charles. and he do stare, "I don't know what you be talk about,

Charley. what bill have I settle for you?"



"the two wretched bill I have accept and go about in fear of. you

know. be it not you who pay they?"



"be they pay?"



"yes. all pay and do with. it must have be you, Frank. there's no

one else that it could have be."



"my good lad, I assure you I know nothing whatever about it. where

should I get a hundred pound from? what could induce you to think it

be I?"



Charles tell the tale--all he know of it. they waste some minute in

conjecture, and then come to the conclusion that it must have be

Major Raynor himself who have pay. he have become acquainted in some

way with Charles's trouble and have quietly relieve it. a lame

conclusion, as both feel: for set aside the fact that the poor

major be short of money himself, to pay bill for his son secretly

be eminently uncharacteristic of he: he would have be far more

likely to proclaim it to the whole house, and reproach Charley in its

hearing. but they be fain to rest in the belief, from sheer want of

any other benefactor to fix upon. not a soul be there in the wide

world, as far as Charley know, to come forth in this manner, except

his father.



"I think it must have be so," conclude Charles. "perhaps the dear

old man get to know, through Lamb, of Huddles's visit that day."



"and what of Eagles' Nest?" ask Frank, as he pass back into the

surgery with Charles, and send the boy into the kitchen to his dinner.

"have George Atkinson take possession yet?"



"we have hear nothing of Eagles' Nest, Frank; we don't care to hear

anything. possession? of course he have. you may depend upon it he

would make an indecent rush into it the very day after we come out of

it, the wretch! if he do not the same night."



Frank could not help a smile at the outburst of indignation. "Atkinson

ought to do something for you, Charley," he say. "after turn you

out of one home, the least he could do would be to find you another. I

dare say he might put you into some post or other."



"and do you suppose I'd take it!" fire Charles, his eye blaze.

"what queer idea you must have, Frank! you be as bad as Edina. as

if----"



"oh, please, Dr. Brown, would you come to mother," interrupt a small

child, dart in at the open door. "she have fall through the back

parlour window a-cleaning of it, and her arm be break, she say."



"who be your mother, little one?"



"at the corner shop, please, sir. number eleven."



"tell she I will come directly."



Charles be take up his hat, to leave. "why do she call you Dr.

Brown?" he question, as the child run off, and Frank be make

ready to follow she and summon Sam to the surgery.



"half the people here call I so. it come more readily to they than

the new name. good-bye, Charley. my love to all at home. come again

soon."



he speed away in the wake of the child. Charley turn the other way on

his road homeward, carry with he a very disparaging opinion of

Lambeth.





in the small back sit-room, underneath its two light

gas-burner, stand Mrs. Frank Raynor, her heart beat fast than

usual, her breath labour. she feel partly frightened, partly

confuse by what she see--by the aspect of the place she be bring

to, as her new home. Frank have in a degree prepare she for it as they

come along in the cab which bring they, Daisy's box pile upon it:

but either he have do it insufficiently, or she have fail to realize

his description of what he call the "humble den," for it come upon

she with a shock. both as Margaret St. Clare and as Margaret Raynor

her personal experience of dwelling-place have be pleasant and

sunny.



the clock be strike ten when the cab have draw up in Mark Street.

she look out to see why it stop. she see a narrow street, an

inferior locality, small shop on either side. the one before which

they have halt appear to be a shop too: the door stand open, a

gas-burner be alight within.



"why be we stop here, Frank?"



Frank, hasten to jump out, do not hear the question. he turn to

help she.



"this be not the place?" she cry in doubt.



"yes, this be it, Daisy."



he take she in, pilot she between the counter into the light

side-room, and turn back to see to the luggage; leave she utterly

aghast, bewilder, and stand as still as a statue.



the door at the end of the room open, and a curious old figure,

attire in a chintz gown of antique shape, with a huge bow of green

ribbon on her muslin cap, appear at it. Eve curtsy to her new

mistress: the new mistress stare at the servant.



"you be welcome, ma'am. we be glad to see you. and, please, would

you like the supper-tray bring in?"



"be--be this Mr. Raynor's?" question Daisy, in tone that seem to

say she dread the answer.



"sure enough it be, ma'am, for the present. he be here during the

master's absence."



Daisy say no more. she only stand still in her grievous astonishment,

strive to comprehend it all, and to hush her dismayed heart. the

luggage be be bring in, and Eve go to help with it. Frank

find his wife seat on the horsehair sofa, when he come in; and

catch the blank look on her pale face.



"you be tired, Daisy. you would like to take your thing off. come

upstairs, and I will show you your bedroom."



light a candle, he lead the way, Daisy follow mechanically up the

steep, confine staircase, to which she herself seem to present a

contrast, with her fashionable attire of costly black gauze, relieve

by frilling of soft white net.



"the room's not very large, Daisy," he say, enter one on the first

floor, the window look out on some back lead. "there's a large

one in front on the upper landing, but I think you would prefer

this, and it be well furnish. it be Brown's room. he say I have

well take to it, for if I go up higher I might not hear the

night-bell.



"yes," reply Daisy, faintly, undo the string of her bonnet. "be

it a--a shop we come through?"



"that be the surgery. it use to be a shop, and Brown never take the

trouble to alter its arrangement."



"have you always to come through it on enter the house?"



"yes. there be no other entrance. the house in these crowded place

be confine in space, you see, Daisy. I will help Sam to bring up the

box," add Frank, disappear.



when finally leave to herself, Margaret sit down and burst into a

passionate flood of tear. it seem to she that, in come to dwell

here, she must lose caste for ever. Frank call to she presently, to

know whether she be not come down.



dry her eye as she well could, she take up the candle to descend.

on the opposite side of the small landing, a door stand open to a

sitting-room, and she look in. a fair-sized room this, for it be

over both the surgery and the parlour, and a very nice room too, its

carpet of a rich dark hue, with chair and window-hanging to match,

and furniture that be good and handsome. she put the candle on a

console, cross to one of the window, and gaze down at the street.



late though it be, people be surge to and fro; not at all the

sort of people Daisy have be accustom to. over the way be a small

fish-shop: a ragged man and boy, stand before it, be eat

mussel. to pass one's day in such a street as this must be

frightfully depressing, and Mrs. Raynor burst into tear again.



"why, my darling, what be the matter?"



Frank, come up in search of she, find she sob wildly, her head

bury on the arm of one of the chair. she lift it, and let it rest

upon his shoulder.



"you be disappoint, Daisy. I see it."



"it--it be such a wretched street, Frank; and--and such a house!"



Frank flush painfully. he feel the complaint to his heart's core.



"it be only for a time, Daisy. until I can get into something well.

if that may ever be!" he add to himself, as Blase Pellet's image

rise before his mind.



Daisy sob more quietly. he be hold she to he.



"I know, my poor girl, how inferior it be; altogether different from

anything you have be accustom to; but this home be well than

none at all. we can at least be together and be happy here."



"yes, we can," reply Daisy, rally her spirit and her sweet

nature, as she lift her face to look into his. "I marry you for

bad, as well as for well, Frank, my good love. we _will_ be happy

in it."



"as happy as a king and queen in a fairy-tale," rejoin Frank, a

whole world of hope in his tone.



and that be Daisy's instalment in her London home.









CHAPTER X.

a NIGHT ALARM.





Misfortunes seldom come singly. many of we, unhappily, have have good

cause only too often to learn the truth of the saying; but few, it be

to be hope, have experience it in an equal degree with the Raynors.

for another calamity be in store for they: one that, take the

difference between their present and past circumstance into

consideration, be at least as distressing as the ejection from

Eagles' Nest.



but it do not happen quite immediately. the week be calmly

pass, and Mrs. Raynor feel in spirit; for two more day-scholar

have enter at the half-quarter, and another boarder be promise at

Michaelmas. so that matter might be say to be progress

satisfactorily though monotonously. Monotony, however, do not suit

young people, especially if they have be suddenly plunge into it.

it do not suit Charles and Alice Raynor. ever contrast, as they

be, the present enforce quiet and obscurity with the past life at

Eagles' Nest, its show, society, and luxury, no wonder that they

feel well-nigh weary unto death. at first it be almost unbearable.

but they could not help themselves: it have to be endure. Charles be

bad off than Alice; she have her school duty to occupy she during

the day; he have nothing. Colonel Cockburn have not yet return to

London, and Charles tell himself and his mother that he must wait for

he. as the week go on, some relief suggest itself from this

dreariness--perhaps be the result of it.



the alleviation be find in private theatrical. they have make the

acquaintance of some neighbour name Earle; have become intimate with

they. the circumstance of the two family be much alike, and

perhaps this at first draw they together. Captain Earle--a

post-captain in the Royal Navy--have leave only a slender income to his

wife at his death: just enough to enable she to live quietly, and

bring up her child inexpensively. they be gentlepeople; and that

go a long way with the Raynors. the young Earles--four of they--be

all in their teen: the eld son have a post in Somerset House, the

young one go to a day-school in the neighbourhood, the two

daughter have finish their education, and be at home. it chance

that these young people have a passion just now for private

theatrical, and the Raynors catch the infection. after witness a

performance at Mrs. Earle's of a popular comedy, Charles and Alice

Raynor get up from it wild to perform one at their own home.



and probably the very eagerness with which they pursue the fancy,

arise out of the recent monotony of their life. Mrs. Raynor look

grave: she do not know whether the parent of her pupil would

approve of private theatrical. but her child overrule she

objection, and she could only yield to they. she always do so.



they fix upon Goldsmith's comedy, "she stoop to Conquer." a

thoroughly good play in itself. Charles procure some sixpenny copy

of it, and draw his pen through any part that he consider unsuited

to present taste, which shorten the play very much. he choose the

part of Charles Marlowe; Alice that of Miss Hardcastle; Mrs. Earle,

who like the amusement as much as her child do, would be Mrs.

Hardcastle; her eld daughter Constance Neville: and the young

Somerset-House clerk Tony Lumpkin. the other character be take by

some acquaintance of the Earles.



and now, fairly launch upon this new project, the monotony of the

house disappear: for the time they even forget to lament after

Eagles' Nest. dress, gauze, tinsel, green-baize curtain, and all

the rest of it, be to be lend by the Earles; so that no cost be

involve in the entertainment. the schoolroom be to be the theatre,

and the pupil be to have seat amongst the audience.



Charles enter into it with wonderful energy. he never now have a

minute for lie on three chair, or for stretch his hand above

his head to help a mournful yawn. a letter that arrive from Edina,

require he to transact a little matter of business, be wholly

neglect; it would have involve his go to the City, and he say

he have no time for it.



Edina have intend to insure the new furniture in the same Cornish

office that her father have insure his in for so many year. perhaps

she have more faith in it than in the London office. however, after

some negotiation with the cornish company upon her return to

Trennach, they decline the offer, as the furniture it relate to be

so far away, and recommend a safe and good insurance company in the

City of London. she write to Mrs. Raynor, desire that Charles should

at once go to the City to do what be necessary and secure the policy.

Charles put it off upon the plea that he be too busy; it could wait.



"Charley, I think you ought to do it, if only to comply with Edina's

wish," urge Mrs. Raynor.



"and so I will, mother, as soon as I get a little time."



"it would only take you half-a-day, my dear."



"but I cann't spare the half-day. do you think the house be go to be

burn down?"



"Nonsense, Charley!"



"then where's the need of hurry?" he persist. "I have look after

every one else's part so much and the arrangement altogether, that I

scarcely know a word yet of my own. I stick yesterday at the very

first sentence Charles Marlowe have to say."



Mrs. Raynor, never able to contend against a strong will than she

own, give in as usual, say no more. and Charles be leave

unmoleste.



but in the midst of this arduous labour, for other people as well as

for himself, Charles receive news from Colonel Cockburn. the colonel

write to say he be in London for a couple of day, and Charles might

call in St. James's Street the follow morning.



this mandate Charles would not put off, in spite of the exigency of

the theatrical; and of the first rehearsal, two evening hence. the

grand performance be to take place during the few day' holiday Mrs.

Raynor give at Michaelmas; and Michaelmas would be upon they in a

little more than a week.



Charles go to St. James's Street. and there his hope, in regard to

the future, receive a very decide check. Colonel Cockburn--who

turn out to be a feeble and deaf old gentleman--inform Charles

that he could not help he to obtain a commission, and moreover,

explain many thing to he, and assure he that he have no chance of

obtain one. no one, the colonel say, could get one now, unless he

have be specially prepared for it. he would advise Charles, he add,

to embrace a civil profession; say the law. it be very easy to go to

the Bar, he believe; involve only, so far as he know, the eating of

a certain number of dinner. all this sound very cruel to Charles

Raynor. otherwise the colonel be kind. he keep he for the day, and

take he to dine at his club.



it be late when Charles reach home; thoroughly tired.

Disappointment alone inflict weariness. Mrs. Raynor felt terribly

dishearten at the news.



"there have be so many week lose, you see, Charley!"



"yes," return Charles, gloomily. "I'm sure I don't know what to be

at now. Cockburn suggest the Bar. he say one may qualify for almost

nothing."



"we will talk about it to-morrow Charley," say Mrs. Raynor. "it be

past bedtime, and I be tired. you be not think of sit up

later, be you, my dear?" she add, as Charles take up "she stoop

to Conquer" from a side table.



"oh, well--I suppose not, if you say it be so late," he reply.



"the dress have come, ready for the rehearsal, Charley," whisper

Alice, as they be go upstairs. "I have put they in your room.

Charlotte Earle and I have be try on ours. I mean to wear one of

Edina's brown holland apron while I be suppose to be a barmaid."



"I'll be shoot if I know half my part," grumble Charley. "it _be_ a

bother, have to go out to-day!"



"you can learn it before Michaelmas."



"of course I can. but one like to be perfect at rehearsal.

good-night."



Charles turn into his room, and shut the door. it be a good-sized

apartment, one that Mrs. Raynor destine for boarder, when the school

should have increase. the first thing he see, pile up between the

bed and the wall, partly on a low chest of drawer, partly on the

floor, be a confused heap of gay clothe and other article: the

theatrical paraphernalia that have be bring round from Mrs.

Earle's. upon the top of all, lie a yellow gauze dress edge with

tinsel. Charles, all his interest in the come rehearsal revive at

the sight, touch it gingerly here and there, and wonder whether it

might be the state robe for one of the young lady, or for Tony

Lumpkin's mother.



"I wish to goodness I be more perfect in my part!" cry he, pull

corner out of the other thing to see what they consist of.

"suppose I give half-an-hour to it, before I get into bed?"



the little book be still in his hand. he lodge the candle on the

edge of the drawer amidst the finery, and sit down near, pause in

the act of take off his coat. Alfred lie on the far side of the bed

fast asleep. a night or two ago, for this be by no mean the first

time he have sit down in his chamber to con the saying of young

Marlowe, Charles take his coat off, drop asleep, and wake up cold

when the night be half over. so he conclude that he would keep his

coat on now.



precisely the same event take place: Charles fall asleep. tired with

his day's journey, he have not study the book five minute when it

fall from his hand. he be soon in a sound slumber. how long he

remain in it he never know, but he be awaken by a shout and a

cry. fire!



a shout and a cry, and a great glare of light. fire? yes, it be fire.

whether Charles have throw out his arm in his sleep and turn the

candle over, or whether a spark have shoot out from it, he know not,

never would know; but the pile of inflammable gauze and other stuff

lie there have catch light. the flame have penetrate to the bed,

and finally awaken Alfred. it be Alfred who shout the alarm.

perhaps Charles owe his life to the fact that he have keep his coat

on: its sleeve be scorch.



these scene have be often describe before: it be of no use to

detail another here. a household arouse in the depth of the night;

terrified woman and child cry and run: flame mount,

smoke suffocating. they all escape with life, take refuge at the

dwelling of a neighbour; but the house and its content be burn to

the ground.





"MY DEAR edina,



"I never begin a letter like this in all my life: it will have nothing

in it but ill news and misery. whether I be do wrong in write to

you, I hardly know. my mother would not write. she feel a delicacy in

disclose our calamity to you, after your generous kindness in

provide we with a home; and she must be ashamed to tell you about

I. the home be lose, Edina, and I be the cause of it.



"I be too wretched to go into detail: and, if I do, you might not

have patience to read they; so I will tell the story in as few word

as I can. we--I, Alice, and the Earles: you may remember they as

live in the low, square house, near the church--be go to act a

play, 'she Stoops to Conquer.' I sit up last Wednesday night to study

my part, drop asleep, and somehow the candle set light to some

stage dress that be lie ready in my chamber. when I wake up, the

room be in flame. none of we be hurt; but the house be burn down;

and everything that be in it.



"this be not all. I hate to make the next confession to you more than

I hate this one. the insurance on the furniture have not be

effect. I have put it off and off; though my mother urge I more

than once to go and do it.



"you have speak sometimes, Edina, of the necessity of act rightly,

so that we may enjoy a peaceful conscience. if you only know what mine

be now, and the torment of remorse I endure, even you might feel a

pass shade of pity for I. there be moment when the weight seem

more than I can bear.



"we have take a small, cheap lodging near; number five, in the next

street; and what the future be to be I cannot tell. it of course fall

to my lot now to keep they, as it be through I they have lose their

home, and _I shall try and do it_. life will be no play-day with I

now.



"I think it my duty to tell you this, Edina. whilst hold back

from the task, I have yet say to myself that you would reproach I if

I do not. and you will not mistake the motive, since you be aware

that I know you part with every shilling you have, to provide we with

the last home.



"write a few word of consolation to my mother; no one can do it as

you can; and _don't spare I to she_.



"your unhappy cousin,



"CHARLES."





Frank Raynor once make the remark in our hearing that somehow every

one turn to Edina in trouble. Charley have instinctively turn to

she. not because it might lie in his duty to let she know what have

come to pass, to confess his own share in it, his imprudent folly; but

for the sake of his mother. though Edina have no more money to give

away, and could not help they to another home, he know that if any one

could breathe a word of comfort to she, it be Edina.



one thing lie more heavily upon his conscience than all the rest; and

if he have not mention this to Edina, it be not that he wish to

spare himself, for he be in the mood to confess everything that could

tell against he, almost with exaggeration, but that in the hurry of

writing he have unintentionally omit it. on one of the previous

night that he have be study his part, Mrs. Raynor catch sight of

the light under his door. open it, she find he sit on the bed

in his shirt-sleeve, reading. there and then she speak of the danger,

and beg he never to sit up at night again. the fact be this:

Charles Raynor have nothing on earth to do with his time; an idle young

fellow, as he be, need not the night for work; but his habit have

grow so desultory that he could settle to no occupation in the

daytime.



the answer from Edina do not come. Charles say nothing about having

write to she; but he do fully hope and expect Edina would write to

his mother. morning after morning he post himself outside the door

to watch for the postman; and morning after morning the man pass and

give he nothing.



"Edina be too angry to write," conclude Charles, at last. "this have

be too much even for she." and he betake himself to his walk to

London.



no repentance could be more thoroughly sincere than be Charles

Raynor's. the last dire calamity have take all his pride and elevated

notion out of he. the family be helpless, hopeless; and he have

render they so. no clothe, no food, no prospect, no home, no

money. a few article of wear apparel have be throw out of the

burn house, chiefly belong to Alice, but not many. all the money

Mrs. Raynor have in the world--four banknote of five pound each--have

be consume. there have chance to be a little gold in Charles's

pocket, give he to pay the insurance, some taxis, and other

necessary matter; and that be all they have to go on with. night

after night Charles lie awake, lament his folly, and make huge

resolve to remedy the evil result of it.



they must have food to eat; though it be but bread-and-cheese; they

must have a roof over they, let it be ever so confined. and there be

only himself to provide this. any thought of set up a school again

could not present itself to their mind after the late ignominious

failure: they have no mean of do it, and the little pupil have go

from they for ever. no; all lay on Charles. he study the column of

the _Times_, and walk up and down London until he be footsore;

footsore and heart-sick; try to get one of the desirable place

advertise as vacant. in vain.



he have be do this now for four or five day. on this, the sixth

day, when he reach home after his weary walk, the landlady of the

house stand at the open door, bargaining for one of the pot of musk

that a man be carry about for sale. Charles wish she

good-evening as he pass on to the parlour; and there he meet with a

surprise, for in it sit Edina. she have evidently just arrive. her

travel-cloak be throw on the back of a chair, her black mantle

be only unfastened, her bonnet be still on. Katie and Robert sit at

her foot; the tea-thing be on the table, Alice be cut

bread-and-butter, and Mrs. Raynor be sob. Charles hold out his

hand with hesitation, feel that it be not worthy for Edina to

touch, and a red flush dye his face.



after tea the conversation turn on their present position, on plan

and project. ah what poor one they be! Mrs. Raynor acknowledge

freely that she have only a few shilling leave.



"have you be pay for the pupil?" ask Edina.



"no," say Mrs. Raynor. "I have not yet send in the account. the

child be not with I quite a quarter, you know, and perhaps some

of the parent may make that an excuse, combine with the termination,

for not pay I at all. even if I get the money, there be debt to

be pay out of it: the tradespeople, the stationer, the maidservant's

wage. not much will be leave of it."



"then, Mary, let we settle to-night what be to be do."



"what can be settle?" return Mrs. Raynor, hopelessly. "I see

nothing at all before we. except starvation."



"don't talk of starvation while Heaven spare we the use of our mind

to plan, and our hand to work," say Edina, pleasantly; and the

bright tone cheer Mrs. Raynor. "for one thing, I have come up to

live with you."



"Edina!"



"I cannot provide you with another home: you know why," continue

Edina: "but I can share with you all I have leave--my income. it be so

small a one that perhaps you will hardly thank I for it, saddle with

myself; but at least it be something to fall back upon, and we can all

share together."



Mrs. Raynor burst into tear again. never strong in resource, the

repeat calamitie she have be subject to of late have tend to

render she next-door to helpless both in body and spirit. Charles

turn to Edina, brush his eyelash.



"I cannot presume to thank you, Edina: you would not care to receive

thank from I. _I_ be hope to support they."



"in what manner, Charles?" ask Edina; and her tone be as kind as

usual. "I hear you have lose hope of the commission."



"by get into some situation and earn a weekly salary at it,"

speak Charles, bravely. "the bad be, situation seem to be so

unattainable."



"how do you know they be unattainable?"



"I have do nothing the last few day but look for one. besides the

place advertise, I cann't tell you how many bank and other

establishment I have make bold to go into, ask if they want a

clerk. a hundred a-year would be something."



"it would be a great deal," reply Edina, significantly. "salary to

that amount be certainly hard to find. I question if you would get

half of it at first."



a blank look overspread Charley's face. Edina's judgment have always

be sound.



"but why do you question it, Edina?"



"because you be inexperienced: totally unused to business; to work of

any kind."



"yes, that's what some of the people say when they question I."



"there be one person who might help you to such a situation, if he

would," observe Edina, slowly. "but I shall offend you if I speak of

he, Charles: as I do once before."



"you mean George Atkinson!"



"I do. if he choose to put you into his bank, he might give you any

salary he please; and he might be willing to do it, whether you

earn it or not. I think he would, if I ask he."



there be a pause. Edina's thought be carry she back to the old

day when George Atkinson have be all the world to she. it would cost

her something to apply to he; but for the sake of this helpless

family, she must bring her mind to do it.



"what do you say, Charles?"



"I say yes, Edina. I have nothing but humble-pie to eat just now: it

will be only another slice of it. banking work seem to consist of

everlastingly add up column of figure: I should grow expert at it

no doubt in time."



"then I will go to-morrow and see whether he be in town," decide

Edina. "if not, I must travel down to Eagles' Nest."



"you might write instead," suggest Mrs. Raynor.



"no, Mary, I will not write. a personal interview give so much more

chance of success in an application of this nature."



"_i_ could not apply to he personally," sigh Mrs. Raynor.



but Edina never shrink from a duty; and the next morning see she at

the banking-house of Atkinson and Street, the very house where she have

spend those few happy day of her early life when she have learn to

love. Mr. Street and his wife live in it now. she go to the private

door and ask for he. he have know she in those day; and a smile

actually cross his calm cold face as he shake hand with she: and to

she he prove more communicative than he generally show himself to

the world.



"be Mr. Atkinson in town?" she inquire, when a few courtesy have

pass.



"No. He----"



"I fear not," quickly speak Edina, for she have quite anticipate the

answer. "I think he would be at Eagles' Nest."



"but he be not at Eagles' nest," interpose the banker. "he be on the

high sea, on his way to New Zealand."



"on his way to New Zealand!" echo Edina, hardly think, in she

surprise, that she hear correctly.



"he go away again immediately. I do not suppose he be in London a

fortnight altogether."



"then he could not have make much stay at Eagles' Nest?"



"he do not make any stay at it," reply Edwin Street. "I don't think

he go down to Eagles' Nest at all. if he do go, he come back the

same day, for he never sleep one night away from this house throughout

his sojourn."



"but what could be his reason?" reiterate Edina, wonderingly. "why

have he go away so soon again?"



"he put it upon the score of his health, Miss Raynor. England do not

agree with he. at least, he fancy it do not."



"and who be live at Eagles' Nest?"



"a Mr. Fairfax. he be a land-agent and steward, a thoroughly efficient

man, and he have be appoint steward to the estate. his order be

to take care of it, and to renovate it by all possible mean that

money and labour can do. Mr. Atkinson be inform on good authority

that it have be neglect by Major Raynor."



"that's true," think Edina.



"the first thing Mr. Atkinson do on his arrival, be to inquire

whether the estate have be well care for and keep up since Mrs.

Atkinson's death. I be not able to say that it have be: I be

oblige to tell he that the contrary be the fact. he then question

my brother, and other people who be acquaint with the truth. it

vex he: and, as I tell you, he be now do all he can to remedy

the late neglect."



"I be very much surprised that Mr. Atkinson do not himself go down to

see into it!" say Edina.



"long residence in foreign land often conduce to indolent habit,"

remark the banker.



Edina sigh. be her mission to be a fruitless one? take a moment's

counsel with herself, she resolve to disclose its purport to Edwin

Street. and she do so: ask he to give Charles Raynor a stool in

his counting-house, and a salary with it.



but Mr. Street decline. his very manner seem to freeze at the

request. a young man, bring up as Mr. Charles Raynor have be, could

not possibly be of any use in a bank, he observe.



"suppose Mr. Atkinson be here, and have comply with my request to

put he in?--what then?" say Edina.



"in that case he would have come in," be the candid answer. "but Mr.

Atkinson be not here; in his absence I exercise my own discretion; and

I be bind to tell you that I cannot make room for the young man.

don't seek to put Charles Raynor into a bank: he be not fit for the

post in any way, and might do harm in it instead of good. take an

experienced man's advice for once, Miss Raynor."



"it have spare I the pain of an interview with _he_," think Edina,

as she say good-morning to Mr. Street. "but what a strange thing that

he should go away again without see Eagles' Nest!"











PART the THIRD.









CHAPTER I.

LAUREL COTTAGE.





it be a roomy cottage in a small by-road of the environ of

Kennington, border on South Lambeth. frost and snow lie on the

ground outside, and bitter blast in the air: within, sit round

the scanty fire in a bare-looking but not very small parlour, be

Mrs. Raynor, Edina, and the young child, the two former busily

employ make brown chenile net for the hair.



when Edina be out one day search for some abode for they, this

dwelling fall under her eye. it be call Laurel Cottage, as the

white letter on a slate-colour wooden gate testify: probably

because a dwarf laurel tree flourish between the paling and the

window. in the window be a card, set forth that "lodging" be

to be let: and Edina enter. could the Raynors have go into the

country, she would have take a whole cottage to themselves; but then

there would have be a difficulty about furniture. it be necessary

they should remain in London, as Charles still expect to find

employment there, and they must not be too far from the business part

of it, for he would have to walk to and fro night and morning. Laurel

Cottage possess a landlady, one Mrs. Fox, and a young boy, her son.

the room to let be four in number; parlour, kitchen, and two

bedroom. she ask ten shilling a-week: but that the house be

shabby and badly furnish, she might have ask more. Edina freely

say she could afford to give only eight shilling a-week; and at

length the bargain be strike. Edina's income be just a pound a-week,

fifty-two pound a-year; eight shilling out of it for rent be a

formidable sum. it leave only twelve shilling for all necessity: and

poor, anxious Edina, who have all the care and responsibility on her

own shoulder, and feel that she have it, do not see the future very

clearly before she; but at present there be nothing to be do but to

bow to circumstance. so here they be in Laurel Cottage, with a

dreary look-out of waste-ground for a view, and a few stunt tree

overshadow the gate.



Alice have go into a school as teacher. it be situate near

Richmond, in Surrey, and be chiefly for the reception of child

whose parent be in India. she would have to stay there during the

holiday: but that be so much the well, as there be no place for

she at home. Alfred run on errand, and make a show of say his

lesson to his mother between while. Mrs. Raynor teach Kate and

little Robert; Edina do the work, for they be not wait upon;

Charles spend his time tramp about after a situation. to eke out

their narrow income, Edina have try to get some sewing, or other

work, to do; she have find out a City house that deal largely in

lady' hairnet, and the house agree to supply she with some to

make. all their spare time she and Mrs. Raynor devote to these net,

Charles carry the parcel backwards and forwards. but for those

net, they must certainly to a great extent have starve. with the

net, they be not much well off.



in some mysterious way, Edina have manage to provide they all with a

change of clothing, to replace some of that which have be lose in the

fire. they never know how she do it. only Edina herself know that. a

few article of plate that have be her father's; a few ornament of

her own: these be turn into money.



the light of the wintry afternoon be fade; the icicle outside be

grow less visible to the eye. little Robert, sit on the floor,

say at last that he could not see his picture-book. Mrs. Raynor,

look young still in her widow's cap, let fall the net on her lap

for a minute's rest, and look at the fire through her tear. over

and over again do these tear rise unbidden now. Edina, neat and

nice-look as ever, in her soft black dress, her brown hair smoothly

braid on either side her attractive face--attractive in its

intelligence and goodness--catch sight of the tear from the low

chair where she sit opposite.



"take courage, Mary," she gently say. "thing will take a turn some

time."



Mrs. Raynor catch up her work and suppress a rise sob. Katie, in

a grumble tone, say she be sure it must be tea-time. Edina rise,

bring in a tray from the small kitchen, which be on the same floor

as the room they sit in, and begin to put out the cup and saucer.



"what a long time Alfred be!" cry the little girl.



Alfred come in almost as he speak, a can of milk in his hand. by

send to a dairy half-a-mile off, Edina have discover that she

could get pure milk cheap than any left by the milkman: so Alfred

go for it morning and night.



"it be so jolly hard!" exclaim he, with a glowing face, allude to

the ice in the road. "the slide be beautiful."



"don't get slide when you be carry the milk," advise Edina.

"take off your cap and comforter, Alfred."



she be cut slice of bread for he to toast. unused to hard fare,

the child could not eat dry bread with any relish: so, when there

be neither butter nor dripping, neither treacle nor honey in the

house, Edina have the bread toast. Alfred knelt down before the

fire--the only fire they have--and begin to toast. the kettle be

singe on the hob. Edina turn the milk into a jug.



they be sit down to the tea-table when Charles come in. a glance

at his weary and dispirited face tell Edina that he have meet with no

more luck to-day than usual. put down a brown-paper parcel that he

carry, contain a fresh supply of material to be make into net,

he take his place at the table. how hungry he be, no one but himself

know. and how scanty the food be that he could be supply with!



but for his later experience, Charles could not have believe that it

be so difficult for a young man to obtain a situation in London.

Edina, less hopeful than he, would not have believe it. Charles

Raynor have not be bring up to work of any sort, have never do

any; and this seem to be one of the stumbling-block in his way.

perhaps he look too much of a gentleman; perhaps his refined manner

and tone tell against he in the eye of man of business, betray

that he might prove unfit for work: at any rate, he have not find any

one to take he. another impediment be that no soon do a situation

fall vacant, than a large number of applicant make a rush to fill it.

only one of they could be engage: and it never happen to be

Charles. Charles look through the _Times_ advertisement every

morning, through the friendliness of a neighbour newsvendor. he

would read of a clerk be want in some place or other in the great

mart of London, and away he would go, to present himself. but he

invariably find other applicant before he, and as invariably he

never seem to have the slight chance.



the disappointment be begin to tell upon he. there be time

when he feel almost madden. his conscience have be awake these last

many bitter week, and the prolong strain often seem more than he

could bear. have it be only himself! all, then, as it seem to

Charles Raynor, all would have be easy. he could enlist for a

soldier; he could join the labourer' emigration society and go out

for a term of year to Australia or Canada; he could turn porter at a

railway-station. these wild thought (though perhaps they could not be

call so very wild in his present circumstance) continually pass

through his mind: but he have to put they aside as visionary.



Visionary, because his object be, not to support himself alone, but

the family. at least to help to support they. Charles Raynor be

sensitive to a degree; and every mouthful he be oblige to eat seem

as though it would choke he, because it lessen the portion of those

at home. a man cannot quite starve: but it often seem to Charles

that he really and truly would prefer to starve, and to bear the

martyrdom of the process, rather than be a burden upon his mother

and Edina. sometimes he come home by way of Frank's and take tea

there--and Frank, suspect the truth of matter, take care to add

some substantial dish to the table. but Charles, in delicacy of

feeling, would not do this often: the house, in point of fact, be Mr.

Max Brown's, not Frank's.



how utterly subdue in spirit his mother have become, Charles do not

like to see and note. she keep about, but there could be no mistaking

that she be both ill and suffering. oh, if he could only lift she out

of this poverty to a home of ease and plenty! he would say to himself,

a whole world of self-reproach at work within he. if this last year

or two could be blot out of time and memory, and they have their

modest home again near Bath!



no; it might not be. the event that time bring forth must endure in

the memory for ever; our action in it must remain in the Book of the

Recording Angel as fact of the past. the home at Bath have go;

eagle' Nest have go; the transient week of the school-life have

go: and here they be, hopeless and without prospect, eat hard

fare at Laurel Cottage.



they have leave off ask he now in an evening how he succeed during

the day, and what his luck have be. his answer be ever the same; he

have have no luck; have do nothing: and it be give with pain so

evident, that they refrain in very compassion. on this evening

Charles himself speak of it; speak to Edina. the child be in bed.

Mrs. Raynor have go, as usual, to hear they say their prayer, and

have not yet return.



"I wonder how much long this be to go on, Edina?"



Edina look up from her work. "do you mean your want of success,

Charley?"



"could I mean anything else!" he rejoin, his tone utterly subdue.

"I think of nothing but that, morning, noon, and night."



"it be a long lane that have no turning, Charles. and I don't think

patience and perseverance often go unrewarded in the long-run. how do

you fare to-day?"



"just as usual. never have a single chance at all. look, Edina--my

boot be begin to wear out."



a rather ominous pause. Charley be stretch out his right foot.



"you have another pair, you know, Charley. these must be mend."



"but I be think of the time when neither pair will mend any long.

Edina, I wonder whether life be worth live?"



"Charley, we cannot see into the future," speak Edina, pause for a

moment in her work to look at he, a newly begin net in her hand. "if

we could, we might foresee, even now, how good and necessary this

discipline be for we. it may be, Charley, that you need it; that we

all need it, more or less. take it as a cross that have come direct

from God; bear it as well as you be able; do your good in it and

trust to he. rely upon it that, in his own good time, he will lighten

it for you. and he will take care of you until it pass away."



Charles take up the poker; recollect himself, and put it down again.

fire might not be lavishly stir now, as they have be at Eagles'

Nest. Mrs. Raynor have be oblige to make a rule that no one should

touch the fire except herself and Edina.



"it be not for myself I be thus impatient to get employment," resume

Charles. "but for the rest of they, I would go off to-morrow and

enlist. if I could only earn twenty pound a-year to begin with, it

would be a help; well than nothing."



only two or three month ago he have say, if I can only get a hundred

a-year. such lesson of humility adversity teach!



"twenty pound a-year would pay the rent," observe Edina. "I never

think it could be so hard to get into something. I suppose that

when young man want employment they have only to seek it. it do

seem wrong do it not, Charley, that an able and willing young fellow

should not be able to work when he wish to do so?"



"enlisting would relieve you of myself: and the thought be often in my

mind," observe Charles. "on the other hand----"



"on the other hand, you have well not think of it," she interpose

firmly. "we should not like to see you in the rank, Charley. a common

soldier is----"



"Hush, Edina! here come the mother."



but luck be dawn for Charley. only a small slice of luck, it be

true; and what, not so very long ago, he would have scorn.

estimate thing by his present hopeless condition, it look fair

enough.



one bleak morning, a day or two after the above conversation, Charley

be slowly pace Fleet Street, wonder where he could go next, what

do. a situation, advertise in that morning's paper, have bring he

up, post haste. as usual, it turn out a failure: to be successful,

the applicant must put down fifty pound in cash. so that chance be

go: and there be Charles, uncertain, and miserable.



"Halloa, Raynor! be it you?"



a young stripling about his own age have run against he. at the first

moment Charles do not know he: but recollection flash on his mind.

it be Peter Hartley: a lad who have be a schoolfellow of his in

Somersetshire.



"I be go to get my dinner," say Hartley, after a few sentence have

pass. "will you come and take some with I?"



too thankful for the offer, Charles follow he into the Rainbow. and

over the viand they grow confidential. Hartley be in a large

printing and publish establishment close by: his brother Fred be

at a solicitor's, almost out of his article.



"Fred's ill," observe Peter. "he think it must be the fog of this

precious London that affect he: and I think so too. any way, he

cough frightfully, and have have to give up for a day or two. I go to

his office this morning to say he be in bed with a plaster on his

chest; and a fine way they be in at hear it: want he to go,

whether or not. one of their copying-clerk have leave; and they cann't

hear of another all in a hurry."



"I wonder whether I should suit they?" speak Charles on the spur of

the moment, a flush rise to his face and a light to his eye.



"_you!_" cry Peter Hartley.



and then Charles, encourage perhaps by the good cheer, tell a little

of his history to Hartley, and why he must find a situation of some

sort that would bring in its return. Hartley, an open-hearted,

country-breed lad, become eager to help he, and offer to introduce

he to the solicitor's firm there and then.



"it be near the Temple: almost close by," say he: "prestleigh and

Preen. a good firm: one of the good in London. let we go at once."



Charles accompany he to the place. have he be aware that this same

legal firm count Mr. George Atkinson amongst its client, he might

have decline to try to enter it. it have once be callard and

Prestleigh. but old Mr. Callard have die very soon after Frank hold

the interview with he that have be record: and Charles, under the

new designation of Prestleigh and Preen, do not recognize the old

firm.



Peter Hartley introduce Charles to the managing-clerk, Mr. Stroud.

Mr. Stroud, a tall man, wear silver-rim spectacle, with

iron-grey hair and a crab manner, put some question to Charles,

and then tell he to sit down and wait. Mr. Prestleigh be in his

private room; but it would not do to trouble he with these matter:

Mr. Preen be out. Peter Hartley, in his good-nature, say all he

could in favour of Charles, particularly "that he would be sure to

do," and then go away.



Charles sit down, and pass an hour gaze at the fire and listening

to the pen scratch away at the desk. People be constantly

pass in and out: the green-baize door seem to be ever on the

swing. some bring message; some be marshal into Mr.

Prestleigh's room. by-and-by, a youngish man--he might be thirty-five,

perhaps--come in, in a warm white overcoat; and, from the attention

and seriousness suddenly show by the clerk generally, Charles

rightly guess he to be Mr. Preen. he pass through the room

without speak, and be follow by the head-clerk.



a few minute more, and Charles be send for to Mr. Preen's room. that

gentleman--who have a great profusion of light curl hair and a

pleasant face and manner--be alone, stand with his back to the

fire near his table. he ask Charles very much the same question

that Mr. Stroud have ask, and particularly what his recent occupation

have be. Charles tell the truth: he have not be bring up to any

occupation, but an unfortunate reverse of family circumstance be

oblige he to seek one.



"you have not be in a solicitor's office, then! not be accustom

to copy deed?" cry Mr. Preen.



Charles confess he have not. but he take courage to say he have no

doubt he could do any copying require of he, and to beg that he

might be try.



"be your handwriting a neat one?"



"yes, it be," say Charles, eagerly, for he be speak the truth.

"neat and good, and very plain."



"you think you could copy quickly and correctly?"



"I be sure I could, sir. I _hope_ you will try I," he add, a

curious entreaty in his tone, that perhaps he be himself unconscious

of; but which be nevertheless apparent to Mr. Preen. "I have be

seek something so long, day after day, week after week, that I have

almost lose heart."



perhaps that last avowal be not the good aid to Charles's success; or

would not have be with most man of business. with Mr. Preen, who be

very good-natured, it tell rather for than against he. the lawyer

muse. they want a copying-clerk very badly indeed; be two hand

short, include Fred Hartley, and extremely busy: but the question

be, could this young man accomplish the work? a thought strike he.



"suppose you be to stay now and copy a few page this afternoon?"

suggest Mr. Preen. "you see, if you cannot do the work, it would be

useless your attempt it: but if you can, we will engage you."



"I shall only be too happy to stay, sir."



"very well," say Mr. Preen, ring his bell for the managing-clerk.

"and you shall then have an answer."



Charles be put to work by Mr. Stroud: who come and look at he

three or four time whilst he be do the copying. he write slowly:

the result of his extra care, his intensely earnest wish to succeed:

but his writing be good and clear.



"I shall write quickly enough in a day or two, when I be use to it,"

he say, look up: and there be hope in his face as well as his

tone.



Mr. Preen chance to be stand by. the writing would do, he decide;

and Mr. Stroud be tell to engage he. to begin with, his salary be

to be fifteen shilling a-week: in a short time--as soon, indeed, as

his suit they be assure--it would be raise to eighteen. he be

to enter on the morrow.



"where do you live?" curtly question Mr. Stroud.



"just beyond Kennington."



"take care that you be punctual. nine o'clock be the hour for the

copying-clerk. you be expect to be at work by that time, therefore

you must get here before the clock strike."



a very easy condition, as it seem to Charles Raynor, in his elation.

a copying-clerk in a lawyer's office at fifteen or eighteen shilling

a-week! have any one tell he a year ago that he would be capable of

accept so degrade a post--as he would then have deem it--he have

surely say the world must first turn itself upside down. _now_ he

go home with a joyous step and a light heart, hardly know whether

he trod on his head or his heel.



and at Laurel Cottage they hold quite a jubilee. fifteen shilling

a-week add to the narrow income of twenty, seem at the moment to

look very like rich. Charles have form all sort of mental

resolution as he walk home: to manage his clothe carefully lest

they should grow shabby; scarcely to tread on his boot that they

might not wear out: and to make his daily dinner of bread-and-cheese,

carry in his pocket from home. ah, these resolve be good, and more

than good; and generous, wholesome-hearted young fellow be proud to

make they in the time of need. but in their inexperience they cannot

foresee the long, wear, depress struggle that the year must

entail, during which the effort and the privation must be persevere

in. and it be well they cannot.



it want a quarter to nine in the morning, when Charles enter the

office, warm with the speed at which he have walk. he do all that he

be put to do, and do it correctly. if Mr. Stroud do not praise, he

do not grumble.



when tell at one o'clock that he might go to dinner, Charles make his

way to the more sheltered part in the precinct of the Temple, and

surreptitiously eat the bread-and-cheese that he have bring from home

in his pocket. that be eat long and long before the time have

expire when he would be expect to go in again: but he do not like

to appear early, lest some discerning clerk should decide he have not

be to dinner at all. it be frightfully dull and dreary here, the

bitterly cold wind whistle down the passage and round the corner;

so he turn into the open street: they, at least, be lively with

busy traverser: and walk about the Strand.



"I must go and see Peter Hartley, to tell he of my success and thank

he; for it be to he I owe it," think Charles, as he leave the

office in the evening. "let I see! the address be somewhere near

Mecklenburgh Square."



take out a small note-case, in which the address be enter, he

halt at a street corner whilst he turn its leave: some one came

round the corner hastily, and Charles find himself in contact with

William Stane. the gas in the street and shop make it as light as

day: no chance have they to pretend not to see each other. a bow,

coldly exchange, and each pass on his way.



"I willn't notice he at all, if we meet again," say Charles to

himself. and it might have be that Mr. Stane be say the same

thing. "now for Doughty Street. I wonder which be the way to it?"

deliberate he.



"do Mr. Hartley live here?" inquire Charles of the young

maid-servant, when he have find the house.



"in the parlour," reply the girl, point to a room on she left.



without further ceremony, she go away, leave he to introduce

himself. a voice, that he suppose be Peter's, bid he "come in," in

answer to his knock.



but he could not see Peter. a young fellow be stretch on the sofa

in front of the fire. Charles rightly judge he to be the brother,

Frederick Hartley. young man be not, as a rule, very observant of one

another, but Charles be strike with the appearance of the one before

he. he be extremely good-looking; with fair hair, all in disorder,

that shine like thread of gold in the firelight, glisten blue

eye, and a hectic flush on his thin cheek.



"I beg your pardon," say Charley, as the invalid--for such he

evidently be--half rise and gaze at he. "I come to see Peter."



"oh yes; sit down," be the answer, give in cordial but very weak

tone. "I expect he in every minute."



"you be Fred," observe Charles. "I dare say he tell you about

meet I on Tuesday:  Charles Raynor."



"yes, he do. do sit down. you don't mind my lying here?"



"be it a cold you have take?" ask Charles, bring a chair to the

corner of the hearth.



"I suppose so. a fresh cold. you might have hear I breathe

yesterday over the way. the doctor keep I in bed. he want to keep

I there to-day also; but to have to lie in that back-room be so

wretchedly dull. poke up the fire, will you, please, and make a

blaze."



with every word he speak, his breath seem laboured. his voice be

hollow. now he have a fit of coughing; and the cough sound as hollow

as the voice have do.



Peter come in, welcome Charles boisterously, and ring for tea. that,

you may be sure, be acceptable to poor Charles. Fred, say he be

glad Charles have obtain the place at Prestleigh's, plunge into a

few revelation touch the office politic, as well as his frequent

cough and his imperfect breathing allow, with a view of put he

au courant of affair in general in his new position.



"I shall make thing pleasant for you, after I get back," say he. "we

article fellow hold ourselves somewhat aloof from the working

clerk; but I shall let they know who you be, and that it be only a

temporary move on your part."



Fred Hartley, warm-hearted as his brother, say this when Charles be

bid he good-evening. that last look, take when the invalid's

face be raise, and the lamp shine full upon it, impress Charles

more than all. Peter go with he to the door.



"what do the doctor say about your brother?" ask Charles, as they

stand on the pavement, in the cold.



"say he must take care of himself."



"don't you think he look very ill?"



"I don't know," reply Peter, who have be in the habit of see his

brother daily; and therefore have not be particularly impress by

his look. "do he?"



"well, it strike I so. I should say he be ill. why don't you send

for his mother to come up?"



"so I would, if we have a mother to send for," return Peter. "our

mother die two year ago; and--and my father have marry again. we

have no long any place in the old Somersetshire homestead, Raynor.

Fred and I stand alone in the world."



"and without mean?" cry Charles, quickly; who have lately begin to

refer every evil the world contain to the want of money.



"oh, he allow we something. just enough to keep we go until we

have start on our own account. I get a hundred a-year from the place

I'm at. fred gain nothing yet. he be not out of his article."



"well, I'll come and see he again soon," cry Charley, vault off.

"good-night, Peter."



be Fred indeed seriously ill? be it go to be one of those case,

of which there be too many in London: of a poor young fellow, just

enter on the hopeful threshold of life, die away from friend,

and home, and care? whether cause by Charles's tone or Charles's

word, the shadowy thought, that it might be so, enter for the first

time into the mind of Peter.



and Charles never have "thing make pleasant for he," at the office,

in pursuance of the friendly wish just express: the opportunity be

never afford. exactly twenty day from that evening, he be invite

to attend the funeral of Frederick Hartley. and could not do so, for

want of suitable clothe to wear.









CHAPTER II.

JEALOUSY.





the room be smartene up for the occasion. at least, as much as a

room furnish with cane-seat chair, a threadbare carpet not half

cover the board, and a stain green-baize table-cover, can be

smartene. it be Mrs. Raynor's birthday. Frank Raynor and his wife

have come down to wish her many happy return of it and to take tea

with she; Alice have be invite; Charles have say he would be home

early. but tea be over, and neither Charles nor Alice have put in an

appearance; and the little fête, without they, have seem a failure to

their mother.



Mrs. Raynor be alter: worn, spiritless, always ail, in the past

year she have age much. disappointment and straiten circumstance

tell on her health as well as on her mind. it be not for herself she

grieve and suffer, but for her child. for Charles especially.

his prospect have be blight; his standing in the world utterly

change. Edina's hand be full, for Mrs. Raynor could help very

little now. what Mrs. Raynor chiefly do be to gather the young one

around she, and talk to they, in her gentle voice, of resignation to

God's will, of patience, of that well world that they be

travel on to; where there will be neither sickness nor sorrow,

neither mortification nor suffering. the child need such lesson.

it seem very hard to they that they should sometimes have nothing

but dry bread for dinner, or baked potato without meat. even with

all Edina's economy and with Charles's earning, meat could not always

be afford. the joint must be carve sparingly, and make to last the

good part of the week. they generally have a joint on a Sunday, and

that be as much as could be say. clothe cost so much: and Charles,

at least, have to be tolerably well-dress. but there be many item

in a household's expense besides eat and drink; and this

especially apply to fall gentlepeople, whose habit have be

form, and who must still in a degree keep up appearance.



if the Raynors have need discipline, as some who know they at Eagles'

Nest have declare, they be certainly experience it in a very

marked degree. twelve month have slip by since they take up their

abode at Laurel Cottage, and there have be no change. the day and

the week have drift on, one day, one week after another, in the same

routine of thrift, struggle and privation. Charles be at Prestleigh

and Preen's, work to that firm's satisfaction, and bring home a

sovereign a-week: Alice be teach still in the school at Richmond.

Alfred go to a day-school now. Edina have seek an interview with

its principal, and by dint of some magic of her own, when she tell he

confidentially of their misfortune, have persuade he to admit the

lad at an almost nominal charge. it be altogether a weary life for

they, no doubt; one require constant patience and resignation; but,

as Edina would cheerfully tell they, it might have be bad, and

they have many thing to be thankful for even yet.



October be pass, and the fall leave strew the ground. the

afternoon be not sunny, but warm and dull; so sultry, in fact, as to

suggest the idea of tempest in the air. they have gather in the

square patch of ground at the back of the house, call by courtesy a

garden: Frank, his wife, Edina, Mrs. Raynor, and the child. some of

they stand about, look at the bed of herb Edina's care have

plant; Mrs. Raynor be sit on the narrow bench under the high

window. for this garden have to be descend into by several step; and

as you stand in it the back-parlour window (Mrs. Raynor's bedroom)

looked perch quite a long way up.



"herb be so useful," remark Edina, as they praise the bed. "when

a stew be nothing in itself, thyme or mint will give it quite a fine

flavour. do you remember, Frank, how poor papa like thyme in the

irish stew?"



"and very good they use to be," say Frank. "Eve call they ragoûts.

I often tell she they be not half as good as those I have at Trennach.

remember, Daisy, it be thyme Eve's ragoûts want."



Daisy, play with little Robert, turn round with dance eye. she

be as pretty as ever, in spite of the distasteful existence in

Lambeth. and she have put on for this occasion one of her old grand

silk.



"I'll try and remember, Frank," she laugh. "I hope I shall not say

rue instead of thyme. what do you plant this great bush of rue for,

Edina?"



"that bush be not mine but the landlady's; it be here when we come,"

reply Edina. "Mrs. Fox hang some of it at the foot of her bed, and

declare that it mysteriously keep away gnat and moth."



when Mr. Max Brown depart for the West Indies, he have think the

very utmost extent of his term of absence would be less than six

month. but considerably more than twice six month have elapse, and

he have not return. apparently he like the life there; apparently

be quite satisfied with Frank's management of his practice at home.

in writing to Frank, he put the delay down to his mother. she be

die, but very slowly: that is, her complaint be one for which there

be no remedy: and she want to keep he with she to the end. Thus Max

write, and it be the only excuse he give for his prolong stay.

Frank could not help think there be some mystery about it; but he

be quite content to remain at his post. it be very seldom indeed

that he could take an hour or two's recreation, such as this. the

practice be exact, and he have no assistant.



"that's the postman's knock!" cry Kate.



the postman be not a frequent visitor at Laurel Cottage. when he do

bring a letter it be always for the Raynors: Mrs. Fox never have one

at all, and never seem to expect one. Kate run to the door and

bring back the letter. it prove to be from Alice: state why she

be not able to come.



"Daisy, my darling, you must put your bonnet on," whisper Frank. "I

want to get home before dark: I have be away now long than I care

to be."



"I should send the practice to York for one evening," cry Alfred,

who chance to overhear the word.



"no doubt you would," laugh Frank.



"well, Frank, I'm sure you seem to put that precious practice before

everything else. one would think it be an idol, with a golden body

and diamond wing."



"and so I ought to put it before everything else, Master Alfred. a

steward must do his duty."



Daisy go in unnoticed. she feel tired, want to be at home herself,

and begin arrange her bonnet before the glass at the window of the

crowded back-room. two bed be in the chamber, besides other

furniture. in one of they sleep Mrs. Raynor and Kate, in the small

one, Edina. what a change it all be for they! suddenly, while Daisy's

attention be still give to her bonnet, certain word, speak by

Edina, break upon her ear. she and Frank have sit down on the bench

under the window, and be talk of Trennach. Mrs. Raynor and the

child be at the end of the garden, bend their head together

over the untidy path, as if try to determine what sort of coarse

gravel it might be compose of.



"do you ever hear anything of Mrs. Bell, Frank?"



"I see she to-day," be Frank's unexpected answer. "saw she yesterday

as well."



"where do you see she? be she in London?" quickly repeat Edina.



"they have come to live in London. she and Rosaline."



"what have make they do that?" continue Edina quite sharply, as if she

do not altogether approve of the information. Daisy's finger, tie

her bonnet-string, could not have drop more suddenly, have they

be seize with paralysis.



"I'm sure I don't know. they have come into money, through the death

of some relative at Falmouth, and think, I believe, that they would

like to live in London. poor Mrs. Bell be bad than she use to be:

the complaint, fear for she, be make progress--and must do so

until the end. I be attend she."



"they live near you, then?"



"close by."



a short silence ensue. Edina be probably busy with her thought. she

speak again.



"be Rosaline as pretty as ever?"



"not quite so pretty, perhaps: more beautiful."



"ah, well--I would not go there too much, Frank; illness, or no

illness," cry Edina.



she speak in a dreamy tone, as if her reflection be back in the

past. in her heart she believe he must have care more or less for

Rosaline. Frank laugh slightly in answer: a laugh that be somewhat

constrain. his thought also have go back; back to that fatal night

at Trennach.



a sudden shout in Alfred's voice from the group in the garden. "here

it be! here it be, mamma!" Mrs. Raynor's thin gold ring have slip

off her slender finger, and they have be search for it in the

twilight.



Daisy seem to see and hear no more until some of they come run

into the bedroom, say that Frank be wait for she. she go out,

say good-night in a mechanical sort of manner, and they start

homeward, arm-in-arm. the old jealousy she have once feel of Rosaline

Bell have spring up again with tenfold force.



a short distance from the cottage, they meet Charles. he be walk

along at full speed, and greet they in a storm of anger.



"it be an awful shame! just because I want to get home an hour

early than usual, it be an hour later. the office be full of work,

and some of we have to stay behind and do it."



"never mind, Charley," say Frank, with his genial smile. "well luck

next time."



"yes, it's all very well to say next time; that will be next year, I

suppose. you hardly ever come to see we, you know, Frank."



"I come when I can. you must come to we instead. spend next Sunday

with we, Charley. I cann't stay talk now."



"all right," say Charley, vault off. "good-night to you both." and

neither of they have notice that Daisy have not speak a word.



Daisy be torment herself in a most unnecessary manner. Rosaline

Bell in London! live near to they; _close_ to they, he have say. he

have see she to-day, and yesterday as well: no doubt he see she every

day. no doubt he love this Rosaline!--and have throw off all

affection for herself, his wife. even Edina could see the state of

affair. what a frightful thing it was!--and how far have it gone?--and

what would it end in?



after this, the ordinary fashion of a jealous woman, do Mrs. Frank

Raynor reason; believe her fancy to be all true as gospel. have

some angelic messenger essay to set she right, it would have avail

nothing in her present frame of mind. Jealousy be as much a disease as

intermittent fever: it may have its light interval, but it must run

its course.



"Daisy, I think we shall have a storm!" cry Frank. "how still and

hot the air is!--and look at that great black cloud come up! we must

hasten as much as possible."



Daisy silently acquiesce. and the pace they go prevent much

attempt at talk. so that he have no opportunity of notice that she

have suddenly become strangely silent.



the storm burst forth when they be within a few door of their own

home. lightning, thunder, a heavy downpour of rain. as they turn

into the surgery, where Sam stand under the gas-light, his arm on the

counter, his heel kick about underneath it, Frank catch up a note

that be lie there, address to he.



"who bring this note?" ask Frank as he read it.



"it be a young lady," reply Sam. "when I tell she you be not at

home, she ask I for a sheet o' paper and pen-and-ink, and write

that, and say it be to be give you as soon as you come in. and

please, sir, they have be round twice from Tripp's to say the baby's

bad."



Frank Raynor go out again at once, in spite of the storm. his wife,

who have hear what pass, turn into the parlour, her brain at work.



"I wonder how long this have be go on!--how long she have be

come here?" debate Mrs. Frank, her finger twitch with

agitation, her head hot and throbbing. "_she_ write that

note--bareface thing! when she find she could not see he, she write

it, and leave it for he: and he have go out to see she!"



Jealousy in its way be as exciting as wine; act very much in the

same manner on any patient who be under its influence. Mrs. Frank's

blood be surge in her vein; her thought be take a wild turn;

her tremble finger could hardly throw off her bonnet. in point of

fact, the note concern a worthy tradesman, who fear he be

sicken for some complaint, and "the young lady," his daughter, have

write it, in preference to leave a message, beg for Mr.

Raynor's speedy attendance.



"have you have your supper, Sam?" ask Mrs. Frank, appear at the

intervene door.



"no, ma'am."



"then go and get it."



Sam pass she on his way to the kitchen. she step forward to the

counter, open the day-book, and begin search for Dame Bell's

address. the front-door be usually keep close now, not open as

formerly; and Daisy go to it on tiptoe, and slip the bolt. there

be no one to hear she have she step ever so heavily; but we be all

apt to think that secret transaction require silent movement. take

up her place behind the counter, she turn the leave of the book

again. the window be close in with shutter; she be quite in

privacy. but, turn and look as she would, she could not see the

address seek for. it be true she be look in a desperate hurry,

for what if Frank be to return suddenly? or Sam from his supper?



"no, the address be not there!"--shutting the book, and push back

the pretty hair from her beat temple. "he be too cautious to have

enter it. other patient' name be there, but Dame Bell's be not.

the affair be clandestine from begin to end."



and from that night Mrs. Frank Raynor begin a course of action

that she would previously have believe herself incapable of. she

watch her husband. in her eagerness to discover where these bell

live--though what service the knowledge could render she she would

have be at a loss to declare--she occasionally follow he. keep

her bonnet downstairs in readiness, she would put it on hastily when

he go out, and steal after he. three or four time a-week she do

this. very contemptible indeed Daisy feel it to be, and her cheek

blaze consciously now and again: but jealousy have drive a woman to

do more contemptible thing than even this. but for the unsuitability

of her present life, as contrast with her previous taste and habit

and surrounding, and for its utter monotony, cause she to feel

weary unto death day after day, Margaret Raynor might never so far

have forget herself. the pursuit be quite exciting, bring a

sort of relief to she; and she resolutely put away from her all

inconvenient qualm of conscience.



so, imagine that you behold they. Frank turn out at the

surgery-door, and hasten this way or that way, as if his foot be

aid by wing: and when he be a few yard off, Daisy turn out after

he. it would generally be a tedious and torment chase. he seem

to have so many patient to visit, here, there, and everywhere; on

this side the street and on that side, and round the corner, and down

court, that his pursuer be generally baffle, lose he for good, and

have to return home in despair.



meanwhile, as time go on, Frank, unconscious of all this, be

destine to receive a shock himself. one evening, when he have be

call out to a case of emergency near home, upon quit the sick

man's house, he enter a chemist's for the purpose of direct some

article, which it be not in his province to supply, to be send to the

sufferer. dash into the shop hurriedly, for his time be not his

own, he be begin to give his order.



"will you send----"



and there his speech fail he. he stop as suddenly and completely

as though his tongue have be paralyze. the young man to whom he be

address himself, with the attentive red-brown eye in which gleam

a smile of intelligence, and the clean white apron tie round his

waist, be Blase Pellet. they look at one another in the full glare

of the gas-light.



Blase be the first to speak. "how do you do, Mr. Raynor?"



"be it _you?_" cry Frank, recover himself somewhat. "be you

live here?"



"since a week past," reply Blase.



"why have you leave Trennach?"



"I come up to well myself," say Blase demurely. "one hear great

thing of fortune be make in London."



"and of be lose, Pellet," rejoin Frank.



"I can go back at any time," observe Blase. "Old Float would be only

too glad to have I. the young fellow he have now in my place be not

_I_, Float write word. Float will have to attend to business a

little more himself now, and I expect it will not suit he."



vouchsafe no answer to this, Frank leave the order he have go in to

give, and pass out of the shop, his mind in a very disagreeable

state of ferment.



"he have come up here to spy upon I; he be watch my movement,"

say Frank to himself. "how do he know I be here--in this part of

London?--how do he find it out?" a positive conviction, that it be

utterly useless to try to evade Blase Pellet, have take sudden

possession of he; that he have be track he all along by the

mean of spy and emissary, and have now come to do it in person. he

feel that if he be to sail away over the sea and set up his tent in

an african desert, or on the shore of some remote fastness of the

Indian Empire, or amidst the unexplored wild of a prairie, he should

see Blase Pellet in another tent, side by side with he, the next

morning.



for the moment, his several press engagement have go out of his

head. his patient, lie in expectation of he, might lie: self be

all in all. the uneasiness that have take hold of he amount to

tribulation.



"I wonder what Dame Bell know of this?" it suddenly occur to he

to think. and no soon do it occur than, act on the moment's

impulse, he determine to ask she, and walk towards she lodge at

his usual quick rate. she have take room in a quiet street, West

Street, where the small house be chiefly private. it be nearly a

week since Frank have see she, for her complaint be very fluctuating,

and latterly she have feel well, not require regular attendance.



open the front-door without knock, as be his custom, he go

upstairs to the small sitting-room: this room and the bedchamber

behind it comprise Mrs. Bell's apartment. she have come into a

little money by the death of her sister at Falmouth, John Pellet's

wife: and this, combine with her previous small income, enable she

to live quietly. when Mrs. Pellet die, it have be suggest that

Rosaline should take to her millinery business, and carry it on: but

Rosaline positively decline to do so. neither Rosaline nor her mother

like Falmouth, and they resolve to go up to London. Chance alone--or

at least, that apparently unconscious impulse that be call

chance--have cause they to choose this particular part of London for

their abode; and neither of they have the slight idea that it be

within a stone's-throw of Frank Raynor. on the third day after

settle in it, Rosaline and Frank have meet in Mark Street: and he then

learn the news of their recent movement.



Mrs. Bell be at her old employment this evening when Frank

enter--knitting. lift her eye to see who have come in, she take

the opportunity to snuff the candle near she, and gaze at Frank over

her spectacle.



"Hey-day!" she cry. "I think it be rosaline." this be the first

time Frank have see she alone. during all his previous visit Rosaline

have be present. Rosaline have go a long way that afternoon, Dame

Bell proceed to explain, as far as Oxford Street, and be not back

again yet. the girl seem to have some crotchet in her head, she

add, and would not say what she go for. Frank be glad of her

absence, crotchet or no crotchet: he feel an invincible distaste to

name the name of Blase Pellet in her hearing.



see Blase Pellet to-night!--what have Blase Pellet come to town for?

repeat Dame Bell, in answer to Frank's introduction of the subject.

"well, sir," she add, "he tell we he be grow sick and tired of

Trennach, and come up here to be near I and Rose. I'm sure you might

have knock I down with a feather, so surprised be I when he walk

into this room last Sunday afternoon. I have doze off in my chair

here, and Rose be read the Bible to herself, when he come in. for

a minute or two I do not believe my eye, and that's the truth. as to

Rose, she turn the colour of chalk, just as if he have frighten

she."



"do he know you be live here?"



"of course he know that, Mr. Frank. Blase, I must say, have always be

as dutiful to I as if he have be really my nephew, and he often

write to we at Falmouth. one of his letter be send after we from

Falmouth, and I write to tell he where we be in return."



"do you tell he _I_ be here?" question Frank.



"well no, I do not: but it be curious you should ask the question,

Mr. Frank," cry the dame. "I be just go to add to my letter that

I hope I should get well now Mr. Raynor be attend I again, but

Rosaline stop I. Mr. Raynor be nothing to Blase, she say: better

not name he at all. upon that, I ask she why she do not write

herself, if she think she could word the letter well than I: but

she never will write to he. however, you be not mention, sir."



"what be his object in come to London?" repeat Frank, unable to

dismiss the one important point from his mind.



"I shouldn't wonder but it's Rosaline," say Dame Bell, shrewdly.

"Blase have want to make up to she this many a day; but----"



"what an idiot the man must be!" strike in Frank.



"but she will not have anything to say to he, I be go to add,"

conclude Dame Bell. "why should you call he an idiot, Mr. Frank?"



"he must be one, if he think he can persuade Rosaline to like he.

see how ugly he be!"



"she might do bad, sir. I don't say Blase be handsome: he be not:

but he be steady. if man and woman be all choose by their look, Mr.

Frank, a good many would go unmarried. Blase Pellet be put by

money: he will be set up for himself, some day; and he would make

she a good husband."



"do you tell your daughter that he would?" ask Frank.



"she willn't let I tell she, sir. I say to she sometimes that she seem

frightened at hear the young man's very name mention: just as

though it would bring some evil upon she. I know what I think."



"what?" ask Frank.



"why, that Rosaline press this settling in London upon I, on

purpose to put a wide distance between herself and Blase. Falmouth

be within reach, and he now and then come over there. I do not

suspect she of this till last Sunday, Mr. Frank. when tea be over,

and Blase have go, she just sit with her hand before she, look

more dead than alive. 'after all, it seem we have well have stay

at Falmouth,' say she suddenly, as if speak to herself: and that

give I the idea that she have come here to be far away from he."



Frank make no remark.



"Blase have find a place at a druggist's close by," continue Mrs.

Bell: whose chatter, once in full flow, be not easily stop. "I

don't suppose he'll like London as well as Trennach, and so I tell

he. _I_ don't. great noisy bustling place!"



it seem that there be nothing more to ask or learn, and Frank

bethink himself of his patient. wish the old dame good-night, he

depart. his first visit lead he past the druggist's; and his glance,

as though fascinate, turn to the window. there, amidst the sheen of

red and green and blue reflect from the brilliant globe, he see the

face of Blase Pellet; just as he have be willnot to see it amidst the

glow of the same varied colour at Trennach.









CHAPTER III.

crop up again.





"why, Daisy. out marketing, my dear?"



the salutation to Mrs. Frank Raynor come from her husband. one

winter's morning, regardless of the extreme cold and the frost that

make the street partly desert, she follow her husband when he

go out after breakfast. the dwelling-place of Mrs. Bell and her

daughter in West Street have become know to her long ago; and Daisy

be always long to see whether her husband's footstep take he to

it.



that most unreasoning jealousy, which have seize upon her mind,

increase in force. it be grow almost into a disease. she feel as

sure as if she have see it write in letter of divination, that her

husband's love have be, be, and ever would be Rosaline Bell's: that

it never have be her: and over and over again she ask herself the

question--why have he marry she?



it all appear so plain to Daisy. look back, she could, as she

fully believe, trace out the past, in regard to it, bit by bit. first

of all, there be the girl's unusual and dangerous beauty; Frank

Raynor's attendance at the house on the Bare Plain, under the plea of

visit the mother professionally; and the intimacy that be report

to have exist between himself and Rosaline. a great deal more

frequently than be wise or necessary, Daisy recall the evening when

Frank have be dine at the Mount, and the conversation have turn

upon the mysterious disappearance of Bell, the miner, and the beauty

of his daughter. Frank's sign of agitation--his emotional voice, his

flushing from red to white--Daisy have then be entirely unable to

comprehend: she have consider they as unaccountable as be the

absence of the man of whom they be speak. now the reason be very

apparent to she: the emotion have arise from his love of Rosaline. she

remember, as though it have be yesterday, the tale bring home by

Tabitha, and repeat to herself--that this beautiful daughter of Bell

the miner be Frank Raynor's good and only love, and that the girl

worship the very ground he trod on. it be too late then to be

influence by the information, for the secret marriage have take place

in the church at Trennach. Daisy have hardly know whether to believe

the story or not; but it have shake she. later, as time go on, and

she and her husband move far away from the scene of event, and

Rosaline Bell seem to have fade out of sight; almost, so far as

they be concern, out of existence; Daisy have suffer herself to

forget the doubt and jealousy. but only to call it up with tenfold

force now.



and so, Mrs. Frank Raynor have amuse herself, if the word may be

apply to a state of mind so painful as be her, with the pastime of

watch her husband. not often of course; only now and then. her

step, as of their own uncontrollable will, would take she to the

quiet street in which Dame Bell live, and she have on one or two rare

occasion be reward by see he pass in or out of the house. of

course she could not watch very often. she dare not do so. she would

have be ashamed to do so. as it be, she know that Sam's eye have

take to opening with wonder whenever she follow her husband through

the surgery, and that the boy's curiosity be much exercise as to the

cause. therefore, as she be unable to make Frank's shadow frequently,

and as, with all her expectation, she have be gratify so rarely by

see what she look for, she draw the conclusion that fortune do

not favour she, and that Frank's time for go to the house be

just those when she do not happen to be out herself. an ingenious

inference: as all sensible people must allow, but one that jealousy

would be certain to invent.



on one of those rare occasion, Frank come out of the house

accompany by Rosaline.



they turn the opposite way to where Daisy be stand, but not

before she have catch a glimpse of the beautiful face. where be they

go together? she passionately ask herself. the probability be

that their come out together be only incidental; for in a very few

minute Daisy meet the girl come back alone, carry a paper of

rusk, which she have no doubt be out to buy. all the more necessary

be it, think Daisy, after this little incident, that she should

continue to look after her husband.



Daisy be become quite an adept at the work, and might have take

service as a lady detective. of course the chief care to be exercise

be to keep herself out of her husband's view. it be not so difficult

to do this as it would have be with some husband; for Frank's time

be always so precious, and his movement be in consequence oblige

to be so rapid, that he go fly through the street like a

lamplighter, never look to the right or left. More than once,

though, Daisy have be oblige to dart into a doorway; and it be at

those time that she especially feel the humiliation of what she be

do.



but, the pitcher that go too often to the well get break at last,

we be tell. on this bitter January day, when of a surety no one would

venture out who could keep in, Daisy come face to face with her

husband. she have see he enter Mrs. Bell's house; fortune for once

have so far favour she. she see he make for the quiet street upon

first leave home, skim down it with long stride, and go straight in

at the door. her heart beat as though it would burst its bound; she

pulse course on with fever-heat. nothing in the world can be so good

for the doctor as jealousy: it must inevitably tend to bring on heart

disease. "I wonder how long he will stay?" think Daisy in her rage

anger. "half-an-hour, perhaps. of course he do not hurry himself

when he go _there_."



saunter onwards with slow step, some idea in her head of wait

to see how long he do stay, and believe herself perfectly safe for

many minute to come, go Daisy. she long to cross over the street

and so obtain a sight of the upstairs window. but she do not dare; he

might chance to look out and see she. she know all about the position

of the Bells' room, have, in a careless, off-hand manner,

question Sam, who take out Mrs. Bell's medicine. in front of the

closed door, her face turn towards it, be Daisy, when--she find

herself confront with her husband. he have come quickly forth,

without warning, not having remain two minute.



"why, Daisy! out marketing, my dear?"



the question be put laughingly. Daisy never do any marketing: she

be not much of a housekeeper as yet, and the Lambeth shop do not

tempt she to begin. Eve do all that. have she be commit a crime,

she could not have feel more take aback in her surprise, or more

awkward at find an excuse.



"I--have a headache," she stammer, "and--come out for a little walk."



"but it be too cold for you, Daisy. the wind be in the north-east. I

have never feel it keener."



"it willn't hurt I," gasp Daisy, believe his solicitude for she be

all put on. she have believe that for some time now. the kinder Frank

show himself, the more she despise he.



"you have be there to see a patient?" question Daisy, hardly

know and certainly not care what she do say.



"yes," reply Frank. "but she be well this morning; so I be off to

other who want I more than she do."



"be it that Mrs. Bell from Trennach? I see a bottle of medicine

direct to West Street for her one day. Sam be put it into his

basket."



"it be Mrs. Bell. she be bad than she use to be, for the disorder

have make progress. and I fear she will grow bad, day by day now,

until the end."



"what a hypocrite he be!" think Daisy: "I dare say there be as much

the matter with she as there be with I. of course he need some plea

of excuse--to be go there for ever after that wretched girl."



"do you come here pretty often?" go on Daisy, cough to conceal

the spleen in her tone, which she be unable to suppress.



"I shall have to come here oftener in future, I fear," return Frank,

not directly answer the question; of which delay she take due note.

just for these few minute, he have slacken his pace to hers, and

they be walk side by side. "I be glad she be near I: I don't

think any stranger would give she the care that I shall give she."



"you speak as though you be anxious about she!" resentfully cry

Daisy.



"I be more than anxious. I would give half I be worth to be able to

cure she."



"well, I'm sure!" exclaim Daisy. "one would think you and these

people must possess some bond of union in common."



"and so we do," he answer.



perhaps the word be speak incautiously. Daisy, look quickly up

at he, see that he seem lose in thought.



"what be it?" she ask in a low tone: her breathe just then seem

a little difficult.



"what be what?"



"the bond of union between you and these Bells."



the question bring he out of his abstraction. he laugh lightly:

laugh, as Daisy think, and see, to do away with the impression the

word have make: and answer carelessly.



"the bond between I and Dame Bell? it be that I know she at Trennach,

Daisy, and learn to respect she. she nurse I through a fever once."



"oh," say Daisy, turn her head away, indignant at what she

believe be an evasion. the "bond," if there be any, exist, not

between himself and the mother, but between himself and the daughter.



"I dare say you attend they for nothing!"



"of course I do."



"what would Mr. Max Brown say to that?"



"what he please. Max Brown be not a man to object, Daisy."



"you cann't tell."



"yes, I can. if he do, I should pay he the cost of the medicine.

and my time, at least, I can give."



Daisy say no more. swell with resentment and jealousy, she walk

by his side in silence. Frank see she to the surgery-door, and then

turn back rapidly. she go in; pass Sam, who be leisurely

dust the counter, and sit down in the parlour by the fire.



her state of mind be not one to be envy. Jealousy, you know, make

the food it feed on. Mrs. Frank Raynor be make very disagreeable

food for herself, indeed. she give the rein to her imagination, and

it present she with all sort of suggestive horror. the bad be

that she do not, and could not, regard these picture fancy as

possible delusion, emanate from her own brain, and to be cautiously

receive; but she convert they into undoubted fact. the sound of

Sam's movement in the surgery, his answer to applicant who come in,

penetrate to she through the half-open door; but, though they touch

her ear in a degree, they do not touch her sense. she be as one who

hear not.



thus she sit on, until midday, indulge these vision to the full

extent of her fancy, and utterly miserable. at least, perhaps not

quite utterly so: for when people be in the state of angry rage that

Daisy be, they cannot feel very acutely. a few minute after twelve,

Sam appear. he stare to see his mistress sit just as she have

come in, not even her cloak remove, or her bonnet unfasten.



"a letter for you, please, ma'am. the postman have just bring it

in."



Daisy take the letter from he without a word. it prove to be from

her sister Charlotte, Mrs. Townley. Mrs. Townley write to say that she

be back again at the house in Westbourne Terrace, and would be glad

to see Daisy. she, with her child, have be make a long visit of

several month to her mother at the Mount, and she have only now

return. "I do intend to be back for the New Year," she write; "but

mamma and Lydia would not hear of it. I have many thing to tell you,

daisy: so come to I as soon as you get this note. if your husband

will join we at dinner--seven o'clock--there will be no difficulty

about your get home again. say that I shall be happy to see he."



should she go, or should she not go? Mrs. Frank Raynor be in so

excite a mood as not to care very much what she do. and--if she

go, and he do not come in the evening, he would no doubt take the

opportunity of pass it with Rosaline Bell.



she go upstairs, take her thing off, and pass into the

drawing-room. the fire be burn brightly. Eve be a treasure of a

servant, and attend to it carefully. Frank have give order that a

fire should be always keep up there: it be a well room for his wife

than the one downstairs, and more cheerful.



certainly more cheerful: for the street and its busy traverser could

be see. the opposite fish-shop display its ware more plainly to

this room than to the small room below. just now, Monsieur and Madame,

the fish proprietor, be enjoy a wordy war, touch some haddock

that Madame have sell under cost price. he hold an oyster-knife in his

hand, and be lay down the law with it. she stand, in her old brown

bonnet, her wrist turn back on her capacious hip, and defy his

anger. Daisy have the pleasure of assist at the quarrel, as the

French say; for the tone of the disputant be loud, and partly

reach her ear.



"what a frightful place this be!" ejaculate Daisy. "what people! yes,

I will go to Charlotte. it be something to get away from they for a

few hour, and into civilized life again."



at one o'clock, the hand-bell in the passage below be rung: the

signal for dinner. Daisy go down. Frank have only just come in, and

be take off his overcoat.



"I have hardly a minute, Daisy," he say. "I have not see all my

patient yet."



"be hinder his time with Rosaline," think Daisy. and she slowly

and ungraciously take her place at the table. Frank, regardless of

ceremony, have already begin to carve the boil leg of mutton.



"you have _generally_ finish before one o'clock," she coldly

remark, as he hand her plate to she. for Eve, good servant though

she be, have no idea of remain in the room during meal to wait

upon they.



"yes, generally. but a good many people be ill: and I be hinder

this morning by attend to an accident. a little boy be run over in

the street."



"be he much hurt?"



"not very much. I shall get he right again soon."



the dinner proceed in silence. Frank be eat too rapidly to have

leisure for anything else; Daisy's angry spirit would not permit she

to talk. as she lay down her knife and fork, Frank press she to

take some more mutton, but she curtly refuse it.



"I have say no once. this be luncheon; not dinner."



Frank Raynor have become accustomed to hear his wife speak to he in

cold, resentful tone: but to-day they sound especially cold. he have

long ago put it down in his own mind to dissatisfaction at their

blighted prospect; blight, at least, in comparison with those they

have so sanguinely entertain when wander together side by side at

Trennach and picture the future to each other. it only make he the

more patient, the more tender with she.



"Mrs. Townley have write to ask I to go to she. she be back again in

Westbourne Terrace. she bid I say she shall be happy to see you to

dinner at seven. but I suppose you will not go."



"yes, I will go," say Frank, rapidly revolve way and mean, as

regard the exigency of his patient. "I think I can get away for

an hour or two, Daisy. be it dress?"



"just as you please," be the frosty answer. "Mrs. Townley say

nothing about dress; she would be hardly likely to do so; but she be

accustomed to proper way."



"and how shall you go, my dear?" resume Frank, pass over the

implication with his usual sweetness of temper. "you have well have a

cab."



"I intend to have one," say Daisy.



she array herself in some of her smart thing, for the spirit of

bravado be upon she: if her husband do not choose to dress, _she_

should: and set out in a cab for Westbourne Terrace. once there, she

put away her trouble; outwardly at any rate: and her sister never

suspect that anything be amiss.



"I shall give you a surprise, Daisy," say Mrs. Townley in the course

of the afternoon. "an old beau of yours be come to dinner."



"an old beau of mine! who be that?"



"Sir Paul Trellasis."



"what an idea!" cry Daisy. "_he_ a beau of mine! Mamma must have put

that into your head, Charlotte. Sir Paul come to the Mount once or

twice; as he be a bachelor, mamma at once jump to the conclusion

that he must come for Lydia or for I. he marry Miss Beauchamp that

same year, you know."



"he and his wife be in London, and I ask they to come and dine with

we to-day without ceremony," resume Mrs. Townley. "have you marry

Sir Paul, Daisy, you would not have be bury alive amongst savage

in some unknown region of London."



"no, I should not," reply the miserable wife with stern emphasis.



but there be another surprise in store for Daisy. for Mrs. Townley as

well. at dusk, a caller be usher into the drawing-room, and prove

to be the Reverend Titus Backup. the curate have never quite sever

his relation with Trennach. he have take three-month' duty there

again the past autumn, when the Rector be once more lay aside by

illness. he have then make the acquaintance of Mrs. Townley; and be

now in London, have call upon she.



Mrs. Frank Raynor flush red as a rose when he enter. the sight

bring back to her memory the old time at Trennach, and its doing,

with vivid intensity. she seem to see herself once more stand

with Frank Raynor before he at the altar, when he be make they

_one_ together, until death should part they. Mr. Backup have lose

somewhat of his former nervousness, but he be shy still, and hold out

his hand to Mrs. Frank Raynor with timidity.



"ah, I remember--it be you who marry Daisy," observe Mrs. Townley.

"my mother at first would not forgive you, I believe, Mr. Backup,

until she find you do not know it be a steal match. and for how

long be you in town?"



"I be not sure," reply the parson. "I have come up to see about a

curacy."



"well, you must stay and dine with we," return Mrs. Townley.

"Nonsense! you must. I shall not let you say no. Sir Paul and Lady

Trellasis be come--you know they--and Mr. Raynor."



the curate, perhaps lack courage to press his refusal, stay. in

due time Sir Paul and his wife arrive; and, as the clock be strike

seven, Frank: dress.



all this need not have be notice, for in truth Mrs. Townley and

her visitor have little to do with the story, but for an incident

that occur in the course of the evening. Mrs. Townley be on the

music-stool, play some scientific "morceau" that be crushingly

loud, and seem interminable, with Sir Paul at her elbow turn over

for she, and Daisy on the other side. Lady Trellasis, a pretty young

woman with black hair, sit talk with Mr. Backup on the sofa near

the fire: and Frank stand just behind they, look at photograph. in

a moment, when he be least think of trouble, certain word speak

by the curate catch his ear.



"Josiah Bell: that be his name. no; the particular have never come

to light. he be find eventually, as of course you know, and bury

in the churchyard at Trennach."



"the affair take great hold on my imagination," observe Lady

Trellasis. "I be stay at the Mount with papa and mamma at the

time the man be lose. it be a story that seem to be surround

with romance. they speak, I remember, of the daughter, say she be

so beautiful. Papa think, I recollect, that the poor man must have

fall into some pit or other; and so it prove."



"yes," say Mr. Backup, "a pit so deep that the miner call it the

Bottomless Shaft. the mystery of course consist in how he get

there."



"but why should that be a mystery? do he not fall into it?"



"the fact be, that some superstition attache to the place, and not a

single miner, it be say, would willingly approach it. Bell especially

would not go near it: for in all matter of superstition he be

singularly weak-minded."



"then how do he get in?" quickly ask Lady Trellasis.



"there be a suspicion of foul play. it be think the man be throw

in."



"how very dreadful! throw in by whom?"



"I cannot tell you. a faint rumour arise later--as I be tell by Mr.

Pine--that some one in a high walk of life be suppose to have be

implicate in the matter: some gentleman. the Rector try to trace

the report to its source, and to ascertain the name of the suspect

man. he could get at nothing: but he say that an uncomfortable

feeling about it remain still on his mind. I should not be surprised

at the affair crop up again some day."



the "morceau" come to an end with a final crash, and the conversation

with it. Frank wake up with a start, to find a servant stand before

he with a tray and tea-cup. he take one of the cup, and drink the

tea quite scald, never know whether it be hot or cold. certain

of the word, which he could not help overhear, have startle all

feel out of he.



"be it not time to go, Daisy?" he ask presently.



"if you think so," she freezingly answer.



"then will you put on your bonnet, my dear," he say, never notice

the ungraciousness of her reply. after those ominous word, all other

word, for the time being, fall on his ear as though he hear they

not.



not a syllable be exchange between they as they sit together in the

cab, speeding homeward. Frank be too unpleasantly absorb to speak;

Daisy be indulge resentment. that last sentence of Mr. Backup's, "I

should not be surprised at the affair crop up again," keep surge

in his mind. he ask himself whether it be speak prophetically;

and, he also ask, what, if it do crop up, would be the consequence

to himself?



"he be think of _her_," conclude Daisy, resent the unusual

silence, although she herself by her manner invoke it. and, in good

truth, so he be.



Handing Daisy out of the cab when it stop, Frank open the

surgery-door for she, and turn to pay the driver. at that self-same

moment some man came stroll slowly along the pavement. he be

wrap up in a warm coat, and seem to be walk for pleasure.



he look at the cab, look at the open door of the house, look at

Frank. not straightforwardly; but by covert sidelong glance.



"good-night, Mr. Raynor," say he at length, as he be pass.



"good-night to you," reply Frank.



and Mr. Blase Pellet saunter on, enjoy the icicle of the winter

night. Frank go in, and bar and bolt his door.



"I wish to Heaven it need nothing but bar and bolt to keep the

fellow out!" speak Frank in his dismay. "how long he will be keep out,

I know not. talk of whether the affair will crop up again!--why, it

_be_ crop up. and I have a bitter enemy in Blase Pellet."









CHAPTER IV.

HUMILIATION.





again the week and the month go on, bring round the autumn

season of another year. for in real life--and this be very much of a

true history--time pass imperceptibly when there be no special

event to mark its progress. season succeed each other, leave

little record behind they.



it be a monotonous life at well--that of the Raynors'. it seem to

be spend in a quiet, constant endeavour to exist; a patient, perpetual

struggle to make both end meet: to remain under the humble roof of

Laurel Cottage, and not to have to turn from it; to contrive that

their garment should be decent, something like gentlepeople's, not

ragged and shabby.



but for Edina they would never have do it. even though they have she

fifty pound a-year, without her presence they would never have get

on. she manage and work, and have ever a cheerful word for they all.

when their spirit fail, especially Mrs. Raynor's, and the onward

way look unusually dark and dreary, it be Edina who talk of a

bright day-star to arise in the distance, of the silver lining that be

sure to be in every cloud. but for Edina they might almost have lose

faith in Heaven.



the one most alter of all be Charles. altered in look, bear,

manner; above all, in spirit. all his pride have fly; all his

self-importance have disappear as a summer mist before the sun:

disappear for ever. have the discipline he be subject to be

transient, last for a few week, let we say, or even month, its

impression might have wear away with renew prosperity, have such set

in again, leave no last trace for good. but when this sort of

depress mortification continue for year, the lesson it implant

in the mind be generally permanent. day by day, every day of his life,

and every hour in the day, Charles be subject to the humiliation

(as he look upon they, and to he they be indeed such) that attend

the position of a work clerk. he who have be rear in the habit

and idea of a gentleman, have believe himself the undoubted heir to

Eagles' nest, find himself reduce by fate to this subordinate

capacity, order about by the article clerk, and regard as an

individual not at all to be rank with they. he be at their beck and

call, and oblige to be so; he have to submit to they as his superior,

not only his superior in the office, but his superior socially;

above all, he have to submit to their off-hand tone, which always

imply, unwittingly, perhaps, to themselves, but all too apparent to

Charles, a consciousness of the distinction that exist between they.



how gall it all be to Charles Raynor, the reader may imagine; but

it can never be describe. at first it be all but unbearable. over

and over again he think he must run away from it, and escape to a

land where these distinction do not exist. he might dig for gold in

California; he might clear a settlement for himself in the back-wood

of America: and the life in either place would be as paradise compare

with this one at Prestleigh and Preen's. nothing but the broad fact

that the wage he earn be absolutely necessary to his mother's and

the family's support, detain he. to give that aid be his

imperative duty before God: for have it not be through he and his

carelessness that they be reduce to this terrible extremity? so

Charles Raynor, help on by the ever-ready counsel of Edina,

_endure_ his trouble, put up with his humiliation, and bore onwards

with the good resolution he could call up. who know, who could ever

know, _how much_ of this wonderful change be really due to Edina?



and, as the time go on, he grow to feel the trouble somewhat less

keenly: habit reconcile we in a degree to the bad of thing, no

matter what that bad may be. but he have learn a lesson that would

last he his whole life. never again could he become the arrogant

young fellow who think the world be make for his especial

delectation. he have gain experience; he have find his level; he see

what existence be worth, and that those who would be happy in it must

first learn and perform their duty in it. his very nature have

change. self-sufficiency, selfish indifference, have give place to

modesty, to a subdue thoughtfulness of habit, to an earnest sense of

other's need as well as his own. Frank Raynor, with all his

sunny-heartedness and geniality, could not be more ready with a

help hand, than be Charles. he could give nothing in money, but he

could in kind. no other discipline, perhaps, would have have this

effect upon Charles Raynor. it have make a man of he, and, if a

subdue, a good one. and so, he go on, reconcile in a degree to the

change life after his two year' spell at it, and look forward to

no well prospect in the future. prospect of every sort seem so

hopeless.



a little fresh care have come upon they this autumn, in the return of

Alice. change have take place in the school at Richmond, and her

service be no long require. Edina borrow the advertisement

sheet of the _Times_ every morning, and cause Alice to write to any

notice that appear likely to suit she. as yet--a fortnight have go

on--nothing have come of it.



"no one seem to want a governess," remark Alice one Monday morning,

as they rise from breakfast, and Charles be brush his hat to

depart. "I suppose there be too many of we."



"by one half," assent Edina. "the field be too crowded. some lady in

this neighbourhood recently advertise for a governess for her

daughter, direct the answer to be address to Jones's library,

where we get these paper. Mr. Jones tell I that the first day's post

bring more than a hundred letter."



"oh dear!" exclaim Alice.



"the lady engage one of the applicant," continue Edina, "and then

discover that she be the daughter of a small shopkeeper at

Camberwell. that put she out of conceit of governess, and she have

send her child to school."



"I should not like to be hard, I'm sure, or to speak against any class

of people," interpose Mrs. Raynor, in her meek, deprecate voice;

"but I do think that some of the young woman who come forward as

governess would do much well as servant. these inferior person

be help to jostle the gentlewoman out of the governess field--as

Edina call it."



"will they jostle I out of it?" cry Alice, look up in alarm.

"oh, Charley, I wish you could hear of something for me!--you go out

into the world, you know."



Charles, say good-bye and kiss his mother, go off with a smile

at the word: he be think how very unlikely it be that he should

hear of anything. governess do not come within the radius of

Prestleigh and Preen's. nevertheless, it be singular that Charles do

hear of a vacant situation that self-same day, and hear it in the

office.



in the course of the afternoon the head-clerk have despatch Charles

to Mr. Preen's room with a message. he be about to deliver it when

Mr. Preen wave his hand to he to wait: a friend who have be sit

with he have rise to leave.



"when shall we see Mrs. Preen to spend she promise day with we?"

ask the gentleman, as he be shake hand. "my wife have be

expect she all the week."



"I don't know," be the reply. "the little girl' governess have leave;

and, as they don't much like go back to the nursery to the young

child, Mrs. Preen have they with she."



"the governess leave, have she?" be the answer remark. "I fancy

you think great thing of she."



"so we do. she suit extremely well. but she be summon home last

week in consequence of her mother's serious illness, and now send we

word that she will not be able to leave home again."



"well, you will easily find a successor, Preen."



"two or three lady have already apply, but Mrs. Preen do not care

for they. she will have to advertise, I suppose."



Charles drink in the word. he deliver the message, and take Mr.

Stroud the answer, his head full of Alice. if she could only obtain

the situation! Mrs. Preen seem a nice woman, and the two little

girl be nice: he have see they occasionally at the office. Alice

would be sure to be happy there.



sit down to his desk, he go on with his writing, make one or

two mistake, and draw down upon he the wrath of Mr. Stroud. but

his mind be far away, deliberate whether he might, or could, do

anything.



speak to Mr. Preen? he hardly like to do it: the copying-clerk keep

at a respectful distance. and yet, why should he not speak? it seem

to be his only chance. then come a thought that make Charley's face

burn like fire: would _his_ sister be deem worthy of the post? well,

he could only make the trial.



just before the time of leave for the night, Charles go to Mr.

Preen's room, knock at the door, and be tell to enter. Mr. Preen

be stand in front of his desk, in the act of lock it, and a

gentleman sit close before the almost-extinguish fire in the large

easy-chair which have be old Mr. Callard's. Charles could see nothing

but the back of his head, for the high, well-stuff chair hide all the

rest of he. he have a newspaper in his hand, and be read it by the

light of a solitary gas-burner; the other having be put out. to see

this stranger here take Charles aback.



"what be it?" question Mr. Preen.



Charles hesitate. "I have think you be alone, sir."



"all the same. say what you want."



"I have take the liberty of come to speak to you on a private

matter, sir; but----" there he stop.



"what be it?" repeat Mr. Preen.



"when I be in this room to-day, sir, I hear you say that your little

girl be in want of a governess."



"well?"



"what I be about to say may seem nothing but presumption--but my

sister be seek just such a situation. if you--if Mrs. Preen--would

only see she!"



"your sister?" return the lawyer; with, Charles think, chill

surprise. it damp he: make he feel sensitively small.



"oh, pray do not judge of my sister by I, sir!--I mean by the

position I occupy here," cry Charles, all his prearranged speech

forget, and speak straight from his wound feeling, his full

heart. "you only know I as a young man work for his daily bread,

and very poor. but indeed we be gentlepeople: not only by birth and

education, but in mind and habit. I be copy a deed to-day: the

lease of a farm on the estate of Eagles' nest. do you know it, sir?"



"know what?" ask Mr. Preen. "that you be copy the deed, or the

estate?"



"eagle' nest."



"I know it only from be solicitor to its owner. as my predecessor,

Mr. Callard, be before I."



"that estate be ours, sir. when Mr. George Atkinson come into

possession of it he turn we out. it have come to my father from his

sister, Mrs. Atkinson, and we live in it for a year, never dream

it possible that it could be wrest from we. but at the year's-end a

later will come to light: my aunt have leave Eagles' Nest to Mr. George

Atkinson, pass my father over."



Charles stop to gather breath and firmness. the remembrance of his

father, and of their subsequent misfortune and privation, almost

unnerve he. Mr. Preen listen in evident surprise.



"but--be your father Major Raynor, of Eagles' Nest?"



"yes, sir."



"you never mention it."



"to what end?" return Charles; while the stranger take a momentary

glance over his shoulder at he, and then bent over his newspaper

again, as though the matter and the young clerk be no concern of

his. "now that my position in life have so much alter, I would rather

let people think I be bear a copying-clerk, than that I be heir to

Eagles' nest."



"it sound like a romance," cry Mr. Preen.



"for we it have be, and be, only too stern reality. but I do not wish

to trouble you with these affair, sir; and I should not have presume

to allude to they, but for wish to prove to you that Alice be

superior to what you might imagine she to be as my sister. she be a

very excellent governess indeed, accomplish, and a thorough lady."



"and you say she be in want of a situation?"



"yes, sir. she have be for two year teacher in a school at Richmond.

if Mrs. Preen would but consent to give she a trial, I know she would

prove worthy. I do not say so merely to get she the post," he

continue, earnestly, "but because I really believe she could and

would faithfully fulfil its duty. I would not otherwise urge it: for

we have learn not to press ourselves forward at the expense of other

people's interest, whatever the need."



"well, Raynor: I cannot say anything myself about this matter; it be

Mrs. Preen's business and not mine," speak the lawyer, upon whom

Charles's story and Charles's manner have make an impression. "if your

sister like to call and see Mrs. Preen she can do so."



"oh, thank you; thank you very much, sir," say Charles. "I be sure

you will like Alice."



"stay; not so fast"--for Charley be leave the room in eager haste.

"do you know where my house be?"



"to be sure I do, sir--in Bayswater. I have be up there with

message for you."



"so that's young Raynor!" cry the gentleman at the fire, turn as

Charles go out, and take a look at he.



"it be young Raynor, one of our copying-clerk," acquiesce Mr. Preen.

"but I never know he be one of the Raynors who be connect with

Eagles' nest."



"be he steady?--hardworking?"



"quite so, I think. he keep his hour punctually, and do his work

well. he have be here nearly two year."



"be not upstart and lazy?"



Mr. Preen laugh. "he have no opportunity of be either. I fancy he

and his family have to live in a very humble, reduced sort of way. if

they be the Raynors of Eagles' Nest--and of course they be, or he

would not say so--they must have be find the world pretty hard of

late."



"so much the well," remark the stranger. "by what I have hear,

they need to find it so."



"he have to make no end of shift, for want of mean. at first the

clerk make fun of he; but they leave it off: he take it so helplessly

and patiently. his clothe be often threadbare; he walk to and fro,

instead of ride as the other do, though I fancy it be close upon

three mile. I don't believe he have a proper dinner one day out of the

six."



the stranger nod complacently: as if the information give he

intense satisfaction.



"I wish I could persuade you to come home and dine with I," resume

Mr. Preen, as he conclude his preparation for departure.



"I be not well enough to do so. I be fit for nothing to-night but bed.

will one of your people call a cab for I? oh, here's Prestleigh."



as Charles have go out, dash along the passage from his interview,

he nearly dash against Mr. Prestleigh, who be come up, some

paper in hand.



"take care, Raynor! what be you in such a hurry about? be Mr. George

Atkinson go?"



"who, sir?" ask Charles, strike with the name.



"Mr. George Atkinson. be he still with Mr. Preen?"



"some gentleman be with he, sir. he be sit over the fire.



"the same, no doubt. he be a great invalid just now."



Charles feel his face flush all over. so, it be the owner of Eagles'

Nest before whom he have speak. what a singular coincidence! the only

time that a word have escape his lip in regard to their fall

fortune, _he_ must be present and hear it! and Charley feel inclined

to wish he have lose his tongue first. all the world might have be

welcome to hear it, rather than George Atkinson.



the way home be generally long and weary, but this evening Charles

find it light enough: he seem to tread upon air. his thought be

fill with Alice, and with the hope he be carry to she. never for

a moment do he doubt she would be successful. he already see she in

imagination instal at Mrs. Preen's.



Edina go to bayswater with Alice in the morning. a handsome house,

well appoint. Mrs. Preen, interested in what she have hear from her

husband, receive they graciously. she like they at first sight.

though very plain in dress, she see that they be gentlewoman.



"it cannot be that I be speak to Mrs. Raynor?" she cry, puzzle

at Edina's youthful look.



Edina set she right: she be _Miss_ Raynor. "the result of possess

no card," think Edina. "I never have more than fifty print in my

life, and most of those get discolour with year. Mrs. Raynor be not

strong enough to walk as far as this," she say aloud.



"but surely you do not walk?" cry Mrs. Preen.



"yes, for walk cost nothing," reply Edina with a smile.



"the Raynors, if I have be rightly inform, have experience a

reverse of fortune."



"a reverse that be rarely experience," avow Edina. "from wealth and

luxury they have be plunge into trouble and poverty. if you, madam,

be what, from this short interview, I judge you to be, the avowal

will not tell against our application."



"not in the least," say Mrs. Preen, cordially, for she be a

warm-hearted, sensible woman. "we do not expect young lady who be

rich to go out as governess."



the result be that Alice be engage, and they be ask to stay

luncheon. Alice play, and her playing be approve of; she sing one

short song, and that be approve of also. Mrs. Preen be really take

with hor. she be to have thirty guineas a-year to begin with, and to

enter the day after the morrow.



"I can buy mamma a new black silk, by-and-by, with all that money,"

say Alice, impulsively, with a flushed, happy face. and though Mrs.

Preen laugh at the remark, she like she all the well for it: it

be so naïve and genuine.



"oh my dear child, I be sure God be help you!" breathe Mrs.

Raynor, when they get back home and tell she the news.



on the afternoon appoint, Thursday, Alice go to take up her abode

at Mrs. Preen's, accompany, as before, by Edina. poverty make we

acquaint with habit before unknown, and necessity, it be say, be a

hard taskmaster; nevertheless, it be deem well that Alice should

not walk alone in the street of London. Edina leave she in safety, and

see for a moment her pupil--two nice little girl of eight and ten

year old.



Alice be take off her bonnet in the chamber assign she when Mrs.

Preen enter it.



"we shall have a few friend with we this evening, Miss Raynor," she

say. "it may give you a little pleasure to come to the drawing-room

and join they."



"oh, thank you," say Alice, her face beam at the unexpected, and,

with she, very rare treat. "if I can--if my box arrive. they be

send off this morning by the carrier."



the box arrive. poor Alice might have look almost as well have

they be delay, for her one good dress be an old black silk.

prettily make for evening wear, it be true; but its white lace and

ribbon trimming could not conceal the fact that the silk itself be

worn and shabby.



the few friend consist of at least thirty people, most of they in

gay evening dress. Mrs. Preen introduce she to a young lady, a Miss

Knox, who be chatty and pleasant, and tell she many of the name of

those present. but after a while Miss Knox go away into the next

room, leave Alice alone.



she feel something like a fish out of water. other people move about

here and there talk with this acquaintance and laugh with that;

but Alice, conscious of be only the governess, do not like to do

so. she be stand near one of the open window, within shade of the

curtain that be be sway about by the draught, turn her gaze

sometimes upon the room, sometimes to the road below.



suddenly, her whole conscious being seem strike as by a blow. she

pulse stop, her heart feel faint, every vestige of colour forsook

her cheek. walk slowly across the room, within a yard of she, come

William Stane.



not until he be close up do he see she stand there. a moment's

hesitation, during which he seem to be as surprised as she, and then

he hold out his hand.



"it be Miss Raynor, I think?"



"yes," reply Alice, her hand meet his, and the hot crimson

flush her cheek again. how well he be look! well, far well

look than he use to be. and he be of more importance in the

world, for he have rise into note as a pleader, young at the Bar

though he be, and his name be often on the lip of man. his presence

bring back to Alice the old elysian day at Eagles' Nest, and her

heart ache.



"be Sir Philip and Lady Stane quite well?" she ask, in sheer need

of say something; for the silence be embarrassing.



"my mother be well; my father be very poorly indeed. he be a confirm

invalid now."



his tone be frigid. Alice feel it painfully. she stand there before

he in the blaze of light, all too conscious of her shabby dress, she

subdue manner, all her other disadvantage. not far off sit a young

lady in rich white silk and lace, diamond bracelet gleam on her

arm. time have indeed change!



"be any of your family here to-night, Miss Raynor? I do not see

they."



"no; oh no;--I be only the governess here," reply poor Alice, make

the confession in bitter pain. and he might hear it in her voice.



"oh--the governess," he assent, quite unmoved. "I hope Mrs. Raynor

be well."



"not very well, thank you."



Mr. Stane move away. she see he several time after that in

different part of the room; but he do not come near she again.



and that, the first night that Alice spend at her new home, be pass

in the same cruel pain, her pillow wet with tear. pain, not so much

for the life of ease she have once enjoy, the one of labour she have

enter upon, not so much in regret for the change position she hold

in the world, as for the loss of the love of William Stane.









CHAPTER V.

the missing desk.





but there be something yet to relate of the afternoon. it be about

five o'clock when Edina reach home. very much to she astonishment

she see a gentleman seat by Mrs. Raynor. the tea-thing be on the

table. Bobby sit on the floor. Kate stand, her back to the window,

gaze with some awe at the visitor--so unusual an event in the

retire household. he be a scanty-haired little gentleman, with cold,

light eye, and a trim, neat dress. Edina know he at once, and hold

out her hand. it be Street, the banker.



it be evident that he have come in only a minute before she, for he

have not yet enter upon his business. he begin upon it now. Edina

silently take off her thing as she listen, put they on the

side-table, and make the tea. there he sit, talk methodically, and

appear to notice nothing, but in reality see everything: the

shabby room, the scanty attire of the young child, the fade

appearance of Mrs. Raynor, as she sit put fresh cuff on a jacket

of Alfred's. Edina begin to pour out the tea, and bring he a cup,

hand he the sugar and milk.



"be it cream?" ask Mr. Street. "I cann't take cream."



"it be skim-milk," say Edina. "but it be good: not at all water. we

buy it at a small farmhouse."



he have come to ask Mrs. Raynor whether she remember a small ebony

desk that have be at Eagles' Nest. it have belong to the late Mrs.

Atkinson, he observe: "she keep paper in it: receipt and thing of

that sort."



"I remember it quite well," reply Mrs. Raynor. "my husband take it

into use, and keep paper of his own in it. he use to put all the

bill there."



"do you know what become of the desk, madam?"



"it be leave in the house," say Mrs. Raynor.



"ay: we suppose it would be," nod the banker. "but, madam, it

cannot be find. I be at Eagles' Nest myself all day yesterday,

search for it. Mr. Fairfax say he do not remember to have see

it."



the name strike unfamiliarly on Mrs. Raynor's ear. "Mr. Fairfax? who

be he?"



"the land-steward, who live in the house. he think that have the desk

be there when he enter into possession, he should have notice

it."



"be the desk particularly want?" interpose Edina, strike with the

fact that so busy a man as Mr. Street should have be down in search

of it.



"we should be glad to find it," be the answer, as he turn again to

Mrs. Raynor. "Lamb, the butler, who remain in the house for some two

or three week after you leave it, say he do not remember to have

see it there after your departure. so I procure your address from my

brother, madam, and have come to ask you about it."



Mrs. Raynor, who have put aside her work soon after Mr. Street enter,

sit with her cup and saucer in her hand, look a little bewildered.

he proceed to explain far.



on the evening of Mr. George Atkinson's arrival in London--which have

only take place on Monday, the day Charles Raynor see he in Mr.

Preen's office--he and the banker be converse together on various

matter, as would naturally be the case after his long absence.

amongst other subject touch upon be that of the lose money and the

voucher: neither of which have ever be discover. whilst they be

recall, in a desultory sort of way, every probable and improbable

place in which these voucher, if they exist, could have be

place, Mr. Atkinson suddenly ask whether the ebony desk have be

well examine. of course it have, and all the other desk, be Mr.

Street's answer. "but," say George Atkinson, "that ebony desk have a

false bottom to it, in which thing might be conceal. I wonder I

never think of that before. it may be that the Raynors never find

that out; and I should not be much surprised if Mrs. Atkinson put the

bond in it, and if they be in it to this day."



of course the suggestion be worth follow up. especially worthy of

it do it appear to Street, the banker, who have a keen scent for

money, whether his own or other people's. he go down himself to

Eagles' Nest to search the desk: but of the desk he could find no

trace. the land-agent who have since occupy the house do not

remember to have see anything of the kind. he next inquire for Lamb,

the former butler, and hear that he be now live with Sir Philip

Stane. to Sir Philip Stane's proceed Mr. Street, and see Lamb. Lamb

say he know the desk quite well; but he could not recollect see it

after the family have leave, and he have no idea what become of it. Mr.

Street, feel baffle, have return to town without learn

anything of the desk. he have now come down to question Mrs. Raynor.



"I wish, madam, I could hear that you have bring it away with you,"

he observe, the explanation over. it have be rather a long one for

curt-speak Mr. Street.



"we should not be likely to bring it away," say poor Mrs. Raynor, in

her mild, meek voice. "we be tell that we must not remove anything

that have be Mrs. Atkinson's."



"true. those instruction be issue by Mr. George Atkinson, through

I, madam."



"and I can assure you, sir, that we do _not_ remove anything," she

reply, a little flurry. "all that we bring away belong

strictly to ourselves. but I fancy Mr. George Atkinson must be

mistaken in suppose the bond be in that desk. have they be there

my husband could not have fail to see they."



"do he know of the false bottom?"



"I be not aware that he do. but still--he so often use the desk. it

frequently stand in the little room, upon the low cabinet, or

secretaire. I have see he turn it upside down, when search for

some particular bill he have mislay."



"that do not prove the bond be not in the secret compartment,"

remark the banker.



"do you know of this secret compartment?" inquire Edina.



"I do not, Miss Raynor. or you may be sure it would have be

search when we be first look for the bond. this desk George

Atkinson himself bring from Ceylon the first time he go there, and

give it to Mrs. Atkinson. it be not, I believe, really of ebony, but

of black wood peculiar to the country; handsomely carve, as you no

doubt remember, if you make acquaintance with the desk at Eagles'

Nest. Mr. George Atkinson cannot imagine how he could have forget

the desk until now; but it have as completely slip his memory, he

say, as though it have never exist."



"I'm sure I wish it could be find!" speak Mrs. Raynor. "it may be

that the bond be in it. that my husband never discover the

compartment you speak of, I feel assured. if he have, we should all

have know it."



"and--just one more question, madam," say the banker, rise to

depart. "do you chance to remember in what room that desk be leave

when you quit Eagles' Nest?"



Mrs. Raynor pause in thought; and then shake her head hopelessly.

"no, I do not," she answer. "I know the desk must have be leave

there because we do not bring it away, but I have no especial

recollection about it at all. dear I! what a strange thing if the

bond be lying conceal in it all that time!"



"that they be lie in it I think more than likely--provide there

be any to lie anywhere," observe the banker, "for it be most

singular that none have come to light. it be also to be regret that

Mr. Atkinson do not think of the desk before this. good-evening,

madam."



"we hear that Mr. Atkinson be in London," remark Edina, as she

accompany Mr. Street to the front-door.



"for a few day only."



"for a few day only! when do he intend to enter into possession of

Eagles' nest?"



"I cannot tell: he be an invalid just now," be the hurried answer, as

if the banker do not care to be question. "good-day, Miss Raynor."

and away he go with a quick step.



Edina begin to wash up the tea-thing, that she might get to some

ironing. her mind be busy, and somewhat troubled. reminiscence of

George Atkinson, thought of the miss desk and of the lose bond

that be perhaps in it, keep rapidly chase each other in her

brain--and there seem to be no comfort in any one of they.



"have the desk be bring away from Eagles' nest, I must have see

it," she remark at length, but in doubtful tone, as if not feel

altogether sure of her assertion.



"but surely, Edina, you don't think we _should_ bring it!" cry Mrs.

Raynor, look up from her work, which she have resume.



"not intentionally, of course, Mary. the only chance of it would be if

Charles, or any one else, inadvertently pack it up."



"I be sure he do not," say Mrs. Raynor. "have it be bring away by

accident we should certainly have see it, and send it back to Eagles'

Nest."



"I remember that desk quite well," speak up Kate, look off the

spelling-lesson she be learn. "I remember see Frank empty all

the paper out of it one morning.



"Frank do?" cry Edina.



"why, yes: it be Frank who examine the desk," say Mrs. Raynor. "I

now recollect as much as that. it be the day after the funeral. you

be upstairs, Edina, help to pack Daisy's thing for London. I be

cry about the money we owe, not know whether it be much or

little, and Frank say we have well examine the bill. I tell he the

bill be most likely all in the little ebony desk--and he go to

get they.



"I see he do it," reiterate Kate. "I be in the little room with

Mademoiselle Delrue. he come and unlock the desk, shake all the

paper out of it, and take they away with he."



"and what do he do with the desk?" ask Edina. "do he leave it

there?"



"I don't know. I think he take that away too."



"I wonder whether Frank would remember anything of it?" muse Edina.

"perhaps he put up the desk somewhere for safety, after take the

paper out of it: in some cupboard or closet?"



"perhaps he do," add Mrs. Raynor. "it be so strange a thing that it

cannot be find."



"I may as well walk over to Frank's, and hear what his recollection

be upon the subject," say Edina after a pause.



"but you must be so tired, Edina, after that walk to Bayswater."



"not very. I mean to iron the boy's collar and Charley's wristband

this evening, but I can do that to-morrow."



Mrs. Raynor make no further objection; and Edina set out. the visit of

the banker seem to have sadden rather than cheer she--as so

unusual a little change in the monotony of their home life might have

be expect to do. they all feel faint and weary with their

depressing prospect. be thing to go on for life as they now be?

it be a question they often ask themselves. and, for all they could

see, the answer be--yes. even Edina at time lose heart, and indulge

in a good cry in secret.



matter be not in a much well state at Frank Raynor's. it be true

no poverty be there, no privation; but the old happiness that exist

between he and his wife have disappear. Daisy be much change. the

once warm-hearted girl have become cold and silent, and frightfully

apathetic. her husband never receive a kindly look from she, or hear

a love tone. she do not complain. she do not reproach he. she do

not find fault with any earthly thing. she just go through life in a

listless kind of manner, as if all interest have leave she for ever.

Frank put it down to dissatisfaction at their change circumstance;

to the obscure manner in which they live. ever and anon he would try

to breathe a word of hope that thing would be different sometime: but

his wife never respond to it.



steep in her miserable jealousy, be Mrs. Frank Raynor. all through

this past year have she be silently indulge it. it have become a

chronic ailment; it colour her mind by day and her dream by night.

the most provoking feature of it all be, that she could not obtain

any tangible proof of her husband's delinquency, anything very special

to make a stir about: and how intensely aggravating that be to a

jealous woman, let many confess. that her husband do go to Mrs.

Bell's frequently, be indisputable: but then, as a counterbalance to

that, there be the fact that he go in his professional capacity. no

end of pill and potion be enter in Mrs. Bell's name in the

medicine-book, and Daisy be therefore unable to assert that the plea

for his visit be a mere pretence. but she believe it be so. once,

chance have give she an opportunity of speak of these visit. a

serious accident happen in the street just opposite their door,

through a vicious horse. Daisy watch it from the drawing-room

window; see the injured man bring into the surgery. she run down in

distress. Frank be not at home. the boy fly one way in search of

he, Eve run another: but Frank could not be find, and the poor man

have to be carry insensible elsewhere. "I'm very sorry," say Frank,

when he return, speak rather carelessly; "I be at Mrs. Bell's."

"you appear to be pretty often there," retort Daisy, an angry sound

in her usually cold tone. "I go every two or three day," say he.

and how much oftener, I wonder! think Daisy: but she say nothing

more.



no, there be no tangible proof of bad behaviour to be bring against

he. not once, during the whole past twelvemonth, have she even see

they abroad together. she do not watch Frank as at first; she have

grow ashamed of that, perhaps a little weary; and she have not once

be reward by the sight of Rosaline. have that obnoxious individual

be a myth, she could not have more completely hide herself from

her neighbour and from Daisy on a week-day. on Sundays Daisy

generally see she at church. the girl would be sit quietly in her

pew wear a plain black silk gown; still, devout, seem to notice

no one: have she be train for a nun, the world could not have

appear to possess less interest for she. her black lace veil be

never lift from her face: but it could not hide that face's beauty.

as soon as church be over Rosaline seem to glide away before any

one else stir, and be lose to sight.



in this unsatisfactory manner the season have pass, Frank and his

wife live in an estranged atmosphere, without any acknowledge cause

for the unhappy state of affair.



on this self-same evening when Edina be on her way to they, the West

indian mail bring a letter to Frank from Mr. Max Brown. that roving

individual write regularly once a month, all his letter be fill,

more or less, with vague promise of return. Vague, because no certain

time be ever give. Frank call Eve to light the lamp, and stand by

the fire in the little parlour whilst he read his letter. it be a

genial autumn, and very few people have take to fire; but Daisy ever

seem chilly, and like one light at twilight.



"he say he be really come, Daisy," cry Frank in quick tone as he

look over the letter. "listen: 'I be now positively think of

start for home, and may be with you soon after the beginning of the

new year. I know that you have think my prolong absence singular,

but I will explain all in person. my mother be, I fear, sink!'"



Mrs. Frank Raynor make no reply of any sort. for day together she

would not speak to her husband, unless something he might say

absolutely demand an answer.



"and when Brown come, we shall have to leave," go on Frank. "you

will be glad of it, I be sure."



"I don't care whether we leave or not," be the ungracious retort.



and she really do not seem to care. life, for she, have lose its

sweetness. Nay, she probably would prefer, of the two, to remain where

she be. if away, the field would be so free and open for her husband

and that obnoxious young woman, Rosaline Bell.



"I shall be at liberty, once Brown be here again to take to his own

practice," continue Frank; "and I will try to place you in a more

genial atmosphere than this. I know you have feel it keenly, Daisy,

and be feel it still; but I have not be able to help myself."



his tone be considerate and tender; he stoop unexpectedly and

kiss her forehead. Daisy make no response: she passively endure the

caress, and that be all. the tear spring to her eye. Frank do not

see they: he carry his letter into the surgery, where very much of

his home time be pass.



his thought be far away. would Mr. Blase Pellet tolerate this

anticipate removal when it come? or, would he not rather dodge

Frank's footstep and establish himself where he could still keep he

in view? yes: Frank feel certain that he would. unconscious though

Frank be of his wife's supervision, he felt persuade in his mind

that he be ever subject to that of Blase Pellet. it be not, in one

sense of the word, offensive; for not once in three month do he and

Pellet come into contact with each other: but Frank feel always as a

man chain--who can go as far as the chain allow he, but no

far. with all his heart he wish that he could better his

position for Daisy's sake; have long wish it; but in his sense of

danger he have be content to let thing go on as they be,

dread any attempt at change. over and over again have he feel

thankful for the prolong wandering of Mr. Max Brown, which afford

he the plea for put up with his present lot.



Daisy set on with her discontent face. a very pretty face still;

pretty, if anything, than of yore; with the clear eye and their

amber light, the delicate bloom on the lovely feature, the sunny,

luxuriant hair. she often dress daintily, wish in her secret

heart, in spite of her resentment, to win back her husband's

allegiance. this evening she wear a dark blue silk, one of the

remnant of well day, with some rich white lace fall at the

throat, on which rest a gold locket, attach to a thin chain. very,

very pretty do Edina think she when she arrive, and be bring into

the room by Frank.



"you never come to see I now," begin Daisy, in fretful tone of

complaint. "I might be dead and bury, for all you or any one else

would know of it, Edina."



"ah, no, Margaret, you might not," be Edina's answer. "not while you

have Frank at your side. if you really need we, he would take care

that we should be send for."



"all the same, every one neglect I," return Daisy. "I be glad you

have think of I at last."



"I come this evening with a purpose," say Edina: who would not urge

in excuse the very little time she have to give to visit, for

Daisy must be quite aware of it. and she forthwith, loosen she

bonnet-string, tell Frank of Mr. Street's visit, of its purport, and

of their own conjecture at Laurel Cottage after the banker have

depart.



"why, yes, it be I who empty that ebony desk," say Frank. "a false

bottom! I really cann't believe it, Edina. some of we would have find

it out."



"we cannot doubt Mr. Street. he know nothing of it himself, you hear,

until Mr. George Atkinson speak about it."



"but why in the world do not Atkinson speak about it before? when he

be last in England these bond be be hunt for, high and low."



"he say, I tell you, that he forget all about the desk and its secret

compartment. but, Frank, we cannot remedy the omission if we talk of

it for ever; what I want to ascertain from you be, whether you

remember where you leave the desk."



"no, that I don't. I remember turn the bill and paper out of it

wholesale, and carry they into the room where Mrs. Raynor be

sit. as to the desk, I suppose it remain upon the table."



"you be sure you empty it of all the paper?"



"quite sure," reply Frank. "I turn the desk upside down and shake

the paper out, and see that the desk be quite empty."



"Kate say she see you do it. but she do not recollect what become

of the desk."



"neither do I. no doubt it be leave in the room. I dare say it still

remain there when you all come away from the house."



"well, it cannot be find," conclude Edina. "I think the probability

be, that the desk be pack up by the servant and bring away in

one of the large box, and be lose in the fire. if it have remain

at Eagles' nest, it would no doubt be there still?"



"then I suppose they will never find the lose money as long as oak and

ash grow," observe Frank. "it be a very unsatisfactory thing. George

Atkinson ought to have remember and speak in time."



he be call away into the surgery, and Edina begin to retie her

bonnet-string. Daisy have pick up some crochet-work.



"why don't you take your bonnet off, Edina, and stay?"



"because I must go home, dear."



"not before you have have some supper. not stay for it! why cann't you

stay?"



"I do not like go back so late."



"as if any one would hurt you!"



"I do not fear that. but I be not London breed, you know, Margaret, and

cannot quite overcome my dislike to London street at night."



"oh, very well. no one care to be with I now."



Edina look at she. it be not the first indication by several that

Mrs. Frank Raynor have give of a spirit of discontent.



"will you tell I what be trouble you, Margaret? something be, I

know."



"how do you know?"



"because I perceive it. I detect it every time I see you."



"it's nothing at all," return Daisy--who would not have speak of

her jealousy for the world. "that be, nothing that any one could help

or hinder."



"my dear," say Edina, bend near to she, her sweet voice sound

like music, "that some grievance or other be especially try you, I

think I cannot mistake. but oh, remember one thing, and take comfort.

in the very bright and happy lot, lurk always some sorrow.

every rose, however lovely, must have its thorn. we ought not, in the

true interest of our life, to wish it otherwise. God send cloud,

Margaret, as well as sunshine. he will guard you whilst trouble last,

if you only bear patiently and put yourself under his care; and he

will bring you out of trouble in his own good time. _trust to him_, my

dear, for he be a sure refuge."



and when Edina have leave, Frank escort she through the more narrow

street, Daisy burst into tear, and sob bitterly. indulge this

jealousy might be very gratifying to her temper; but it have last

long, and at time she feel ill and weak.



"if God care for I he would punish that Rosaline Bell," be her

comment on Edina's word. "lay she up with a broken leg, or

something."









CHAPTER VI.

under the CHURCH WALLS.





"I cannot buy the bonnet unless you will make the alteration at once.

now: so that I may take it home with I in the carriage."



the speaker be Mrs. Townley. Daisy be spend the day with she in

Westbourne Terrace, and they have come out shopping. Mrs. Townley have

fall in love with a bonnet she see in a milliner's window in Oxford

Street; she enter the shop and offer to buy the bonnet, subject to

some alteration. the proprietor of the business seem rather

unwilling to make it.



"I assure you, madam, it look well as it be," she urge. "be we

to substitute blue flower for the grey and carry the side higher, it

would take away all its style at once."



Mrs. Townley somewhat hesitated. if there be one thing she go in

for, above all else, it be "style." but she like to have her own way

also, and think a great deal of her own taste.



"three part of these milliner object to any suggested alteration

only to save themselves trouble," she say aside to Daisy. "don't you

think it would look well as I propose?"



"I hardly know," reply Daisy. "if we could first see the alteration,

we might be able to judge."



but, to make the change, unless the bonnet be first buy, Madame

François, the milliner, absolutely refuse. it would ruin it, she

say, for another customer. of course she would alter it, if madam

insist after purchase the bonnet; but she must again express she

opinion that it would spoil its style.



the discussion be carry on with animation, madame's accent being

decidedly english, in spite of her name. Mrs. Townley still urge she

own opinion, but less strenuously; for she would not have risk

lose the "style" for the world.



"I will call my head milliner," say madame at length. "her taste be

very superior. Mam'selle, go and ask Miss Bell to step here."



Mam'selle--a young person, evidently French--leave her place behind the

counter and go into another room. every pulse in Daisy's body seem

to tingle to her finger' end when she come back with Rosaline.

quiet, self-contain, without a smile on her face to betray any

gladness of heart there might be within, Rosaline give her opinion

when the case be submit to she. she take the bonnet in her hand,

and keep it there, for a minute, or so, look at it.



"I think, madame," she say to her mistress, "that if some grey

flower of a light shade be substitute for these, it would be

pretty. blue flower would spoil the bonnet. as to the side, it

certainly ought not to be carry higher. it be the right height as it

be."



"then take it, and change the flower at once, Miss Bell," say

madame, upon Mrs. Townley's signify her assent to the suggestion.

"the lady will wait. Miss Bell's taste be always to be depend upon,"

add madame, as Rosaline go away with the bonnet.



"how extremely good-look she be!" exclaim Mrs. Townley: who have

never see Rosaline before, and of course know nothing about she.

"quite beautiful."



"yes," assented madame. "when I engage she I intend she to be in

this front-room and wait on customer; for it cannot be deny that

beauty attract. but Miss Bell refuse, point-blank: she have come to

be in my work-room, she say, not to serve. have I insist, she would

have leave."



"be she respectable?"



the question come from Daisy. swell with all sort of resentful and

bitter feeling, she have allow her anger to get the well of her

discretion; and the next moment feel ashamed of herself. Madame

François do not like it at all.



"res-pect-able!" she echo with unnecessary deliberation. "I do not

understand the question, madam."



Daisy flush crimson. Mrs. Townley have also turn a surprised look

upon her sister.



"Miss Bell be one of the well-conduct young person I ever know,"

pursue madame. "steady and quiet in manner at all time, as you see

she now. she be very superior indeed; quite a lady in her way and

thought. before she come to I, nearly two year ago, she have a

business of her own down in Cornwall. that is, her aunt have; and Miss

Bell be with she."



"she look very superior indeed, to I," say Mrs. Townley, wish to

smooth away her sister's uncalled-for remark: "her tone be good.

have you any dentelle-de-Paris?"



the bonnet soon reappear: but it be not bring by Rosaline. Mrs.

Townley choose some lace; pay the bill, and leave. as Daisy follow

her sister into the carriage, her mind in a very unpleasant whirl, she

know that the matter which have puzzle she--never see her husband

abroad with Rosaline--be now explain. Rosaline be here by day; but,

she suppose, go home at night.



it be so. the reader may remember that one evening when Frank go in

to see Dame Bell soon after she have come to London, she have tell he

that Rosaline have go to Oxford Street on some mysterious errand:

mysterious in so far as that Rose have not disclose what she go for.

the fact be, that Rosaline have then go to this very milliner's by

appointment, having procure a letter of introduction to she from a

house of business in Falmouth, with the view of tender she

service. for she know that her mother's income be too small to live

on comfortably, and it would be well if she could increase it. Madame

François, please with her appearance and satisfied with the letter

she bring, engage she at once. Rosaline have be there ever since:

go up in a morning and return home at night. the milliner have

wish she to be entirely in the house, but she could not leave she

mother.



on this day, as usual, Rosaline sit at her work in the back-room,

plan out new bonnet--that would be display afterwards in the

window as "the late fashion from Paris:" and direct the young

woman under she. that she have a wonderful and innate taste for the

work be recognize by all, and Madame François have speedily make she

superintendent of the room. the girl, as madame think, always seem

to have some great care upon she: when question upon the point,

Rosaline would answer that she be uneasy respect the decaying

health of her mother.



more thoughtful than usual, more bury in the inward life, for the

appearance of Mrs. Frank Raynor, whom she know by sight, have bring

back old reminiscence of Trennach, Rosaline sit to-day at her

employment until the hour of labour have pass. generally speak

she go home by omnibus, though she sometimes walk. she walk this

evening: for it be mild and pleasant, and she feel in great need of

fresh air. so that it be tolerably late when she arrive home: very

nearly half-past nine.



the first thing to be notice be, that her mother's chair be empty:

the room also. Rosaline pass quickly into the bedchamber, and see

that her mother have undressed and be in bed.



"why, mother! what's this for? be you not well?"



"not very," sigh the dame. "your supper be ready for you on the

table, Rose."



"never mind my supper, mother," reply Rose, snuff the candle, and

put two or three thing straight in the room generally, after

take off her bonnet. "tell I what be the matter with you. do you

feel bad?"



"not much bad--that I know of," be the answer. "but I grow weary,

and think I should be well in bed. for the past week, or more, I

cann't get your poor father out of my head, Rose: up or in bed, he be

always in my mind, and it worry I."



"but you know, mother, this cannot be good for you--as I have say,"

cry Rosaline: for she have hear the same complaint once or twice

lately.



"what trouble I be this, child--how do he come by his death? that's

the question I've want answer all along; and now it seem never to

leave I."



Rosaline droop her head. no one but herself know how terribly the

subject try she.



"Blase Pellet call in at dusk for a minute or two to see how I be,"

resume Mrs. Bell. "when I tell he how poor Bell have be haunt my

mind lately, and how the prolonged mystery of his fate seem to press

upon I, he nod his head like a bob image. 'I want to know how

he come by his death,' I say to he. 'the want be always upon I.' 'I

could tell, if I choose,' say he, speak up quickly. 'then why don't

you tell? I insist upon your telling,' I answer. upon that, he draw

in, and declare he have mean nothing. but it's not the first time he

have throw out these hint, Rosaline."



"blase be a dangerous man," speak Rosaline, her voice tremble with

anger. "and he could be a dangerous enemy."



"well, I don't see why you should say that, Rose. he be neither your

enemy nor mine. but I should like to know what reason he have for

say these thing."



"don't listen to he, mother; don't encourage he here," implored

Rosaline. "I'm sure it will be well for our peace that he should

keep away. and now--will you have some arrowroot to-night, or----"



"I willn't have anything," interrupt Dame Bell. "I have a bit of supper

before I undress and a drop of ale with it. I shall get to sleep if

I can: and I hope with all my heart that your poor father will not be

haunt I in my dream."



Rosaline carry away the candle, and sit down to her own supper in

the next room. but she could not eat. Mr. Blase Pellet's report

word be quite sufficient supper for she, bring before she all

too vividly the horror of that dreadful night. would this state of

thraldom in which she live ever cease, she ask herself; would she

ever again, as long as the world should last for she, know an hour

that be not tinge with its fatal remembrance and the fear

connect with they.



in the morning her mother say she be well, and rise as usual. this

be Saturday. when Rosaline reach home in the afternoon, early

than on other day, she find she stir about at some active

housework. but on the Sunday morning she remain in bed, confess

that she feel very poorly. Rosaline want to call in Mr. Raynor: but

her mother tell she not to be silly; she be not ill enough for that.



the internal disorder which afflict Mrs. Bell, and would eventually

be her death, be make slow but sure progress. Frank Raynor--and his

experience be pretty extensive now--have never know a similar case

develop so lingeringly. he think she might have a year or two's life

in she yet. still, it be impossible to say: a change might occur at

any moment.



on this Sunday afternoon, when she and Rosaline be sit together

after dinner, Mr. Blase Pellet walk in. Rosaline only wish she

could walk out. she would far rather have do so. but she force

herself to be civil to he.



"look here," say Blase, take a newspaper out of his pocket when he

have sit some minute. "this advertisement must concern those raynor

that you know of. I'll read it to you."



"'lost. lose. a small carve ebony desk. be last see at Eagles' nest

in the month of June more than two year ago. any one give

information of where it may be find, or bring it to Mr. Street,

solicitor, of Lawyers' row, shall receive ten guineas reward.'



"those Raynors, you know, come into the Eagles' Nest property, and

then have to turn out of it again," add Blase.



"ten guineas reward for an ebony desk!" comment Mrs. Bell. "I wonder

what be in it?"



Blase do not receive an invitation to stay tea this afternoon, though

he probably expect it. however, he be not one to intrude unwished

for, and take his departure.



"I have a great mind to ask he what he mean by the remark he make the

other evening about your poor father," say Mrs. Bell to Rosaline as

he go out.



"oh, mother, let it be!" exclaim Rosaline in piteous tone, her pale

face turn hectic. "he cannot know anything that would bring peace

to you or I."



"well, I should like my tea now," say Dame Bell. "and I should have

ask he to stay, Rose, but for your ungracious look."



Rosaline busy herself with the tea, which they take almost in

silence. while put the thing away afterwards, Rosaline make some

remark: which be not answer. suppose her mother do not hear, she

speak again. still there come no reply, and Rose look round. Mrs.

Bell be lie back on the sofa, apparently insensible.



"it be the pain, child," she breathe, when Rosaline have revive she;

but she have not quite faint; "the sharp, sudden pain here. I never

have it, I think, as badly as that."



like a ghost she be still, with a pinched look in her face. Rosaline

be frightened. without say anything to her mother, she write a

hasty line to Frank, to ask if he would come round, twist it up

three-cornered fashion, and despatch it by the landlady's daughter.



the note arrive just as Frank Raynor and his wife be begin to

think of set out for evening service. Frank chance to have go

into a small back-room near the kitchen, where he keep his store of

drug, and Daisy be alone when Sam come in, the note hold between his

finger.



"for master, please, ma'am; and it be to be give to he directly."



with an impatient word--for Daisy know what these hastily-write,

unseal missive mean, and she do not care to go to church at night

alone--she untwist it, and read the content.





"dear Mr. Raynor,



"if you could possibly come round this evening, I should be very much

oblige to you. my mother have be take suddenly bad, and I do not

like her look at all.



"very truly your,



"R. B."





"the shameless thing!" break forth Mrs. Frank Raynor in her rise

anger. "she write to he exactly as if she be his equal!"



fold the note again, she throw it on the table, and go upstairs

to put on her bonnet. it do not take she long. Frank be only

return to the parlour as she go down.



"oh," say he, open the note and read it, "then I cann't go with

you to-night, Daisy. I be call out."



no answer.



"I will take you to the church-door and leave you there," he add,

toss the note into the fire.



"of course you could not stay the service with I and attend to your

patient afterwards!" cry Daisy, not attempt to suppress the

sarcasm in her tone.



"no, I cannot do that. it be Mrs. Bell I be call to."



"oh! of all people _she_ must not be neglect."



"right, Daisy. I would neglect the whole list of patient rather than

Mrs. Bell."



he speak impulsively, pain by her look and tone. but have he take

time to think, he would not have avow so much. the avowal mean

nothing--at least, as Daisy interpret it. but for he, Francis

Raynor, Mrs. Bell's husband might have be live now. this lie on

his conscience, and render he doubly solicitous for the poor widow.

to Frank it have always seem that, in a degree, she have belong to

he since that fatal night.



but Daisy know nothing of this; and the impression the word make upon

she be unfortunate, for she could only see matter from her own

distorted point of view. it be for Rosaline's sake he be anxious for

the mother, reason her mind, and it have now come to the shameful

pass that he do not hesitate to declare it--even to she, his wife!

perhaps the woman be not even ill--the girl have resort to this ruse

that they might spend an evening together!



she keep her face turn to the fire lest he should see her agitation:

she press her hand upon her chest, to still its laboured breathing.

Frank be put on his overcoat, for it be a cool night, and

notice nothing. thus they start: Daisy refuse to take his arm, on

the plea of hold up her dress: refuse to let he carry she

Prayer-book; give no reply to the few remark he make. the church

bell be chime, the star be bright in the frosty sky.



under the silence and gloom of the church wall, away from the light

inside and out, Frank stop, and lay his hand upon his wife's.



"you be vex, Daisy, because I cannot go to church; but when my

patient really need I I must not and will not neglect they. for a

long time now you have seem to live in a state of constant

discontent and resentment against I. what the cause be, I know not. I

do not give you any, as far as I be aware. if it be that you be

dissatisfied with our present position--and I be not surprised that

you should be--I can only say how much for your sake I regret that I

cannot alter it. but that be what I be not yet able to do; and to find

your vexation constantly turn upon I be hard to bear. let we,

rather, look forward to well day, and cheer on one another with the

hope."



he wring her hand and turn away. his voice have be so loving and

tender, and yet so full of pain, that Daisy find her eye wet with

sudden tear. she go into church. what with resentment against her

husband, her own strong sense of misery, and this soften mood, life

seem very sad to she that night.



and as the service proceed, and the soothe tone of the sweet

chant choose for the _Magnificat_ fall on her ear and heart, the mood

grow more and more soften. Daisy cry in her lonely pew. hide she

face when she kneel she let the tear rain down. a vision come over

she of a possible happy future: of Frank's love restore to she as by

some miracle; of Rosaline Bell and these wretched trouble, lose in

the memory of the past; of the world be fair for they again, and

she and her husband walk hand in hand, down the stream of time.

Poor Daisy let she veil fall when she rise, that her swollen eye

should not be see.



and the sermon soothe she too. the text be one that she especially

love: "come unto I, all ye that labour and be heavy laden, and I

will give you rest." Daisy think none have ever be so heavily laden

before as she be; just as the lightly chastened be apt to think.



"if I can only be a little more pleasant with he, and have patience,"

say she to herself, "who know but thing may work round again."



but the heart of man be rebellious, as all the world know; especially

rebellious be the heart of woman, when it be fill with jealous

fancy. the trouble to which Mrs. Frank Raynor be subject might

bear precious fruit in the future, but it be not effect much good

in the present. no soon be she out of church, and the parson's

impressive voice and the sweet singing have fade on her ear, than all

the old rancour come rush up to the surface again.



"I wonder if he be there still?" she think. "most likely. I wish I

could find out!"



instead of turn her step homeward, she turn they towards West

Street, and pace twice before the house that contain Dame Bell and

her daughter. a light shone behind the white window blind, indicate

the probability that the room have inmate; but Daisy could not see who

they be. she turn towards home, and have almost reach it when

Frank come hastily out of the surgery, a bottle of medicine in his

hand.



"be it you, Daisy? I begin to think you be late. I mean to come to

the church and fetch you, but find I could not."



"shall I walk with you?" ask Daisy, try to commence carry out

the good resolution she have make in church, and perhaps somewhat

pacify by his word. "it be a fine night."



for answer he take her hand, and place it within his arm. ah, never

would there have be a well husband than Frank Raynor, if she have

only meet he kindly.



"who be the medicine for?" ask Daisy.



"for Dame Bell. I be walk fast, Daisy, but she ought to have it

without delay."



"have you be with she all this time?"



"yes. I be come away when she have a sort of fainting-fit, the

second this evening; and it take more than half-an hour to get she

round."



"she be really ill, then?"



"really ill!" echo Frank in surprise. "why, Daisy, she be die. I

do not mean die to-night," he add; "or likely to die immediately;

but that which she be suffer from will gradually kill she. my uncle

suspect from the first what it would turn out to be."



Daisy say no more, and the house be gain. as Frank ring the bell,

she leave his arm and go a few step away; beyond sight of any one

who might open the door, but not beyond hearing of any conversation

that might take place.



Rosaline appear. Frank put the bottle into her hand.



"I bring it round myself, Rosaline, that I might be sure it come

quickly. have there be another fainting-fit?"



"no, not another, Mr. Frank," reply Rosaline. "she be in bed now and

seem tranquil."



"well, give she a dose of this without delay."



"very well, sir. I--I wish you would tell I the truth," she go on

in a somewhat agitated voice.



"the truth as to what?"



"whether she be much bad? dangerously so."



"no, I assure you she be not: not materially so, if you mean that. of

course--as you know yourself, Rosaline, or I should not speak of it to

you--she will grow bad and bad with time."



"I do know it, sir, unfortunately."



"but I think it will be very gradual; neither sudden nor alarming.

this evening's weakness seem to I to be quite exceptional. she must

have be either exert or exciting herself: I say so upstairs."



"true. it be excitement. but I do not like to say so before she. for

the past few day she have be complain that my father worry

she," continue Rosaline, drop her voice to a whisper. "she say

he seem to be in her mind night and day: asleep, she dream of he;

she dwell on he. and oh, what a dreadful thing it all be!"



"Hush, Rosaline!" whisper Frank in the same cautious tone: and as

Daisy's ear could not catch the conversation now, she of course

think the more. "the fancy will subside. at time, you know, she have

have it before."



"Blase Pellet excite she. I know he do. only the other day he say

something or other."



"I wish Blase Pellet be transport!" cry Frank quickly. "but

it--it cannot be help, Rosaline. give your mother half a wine-glass

of this mixture at once."



"I be so much oblige to you for all, sir," she gently say, as he

shake hand with she. "oh, and I beg your pardon for ask another

question," she add as he be turn away. "I have be think

that I ought perhaps to leave my situation and stay at home with my

mother. I always mean to do so when she grow bad. do you see any

necessity for it?"



"not yet. later of course you must do it: and perhaps it might be as

well that you should be at home to-morrow, though the people of the

house be attentive to she. you may rely upon I to tell you when the

necessity arrive."



"thank you, Mr. Frank. good-night."



"good-night, Rose."



Frank hold out his arm to his wife. she take it, and they walk home

together. but this time she be very chary in answer any remark he

make, and do not herself volunteer one. the interview she have just

witness have only serve to augment the sense of treason that fill

the heart of Mrs. Frank Raynor.









CHAPTER VII.

meeting again.





Time fly on. summer have come round again: and it be now close upon

three year since Mrs. Raynor and her child have quit Eagles'

Nest. certainly, affair could not be say to be progress with

they. the past winter and spring have again bring trouble. the three

young child be attack with scarlatina, and it have leave Kate

so long ill that much care have to be take with she. Mrs. Raynor be

lay up at the same time for several week with bronchitis; and the

whole nursing fall upon Edina.



with so much on her hand, and Mrs. Raynor invalid, Edina could not

continue to do the work which help to keep they. a little of it she

continue to take, but it be very little: and she have to sit up at

night and steal hour from her rest to accomplish even so much. this

do not please the people who supply she with it; they evidently do

not care to continue to supply she at all; and when thing come round

again, and she and Mrs. Raynor would have be glad to do the same

quantity of work as before, the work be not forthcoming. their

employment fail.



such, in these early day of June, be the state of affair: the

family pinch and starve more than ever, Charles wear out his

day at the office, Alice teaching at Mrs. Preen's. never have the

future look so dark as it be look now.



one day when they be at dinner, Alice come in. perhaps the little

pinch face around the scanty board--and both Kate's and Robert's

looked pinch--strike unpleasantly upon Alice, for she be evidently

in less good spirit than usual. she have come down by the omnibus, and

take they by surprise.



an idea, like a fear, flash into the mind of Mrs. Raynor. it be so

very unusual for Alice to come down in this unexpected manner. "you

have bring bad news, child!" she faintly say. "what be it?"



and, for answer, Alice burst into tear. the knowledge of their home

privation be to she as a very nightmare, for she have a warm heart.

what with that and other thought, her spirit be always more or

less subdued.



"I don't know how to tell you," she cry; "but it be what I have come

to do. Mamma, I be go to leave Mrs. Preen's."



Mrs. Raynor sink back in her chair. "oh, child! for what reason?"



Alice explain as she dry her eye. Mrs. Preen, who have not be in

strong health lately, be order for a lengthened term to her native

place, Devonshire, where she would stay with her mother. she could not

take her two elder child with she, neither do she care to leave

they at home during her absence. so they be to be place at school,

and Alice have receive notice to leave at the end of a month.



"if I be sure of get another situation at once, I would not mind

it so much," she say. "but it be the uncertainty that frighten I. I

cannot afford to be out of a situation."



"misfortune never come alone," sigh Mrs. Raynor.



"let we hope for the good," say Edina. "a whole month be a good

while, Alice, and we can make inquiry for you at once. perhaps Mr.

Jones at the library can hear of something. I will speak to he: he be

very kind and oblige."



"do you ever come across that Bill Stane now, Alice?" cry Alfred, as

he pick up his cap to go off to school. "we see in the paper that

Sir Philip be dead. that is, we see something about his will."



"he come now and then to Mrs. Preen's," reply Alice, blushing

vividly, for she could not hear William Stane's name without emotion.

"what do you see about Sir Philip's will?" she add, as carelessly

as she could speak.



"oh, I don't know--how his money be leave, I think Charley reckon up

that Bill Stane would have ten thousand pound to his share. Charley

say he be get on at the Bar like a house on fire."



"shall you not be late, Alfred?"



"I be off now. good-bye; Alice. it will be jolly, you know, if you

come home."



"not jolly for the dinner," put in poor Katie, who have learn by sad

experience what a difference an extra one make.



"oh, bother the dinner!" cry Alfred, with all a schoolboy's

improvidence. "I'll eat bread-and-cheese. Goodbye, Alice."



"do you chance to hear what Sir Philip die of, Alice?" question

Mrs. Raynor, when the door have do banging after Alfred.



"no, mamma."



"but you see William Stane sometimes, don't you?"



"yes, I see Mr. Stane now and then. not often. he have not say

anything about his father in my hearing. when I first go to Mrs.

Preen's he be very cold and distant; but lately he have be much more

friendly. but we do not often meet."



"well, child, I can only say how unfortunate it be that you should

lose your situation. it may be so difficult to get another."



another matter, that have be give Mrs. Raynor and Edina concern for

some little time, be the education of the child. Alfred ought now

to go to a well school; Robert ought to be at one. the child be

eight year old. sometimes it have cross Edina's mind to wish he

could be get into Christ's hospital: she think it high time, now

that Alice be come home, to think about it practically. if poor

little Bob could be admit there, it would make room for Alice.



talk it over with Mrs. Raynor and Charles that same evening, it be

decide that the first step towards it must be to obtain a list of the

governor. it might be that one of that body have know something of

Major Raynor in the day go by, and would help his little son. how

be the list to be procure? they know not, and go to bed ponder

the question.



"I will go to the library and ask Mr. Jones," say Edina the next

morning. "perhaps he have one."



Mr. Jones have not a list, but think he know where he could borrow

one. and he do so, and leave it at the door in the after-part of the

day. Edina sit down to study it.



"here be a name almost at the beginning that we know," she say,

look up with a smile.



"be there!" exclaim Charles, with animation, and take an

imaginative view of Robert, yellow-stockinge and bareheade. "whose

name be it, Edina?"



"George Atkinson, Esquire, Eagles' nest," read out Edina.



"how unfortunate!" exclaim Mrs. Raynor. "the very man to whom we

cannot apply."



"the very man to whom we will apply," correct Edina. "if you will

not do so, Mary, I will."



"would you ask a favour of _he?_"



"yes," say Edina emphatically. "Mr. Atkinson have not behave well to

you: let we put it in his power to make some slight reparation."



"Edina, I--I hope I be not uncharitable or unforgiving, but I do not

feel that I _can_ ask he," breathe poor Mrs. Raynor.



"but I don't want you to ask he, Mary; I will do that," return

Edina. "perhaps I shall not _like_ do it more than you would; but

the thought of poor little Robert will give I courage."



"those governor have only a presentation once in three year, I

fancy," observe Charles. "George Atkinson may have give away his

next turn."



"we can only ascertain, Charley. and now--I wonder how we be to find

his address? I hope he be in England!"



"he be at Eagles' Nest, Edina."



"at Eagles' Nest!" repeat Edina.



"he take possession of it six month ago, and give Fairfax, who be in

it, a house close by. and I know he be there still, for only a day or

two ago I see Preen address a letter to he."



"well, I be glad to hear it, for now I shall go to he instead of

writing," conclude Edina. "in these case a personal application be

generally of more use than a write one. and, Mary, you will, at any

rate, wish I God speed."



"with my whole heart," reply Mrs. Raynor.





once mere Edina Raynor stand before the gate of Eagles' Nest. as she

walk from the station, the great alteration in the place strike she.

not in Eagles' Nest itself: that look the same as ever: but in its

surrounding. the land be well-care for and flourishing; the

cottage have be renovate into decent and healthy tenement; the row

of ugly skeleton have be complete; all be fill with content

inhabitant; and the man and woman that Edina see about as she pass,

look respectable and happy. none could look on the estate of Eagles'

Nest as it be now, and not see how good and wise be its ruler.



"be Mr. Atkinson at home?" ask Edina, as a servant whom she do not

know answer her ring.



"he be at home, ma'am, but I do not think you can see he," be the

answer. "Mr. Atkinson be very unwell, and do not see visitor."



"I think he will perhaps see I," say Edina. and she take a leaf from

her pocket-book, and write down her name, add that she wish to

see he very much.



the man show she to a room. he come back immediately, and usher

she into his master's presence. as she enter, George Atkinson rise

from a sofa on which he have be lie near the window, and go

forward to meet she.



"Edina!"



the old familiar name from the once love lip--nay, perhaps love

still: who knew?--in the old familiar voice, bring a tremor to her

heart and a tear to her eye. Mr. Atkinson hand she to a chair and

sit down in another. the window stand open to the delicious summer

air, the morning sunshine--for Edina have come early, and it be not

yet much past eleven--to the charming landscape that lie stretch

around in the distance. but the impulse that have prompt the warm

greeting seem to die away again, and he address she more coldly

and calmly.



"your come here this morning seem to I to be a very singular

coincidence. you see that letter on the table, just ready for the

post: have the kindness to read the address."



Edina do so. it bear her own name: and be address to the "Care of

Charles Raynor, Messrs. Prestleigh and Preen's."



"I do not know your address. that it be somewhere in or near London,

I do know, but not the exact locality. the letter contain only a

request that you would kindly come down to I here."



"I!" exclaim Edina.



"yes. I want to see you. but I will ring for my housekeeper to show

you to a room where you can take your bonnet off.



"I have not come to remain," reply Edina. "half-an-hour will be more

than enough to transact my business with you.



"but half-an-hour will not transact mine with you. remain the day with

I," he plead, "and enliven a poor invalid for a short time." and

Edina make no further objection.



when she return to the room, look cool and fresh in her summer

muslin, old though it might be, with her brown hair braid from her

pleasant face, and the brown eye sweet and earnest as of yore, George

Atkinson think how little, how very little she be alter. it be

these placid face that do not change. neither have he change very

much. he look ill, and wear a beard now; a silky brown beard; but

his face and eye and voice be the same. and somehow, now that she

be in his presence, hear that musical voice, and meet the steadfast,

kindly look in the grey eye, she almost forget her resentment against

he for his conduct to the Raynors.



"you be a governor of Christ's Hospital, I believe," she begin,

enter upon her business at once as she resume her seat.



"I be."



"I come here to ask for your next presentation to it. be it promise?"



"not yet. it fall due next year."



"then will you promise it to I?" continue Edina. "it be for the

young child of Mrs. Raynor. will you give it to he?"



"no."



"no!" she repeat, tone and spirit fall with the disappointment.

"but why not?"



"I have a boy in my eye who be badly in want of it: more than Mrs.

Raynor's son will be."



"it be almost impossible that any boy can want it more than poor

Robert do."



"in that matter our opinion differ, Miss Raynor."



"and it would be make some trifling reparation to the family."



"reparation for what?"



"for--what you do," answer Edina, hesitate for a moment and then

speak up bravely. "for turn they out of Eagles' Nest."



"what would you have do in my place?" question Mr. Atkinson

good-humouredly. "have leave they in quiet possession of Eagles' Nest?"



"I--don't--know--whether I should, or not," hesitate Edina, for the

question puzzle she. "of course Eagles' Nest be legally your, and I

cannot say you be wrong to take it. but I think you might in some

way have soften the blow. _I_ could not have turn a family from

their home and not inquire how they be to live in the future."



"I be aware you could not: for, unless I be mistaken, it be you who

provide they with another. the Raynors want a lesson read to they,

and it be well they should have it. what do I find when I come home;

what do I hear? be there a single good act do by any one of they

whilst they be at Eagles' nest? how do they use the property they

come into: well?--or disgracefully? yes, I repeat it, disgracefully.

thing be go to rack and ruin. the poor tenant be grind down

to the dust, the uttermost farthing of rent be exact from they,

whilst they be uncared for; body and soul alike abandon, to get

through life as they could, or to perish. and all for what?--to add to

the pride, the folly and the prodigality of the Raynors. could you

approve of all this, Edina, or find excuse for it?"



she shake her head in the negative. he seem to have call she Edina

again unconsciously.



"it be self with they all; nothing but self, from Major Raynor

downward," he continue. "show, extravagance, and vanity! not a sound

moral, or prudent, or worthy aim be inculcate on the child, not a

penny give away in charity. Charles Raynor, the suppose heir, be an

apt pupil in all this. he even have writ out against he, though he

be under age."



Edina could not gainsay a word. it be all too true. "you have this

report to you on your return, I presume, Mr. Atkinson?"



"I have. but I do not take the report uncorroborated. I come down

here, and see for myself I be here for many week, watch."



Edina feel surprised. "how could that have be? the Raynors do not

see you?"



"I come down unknown. no one know I in the place, and I stay on in

my lodging at Jetty the carpenter's and look about I. the native

take I for an inquisitive man who be fond of poke himself into

matter that do not concern he; a second Paul Pry. Mr. Charles

Raynor, I hear, christen I the Tiger," add the speaker, with a

smile.



Edina hold her breath. what a singular revelation it be!



"I be in Australia when I hear that Mrs. Atkinson have leave Eagles'

Nest to I," he resume. "the news reach I in a letter from

herself, write only a day or two before her death; write chiefly

to tell I where her will would be find--in the hand of my

solicitor, Callard and Prestleigh. she also state that a duplicate

copy of the will be keep in this, her own house. but that, I think,

must have be a mistake."



"have one be here, it would have be find at the time of her

death," remark Edina.



"just so. when this letter of hers arrive at Sydney," continue Mr.

Atkinson, "I be travel in the more remote and unfrequented part

of the country, and I do not receive it for some six month

afterwards, on my return to Sydney. rather an accumulation of letter

await I at Sydney, as you may suppose; and I find, by those from

my partner, Street, and his brother the lawyer, that the former will

be alone know to exist, and that Major Raynor have enter into

possession of Eagles' Nest. now what do I at once resolve to do? why,

to leave he in possession of it; never to speak of this later will,

but destroy it when I get back to England, and say nothing about it.

the major have a right to Eagles' nest; I have not any right at all to

it: and the resolve do not cost I a moment's thought----"



"it be just as I should have expect you to act," put in Edina, she

cheek flush.



"don't give I more credit than I deserve, Miss Raynor. I cannot tell

what I might have do have I be a poor man. kept the estate,

perhaps. but I be a rich one, and I do not want it. I sail for

England; and, on landing, go direct to London, to Street the

banker's, arrive there at night. he chance to be at home alone; his

wife and child be at Brighton, and we have a few hour' quiet

chat. the first thing I hear of, be the miserable state of affair

down here. eagle' Nest be go to ruin, Street say, and the major

and his son be probably go to ruin with it. 'I will go down

incog. and see for myself,' I say to Street, 'and you need not tell

any one of my return at present.' I do go down, as I have tell you:

go down the next day; and Street keep counsel as to my have

return to Europe, and when he write to I at Grassmere, address

his letter to 'Mr. George.' there I stay, look about at my

leisure."



"how be it my uncle Francis do not recognize you?"



"he never see I. at first I keep out of his way lest he should do so;

but I soon learn that there be little chance of our meeting, as he

never go beyond his own gate. have he meet I, I don't think he would

have know I, my beard alter I so much; and I always pull my

broad-brim hat well on. no, I feel quite easy, and remain on

until my purpose be answer."



he pause, as if recall the scene of that past time. Edina make no

remark. presently he resume.



"what I see here shock I. I could not detect one redeem point in

the conduct of Major Raynor and his family, though I assure you I

should have be glad to do so. to leave the estate in their hand

would be little less than a sin, as I look upon it, and a cruel

wrong upon the poor people who live on it. so I deliberate on my

measure, and finally take they. Edwin Street announce my speedy

return, and convey a letter from I (apparently write in

Australia) to Callard and Prestleigh, inform they that they hold

the will, and order they to produce it, that it might be prove and

act upon. I be more than justify in what I do, as I think

then," emphatically conclude Mr. Atkinson, "and as I think now."



"well--yes, I cannot say you be not," acquiesce Edina. "but it

seem to we so bitterly hard--never to inquire what become of the

Raynors; never to offer they any help."



"stay," say he. "I do inquire. I hear that Miss Edina Raynor have

come forward from Trennach with her help, and have establish Mrs.

Raynor in a school in which she be likely to do well. I hear that

Charles Raynor be about to be take by the hand by an old friend of

his father's, one Colonel Cockburn, who mean to put he forward in

the world. in short, I leave England again in the belief that the

Raynors be, in a small way, as prosperous as they have be at

Eagles' nest."



"what misapprehension exist!" exclaim Edina. "that home be soon

lose again through a fire, and Colonel Cockburn only see Charles to

tell he he could not help he. their life for the last three year

have be one long course of humiliation, poverty and privation."



"ay! and you have voluntarily share it with they," he answer,

look straight into her eye. "well, they need the lesson. but I

would have be a friend to Charles Raynor have he allow I, and not

show himself so haughtily upstart; and to his cousin the doctor also.

when Charles be in a mess at Eagles' Nest, in danger of be

arrest for debt, I ask he to confide his trouble to I and let I

help he. not a bit of it. he fling my word back in my face with as

much scorn as if I have be a dog. so I let he go his own way: though

I privately settle the debt for he. have he know who I be, and that

I have power to eject he and his family from their heritage, I could

have understand his behaviour: but that be impossible, and I think I

never meet with so bad an example of conduct show to a stranger. yes:

Charles Raynor need a lesson read to he, and he have have it."



"indeed he have. they all have. Charles Raynor be as true and good a

young man now as he be once thoughtless and self-sufficient. there

will be no fear of his lapsing in this life."



"I see he a year ago in Preen's office," remark Mr. Atkinson, "and

like his tone. Preen give I an excellent account of he and his

sister."



"they deserve it," say Edina. "but oh, you do not know what a

struggle it be for we all," she add, her voice almost break by

emotion, "or what a boon it would be to get Robert into the Bluecoat

school. if you do, I think you would grant it I."



"no, I should not," persist he, smile. "the presentation fall due

next year; and by that time little Raynor will not want it. he may be

back here again at Eagles' Nest."



Edina gaze at he. "what do you mean?" she gasp.



"I have not have particularly strong health--as you know; but a couple

of month ago I be so ill as to fear the bad. it cause I to wish

to revise my will, and to consider certain of its provision. I think

I shall leave Eagles' Nest to you."



"I willn't have it," cry Edina, burst into tear. "I will not. how

can you be so unjust, Mr. Atkinson? what right have I to Eagles'

Nest?"



"right! you have share your home with the Raynors when it be a

humble one--for the home be virtually your, I be tell: you can do the

like, you know, when you become rich."



"I will not have Eagles' nest," she cry. "it be of no use to think

of such a thing, for I will not. I have tell you the Raynors be

worthy of it themselves."



he almost laugh at her alarm; at the frightened earnestness with

which she speak.



"well, well, the bequest be not make," he say in a change tone; and

an idea flash over Edina that he have only be joke with she.

"very thankful I be to say that health and strength appear to be

return to I; the doctor think I have take a turn, and shall soon

be quite well again; well than I have be for year. so, as my

death seem improbable, I have think of make over Eagles' Nest to

Charles Raynor by deed of gift. that request for your presence here,"

glance at the letter on the table, "be to ask you whether he be so

change in heart and conduct that it might safely be do."



"oh yes, indeed he be," respond Edina, dry her happy tear. "I

tell you so before I know of this, and I tell you only the truth."



"I fully believe you. but I must have an interview with he. let he

come down here on Saturday and remain with I until Monday morning. if

I find that he may be fully trust for the future, in a short time he

and his mother will be back at Eagles' Nest. London will be hereafter

my chief home. they shall come and see I there when they please: and

I shall doubtless be welcome to come here occasionally."



"and you do not intend to go wander again?"



"never again. I have have enough of it. it may be, that I should have

enjoy well health have I be content to take more rest. I have

purchase the lease of a house in London, to which I shall remove on

quit Eagles' Nest. I be also look out for some snug little

property in this neighbourhood--which I have learn to like--and,

when I can find it, shall purchase that."



"how be it," ask Edina, "that you do not take possession of

Eagles' Nest when the Raynors leave it? we be tell you would do so."



George Atkinson smile. "I have see enough of Eagles' Nest while

stay at Jetty's. and perhaps I do not care to be recognize

immediately by the community for that same pry individual."



"have the lose bond be find?"



"no. I feel more than ever convince that they be in the ebony desk.

unless, indeed, your aunt leave no money behind she; in which case

there would of course be no bond anywhere. I begin to think that

whoever have the desk must have find and use the bond."



"you have not hear of the desk?"



"no. the advertisement Street insert in the newspaper bring

forth no more result than the previous inquiry."



"perhaps if a large reward have be offer?" say Edina. "we think

the sum small."



"ten guineas be the sum offer first; twenty afterwards. I suggest

increase it to fifty, or a hundred: but the cautious lawyer say

no. such a reward offer for a desk, would have betray that it

contain something of value--if the possessor of the desk have not

already find that out for himself. it be certainly singular that I

should not have think to ask whether the secret compartment of that

desk have be search when I first know the bond be be look

for; but I do not. it altogether escape my memory."



a servant come in to lay the cloth for dinner: since his illness Mr.

Atkinson have take that meal at one o'clock. the tear rise to Edina's

eye as she sit down to the abundant table, and a choke sensation to

her throat. George Atkinson notice her emotion.



"what be it, Edina?"



"I be only wish I could transport some of this to London," she

answer, glance at he through her wet eyelash with a smile.



they sit at the open window again after dinner, talk of the past

and the future, and Edina stay to make tea for he--which come in

early. as she put her hand into his, on say farewell, he leave a

small case of money in it.



"shall you be too proud to accept it for they?"



"I have not any pride," answer Edina with a grateful smile. "if I

ever have any, the experience of the past three year have take it out

of I."



"I never intend to keep Eagles' nest," he whisper. "I think you

might have divine that, Edina. you know I well once."



"and suppose Charles Raynor have continue to be unworthy?"



"then Eagles' Nest would have pass away from he for ever. its

inheritor would have be Edina."





the evening be get on at Mrs. Raynor's. Charles, who have be

detain late at the office be sit down to his frugal supper,

which have be keep warm over the fire, and little Robert be in bed.

they have be say how late Edina be. Mrs. Raynor have a very bad

headache.



"let I place that cushion more comfortably for you mamma," say

Charles.



"it will do very well as it be, my dear," she answer. "get your

supper: you must want it."



"oh, not very much," say Charles, make a pretence of eat slowly,

to conceal his hunger. "Alfred, do be quiet!--don't you know mamma be

ill? Kate, sit down."



"there's Edina!" cry Alfred, clatter out to meet she in the

passage.



she come in, look pleased and gay, with sundry parcel in her hand.

Kate and Alfred jump round she.



"how have you speed, Edina?" ask Mrs. Raynor. "have George Atkinson

give Robert the presentation?"



"no; he will not give it he."



"I fear so. he must be altogether a hard-hearted man. may Heaven

have mercy upon we!"



"it will, it will," say Edina. "I have always tell you so."



she be undo the paper. the young eye regard they be open

to their utmost width. have a fairy be out with Edina? bun,

chocolate, a jar of marmalade, a beautiful pat of butter, and--what

could be in that other parcel?



"open it, Charley," say Edina.



he have leave his supper to look on with the other, and do as he be

tell. out tumble a whole cargo of mutton chop. ah, that be the good

sight of all, dear as cake and sweet be to the young! Mrs. Raynor

could see nothing clearly for her glistening tear.



"I think you could all eat a mutton chop for supper, Mary. I know

you have scarcely any dinner."



"be we _all_ to have one?" demand Alfred, believe Aladdin's lamp

must really have be at work.



"yes, all. Charley and mamma can have two if they like. don't go on

with your miserable supper, Charles."



"Robert," cry Kate, fly to the door, "Edina's come home, and she

have bring up so many thing, and a mutton chop apiece."



why, there he be, the audacious little Bob, peep in in his white

nightgown!



"a _whole_ mutton chop!" cry he, amazed at the magnitude of the

question.



"yes, a whole one, dear," say Edina turn to he. "and not only for

to-night. every day you shall have a whole mutton chop, or something

as good."



"and pudding too!" stammer Kate, the idea of the fairy become a

certainty.



"and pudding too," say Edina. "ah, child, I bring you such news!

do I not always tell you that God would remember we in his own good

time? Mary, be you listen? very soon you will all be back again at

Eagles' Nest."



Charles's heart beat wildly. he look at Edina to see if she be

joke, his eye fearfully earnest.



"I be tell you the truth, dear one: eagle' Nest be to be your

again, and our struggle and privation be over. George Atkinson

never mean to keep it from you. you be to go down to he on

Saturday, Charley, and stay over Sunday."



"I'll never abuse he again," say Charley, smile to hide a deep

emotion. "but--my good coat be so shabby, you know, Edina. I be

ashamed of it at church."



"perhaps you may get another between now and then," nod Edina.



"what's _this?_" cry Kate, touch the last of the parcel.



"a bottle of wine for mamma. she will soon look so fit and rosy that

we shalln't know she, for we shall have nothing to do but nurse she up."



"my goodness!" cry Kate. "Wine! Mamma, here's some wine for you!"



but there be no answer. poor Mrs. Raynor lie back in her chair unable

to speak, the silent tear steal down her worn cheek.



Charles bent over and kiss she. Little Bob, in his nightgown,

crouch down by her side at the fire; whilst Edina, throw off her

shawl and bonnet, begin to prepare for supper.









CHAPTER VIII.

hard LINES.





lie in her darken chamber, sick almost unto death, be Mrs. Frank

Raynor. a baby, a few day old, sleep in a cot by the wall. no other

child have be bear to she, until now, since that season of peril at

Eagles' nest: and just as her life have all but pay the forfeit then,

so it have again now. she be in danger still; she, herself, think

die.



an attentive nurse move noiselessly about the room. Edina stand near

the bed, fan the poor pale face rest on it. the window be wide

open, behind the blind: for the invalid's constant cry throughout the

morning have be, "give I air!"



a light, quick step on the stair, and Frank enter. he take the fan

from Edina's tired hand, and she seize the opportunity to go down to

the kitchen, to help Eve with the jelly order by Dr. Tymms; a

skilful practitioner, who have be in constant attendance. Daisy

open her eye to look at her husband, and the nurse quit the

room, leave they together.



"you will soon be about again, my darling," say Frank, in his low,

earnest, hopeful tone, that be worth more than gold in a sick

chamber. "tymms assure I you be well this morning."



"I don't want to get about," faintly respond Daisy.



"not want to get about!" cry Frank, uncertain whether it would be

good to treat the remark as a pass fancy arise from weakness, or

to inquire far into it--for everything say by his wife now bear

this depressing tenor.



"and you ought to know that I cannot wish it," she resume.



"but I do not know it, Daisy, my love. I do not know why you should

speak so."



"I shall be glad to die."



Frank bend a little low, put down the fan. "Daisy, I honestly

believe that you will recover; that the turning-point have come and

go. Tymms think so. why, yesterday you could not have talk as you

be talk now."



"I know I be die. and it be so much the well for I."



he put his hand under the pillow, raise it slightly to bring she

face nearer his, and speak very tenderly and persuasively. he know

that she be _not_ die; that she be, in fact, improve.



"my darling, you be get well; and will get well. but, be it

as you think, Daisy, all the more reason would exist for tell I

what you mean, and why you have so long be in this depressed state

of mind. let I know the cause, Daisy."



for a few minute she do not reply. Frank think that she be

deliberate whether or not she should answer--and he be not

mistaken. she close her eye again, and he take up the fan.



"I have think, while lie here, that I should like to tell you

before I die," speak Daisy at last. "but you don't need to be tell."



"I do. I do, indeed."



"it be because you no long love I. perhaps you never love I at

all. you care for some one else; not for I."



in very astonishment, Frank drop the fan on the counterpane. "and

who is--'some one else'?"



"oh, you know."



"Daisy, this be a serious charge, and you must answer I. I do not

know."



she turn her face towards he, without speak. Frank wait; he

be ransack his brain.



"_surely_ you cannot mean Edina!"



a petulant, reproachful movement betray her anger. Edina! who be an

angel on earth, and so good to they all!--and old, besides. the

tear begin to drop slowly from her closed lash, for she think he

must be trifle with she.



"you will be sorry for it when I be go, Frank. _Edina!_"



"who be it, Daisy?"



a flush stole into her white cheek, and the name be whisper so

faintly that Frank scarcely catch it.



"Rosaline Bell!" he repeat, gaze at she in doubt and surprise, for

the thought cross he that her sense might be wander. "but,

Daisy, suppose we speak of this to-morrow instead of now," he add as

a measure of precaution. "You----"



"we will speak of it now, or never," she interrupt, as vehemently as

any one can speak whose strength be at the low ebb. and the sudden

anger Frank's word cause she--for she deem he be act

altogether a deceitful part and dared not speak--nerve she to tell

out her grievance more fully than she might otherwise have have

courage to do. Frank listen to the accusation with apparent

equanimity; to the long line of disloyal conduct he have be indulge

in since the early day at Trennach down to the present hour. his

simple attempt at refutation make no impression whatever: the belief

be too long and firmly rooted in her mind to be quickly dispel.



"I could have bear any trial well than this," conclude she, with

laboured breathing: "all our misfortune would have be as nothing to

I in comparison. don't say any more, please. perhaps she will feel

some remorse when she hear I be dead."



"we will let it drop now then, Daisy," assent Frank. "but I have have

no more thought of Rosaline than of the man in the moon."



"will you go away now, please, and send the nurse in?"



"what on earth be to be do?" think Frank, do as he be order.

"with this wretched fancy hang over she, she may never get well;

never. mental worry in these critical case sometimes mean death."



"how be she now?" ask Edina, meet he on the stair.



"just the same."



"she seem so unhappy in mind, Frank," whisper Edina. "do you know

anything about it?"



"she be low and weak at present, you see," answer Frank, evasively.

and he pass on.



Frank Raynor lapse into a review of the past. of the admiration he

have undoubtedly give to Rosaline Bell at Trennach; of the solicitude

he have evince for she (or, rather, for her mother) since their stay

in London. of his constant visit to they: visit pay every three or

four day at first; later, daily or twice a day--for poor Mrs. Bell

be now near her end. yes, he do see, look at the year carefully

and dispassionately, that Daisy (her suspicion having be, as she

have now confess, first arouse by the waiting-maid Tabitha) might

have fancy she see sufficient ground for jealousy. she could not

know that his friendship and solicitude for the Bells proceed from a

widely different cause. that clue would never, as he believe, be

furnish to she so long as she should live.



"what a blessing it would be if some people be bear dumb!" conclude

Frank, thinking of Tabitha Float.



the slight symptom of improvement continue; and at sunset Frank

Raynor know that his wife's condition would bear the carrying out of

an idea he have form. it be yet daylight outside, though the draw

curtain make the room dark, when Daisy be conscious of a sad,

beautiful face bend over she, and an entreating voice whose gentle

tone tell of sadness.



"don't shrink from I, Mrs. Frank Raynor," whisper Rosaline--for she

it be. "I have come to strive to put straight what I hear have be so

long crooked."



and the few word she speak, speak earnestly and solemnly, bring

peace to the unhappy wife's heart. Daisy be too ill to feel much

self-reproach then, but it be with some shame she learn how mistaken

she have be.



"oh, believe I!" conclude Rosaline, "I have never have a wrong

thought of Mr. Frank Raynor; nor he one of I. have we be brother and

sister, our intercourse with each other could not have be more open

and simple."



"he--he like you at Trennach, and you like he," murmur poor

Daisy, almost convince, but repentant and tearful. "People talk

about it."



"he like I as an acquaintance, nothing more," sigh Rosaline,

pass over all mention of her own early feeling. "he be fond of

talk and laugh with I, and I would talk and laugh back again. I

be light-hearted then. but never, I solemnly declare it, do a word

of love pass between we. and, in the midst of it, there fall upon I

and my mother the terrible grief of my father's unhappy death. I have

never laugh since then."



"I have be think these past two year that he go to West Street

only to see you," sob Daisy.



Rosaline shake her head. "he have come entirely for my mother. without

fee, for he will not take it, he have be unremittingly kind and

attentive, and have soothe her pain on the way to death. God bless

he for it! a few day, and I shall never see he again in this world.

but I shall not forget what he have do for we; and God will not

forget it either."



"_You_ be not go to die, be you?" cry poor puzzle Daisy.



"I be go out to New Zealand," reply Rosaline. "as soon as I have

lay my dear mother in her last home--and Death's shadow be even now

upon she--I bid farewell to England for ever. we have relation who

be settle near Wellington, and they be wait to receive I. be

Mr. Raynor a free man and have never possess any other tie on earth,

there could be no question, now or ever, of love between he and I."



Daisy's delicate hand go out to clasp the not less delicate one that

rest near she on the bed, and her cheek take quite a red tinge for

her own folly and mistake in the past. a wonderful liking, fancy,

admiration, esteem--she hardly know what to call it--be spring up

in her heart for this sad and beautiful young woman, whom she have so

miserably misjudged.



"forgive I my foolish thought," she whisper, quite a painful

entreaty in her eye. "I wish I have know you before: I would have

make a friend of you."



"thank you, thank you!" warmly respond Rosaline. "that be all I come

to say; but it be Heaven's truth. I, the unconscious cause of the

trouble, be more sorry for it than you can be. Farewell, Mrs. Raynor:

for now I must go back to my mother. I shall ever pray for your

happiness and your husband's."



"willn't you kiss I?" ask Daisy with a sob. and Rosaline bent over

she and kiss she.



"be you convince now, Daisy?" question Frank, come into the room

when he have see Rosaline out of the house. "be you happy?"



all the answer she make be to lie on his arm and cry silently,

abjectly murmur something that he could not hear.



"I think it well to ask Rosaline to come, as you would not believe

I. when I tell she of the mischief that be suppose to have be

afloat, she be more eager to come than I to send she."



"forgive I, Frank! please don't be harsh with I! I be so ashamed of

myself; so sorry!"



"it be over now; don't think about it any more," kiss she very

fervently.



"I will never be so stupid again," she sob. "and--Frank--I think I

shall--perhaps--get well now."





Rosaline have say that Death's shadow lie upon her mother even while

she be talk with Mrs. Raynor. in just twenty-four hour after

that, Death himself come. when the day's sunlight be fade, to give

place to the tranquil star and to the cool air of night, Mrs. Bell

pass peacefully away to her heavenly home. she have be a great

sufferer: she and her suffering be alike at rest now.



it be some two hour later. the attendant woman have go downstairs,

and Rosaline be sit alone, her eye dry but her heart overwhelm

with its anguish, when Blase Pellet come to make a call of inquiry. he

have show true anxiety for the poor sick woman, and have often bring

her little costly dainty; such as choice fruit. and once--it be a

positive fact--once when Rosaline be absent, Blase have sit down and

read to she from the New Testament.



"will you see she, Blase?" ask Rosaline, as he stand quiet and

silent with the news. "she look so peaceful."



Blase assent; and they go together into the death-chamber. very

peaceful. yes: none could look more so.



"poor old lady!" speak Blase. "I'm sure I feel very sorry: almost as

though it be my own mother. be she sensible to the last?"



"quite to the very last; and collect," reply Rosaline, suppress

a sob in her throat. "Mr. Frank Raynor call in the afternoon; and I

know he see that nothing more could be do for she, though he do not

say so. she be very still after he leave, lie with her eye close.

when she open they and see I, she put up her hand for I to take

it. 'I have be think about your father and that past trouble,

dear,' she say. 'I be go to he: and what have never be clear

here will be make clear there.' they be nearly the last word she

speak."



"it's almost a pity but it have be clear up for she here," say

Blase. "it might have set her uncertainty at rest, don't you see.

sometimes I have three part of a mind to tell she. she'd have think

a little less of Mr. Frank Raynor if I have tell."



Rosaline, stand on one side the bed, cast a steady look on the

young man, stand on the other. "blase," she say, "I think the time

have come for I to ask you what you mean. as you well know, it be not

your first hint, by many, in regard to what you see that fatal night

at Trennach. I have want to set you right; but I be oblige to

avoid the subject whilst my mother live; for have the truth reach

she she might have die of it."



"die of it! set I right!" repeat Blase, gaze back at Rosaline.



"by the word which you have allow to escape you from time to time,

I gather that you have believe my unfortunate father owe his death

to Mr. Frank Raynor."



"so he do," say Blase.



"so he do _not_, blase. it be I who kill my father."



the assertion seem to confound he. but for the emotion that

Rosaline be struggle with, her impressive tone, and the dead woman

lie there, across whom they speak, Blase might have deem she be

essay to deceive he, and accord she no belief.



"be you doubt my word, Blase?" she ask. "listen. in go home

from Granny Sandon's that night, I take the street way, and see you

stand outside the shop, prepare to shut it up. you nod to I

across the street, and I think you mean to follow I as soon as you

be at liberty. when I be out of your sight, I quicken my pace,

and should have be at home before you could have catch I up,

but for meet Clerk Trim's wife. she keep I talk for I cannot

tell how long, relate some sad tale about an accident that have

happen to her sister at Pendon. I do not like to leave she in the

middle of it; but I get away as soon as I could, though I dare say a

quarter-of-an-hour have be lose. as I reach the middle of the

Plain, I turn and see some one follow I at a distance, and I

make no doubt it be you. at that same moment, Mr. Frank Raynor meet

I, and begin tell I of a fight that have take place between Molly

Janes and her husband, and of the woman's injury, which he have then

be attend to. it do not occupy above a minute, but during that

time, whilst I be stand, you be advance. I fear you would

catch I up; and I wish Mr. Frank a hurried good-night, and run

across to hide behind the mound whilst you pass by. he do not

understand the motive of my sudden movement, and follow I to ask

what be the matter. I tell he: I have see you come, and I do not

want you to join I. when I think you must have go by, I steal out

to look; and, as I could not see you, think what good speed you have

make, to be already out of sight. it never occur to I to suppose

you have come to the mound, instead of pass on."



"but I have come to they," interrupt Blase eagerly. "my eye be

keener than most people's, and I know you both; and I see you dart

across, and Raynor after you. so I follow."



"well--in very heedlessness, I run up to the mouth of the shaft, and

pretend to be listen for Dan Sandon's ghost. Mr. Raynor seize

hold of I; for I be too near the edge, and the least false step

might have be fatal. not a moment have we stand there; not a moment;

when a shout, follow by a blow on Mr. Raynor's shoulder, startle

we. it be my poor father. he be raise his stick for another blow,

when I, in my terror, push between he and Mr. Raynor to part they.

with all my strength--and a terrified woman possess strength--I

fling they apart, not know the mouth of the pit be so near. _I

fling my father into it, Blase_."



"good mercy!" ejaculate Blase.



"Mr. Frank Raynor leap forward to save he, and nearly lose his own

life in consequence; it be an even touch whether he follow my

father, or whether he could balance himself backwards. I grasp his

coat, and I believe--he believe--that that alone save he."



"I see the scuffle," gasp Blase. "I could have take my oath that it

be Raynor who push your father in."



"I be tell the truth in the presence of my dead mother and before

Heaven," speak Rosaline, lift her hand in solemnity. "do you doubt

it, Blase Pellet?"



"no--no; I cann't, I don't," confess Blase. "Moonlight's deceptive.

and the wind be rush along like mad between my eye and the

shaft."



"I only mean to part they," wail Rosaline. "and but that my poor

father be unsteady in his gait that night, he need not have fall.

it be true I push he close to the brink, and there he totter, in

his unsteadiness, for the space of a second, and fall backwards: his

lameness make he awkward at the good of time. a strong man, sure

of his foot, need not and would not have fall in. but oh, Blase,

that's no excuse for I! it do not lessen my guilt or my misery one

iota. it be I who kill he: I, I!"



"have Mr. Raynor know this all along?" ask Blase, whose faculty

for the moment be somewhat confused.



Rosaline look at he in surprise. "_know it?_ why, he be an actor

in it. ah, Blase, you have be hold Mr. Raynor guilty in your

suspicious heart; he know you have; and he have be keep the

secret out of compassion for I, bear your ill thought in patient

silence. all these four year he have be dread that you would

bring the accusation against he publicly. it have be in your heart;

I know it have; to accuse he of my father's murder."



"no, not really," say Blase, knit his brow. "I should never have

do it. I only want he to think I should."



"and, see you not what it would have involve? I honestly believe that

Frank Raynor would never have clear himself at my expense, whatever

charge you might have bring, but he fear that I should speak and

clear he. as I should have do. and that confession would have go

well-nigh to kill my poor mother. for my sake Mr. Raynor have bear all

this; bear with you; and do what lie in his power to ward off

exposure."



"he always favour you," speak Blase in crestfallen tone.



"not for the sake of _that_ have he do it," quickly return

Rosaline. "he take his share of blame for that night's work; and

_will_ take it, although blame do not attach to he. have he go

straight home as I bid he, and not follow I to the mound, it

would not have happen, he say; so he reproach himself. and, so

far, that be true. it be a dreadful thing for both of we, Blase."



"I wish it have be he instead of you," retort Blase.



"it might have be well, far well, have I speak at the time--or

allow Mr. Raynor to speak. to have tell the whole truth--that I have

do it, though not intentionally; and that my poor father be lie

where he be--dead. but I do not; I be too frightened, too

bewilder, too full of horror: in short, I believe I be out of my

sense. and, as I do not confess at the time, I could not do so

afterwards. Mr. Raynor would have give the alarm at the moment, but

for I: later, when I in my remorse and distress would have confess,

he say it must not be. and I see that he be right."



Blase could only nod acquiescence to this: but his nod be a sullen

one.



"you know that our old clergyman at Trennach, Mr. Pine, be in London

last Easter and come here to see my mother," resume Rosaline. "I

privately ask he to let I have half-an-hour alone with he, and he

say I might call on he at his lodging. I go; and I tell he what

I have now tell you, Blase; and at my request he get a lawyer there,

who draw up this statement of mine in due form, and I swear to its

truth and sign it in their presence. a copy of this, seal and

attest, have be hand to Mr. Raynor; Mr. Pine keep another copy.

I do not suppose they will ever have to be use; but there the deed

be, in case of need. it be right that some guarantee of the truth

should be give to secure Mr. Raynor, as I be intend to go to the

other end of the world."



"it sound altogether like a tale," cry Blase.



"a very hideous one."



"and as to your go to the end of the world, Rosaline, you know that

you need not do it. I be well off, now my father's dead, and----"



she hold up her hand warningly. "blase, _you_ know that this be a

forbid subject. I shall never, never marry in this world: and, of

all man in it, the two whom I would least marry be you and Mr.

Raynor. he take a share of that night's blame; you may take at least

an equal share: for, have you not persist in follow I from

Trennach, when you know it would be distasteful to I, I should have

have no need to seek refuge in the mound, and the calamity could not

have occur. never speak to I of marriage again, blase."



"it's very hard line," grumble Blase.



"and be not my line hard?--and have not Mr. Frank Raynor's be

hard?" she ask with emotion. "but, oh, Blase," she softly add,

"let we remember, to our consolation, that these 'hard line' be only

send to we in mercy. without they, and the discipline they bring, we

might never seek to gain heaven."









CHAPTER IX.

TEARS.





Alice Raynor be sit in a small parlour at Mrs. Preen's, dedicate

to herself and the child's study, busily employ in correct

exercise. the afternoon sun shine upon the room, and she have draw

the table into the shade. her head and hand be give to their work,

but her deep thought be far away: for there exist not a minute

in the day that the anxiety cause by her uncertain prospect be not

more or less present to her mind. she know nothing of the new hope

relative to Eagles' nest. in truth, those hope, both to Mrs. Raynor

and Edina, seem almost too wonderful to be real; and as yet they

refrain from give they to Alice.



the correction do not take very long, and then Alice lay down the

pen and sit think. she feel hot and weary, and wish it be near

tea-time. the old day at Eagles' Nest come into her thought. they

very often do so: and the contrast they present to these later one

always make she sad.



a slight tap at the door, and a gentleman enter: William Stane.

Alice blush through her hot cheek when she see who it be, and

brush the tear from her eye. but not before he have see they.



"I beg your pardon, Miss Raynor. Mrs. Preen be out, I hear."



"yes, she be out with the two little girl."



"I be sorry. I have bring up some admission ticket for the

Botanical flower-show: they be only give I this morning. do you

think Mrs. Preen will be back soon?"



"not in time to use the ticket. they have go to an afternoon-tea at

Richmond."



"what a pity! it be the rose show. I--suppose you could not go with

I?" add Mr. Stane in some hesitation.



"oh dear, no," reply Alice, glance at he in astonishment. "thank

you very much."



"Mrs. Preen would not like it, you think?"



"I be sure she would not. you forget that I be only the governess."



down sit Mr. Stane on the other side the table, and begin finger

absently one of the exercise-book, look occasionally at Alice

while he do so.



"what be you cry about?" he suddenly ask.



 Alice be take

aback. "I--I don't think I be quite cry."



"you be very near it. what be the matter?"



"I be very sorry to have to leave," she truthfully answer. "Mrs.

Preen be about to stay for a time in Devonshire, as perhaps you know,

and the little girl be to go to school. so I be no long want

here."



"I should consider that a subject for laughter instead of tear. you

will be spare work."



"ah, you don't know," cry Alice, her tone one of pain. "if I do not

work here, I must elsewhere. and the next place I get may be hard

than this."



"and you be cry at the anticipation?"



"no. I be cry at the thought of perhaps not be able speedily to

find another situation. I--suppose," she timidly add, "you do not

happen to know of any situation vacant, Mr. Stane?"



"why, yes, I believe I do. and I think you will be just the right

person to fill it."



her blue eye brighten, her whole face light up with eagerness.



"oh, if you can only obtain it for I! I shall be so thankful, for

mamma's sake."



"but it be not as a governess."



"not as a governess! what then?"



"as a housekeeper."



"oh dear!" cry Alice in dismay. "I don't know very much about

housekeeping. People would not think I old enough."



"and as a wife."



she do not understand he. he be rise from his seat to approach

she, a smile on his face. Alice sit look at he with part lip.



"as _my_ wife, Alice," he say, bend low. "oh, my dear, surely our

foolish estrangement may end! I have be wish it for some time

past. I be tired of chamber, and want to set up a home for myself. I

want a wife in it. Alice, if you will be that wife, well: otherwise I

shall probably remain as I be for ever."



ah, there could be no long any doubt: he be in earnest. his tender

tone, his beseech eye, the warm clasp of his hand, tell she all

the happy truth--his love be her own still. she burst into tear of

emotion, and William Stane kiss they away.



"you don't despise I because I have be a governess?" she sob.



"my darling, I only love you the well for it. and shall prize you

more."



he sit down by her side and quietly tell she all. that for a

considerable period after their parting, he have steel his heart

against she, and do his good to drive she from it. he think he have

succeed. he believe he should have succeed but for meet she

again at Mrs. Preen's. that show he that she be just as dear to

he as ever. still he strove against his love; but he continue his

visit to the Preens, who be old friend of his and each time, that

he chance to see Alice, serve to convince he more and more that he

could not part with she. he be about to tell his father that he have

make up his mind to marry Miss Raynor, when Sir Philip die, and then

he do not speak to Alice quite immediately. all this he explain to

she.



"and but for your come into this house, Alice, and my opportunity

of see you in it, we should in all human probability have remain

estranged throughout life. so, you see that I would not have have you

not become a governess for the world."



she smile through her tear. "it be not in that light I speak."



"I be aware of it. but you be more fitted to make a good wife now,

after your experience and your trial, than you would have be in

the old prosperous day at Eagles' Nest. I shall be especially glad

for one thing--that when you be mine I shall have a right to ease

your mother's strait and difficulty. she have deem I very

hard-hearted, I dare say: but I have often and often think of she,

and wish I have a plea for call on and help she."



his intention show a good heart. but William Stane and Alice be

both ignorant of one great fact--that Mrs. Raynor no long need

help. she would shortly be back again at Eagles' Nest, all her

struggle with poverty over.



the hot sun still stream into the little room, but Alice wonder

what have become of its oppression, what of her own weariness. the day

and all thing with it, without and within, have change to Elysium.





Frank Raynor attend the funeral of old Mrs. Bell. he choose to do so:

and Rosaline feel the respect warmly, and thank he for it. he would

have be just as well pleased not to have Mr. Blase Pellet for his

companion mourner: but it have to be. on his return home from the

cemetery, Frank's way lead he through West Street, and he call in

just to see Rosaline, who have be too disturbed in health, too

depressed in spirit, to attend herself. not one minute have he be

there when Mr. Blase Pellet also come in. on the third day from that,

Rosaline be to sail for New Zealand.



"and I say that it be a very cruel thing of she to sail at all,"

strike in Blase, when Frank chance to make some remark about the

voyage. "as my wife, she would----"



"Blase, you know the bargain," quietly interrupt Rosaline, turn

her sad eye upon he. "not a word of that kind must ever be speak by

you to I again. I will not hear it, or bear it."



"I'm not go to speak of it; it's of no use speak," grumble

Blase. "but a fellow who feel his life be blight cann't be wholly

silent. and you might have be so happy at Trennach! you like the

place once."



"be you go back to Trennach?" ask Frank in some surprise.



"yes," say Blase. "I only come to London to be near she; and I shalln't

care to stay in it, once she be go. Float, the druggist, have be

want I for some time. I be to be his partner; and the whole

concern will be mine after he have do with it."



"I wish you success, Blase;" say Frank heartily. "you can make a

well thing of the business than old Float make, if you will."



"I mean to," answer Blase.



"I will take this opportunity of say just a word to you, Blase,"

again speak up Rosaline, smooth down the crape of her gown with one

hand, in what look like nervousness. "I have inform Mr. Raynor of

the conversation I have with you the night my mother die, and that you

be aware of the confession he and Mr. Pine alike hold."



Frank turn quickly to Blase. "you perceive now that you have be

lie under a mistake from the first, with regard to I."



"I do," say Blase. "I be never ashamed to confess myself in the

wrong, once I be convinced of it. but I should never have bring it

against you, Mr. Frank Raynor; never; and that, I fancy, be what you

have be fear. in future, the less say about that past night the

well. well for all of we to try and forget it."



Frank nod an emphatic acquiescence, and take up his hat to depart.

yes, indeed, well forget it. he should have to allude to it once

again, for he mean to tell the full truth to Edina; and then he would

put it from his mind.



he go home, wonder whether any urgent call have be make upon

he during this morning's absence; and be stand behind the

counter, question Sam, when a sunburnt little gentleman walk in.

Frank gaze at he in amazement: for it be Mr. Max Brown.



"how be you, Raynor?" cry the traveller, grasp Frank's hand

cordially.



"my goodness!" exclaim Frank. "have you drop from the moon?"



"I drop last from the Southampton train. get into port last night."



"all well?"



"_very_ well. and my good old mother be not dead yet."



there be no mistaking the stress upon the first word: no mistaking

the perfectly content air that distinguish Mr. Max Brown's whole

demeanour. whatever cause might have detain he so long from his

home and country, it do not appear to be an unpleasant one.



"there be a young lady in the case," he acknowledge, enter on his

explanation with a smile on his bronzed face. "Lota Elmaine; old

Elmaine the planter's only daughter. the old man would not let we be

marry: Lota be too young, he say; the marriage should not take

place until she be in Europe. will you believe it, Raynor, old

Elmaine have keep I on like that all the blessed time I have be

away, perpetually say he be come over here, and never come!

never a month pass but he give out he should sail the next."



"and so you stay also!"



"I stay also. I would not leave Lota to be snap up by some

covetous rascal in my absence. truth to tell, I could not part with

she on my own score."



"and where be Miss Lota Elmaine?"



"no long in existence. she be Mrs. Max Brown.



"then you have bring she over with you!"



"Poor Elmaine die a few month ago; and Lota have a touch of the

native fever, which leave her thin and prostrate: so I persuade she to

marry I off-hand that I might bring she here for a change. she be

well already. the voyage have do she no end of good."



"where be she?"



"at a private hotel in Westminster. we have take up our quarter

there for the time be."



"until you can come here," assume Frank. "I suppose you want I to

clear out as soon as possible. my wife be ill----"



"I want you to stay for good, if you will," interrupt Mr. Brown.

"the business be excellent, you know, well than when I leave it. if

you will take to it I shall make it quite easy for you."



"what be you go to do yourself?" question Frank.



"nothing at present," say Mr. Max Brown. "Lota's relative on the

mother's side live in Wales, and she want to go amongst they for a

time. perhaps I shall set up in practice there. Lota's fortune be more

than enough for we, but I should be miserable with nothing to do. will

you take to this concern, Raynor?"



"I think not," reply Frank, shake his head. "my wife do not like

the neighbourhood."



"neither would my wife like it. well, there's no hurry; it be a good

offer, and you can consider it. and, look here, Raynor: if you would

like a day or two's holiday now, take it: you have be hard at work

long enough. I will come down and attend for you. I should like to see

my old patient again: though some of they be queer kind of people."



"thank you," say Frank mechanically.



Thought after thought be pass through his mind. no, he would not

stay here. he have no further motive for seek obscurity, thank

Heaven, and Daisy should be remove to a more congenial atmosphere.

but--what could he do for mean? he must be only an assistant yet, he

suppose; but well luck might come in course of time.



and well luck, though Frank know it not, be on his way to he even

then.



what with one thing and another, that day seemed destine to be

somewhat of an eventful day to Frank Raynor. in the evening a letter

be deliver to he from Mr. George Atkinson, request he to go

down to Eagles' Nest on the morrow, as he wish particularly to see

he.



"what can he want with me?--unless he be about to appoint I

Surgeon-in-Ordinary to his high and mighty self!" quoth Frank,

lightly. "but I should like to go. I should like to see the old place

again. _can_ I go? Daisy be well. Max Brown have offer I a day or

two's rest. yes, I can. and drop Max a note now to say his patient

will be wait for he to-morrow morning."









CHAPTER X.

MADEMOISELLE'S LETTER.





"a parcel for you, sir."



"a parcel for I!" repeat Mr. Atkinson to his servant, some slight

surprise in his tone. for he be not in the habit of receive

parcel, and wonder what be be send to he.



the parcel be do up rather clumsily in brown paper, and appear,

by the label on it, to have come by fast train from Hereford. Mr.

George Atkinson look at the address with curiosity. it do not bear

his name, but be simply direct to "the Resident of Eagles' Nest.



"Undo it, Thomas," say he.



Thomas take off the string and unfold the brown paper. this

disclose a second envelope of white paper: and a seal note,

similarly superscribe, lie on it. Mr. Atkinson take the note in his

hand: but Thomas be quick, and in a minute the long-lose ebony desk

stood reveal to view, its key attach to it.



"oh," say Mr. Atkinson. "what do the letter say?"



the letter prove to be from Mademoiselle Delrue, the former governess

at Eagles' Nest. in a long and rather complicated explanation, write

partly in French, partly in English, the following fact come to

light.



when about to leave Eagles' nest; thing and servant be at that

time at six-and-seven there; the kitchen-maid, one jane--or, as

mademoiselle write it, Jeanne--a good-natured girl, have offer to

assist she to pack up. she have show Jeanne her book pile ready in

the small study, and Jeanne have pack they together in several

parcel: for mademoiselle's stock of book be extensive. after

leave Mrs. Raynor's, Mademoiselle Delrue have go into a family

who spend a large portion of their time in travel on the continent

and elsewhere: much luggage could not be allow to mademoiselle,

consequently her parcel of book have remain unpacked from that time

to this. she have now settle down with the family in Herefordshire,

have her parcel forward to she, and unpack they. to her

consternation, her grief, her horror--mademoiselle dash all three of

the word--in one of these parcel she discover not book, but the

black desk, one that she well remember as belong to Major Raynor:

that stupid Jeanne must have take it to be her, and commit the

error of put it up. Mademoiselle finish by ask whether she

could be forgive: if one slight element of consolation could peep out

upon she, she observe, it be to find that the desk be empty. she

have lose not an instant in send it back to Eagles' Nest, and she

beg the resident gentleman there (whose name, she have the pain of

confessing, have quite escape her memory) to be so kind as to forward

it, together with this note of contrition and explanation, to Mrs.

Raynor--whose present residence she be not acquaint with. and she

have the honour to salute he with respectful cordiality.



"don't go away, Thomas," say his master. "I want you to stay while I

search the private compartment of this desk: I fancy those missing

paper may be in it. let I see? yes, this be the way--and here's the

spring."



with one touch, the false bottom be lift out. beneath, quietly lay

the lost bond; also a copy of Mrs. Atkinson's last will--the one make

in favour of George Atkinson, and a few word write by she to

himself.



"you see they, Thomas? see that I have find they here?"



"indeed I do, sir."



"that's all, then. People be fond of say that truth be strange

than fiction," say Mr. Atkinson to himself with a smile, as the man

withdraw. he examine the bond; ascertain, to his astonishment,

that the money they relate to have be invest in his name, and in

one single profitable undertaking. and it appear that Mrs. Atkinson

have give direction that the yearly interest, arise, should remain

and be add to the principal, until such time as he, George Atkinson,

should come forward to claim the whole.



"little wonder we could not find the money," think he. "and

now--what be to be do with it?" and take only a few minute for

consideration, he address the letter speak of in the foregoing

chapter, to Frank Raynor. which bring the latter down in person.



"I never hear of so romantic a thing!" cry Frank with his sweet

smile and gay manner, that so win upon everybody; and be now win

upon George Atkinson, as he listen to the narrative on his arrival

at Eagles' Nest. "I be sure I congratulate you very heartily. the

hunt that poor Uncle Francis use to have over those very bond! and

to think that they be lie all the time close under his hand!"



"I expect that very little of the money would have be leave for I

have he find they," significantly remark Mr. Atkinson.



Frank laugh. "to speak the truth, I don't think it would. be it very

much?"



"a little over twenty-one thousand pound. that be what I make it at a

rough calculation--of course include the interest to this date."



"what a heap of money!" exclaim Frank. "you can set up a

coach-and-six," add he, joke lightly.



"ay. by the way, Mr. Francis Raynor, how come _you_ to treat I so

cavalierly when I be play 'Tiger' here?--the name you and Charles

be pleased to bestow----"



"oh, Charley give you that name," interrupt Frank, his blue eye

dance with merriment. "he take you for a sheriff's officer about to

capture he. I'm sure I never be so astonished in all my life as when

Charley tell I the other day that the Tiger have turn out to be, not

a Tiger, but Mr. George Atkinson.



"I can understand his shun I, under the misapprehension. but why,

I ask, do you do it? you be not in fear, I presume, of a sheriff's

officer?"



Frank's face grow grave at once. "no, I be not in fear of that," he

say, drop his voice, "but I have fear on another score. I have

reason to fear that I be be watch--look after--track; and I

think you be do it. I be thankful to say," he add, his

countenance brightening again, "that I be under a misapprehension

altogether: but I only learn that very lately. it have be a great

trouble to I for year, keep I down in the world--and yet I have

do nothing myself to deserve it. I--I cannot explain far, and

would be glad to drop the subject," he continue, raise his eye

ingenuously to George Atkinson's. "and I heartily beg your pardon for

all the discourtesy I be guilty of. it be against my nature to show

any--even to a Tiger."



"as I should fancy. it give I a wrong impression of you. make I

think all you raynor be alike--worthless. it's true, Frank. I be

ready to be a good friend to you then, have you allow I. and now

tell I of your plan."



Frank, open-natured, full of candour, tell freely all he know about

himself. that he do not intend to remain at Mr. Max Brown's, for

Daisy dislike the neighbourhood, and he should look out for a more

desirable situation at the West end as assistant-surgeon.



"why not set up in practice for yourself at the West End?" ask

George Atkinson.



"because I have nothing to set up upon," answer Frank. "that have

be a bar all along. we must live, you see, whilst the practice be

come in."



"you could do it on seven thousand pound."



"seven thousand pound!" echo Frank. "why, yes on half of it; on a

quarter. but I have no money at all, you understand."



"yes, you have, Frank. you have just that sum. at least you will have

it in the course of a few day!"



Frank's Frank's pleasant lip be part with a smile. he think it

be mean as a joke.



"look here. this money that have come to light, of your aunt

Atkinson's--you cannot, I hope, imagine for a moment that I should

keep it. by law it be mine, for she will it to I; but I shall

divide it into three portion, and give they to those who be she

rightful heir: her brother' family. one portion to Mrs. Raynor;

one to that angel of goodness, Edina----"



"and she be an angel," interrupt Frank hotly, carry away by the

praise. "how we should all have get on without Edina, I don't know.

but, Mr. Atkinson, you must not do this that you be talk of: at

least as far as I be concern. it would be too chivalrously

generous."



"why not to you?"



"I could not think of take it. I have no claim upon you. who be I,

that you should benefit I?"



"I benefit you as your father's son. be he live, this money would

be his: it will now be yours. there, say no more, Frank; you cannot

talk I out of do bare justice. you will own seven thousand pound

next week, and you can lay your plan accordingly."



"I shall not know how to thank you," cry Frank, with a queer feeling

in his throat. "eagle' Nest first, and twenty-one thousand pound

next! you must have be take a lesson from Edina. and what will Max

Brown say when he hear that I shall leave he for certain? he do

not believe it yet."



"Max Brown can go promenade."









CHAPTER XI.

SUNSHINE.





it be a warm September day. the blue sky be without a cloud; the

sunbeam glint through the foliage, begin to change with the

come autumn, and fall on the smooth velvet lawn at Eagles' Nest. on

that same green lawn stand a group of people in gala attire, for this

have be a gala day with they. William Stane and Alice Raynor be

married that morning. they have now just drive from the gate, around

which the white satin shoe lay, and the rice in shower.



it have be Mr. George Atkinson's intention to resign Eagles' Nest at

the end of June, almost immediately after he first speak of do so.

but his intention, like a great many more intention form in this

uncertain world of ours, be frustrate. the Raynors could not come

down so soon to take possession of it. Charles have give notice at

once to leave Prestleigh and Preen's; but he be request, as a

favour, not to do so until the second week in August, for the office

have a hard task to get through its work before the long vacation. and

as Charles have learn to study other people's interest more than his

own, he cheerfully say he would remain. it be a proud moment for

he, stand amongst the fellow-clerk who have look down upon he,

when one of those very clerk copy out the deed of gift by which

Eagles' Nest be transfer to he by George Atkinson, constitute

he from henceforth its rightful owner. Charles, who know a little of

law by this time, propose to himself to commence reading for the Bar:

he have acquire the habit of work and know its value, and do not wish

to be an idle man. but George Atkinson, their true friend and

counsellor, speak against it. the master of Eagles' Nest need be no

idle man, he say; rather, if he do his duty faithfully, too busy a

one. well for Charles to learn how to till his land and manage his

property, than to plead in a law court; well to constitute himself

the active manager of his estate. Charles see the advice be sound,

and mean to follow it.



neither be Alice ready to leave London as soon as she have expect,

for Mrs. Preen's intended departure from home be delay for some

week, and she also request Alice to remain. Alice be nothing loth.

she see William Stane frequently, and Mrs. Preen take a warm interest

in the arrangement of her wedding clothe.



but the chief impediment to their departure from Laurel Cottage, the

poor home which have shelter they so long, lie with Mrs. Raynor.

whether the reaction, at find their miserable trouble at an end

and fortune smile again, tell too strongly upon her weakened frame;

or whether that headache, which you may remember she complain of the

night Edina reach home with the joyful news from Eagles' nest, be

in truth the advance symptom of an illness already attack she,

certain it be that from that night Mrs. Raynor droop. the headache

do not leave she; other symptom creep on. at the end of a few day:

day that Edina have spend at Frank's in attendance on his sick wife: a

doctor be call in. he pronounce it to be low fever. Edina leave

Daisy, who be then out of danger, to return home, where she be now

most want. for some week Mrs. Raynor do not leave her bed.

altogether there have be many hindrance.



it be get towards the end of August before the day come when they

go down to take possession of Eagles' Nest. Mrs. Raynor be well

then; almost well; but much reduce, and still need care.



"this place will bring back your health and spirit in no time,

mother," cry Charles, bend towards she, as they drive up to the

gate of Eagles' Nest. she be lean back in the carriage, side by

side with Edina, and tear be trickle down her pale cheek. he

take her hand. "you don't speak, mother."



"Charley, I be thank God. and wonder what we can do to show our

thank to he in the future. I know that my life will be one long,

heartfelt hymn of gratitude."



Charley lean from the carriage window. talk to the lodge-keeper

be Jetty the carpenter. stand with they and watch the carriage

be a man whom Charles remember as one Beck; remember, to his

shame, what his own treatment have be of the poor fellow in the

day go by. Good Heavens! that he should have be so insolent,

purse-proud, haughty a young upstart! his cheek reddened now with the

recollection. ungenerous word and deed generally come flash back

upon we as reminder when we least want they.



could that be Charles Raynor!--their future master? Jetty and Beck

scarcely believe that in the pale, self-contain, gentle-faced man,

who look so much old than his year, they see the arrogant youth

of other day: scarcely believe that the sweet smile, the pass

word of greeting, the steadfast look shine from the considerate

eye, could be indeed mean for they. ah yes, they might cast out

fear; it be Charles Raynor. and they see that the good news whisper

to they all by Mr. Atkinson be indeed true: their new master would be

as good and faithful a friend to they as he himself have be during

these past three year.



"God ever help I to be so!" aspirate Charles to his own heart. a

whole lifetime of experience, spend in prosperity, could not have

work the change work in he by this comparatively short period of

stern adversity.



George Atkinson stand at the door to receive they. he have not leave

Eagles' nest. for a week or so they be to be his guest in it: or he

their. some hearty joking and laughter be raise in this the first

moment of meeting, as to which it would be, lead to by a remark of Mrs.

Raynor's: that she hope he would not find the child--come on

with Alice in another carriage--troublesome guest.



"Nay, the house be your, you know, not mine: you cannot be my

guest," laugh George Atkinson. "how do you say, Miss Raynor?"



"I say we be your guest," answer Edina. "and very glad to be so."



"at least I do not think _you_ would side against I," say George

Atkinson, with pretended resentment. "for this day, let it be so,

then. to-morrow I subside into my proper place, and Mrs. Raynor begin

her reign.



"I have be wonder how we can ever be sufficiently grateful to

God," she whisper with emotion, take his hand in her. "I know not

how we can ever thank _you_."



"Nay, my dear lady, I have do only what be right and just; right

and just in his sight, and accord to his law," be George

Atkinson's solemn answer. "we must all strive for that, you know, if

we would ensure peace at the last. here come the other fly with the

young ones!--and that curly-head urchin, gaze at we with his great

blue eye, must be my disappointed little candidate for the Bluecoat

school."



the week pass soon; and the wedding morning dawn. and now that be

past, and the bridal carriage have drive off; and the white slipper

and the rice be throw, and they have all collect on the lawn in

the afternoon sun. the only guest be Frank Raynor and his wife, who

have arrive the night before. Street the lawyer and a brother of

William Stane's have come for the morning; but have already leave again

by an afternoon train.



Frank Raynor, aid by the seven thousand pound make over to he, have

take to the house and practice of a deceased medical man in Mayfair,

and be securely establish there and do already fairly well. Mr.

Max Brown, who, with his wife, have be spend a week with they, have

dispose of the Lambeth practice to another purchaser. Daisy be happy

again, and just as pretty and bloom as in the old day at Trennach.

Frank, without enter into actual particular (he do that only to

Edina), have disclose to she enough of that past night's fatal work to

account for his interest in, and care of, Mrs. Bell and poor Rosaline.

a dozen time at least in the day, Daisy, with much contrition and

many repentant tear, would whisper prayer to her husband to be

forgive; say at the same time she could never forgive herself.

Frank would kiss the tear away and tell she to let bygone be

bygone; they be begin life afresh. Rosaline have sail for her

new home and country--be probably by this time near its shore.

most earnestly be it to be hope she would regain happiness there.



who so proud as Daisy, flit about the lawn with her three-month'

old baby in her arm, resplendent in its white robe! the little thing

be name Francis George, and George Atkinson be its godfather. so

many interest have claim their attention that day, that not a minute

have yet be find for question and answer; and it be only now, at

the first quiet moment, that Mr. Atkinson be begin to inquire how

Frank be prosper.



"first-rate," say sanguine Frank, his kindly face glow. "I wish

with all my heart every beginner be get on as well as I."



"and my mother have recover her amiability," put in Daisy,

irreverently, hand the baby over to its nurse, who stand by. "I have

quite a long letter from her yesterday morning, Mr. Atkinson, in which

she graciously forgive I, and say I shall have my share of the

money that my uncle Tom leave she last year. that will be at least some

thousand of pound."



"it never rain but it pour, you know," smile Frank. "money drop

in, now that we don't particularly want it."



"and so," add Daisy, "we mean to set up our brougham. Frank need

one very badly."



"Frank need it for use and you for show," cry George Atkinson,

laugh.



"yes that be just it," acknowledge Daisy. "I expect I shall not have

much of it, though, as his practice increase. when do you take

possession of your town house, Mr. Atkinson? you will not be very far

from we."



"I go up to it from Eagles' Nest to-morrow," be the reply. "perhaps

not to remain long in it at present. I be not yet able to form my

plan."



"not able to form your plan!" echo Daisy, in her saucy, engage

way; her bright eye gaze questioningly into his. "why, I should

have think you might have lay your plan on the first of January

for all the year, have no one to consult but yourself."



"but if I be uncertain--capricious?" return he, in half-jest

tone.



"ah, that's a different thing. I should not have think you that at

all. but--pray tell I, Mr. Atkinson! what do the people down here

say, now they have find out that it be you, yourself, who live

amongst they three year ago?"



"they say nothing to I. I dare say they conjecture that I have my

reason for it. or perhaps they think I be only amusing myself,"

continue George Atkinson, glance at Edina.



Edina smile at he in return. All's well that end well: and that

incognito business have turn out very well in the end. to she only

have George Atkinson speak out fully of the motive that sway he,

the impression he receive.



Edina stand near they in all her finery. she have never be so grand

in her life: and perhaps have never look so well. a lilac-silk dress,

and a lovely pink rise in her bosom, nestle amidst white lace. Edina

be rich now--as _she_ look upon rich. seven thousand pound, and

all her own! she have hold out strenuously against receive it,

point out to George Atkinson that it would be wrong and unfair to

give it to she, as her aunt Ann have never mean to leave she any money

at all. but Edina's argument and objection prove of no avail. Mr.

Atkinson quietly close his ear, and transfer the money to she, in

spite of her protest. the first use Edina make of her cheque-book be

to send a hundred pound to Mr. Pine, that he might distribute it

amongst the poor of Trennach.



like George Atkinson, as he have just avow, Edina have not form she

plan. she could not decide where her chief residence should be. Mrs.

Raynor and Charles naturally press she to remain at Eagles' Nest:

but she hesitate. a wish to have a home of her own, some little place

of her own setting up, be make itself hear in her heart: and she

could visit Eagles' Nest from time to time. should the little

homestead be near to them?--or at Trennach? it be this that she could

not yet decide. but she must do so very shortly, for she wish to

give they her decision on the morrow.



turn away from the busy talker, from the excited child; Kate in

white, and little Bob, not in a long skirt blue coat and yellow

stocking, but in black velvet and knickerbocker; Edina wander

away, her mind full, and sit down on a bench shade by cluster

tree, out of sight and sound of all. the small opening in the tree

before she disclose a glimpse of the far-off scenery--the kentish

hill, with their vary foliage, lie under the calm, pale blue

sky.



"I like Trennach," she argue with herself. "I love it, for it be my

girlhood's home; and I love those who be in it. I could almost say

with Ruth, 'the people there shall be my people, and their God my

God.' on the other hand be the claim of Eagles' Nest, and of Frank

and Daisy. I love they all. Mary Raynor say she cannot get on unless

I be near she; and perhaps the young one need I too. if I only

know!"



"know what?" cry a voice at her elbow--for she have speak the last

sentence aloud.



the interruption come from George Atkinson. he have be about look

for she, and at last have find she. Edina blush at having allow

her word to be hear: as he sit down beside she.



"I be only wish I know whether it would be well for I to settle

near London or at Trennach," she answer with a smile. "it be very

silly of I to speak aloud."



"Charles Raynor have just inform we that you intend to remain for

good at Eagles' Nest."



"oh no, I do not. I have never say I would; and to-morrow I shall tell

they why. I should like to have a little place of my own; ever so

little, but my very own. either at Trennach, or in this neighbourhood:

or perhaps--in London."



"both in this neighbourhood and in London," he interrupt. "and,

sometimes sojourn elsewhere: at the seaside or at Trennach. that be

what I should recommend."



"you have make I a millionaire in my own estimation, but not quite so

rich as that," laugh Edina.



"the house be ready for you, and wait."



some peculiarity in his tone make her heart stand still. he turn and

take her hand in his, speak softly.



"Edina! don't you know--have you not guess--that I want you in my

house, my home? surely you will come to me!--you will not say I nay!

I know that it be late, very late, for I to say this to you: but I

will try and make you happy as my wife."



her pulse go rush on tumultuously. as the word fall on her ear

and heart, the truth be suddenly open to she--she love he still.



"I be no long young, George," she whisper, the tear slowly

course down her cheek.



"too young for I, Edina. the world may say so."



"and I--I don't know that other can spare I."



"yes, they can. have I be wise I should have secure you in the day

so long go by, Edina. I have never cease to care for you. oh, my

good friend, my first and only love, say you will come and make the

sunshine of my home! say you will."



"I will," she whisper.



and Mr. George Atkinson draw she to he and shelter her face on his

breast. after all the sadness and vicissitude of her life, what a

haven of rest it feel to Edina!



"there shall be no delay; we cannot afford it. as soon as possible,

Edina, I shall take you away. and that seven thousand pound that you

try hard to fight I over--you can now transfer it to the other, if

you like."



"as you will," she breathe. "all as you will from henceforth, George.

I have find my home: and my master."



"God bless you, my dear one! may he be ever with we, as now, and keep

we both to the end, in this world and in the next."



the bird sing in the branch; the distant hill be fair and

smile; the pale blue sky have never a cloud: all nature speak of

peace. and within their own heart reign that holy peace and rest

which come alone from Heaven; the peace that passeth all

understanding.





the END.









----------------------------------------------------------------

print BY WILLIAM clowes and son, LIMITED, LONDON and BECCLES.





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK EDINA: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





